10-K


c75712e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended Dec. 31, 2002

or

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-3034

Xcel Energy Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Minnesota

(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)

41-0448030

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s Telephone Number, including Area Code (612) 330-5500

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Registrant

Title of Each Class

Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Xcel Energy Inc.

Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share

New York, Chicago, Pacific

Xcel Energy Inc.

Rights to Purchase Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share

New York, Chicago, Pacific

Cumulative Preferred Stock, $100 par value:

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $3.60 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.08 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.10 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.11 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.16 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.56 Cumulative

New York

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

x

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrants’ knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

x

Yes

o

No

As of June 28, 2002, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock held
by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $6,649,735,234 and there were
396,940,044 shares of common stock outstanding.

As of March 15, 2003, there were 398,714,039 shares of common stock
outstanding, $2.50 par value.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders is incorporated by reference into Part
III of this Form 10-K.



Index

Page No.

PART I

Item 1 - Business


COMPANY OVERVIEW

UTILITY REGULATION

Ratemaking Principles


Fuel, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment Clauses


Other Regulatory Mechanisms and Requirements


Pending Regulatory Matters


ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

Competition and Industry Restructuring


Capacity and Demand


Energy Sources


Fuel Supply and Costs


Trading Operations


Nuclear Power Operations and Waste Disposal


Electric Operating Statistics


GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

Competition and Industry Restructuring


Capability and Demand


Gas Supply and Costs


Gas Operating Statistics


NONREGULATED SUBSIDIARIES

NRG Energy, Inc.


e
prime, inc.


Other Subsidiaries


ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS


CAPITAL SPENDING AND FINANCING


EMPLOYEES


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS


Item 2 - Properties


Item 3 - Legal Proceedings


Item 4 - Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


PART II

Item 5 - Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters


Item 6 - Selected Financial Data


Item 7 - Management’s Discussion and Analysis


Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk


Item 8 - Financial Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9 - Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


PART III

Item 10 - Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant


Item 11 - Executive Compensation


Item 12 - Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management


Item 13 - Certain Relationships and Related Transactions


Item 14 - Controls and Procedures


PART IV

Item 15 - Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K


SIGNATURES


EXHIBIT (EXCERPT)

Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges

Statement Pursuant to Private Securities Litigation Reform Act

Exhibit regarding the use of Arthur Andersen Audit Firm



Item 1.

Business

COMPANY OVERVIEW

On Aug. 18, 2000, New Century Energies, Inc. (NCE) and Northern States Power
Co. (NSP) merged and formed Xcel Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy). Xcel Energy, a
Minnesota corporation, is a registered holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA). As part of the merger, NSP transferred
its existing utility operations that were being conducted directly by NSP at
the parent company level to a newly formed subsidiary of Xcel Energy named
Northern States Power Co. Each share of NCE common stock was exchanged for
1.55 shares of Xcel Energy common stock. NSP shares became Xcel Energy shares
on a one-for-one basis. As a stock-for-stock exchange for shareholders of both
companies, the merger was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests and,
accordingly, amounts reported for periods prior to the merger have been
restated for comparability with post-merger results.

Xcel Energy directly owns six utility subsidiaries that serve electric and
natural gas customers in 12 states. These six utility subsidiaries are Northern
States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation (NSP-Minnesota); Northern States
Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation (NSP-Wisconsin); Public Service Co. of
Colorado, a Colorado corporation (PSCo); Southwestern Public Service Co., a New
Mexico corporation (SPS); Black Mountain Gas Co., a Minnesota corporation
(BMG), which has been sold pending regulatory approval; and Cheyenne Light,
Fuel and Power Co., a Wyoming corporation (Cheyenne). Their service
territories include portions of Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
During 2002, Xcel Energy’s regulated businesses also included Viking Gas
Transmission Co. (Viking) and its one-third interest in Guardian Pipeline,
which was sold on Jan. 17, 2003, and WestGas InterState, Inc. (WGI), all
interstate natural gas pipeline companies.

Xcel Energy also owns or has an interest in a number of nonregulated
businesses, the largest of which is NRG Energy, Inc., a Delaware corporation
(NRG), an independent power producer. Xcel Energy owned 100 percent of NRG at
the beginning of 2000. About 18 percent of NRG was sold to the public in an
Initial Public Offering in the second quarter of 2000, leaving Xcel Energy with
an 82-percent interest at Dec. 31, 2000. In March 2001, another 8 percent of
NRG was sold to the public, leaving Xcel Energy with an interest of about 74
percent at Dec. 31, 2001. On June 3, 2002, Xcel Energy acquired the 26 percent
of NRG held by the public so that it again held 100 percent ownership at Dec.
31, 2002. NRG is facing extreme financial difficulties and, among other things,
has missed numerous scheduled payments of principal and interest on its outstanding bank
loans and bonds. NRG may seek, in the near future, protection under the bankruptcy laws.
See Notes 2, 3, 4 and 7 to the Financial Statements. Xcel Energy recently reached a tentative agreement
with various NRG creditors that, if implemented, would require Xcel Energy to pay NRG
up to $752 million. See Nonregulated Subsidiaries under Item 1 for a further discussion of this matter.

In addition to NRG, Xcel Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries include Utility
Engineering Corp. (engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations,
Inc. (broadband telecommunications services), e prime inc. (natural gas
marketing and trading), Planergy International, Inc. (enterprise energy
management solutions), Eloigne Co. (investments in rental housing projects that
qualify for low-income housing tax credits) and Xcel Energy International Inc.
(an international independent power producer).

Xcel Energy was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1909. Its
executive offices are located at 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minn. 55402.

For information on the nonregulated subsidiaries of Xcel Energy, see
Nonregulated Subsidiaries under Item 1. For information regarding Xcel
Energy’s segments and foreign revenues, see Note 21 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy’s web site address is www.xcelenergy.com. Xcel Energy makes
available, free of charge through its web site, its annual report on form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC).

Regulated Subsidiaries

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Minnesota was incorporated in 2000 under the laws of Minnesota.
NSP-Minnesota is an operating utility engaged in the generation, transmission
and distribution of electricity and the transportation, storage and
distribution of natural gas. NSP-Minnesota provides generation, transmission
and distribution of electricity in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota.
NSP-Minnesota also purchases, distributes and sells natural gas to retail
customers and transports customer-owned gas in Minnesota, North Dakota and
South Dakota. NSP-Minnesota provides retail electric utility service to
approximately 1.3 million customers and gas utility service to approximately
430,000 customers.

NSP-Minnesota owns the following direct subsidiaries: United Power and Land
Co., which holds real estate; NSP Nuclear Corp., which holds NSP-Minnesota’s
interest in the Nuclear Management Co.; and NSP Financing I, a consolidated special purpose
financing trust.



NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin was incorporated in 1901 under the laws of Wisconsin.
NSP-Wisconsin is an operating utility engaged in the generation, transmission
and distribution of electricity to approximately 230,000 retail customers in
northwestern Wisconsin and in the western portion of the Upper Peninsula of
Michigan. NSP-Wisconsin is also engaged in the distribution and sale of natural
gas in the same service territory to approximately 90,000 customers.

NSP-Wisconsin owns the following direct subsidiaries: Chippewa and Flambeau
Improvement Co., which operates hydro reserves; Clearwater Investments Inc.,
which owns interests in affordable housing; and NSP Lands, Inc., which holds
real estate.

PSCo

PSCo was incorporated in 1924 under the laws of Colorado. PSCo is an operating
utility engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission,
distribution and sale of electricity and the purchase, transportation,
distribution and sale of natural gas. PSCo serves approximately 1.3 million
electric customers and approximately 1.2 million natural gas customers in
Colorado.

PSCo owns the following direct subsidiaries: 1480 Welton, Inc., which owns
certain real estate interests of PSCo; P.S.R. Investments, Inc., which owns and
manages permanent life insurance policies on certain employees; Green and Clear
Lakes Company, which owns water rights; and PSCo Capital Trust I, a consolidated special
purpose financing trust. PSCo also holds a controlling interest in several
other relatively small ditch and water companies whose capital requirements are
not significant. PS Colorado Credit Corp., a finance company that was owned by
PSCo and financed certain of PSCo’s current assets, was dissolved in 2002.

SPS

SPS was incorporated in 1921 under the laws of New Mexico. SPS is an operating
utility engaged primarily in the generation, transmission, distribution and
sale of electricity, which serves approximately 390,000 electric customers in
portions of Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Kansas. The wholesale customers
served by SPS comprise approximately 36 percent of the total kilowatt-hour
sales.

SPS owns a direct subsidiary, SPS Capital I, which is a consolidated special purpose
financing trust.

Other Regulated Subsidiaries

Cheyenne was incorporated in 1900 under the laws of Wyoming. Cheyenne is an
operating utility engaged in the purchase, transmission, distribution and sale
of electricity and natural gas, primarily serving approximately 37,000 electric
customers and 30,000 natural gas customers in and around Cheyenne, Wyo.

BMG was incorporated in 1999 under the laws of Minnesota. BMG is a natural gas
and propane distribution company, located in Cave Creek, Ariz., with
approximately 9,300 customers. We have entered into an agreement to sell BMG.
The sale is subject to the receipt of several regulatory approvals.

Viking Gas is an interstate natural gas pipeline serving portions of Minnesota,
Wisconsin and North Dakota. Viking operated exclusively as a transporter of
natural gas for third-party shippers under authority granted by the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). On Jan. 17, 2003, Xcel Energy completed
the sale of its interest in Viking, including its ownership interest in
Guardian Pipeline, LLC (Guardian).

WGI was incorporated in 1990 under the laws of Colorado. WGI is a natural gas
transmission company engaged in transporting natural gas from Chalk Bluffs,
Colo., to Cheyenne, Wyo.



UTILITY REGULATION

Ratemaking Principles

The Xcel Energy system is subject to the regulatory oversight of the Securities
and Exchange Commission (SEC) under PUHCA. The rules and regulations under
PUHCA generally limit the operations of a registered holding company to a
single integrated public utility system, plus additional energy-related
businesses. PUHCA rules require that transactions between affiliated companies
in a registered holding company system be performed at cost, with limited
exceptions. See additional discussion of PUHCA requirements under Factors
Affecting Results of Operations and Liquidity and Capital Resources in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

The FERC has jurisdiction over rates for electric transmission service in
interstate commerce and wholesale electric energy, hydro facility licensing and
certain other activities of Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries. Federal, state
and local agencies also have jurisdiction over many of Xcel Energy’s other
activities, including regulation of retail rates and environmental matters.

Xcel Energy is unable to predict the impact on its operating results from the
future regulatory activities of any of these agencies. Xcel Energy's utility subsidiaries are
responsible for compliance with all rules and regulations issued by the various
agencies.

NSP-Minnesota

Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations are
subject to the jurisdiction of the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission
(MPUC), the North Dakota Public Service Commission (NDPSC) and the South Dakota
Public Utilities Commission (SDPUC) within their respective states. The MPUC
possesses regulatory authority over aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s financial
activities, including security issuances, certain property transfers, mergers
with other utilities and transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its affiliates.
In addition, the MPUC reviews and approves NSP-Minnesota’s electric resource
plans and gas supply plans for meeting customers’ future energy needs. The
MPUC also certifies the need for generating plants greater than 50 megawatts
and transmission lines greater than 100 kilovolts. NSP-Minnesota is subject to
the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations,
accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale and the transmission of
electricity in interstate commerce. NSP-Minnesota has received authorization
from the FERC to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.

The Minnesota Environmental Quality Board (MEQB) is empowered to select and
designate sites for new power plants with a capacity of 50 megawatts or more
and wind energy conversion plants with a capacity of five megawatts or more. It
also designates routes for electric transmission lines with a capacity of 100
kilovolts or more. No power plant or transmission line may be constructed in
Minnesota except on a site or route designated by the MEQB.

NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin is subject to regulation of similar scope by the Public Service
Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) and the Michigan Public Service Commission
(MPSC). In addition, each of the state commissions certifies the need for new
generating plants and electric and retail gas transmission lines of designated
capacities to be located within the respective states before the facilities may
be sited and built. NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC
with respect to its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices,
wholesale sales for resale and the transmission of electricity in interstate
commerce.

The PSCW has a biennial base-rate filing requirement. By June of each
odd-numbered year, NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate filing for the two-year
test year period beginning the following January. The filing procedure and
review generally allow the PSCW sufficient time to issue an order and implement
new base rates effective with the start of the test year.

PSCo

PSCo is subject to the jurisdiction of the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
(CPUC) with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance
of securities. PSCo is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to
its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices, wholesale sales for
resale and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. PSCo has
received authorization from the FERC to make wholesale electricity sales at
market-based prices. Also, PSCo holds a FERC certificate that allows it to
transport natural gas in interstate commerce without PSCo becoming subject to
full FERC jurisdiction.



SPS

The Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) has jurisdiction over SPS’ Texas
operations as an electric utility and over its retail rates and services. The
municipalities in which SPS operates in Texas have original jurisdiction over
SPS’ rates in those communities. The New Mexico Public Regulatory Commission
(NMPRC) has jurisdiction over the issuance of securities and accounting. The
NMPRC, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Kansas Corporation
Commission have jurisdiction with respect to retail rates and services in their
respective states. SPS is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect
to its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices, wholesale sales for
resale and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. SPS has
received authorization from the FERC to make wholesale electricity sales at
market-based prices.

Cheyenne

Cheyenne is subject to the jurisdiction of the Wyoming Public Service
Commission (WPSC) with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and
issuance of securities.

Other

Viking and WGI are subject to FERC jurisdiction and each holds a FERC
certificate, which allows them to transport natural gas in interstate commerce
pursuant to the provisions of the Natural Gas Act. BMG is subject to
the regulation of the
Arizona Corporation Commission (ACC).

Fuel, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment Clauses

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Minnesota’s retail electric rate schedules provide for monthly adjustments
to billings and revenues for current changes in the cost of fuel and purchased
energy compared with the latest costs included in rates. NSP-Minnesota is
permitted to recover the cost of financial instruments associated with fuel and
purchased energy through a fuel clause adjustment. Changes in capacity charges
are not recovered through the fuel clause. NSP-Minnesota’s electric wholesale
customers do not have a fuel clause provision in their contracts. Instead, the
contracts have an escalation factor.

Retail gas rate schedules for NSP-Minnesota include a purchased gas adjustment
(PGA) clause that provides for rate adjustments for changes in the current unit
cost of purchased gas compared with the latest costs included in rates. The PGA
factors in Minnesota are calculated for the current month based on the
estimated purchased gas costs for that month. The MPUC has the authority to
disallow certain costs if it finds the utility was not prudent in its
procurement activities.

NSP-Minnesota is required by Minnesota law to spend a minimum of 2 percent of
Minnesota electric revenue and 0.5 percent of Minnesota gas revenue on
conservation improvement programs (CIP). Electric and gas conservation and
energy management program expenditures are recovered through an annual recovery
mechanism. NSP-Minnesota is required to request a new cost recovery level
annually.

NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin does not have an automatic electric fuel adjustment clause for
Wisconsin retail customers. Instead, it has a procedure that compares actual
monthly and anticipated annual fuel costs with those costs that were included
in the latest retail electric rates. If the comparison results in a difference
outside a prescribed range, the PSCW may hold hearings limited to fuel costs
and revise rates upward or downward. Any revised rates would be effective until
the next rate case. The adjustment approved is calculated on an annual basis,
but applied prospectively. NSP-Wisconsin’s wholesale electric rate schedules
provide for adjustments to billings and revenues for changes in the cost of
fuel and purchased energy.

NSP-Wisconsin has a monthly gas cost recovery mechanism in Wisconsin to recover
the actual cost of natural gas.

NSP-Wisconsin’s gas and retail electric rate schedules for Michigan customers
include gas cost recovery factors and power supply cost recovery factors, which
are based on 12-month projections. After each 12-month period, a reconciliation
is submitted whereby over-collections are refunded and any under-collections
are collected from the customers over the subsequent 12-month period.



PSCo

PSCo currently has seven retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel, purchased energy
and resource costs: the incentive-cost adjustment (ICA), the interim adjustment
clause (IAC), the air-quality improvement rider (AQIR), the demand-side
management cost adjustment (DSMCA), the qualifying facilities capacity cost
adjustment (QFCCA), the gas cost adjustment (GCA) and the steam cost adjustment
(SCA). These adjustment clauses allow certain costs to be recovered from
retail customers. PSCo is required to file applications with the CPUC for
approval in advance of the proposed effective dates.

The ICA allows for an equal sharing between retail electric customers and
shareholders of certain fuel and purchased energy cost changes for such costs
prior to Jan. 1, 2003. The IAC recovers fuel and energy costs incurred during
2003 until the conclusion of the 2002 general rate case, at which time the fuel
and purchased energy cost recovery from Jan. 1, 2003, onward shall be
recalculated in accordance with the mechanism approved by the CPUC in the 2002
general rate case. The AQIR recovers over a 15-year period the incremental
cost (including fuel and purchased energy) incurred by PSCo as a result of
voluntary investments to reduce emissions and improve air quality in the Denver
metro area. The DSMCA clause currently permits PSCo to recover DSM costs over
five years while non-labor incremental expenses and carrying costs associated
with deferred DSM costs are recovered on an annual basis. PSCo also has
implemented a low-income energy assistance program. The costs of this energy
conservation and weatherization program for low-income customers are recovered
through the DSMCA. The QFCCA provides for recovery of purchased capacity costs
from certain qualified facilities not otherwise reflected in base electric
rates. The QFCCA will expire at the conclusion of the 2002 general rate case.
Through its GCA, PSCo is allowed to recover its actual costs of purchased gas.
The GCA rate is revised at least annually to coincide with changes in purchased
gas costs. Purchased gas costs and revenues received to recover gas costs are
compared on a monthly basis and differences are deferred. In 2002, PSCo
requested to modify the GCA to allow for monthly changes in gas rates. A final
decision on this proceeding is expected in 2003. PSCo, through its SCA, is
allowed to recover the difference between its actual cost of fuel and the
amount of these costs recovered under its base steam service rates. The SCA
rate is revised annually to coincide with changes in fuel costs.

SPS

Fuel and purchased power costs are recoverable in Texas through a fixed fuel
factor, which is part of SPS’ retail electric rates. If it appears that SPS
will materially over-recover or under-recover these costs, the factor may be
revised upon application by SPS or action by the PUCT. The rule requires
refunding and surcharging over- or under-recovery amounts, including interest,
when they exceed 4 percent of the utility’s annual fuel and purchased power
costs, as allowed by the PUCT, if this condition is expected to continue. PUCT
regulations require periodic examination of SPS fuel and purchased power costs,
the efficiency of the use of such fuel and purchased power, fuel acquisition
and management policies and purchase power commitments. Under the PUCT’s
regulations, SPS is required to file an application for the PUCT to
retrospectively review at least every three years the operations of SPS’
electric generation and fuel management activities.

The NMPRC regulations provide for a fuel and purchased power cost adjustment
clause for SPS’ New Mexico retail jurisdiction. SPS files monthly and annual
reports of its fuel and purchased power costs with the NMPRC, which include the
current over/under fuel collection calculation, plus interest. In January
2002, the NMPRC authorized SPS to implement a monthly adjustment factor on an
interim basis beginning with the February 2002 billing cycle.

Cheyenne

All electric demand and purchased power costs are recoverable through an energy
adjustment clause. All purchased gas costs are recoverable through a gas cost adjustment clause. Differences in costs incurred from costs recovered in rates
are deferred and recovered through prospective adjustments to rates. However,
rate changes for cost recovery require WPSC approval before going into effect.
Historically, customers have been provided carrying costs on over-collected
costs, but Cheyenne has not been allowed to collect carrying charges for
under-recovered costs.

Other Regulatory Mechanisms and Requirements

NSP-Minnesota

In December 2000, the NDPSC approved Xcel Energy’s “PLUS” performance-based
regulation proposal for its electric operations in the state. The plan
established operating and service performance standards in the areas of system
reliability, customer satisfaction, price and worker safety. NSP — Minnesota’s
performance determines the range of allowed return on equity



for its North Dakota electric operations. The plan will generate refunds or
surcharges when earnings fall outside of the allowed return on equity range.
The PLUS plan will remain in effect through 2005.

PSCo

The CPUC established an electric performance-based regulatory plan (PBRP) under
which PSCo operates. See further discussion under Item 7, Management’s
Discussion and Analysis.

SPS

Prior to June 2001, SPS operated under an earnings test in Texas, which
required excess earnings to be returned to the customers. In May 2000, SPS
filed its 1999 earnings report with the PUCT, indicating no excess earnings.
In September 2000, the PUCT staff and the Office of Public Utility Counsel
filed with the PUCT a notice of disagreement, indicating adjustments to SPS
calculations, which would result in excess earnings. During 2000, SPS recorded
an estimated obligation of approximately $11.4 million for 1999 and 2000. In
February 2001, the PUCT ruled on the disputed issues in the 1999 report and
found that SPS had excess earnings of $11.7 million. This decision was
appealed by SPS to the District Court. On Dec. 11, 2001, SPS entered into an
overall settlement of all earnings issues for 1999 through 2001, which reduced
the excess earnings for 1999 to $7.3 million and found that there were no
excess earnings for 2000 or through June 2001. The settlement also provided
that the remaining excess earnings for 1999 could be used to offset approved
transition costs that SPS was seeking to recover. The PUCT approved the
overall settlement on Jan. 10, 2002.

Pending Regulatory Matters

Xcel Energy

FERC Investigation Against All Wholesale Electric Sellers —

On May 8, 2002, the
FERC ordered all sellers of wholesale electricity and/or ancillary services to
the California Independent System Operator or Power Exchange, including PSCo
and NRG, to respond to data requests, including requests for admissions with
respect to certain trading strategies in which the companies may have engaged.
The investigation was in response to memoranda prepared by Enron Corp. that
detailed certain trading strategies engaged in during 2000 and 2001 that may
have violated market rules. On May 22, 2002, Xcel Energy and NRG reported to
the FERC that they had not engaged directly in any of the trading strategies or
activities outlined in the May 8, 2002, request.

However, Xcel Energy in that submission reported that at times during
2000 and 2001, PSCo did sell energy to another energy company that may then have resold
the electricity for delivery into California as part of an overstated
electricity load in schedules submitted to the California Independent System
Operator. During that period, the regulated operations of PSCo made sales to
the other electricity provider of approximately 8,000 megawatt-hours in the
California intra-day market, which resulted in revenues to Xcel Energy of
approximately $1.5 million. Xcel Energy cannot determine from its records what
part of such sales was associated with such possible over-schedules. Subsequently, in the
California Refund Proceeding, as discussed later, PSCo informed the FERC that evidence
that was adduced by certain California litigants appears to indicate that the PSCo trader
involved in these transactions did not believe that they involved overstated schedules,
 and that Xcel Energy accordingly may have over reported transactions
in that submission.

To supplement the May 8, 2002, request, on May 21, 2002, the FERC ordered all
sellers of wholesale electricity and/or ancillary services in the United States
portion of the Western Systems Coordinating Council during 2000 and 2001 to
report whether they had engaged in activities referred to as “wash,” “round
trip” or “sell/buyback” trading. On May 31, 2002, Xcel Energy reported to the
FERC that PSCo had not engaged in so-called “round trip” electricity trading as
identified in the May 21, 2002, inquiry.

On May 13, 2002, Xcel Energy reported that PSCo had engaged in a group of
transactions in 1999 and 2000 with the trading arm of Reliant Resources in
which PSCo bought a quantity of power from Reliant and simultaneously sold the
same quantity back to Reliant. For doing this, PSCo normally received a small
profit. PSCo made a total pretax profit of approximately $110,000 on these
transactions. Also, PSCo engaged in one trade with Reliant in which PSCo
simultaneously bought and sold power at the same price without realizing any
profit. In this transaction, PSCo agreed to buy from Reliant 15,000 megawatts
per hour, during the off-peak hours of the months of November and December
1999. Collectively, these sales with Reliant consisted of approximately 10
million megawatt hours in 1999 and 1.8 million megawatt hours in 2000 and
represented approximately 55 percent of PSCo's trading volumes for 1999 and
approximately 15 percent of PSCo's trading volumes in 2000. The purpose of the
non-profit transaction was in consideration of future for-profit transactions, such as those discussed above.
PSCo engaged in these transactions, such as those discussed above with Reliant for the proper commercial
objective of making a profit. It did not enter into these transactions to
inflate volumes or revenues, and at the time the transactions occurred, the
transactions were reported net in our financial statements.



On March 26, 2003, the FERC at its open meeting discussed this investigation and stated its intent to issue show
cause orders to thirty identified market participants, requesting that these entities explain why their conduct did
not constitute impermissible gaming under applicable tariffs and why they should not have to disgorge unjust profits or be
subjected to other remedies. PSCo was not identified as one of these market participants. However, it was indicated that NRG
would be asked to show cause why its prices from May to October, 2000, did not constitute economic withholding and inflated bidding
and why it should not be required to disgorge unjust profits or be subjected to other remedies.

Section 206 Investigation Against All Wholesale Electric Sellers —

In November
2001, the FERC issued an order under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act
initiating a “generic” investigation proceeding against all jurisdictional
electric suppliers making sales in interstate commerce at market-based rates.
NSP-Minnesota, PSCo, SPS and certain NRG affiliates previously received FERC
authorization to make wholesale sales at market-based rates, and have been
engaged in such sales subject to rates on file at the FERC. The order proposed
that all wholesale electric sales at market-based rates conducted starting 60
days after publication of the FERC order in the Federal Register would be
subject to refund conditioned on factors determined by the FERC.

In December 2001, the FERC issued a supplemental order delaying the effective
date of the subject to refund condition, but subject to further investigation
and proceedings. Numerous parties filed comments in January 2002, and reply
comments were filed in February of that year. Further, the FERC staff convened
a conference in this proceeding in February 2002. The FERC has not yet acted
on the matter.

California Refund Proceeding —

A number of parties purchasing energy in markets
operated by the California Independent System Operator (California ISO) or the
California Power Exchange (PX) have asserted prices paid for such energy were
unjust and unreasonable and that refunds should be made in connection with
sales in those markets for the period Oct. 2, 2000 through June 20, 2001. PSCo
and NRG supplied energy to these markets during the referenced period and have
been an active participant in the proceedings. The FERC ordered an
investigation into the California ISO and PX spot markets and concluded that
the electric market structure and market rules for wholesale sales of energy in
California were flawed and have caused unjust and unreasonable rates for
short-term energy under certain conditions. The FERC ordered modifications to
the market structure and rules in California and established an administrative law judge (ALJ) to make
findings with respect to, among other things, the amount of refunds owed by
each supplier based on the difference between what was charged and what would
have been charged in a more functional market, i.e., the “market clearing
price,” which in turn is based on the unit providing energy in an hour with the
highest incremental cost. The initial proceeding related to California’s
demand for $8.9 billion in refunds from power sellers. The ALJ subsequently
stated that after assessing a refund of $1.8 billion for power
prices, power
suppliers were owed $1.2 billion because the State was holding funds owed to
suppliers. Because of the low volume of sales that PSCo had into California
after this date, PSCo’s exposure is estimated at approximately $1.2 million,
which is offset by amounts owed by the California ISO to PSCo in excess of that
amount. The purchasing parties have appealed this decision. They have also
asserted that the refund effective date should be set at an earlier date. The
FERC has allowed the purchasing parties to request additional information
regarding the market participants’ uses of certain strategies and the effect
those strategies may have had on the market. The purchasing parties have filed
a pleading at the FERC in which they claim that use of these strategies
justifies an earlier refund effective date. An earlier effective date could
increase PSCo’s exposure to approximately $15 million.

On March 26, 2003, FERC at its open meeting discussed and voted on a draft order in this proceeding. Based on the
discussion of the draft order, it would appear that the FERC is going to use different gas costs to determine
the applicable market clearing prices for the refund period. The effect of this change will be to increase
PSCo's and other sellers' refund exposure. However, it does not appear from the discussion that the FERC will move back the
applicable refund effective date. It may be expected that California litigants will request rehearing of this aspect
of the order after it is issued.

Commodity Futures Trading Commission Investigation —

Pursuant to a formal order
of investigation, on June 17, 2002 the Commodity Futures Trading Commission
(CFTC) issued broad subpoenas to Xcel Energy on behalf of its
affiliates, including NRG, calling for production, among
other things, of “all documents related to natural gas and electricity trading”
(the “June 17, 2002 subpoenas”). Since that time, Xcel Energy has produced
documents and other materials in response to numerous more specific requests
under the June 17, 2002 subpoenas. Certain of these requests and Xcel Energy’s
responses have concerned so-called “round-trip trades.” By a subpoena dated
Jan. 29, 2003 and related letter requests (the “Jan. 29, 2003 subpoena”), the
CFTC has requested that Xcel Energy produce all documents related to all data
submittals and documents provided to energy industry publications. Xcel Energy
has produced documents and other materials in response to the Jan. 29, 2003
subpoena, including a report identifying instances where Xcel Energy’s e prime
subsidiary reported natural gas transactions to an industry publication in a
manner inconsistent with the publication’s instructions. Xcel Energy believes
this reporting did not affect the financial accounting treatment of any
transaction recorded in e prime’s books and records. Also beginning on Jan.
29, 2003, the CFTC has sought testimony from two employees, and has notified
Xcel Energy of its intention to seek additional testimony from numerous other
employees and executives, concerning the reporting of energy transactions to
industry publications. Xcel Energy and NRG are cooperating in the CFTC investigation,
but cannot predict the outcome of any investigation.

SEC Trading Investigation —

Pursuant to a formal order of investigation, on
June 26, 2002 the SEC issued a subpoena to Xcel Energy requesting all documents
concerning any so-called “round trip trades” with Reliant Resources, Inc.
Pursuant to a another formal order of investigation, on Oct. 3, 2002 the SEC
issued a subpoena to Xcel Energy calling for additional information concerning
certain energy trades between Xcel Energy on the one hand and Duke Energy
Corporation and Mirant Corporation on the other, involving the same product,
quantity and price executed on the same day. Xcel Energy has produced
documents and has cooperated in these investigations, but cannot predict the
outcome of any investigation.



FERC Transmission Inquiry —

The FERC has begun a formal, non-public inquiry
relating to the treatment by public utility companies of affiliates in
generator interconnection and other transmission matters. In connection with
the inquiry, the FERC has asked Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries for
certain information and documents. Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries
are complying with the request.

PUHCA Regulation —

See discussion of pending issues under PUHCA regulation at
Management’s Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources.

NSP-Minnesota

Minnesota Emissions Reduction Program —

In July 2002, NSP-Minnesota filed for
approval by the MPUC of a proposal to invest in existing NSP-Minnesota
generation facilities to reduce emissions under the terms of legislation
adopted by the 2001 Minnesota Legislature. The NSP-Minnesota proposal includes
the installation of state-of-the-art pollution control equipment at the A. S.
King plant and conversion of the High Bridge and Riverside plants to use
natural gas rather than coal. Under the proposal, major construction would
start in 2005 and be completed in 2009. Under the terms of the statute, the
filing concurrently seeks approval of a rate recovery mechanism for the costs
of the proposal, estimated to total $1.1 billion. The rate recovery would be
through an annual automatic adjustment mechanism authorized by 2001
legislation, outside a general rate case, and is proposed to be effective at
the expiration of the NSP-Minnesota merger rate freeze, which extends through
2005 unless certain exemptions are triggered. The rate recovery proposed by
NSP-Minnesota would allow recovery of financing costs of capital expenditures
prior to the in-service date of equipment to be installed at each plant. The
proposal is pending comments by interested parties. Other regulatory
approvals, such as environmental permitting, are needed before the proposal can
be implemented. On Dec. 30, 2002, the Minnesota Pollution Control Agency
issued a report to the MPUC in which it found that the NSP-Minnesota emission
reduction proposal is appropriate and complies with the requirements of the
2001 legislation. The MPUC must now act on the proposal.

Renewable Cost Recovery Tariff —

In April 2002, NSP-Minnesota filed for MPUC
authorization to recover in retail rates the costs of electric transmission
facilities constructed to provide transmission service for renewable energy.
The rate recovery would be through an automatic adjustment mechanism authorized
by 2001 legislation, outside a general rate case. In January 2003, the MPUC
issued an order approving the tariff subject to certain modifications.

Minnesota Financial and Service Quality Investigation —

On Aug. 8, 2002, the
MPUC asked for information related to the impact of the financial circumstances
of NSP-Minnesota’s affiliate, NRG. Subsequent to that date, several newspaper
articles alleged concerns about the reporting of service quality data and
NSP-Minnesota’s overall maintenance practices. In an order dated Oct. 22,
2002, the MPUC directed the Minnesota Department of Commerce (DOC) and the
Office of the Attorney General (OAG) to investigate the accuracy of
NSP-Minnesota’s reliability records and to allow for further review of its
maintenance and other service quality measures. In addition, the order
requires NSP-Minnesota to report specified financial information and work with
interested parties on various issues to ensure NSP-Minnesota’s commitments are
fulfilled. The DOC and OAG have begun their investigation. There is no
scheduled date for completion of this inquiry. The order references the
NSP-Minnesota commitment, made at the time of the NSP/NCE merger, to not seek a
rate increase until 2006 unless certain exceptions are met. In addition, among
other requirements, the order imposes restrictions on NSP-Minnesota’s ability
to encumber utility property, provide intercompany loans and the method by
which NSP-Minnesota can calculate its cost of capital in present and future
filings before the MPUC. On Jan. 3, 2003, the MPUC subsequently issued an
order separating the financial aspect of this proceeding from the state
agency’s inquiry into NSP-Minnesota’s service quality reporting and allowing
the agencies to continue to investigate other allegations in existing dockets.
As a result, these two matters will proceed under separate dockets. On March
10, 2003, the DOC and OAG submitted a progress report to the MPUC drafted by
the state agencies auditor. The report documents alleged instances of record
keeping inconsistencies and misstatements and concludes it would be nearly
impossible to establish the magnitude of misstatements in the record keeping
system. In submitting the progress report, the state agencies noted, however,
that the total outage duration stated would need to increase by nearly 33
million minutes to violate state-imposed standards. NSP-Minnesota vigorously
disputes the method, findings and conclusions of the report.

Time-of-Use Pilot Project —

As required by MPUC Orders, NSP-Minnesota has been
working to develop a time-of-use pilot project that would attempt to measure
customer response and conservation potential of such a program. This pilot
project explores providing customers with pricing signals and information that
could better inform them when choices about their use of electricity based on
its costs. NSP-Minnesota has petitioned the MPUC for recovery of program
costs. 2002 program costs are approximately $2 million. The DOC has supported
deferred accounting to provide for recovery of prudent, otherwise



unrecovered and appropriate costs, subject to a normal prudence review process.
The OAG has argued that cost recovery should be denied for several reasons.
An MPUC hearing on these issues is likely in the first half of 2003.

Electric Transmission Construction —

In December 2001, NSP-Minnesota filed for
certificates of need applications requesting authorization of construction of
various high voltage transmission facilities to provide generator outlet for up
to 825 megawatts of wind generation in southwest Minnesota. The projected cost
is approximately $160 million. On March 11, 2003, the MPUC issued an order granting
certificates of need supporting NSP-Minnesota’s preferred transmission
construction plan. The certificates of need were issued with conditions that
require NSP-Minnesota to purchase wind-powered electric generating capacity to
match the increased transmission capacity created by the certified lines.

Filings will be made with the MEQB to decide routing issues associated with the
transmission plan. MEQB decisions are expected by the end of 2003 and into
2004. Construction is expected to be complete in the spring of 2007.

NSP-Wisconsin

Retail Electric Fuel Rates —

In August 2002, NSP-Wisconsin filed an application
with the PSCW, requesting a decrease in Wisconsin retail electric rates for
fuel costs. The amount of the proposed rate decrease was approximately $6.3
million on an annual basis. The reasons for the decrease include moderate
weather, lower-than-forecast market power costs and optimal plant availability.
On Aug. 7, 2002, the PSCW issued an order approving the fuel rate credit. The
rate credit went into effect Aug. 12, 2002.

On Oct. 9, 2002, NSP-Wisconsin filed an application with the PSCW requesting
another decrease in Wisconsin retail electric rates for fuel costs. The
incremental amount of the second proposed rate decrease was approximately $5
million on an annual basis. The reasons for the additional decrease include
continued moderate weather, lower-than-forecast market power costs and optimal
plant availability. On Oct. 16, 2002, the PSCW issued an order approving the
revised fuel rate credit, effective Oct. 19, 2002.

On Oct. 22, 2002, NSP-Wisconsin filed an application with the PSCW requesting
the establishment of a new fuel monitoring range and fuel recovery factor for
2003. On Jan. 30, 2003, the PSCW issued an order authorizing a new fuel
monitoring range for 2003 and a new fuel recovery factor effective Feb. 3,
2003. This results in an annual revenue increase of approximately $5 million
from the fuel credit factor the PSCW approved Oct. 16, 2002.

Michigan Transfer Pricing —

On Oct. 3, 2002, the MPSC denied NSP-Wisconsin’s
request for a waiver of the section of the Michigan Electric Code of Conduct
(Michigan Code) dealing with transfer pricing policy. The Michigan Code
requires the price of goods and services provided by an affiliate of
NSP-Wisconsin to be at the lower of market price or cost plus 10 percent, and
the price of goods and services provided by NSP-Wisconsin to an affiliate be at
the higher of cost or market price. NSP-Wisconsin requested the waiver based
on its belief that the Michigan Code conflicts with SEC requirements to price
goods and services provided between affiliates at cost. In November 2002,
NSP-Wisconsin filed a request for reconsideration of the Oct. 3, 2003, order.
On Jan. 31, 2003, the MPSC granted the NSP-Wisconsin’s request for a waiver
from this section of the Michigan Code. In its decision, the MPSC indicated
that it should grant the waiver to avoid placing NSP-Wisconsin in a position
where it may be unable to comply with the Michigan Code and the pricing
standards enforced by the SEC.

PSCo

Incentive Cost Adjustment —

PSCo’s 2001 calendar year energy costs under the
ICA were approximately $19 per megawatt-hour, compared with the $12.78 per
megawatt-hour rate that was billed to customers. The sharing of certain energy
wholesale trading margins mitigated the significant under-recovery of energy
costs for 2001. In early 2002, PSCo filed to increase the ICA rate earlier
than originally agreed in the merger stipulation and agreement to mitigate
future cost deferrals and to recover the projected ICA energy costs
of $148 million for
calendar year 2002. On May 10, 2002, the CPUC approved a settlement agreement
between PSCo and other parties to increase the recovery of energy costs to
$14.88 per megawatt-hour ($12.78 through base electric rates and $2.10 through
the ICA), providing for recovery of the deferred costs as of Dec. 31, 2001, and
the projected 2002 costs over a 34-month period from June 1, 2002 through March
31, 2005. On March 5, 2003, PSCo filed to reduce the ICA rate to $2.07 per
megawatt hour.

PSCo’s costs for 2002 were approximately $17 per megawatt-hour or approximately
$56 million less than the energy costs for the 2001 test year. Under the ICA mechanism, retail
customers and PSCo share this difference



equally. A CPUC proceeding to review and approve the incurred and recoverable
2001 costs under the ICA is in process. A review of the 2002 recoverable ICA
costs will be conducted in a separate future proceeding. The results of these
rate proceedings could impact the cost recovery and sharing amounts recorded
under the ICA for 2001 and 2002.

On May 31, 2002, PSCo filed with the CPUC seeking to change its electric base
rates and increase the recovery of fuel and purchased power expense
by $113 million annually through a mechanism called the electric commodity
adjustment (ECA). The IAC, filed in January 2003, resulted in an annual
increase in fuel and purchased power expense recovery revenue of $123 million
predicated on calendar year 2003 forecasted retail sales for PSCo. Finally, on
Feb. 12, 2003, PSCo filed supplemental rebuttal testimony revising its original
ECA request made on May 31, 2002. In this filing, PSCo is seeking ECA rates
that would increase the annual recovery of fuel and purchased energy expense by
$186 million over the annual level of recovery at May 31, 2002. Since $123
million of the requested $186 million is already in effect, the net increase
requested on Feb. 12, 2003, is $63 million.

There are four factors accounting for the change from $113 million requested in
the May 31, 2002, filing and the $186 million requested in the Feb. 12, 2003,
filing. Specifically, the Feb. 12, 2003, filing contains: a revision in ECA
costs caused by a renegotiated purchased power contract; a revised 2003 sales
forecast; an updated forecast of natural gas costs used as a fuel source in
electric generating stations; and a correction for transformation and line
losses made to the level of kilowatt-hours used in deriving the proposed level
of annual ECA costs.

2002 General Rate Case

— In May 2002, PSCo filed a combined general retail
electric, gas and thermal energy base rate case with the CPUC to address
increased costs for providing services to Colorado customers. This filing was
required as part of the Xcel Energy Merger Stipulation and Agreement previously
approved by the CPUC. See additional discussion under Item 7, Management’s
Discussion and Analysis.

Gas Cost Prudence Review —

In May 2002, the staff of the CPUC filed testimony
in PSCo’s gas cost prudence review case, recommending $6.1 million in
disallowances of gas costs for the July 2000 through June 2001 gas purchase
year. Hearings were held before an  ALJ in July
2002. On Feb. 10, 2003, the ALJ issued a recommended decision rejecting the
proposed disallowances and approving PSCo’s gas costs for the subject gas
purchase year as prudently incurred. The decision is subject to CPUC review.

Gas Rate Requests —

In September 2002, PSCo filed a request with the CPUC for a
$65-million annual reduction in the natural gas cost component of rates in
Colorado. The CPUC approved the requested decrease by order issued Sept. 27,
2002, with the new rates effective Oct. 1, 2002.

In March 2003, PSCo filed a request with the CPUC for a $95.6 million increase
in the natural gas cost component of rates in Colorado for the period March 21,
2003 through Sept. 30, 2003. The CPUC approved the requested increase by order issued March 20, 2003.
The cost adjustment will not result in any additional gas margin for PSCo, as the increase reflects
additional costs for purchasing natural gas on behalf of its customers. Natural gas costs are
passed on to customers on a dollar-per-dollar basis.

PSCo Fuel Clause Investigation —

Certain wholesale power customers of PSCo have
filed complaints with the FERC alleging PSCo has been improperly collecting
certain fuel and purchased energy costs through the wholesale fuel cost
adjustment clause included in their rates. The FERC consolidated the complaints
and set them for hearing and settlement judge procedures. In November 2002,
the Chief Judge terminated settlement procedures after settlement was not
reached. The investigation is currently in  the discovery process and hearings
are set for August 2003.

Home Builders Association of Metropolitan Denver —

Home Builders Association of
Metropolitan Denver (HBA) filed a formal complaint with the CPUC on Feb. 23,
2001, requesting an award of reparations for excessive charges related to
construction payments under PSCo’s gas extension tariff as a result of PSCo’s
alleged failure to file revisions to its published construction allowances
since 1996. HBA seeks an award of $13.6 million, including interest on behalf
of all of PSCo’s gas extension applicants since Oct. 1, 1996. HBA also seeks
recovery of its attorney’s fees.



Hearings were held before an ALJ on Aug. 29, 2001, and Sept. 24, 2001. On Jan.
15, 2002, the ALJ issued a recommended decision dismissing HBA’s complaint.
The ALJ found that HBA failed to show that there have been any “excessive
charges,” as required under the reparations statute, resulting from PSCo’s
failure to comply with its tariff. The ALJ held that HBA’s claim for
reparations: (i) was barred by the filed rate doctrine (since PSCo at all times
applied the approved construction allowances set forth in its tariff), (ii)
would require the CPUC to violate the prohibition against retroactive
ratemaking and (iii) was based on speculation as to what the CPUC would do had
PSCo made the filings in prior years to change its construction allowances.
The ALJ also denied HBA’s request for costs and attorney’s fees. HBA filed
exceptions to the ALJ’s recommended decision. On June 19, 2002, the CPUC
issued an order granting in part HBA’s exceptions to the ALJ’s recommended
decision and remanding the case back to the ALJ for further proceedings. The
CPUC reversed the ALJ’s legal conclusion that the filed rate doctrine and
prohibition against retroactive ratemaking bars HBA’s claim for reparations
under the circumstances of this case. The CPUC remanded the case back to the
ALJ for a determination of whether and to what extent reparations should be
awarded, considering certain enumerated issues.

A full-day hearing on remand was held on Jan. 10, 2003. Simultaneous briefs
were filed on Feb. 5, 2003. Reply briefs were filed on Feb. 12, 2003. The ALJ
decision on remand is pending.

Pacific Northwest FERC Refund Proceeding

— In July 2001, the FERC ordered a
preliminary hearing to determine whether there may have been unjust and
unreasonable charges for spot market bilateral sales in the Pacific Northwest
for the period Dec. 25, 2000 through June 20, 2001. PSCo supplied energy to
the Pacific Northwest markets during this period and has been an active
participant in the hearings. In September 2001, the presiding ALJ concluded
that prices in the Pacific Northwest during the referenced period were the
result of a number of factors, including the shortage of supply, excess demand,
drought and increased natural gas prices. Under these circumstances the ALJ
concluded that the prices in the Pacific Northwest markets were not
unreasonable or unjust and no refunds should be ordered. Subsequent to the
ruling the FERC has allowed the parties to request additional evidence
regarding the use of certain strategies and how they may have impacted the
markets in the Pacific Northwest markets. For the referenced period parties
have claimed the total amount of transactions with PSCo subject to refund are
$34 million.

On March 26, 2003, the FERC at its open meeting
discussed this proceeding. While the action that the FERC plans to take cannot
be definitively ascertained from that discussion, it appears that the FERC may conduct
further proceedings to determine whether spot-market bilateral sales in the Pacific
Northwest should be subject to refund.

SPS

Texas Fuel Reconciliation, Fuel Factor and Fuel
Surcharge Application

— In June
2002, SPS filed an application for the PUCT to retrospectively review the
operations of the utility’s electric generation and fuel management activities.
In this application, SPS filed its reconciliation for electric generation and
fuel management activities, totaling approximately $608 million, for the period
from January 2000 through December 2001. This proceeding is ongoing, and
intervenor and PUCT staff filed testimony. Intervenors proposed that revenues
from certain wholesale transactions be credited to Texas retail customers. SPS
opposed this proposed revenue treatment. Hearings were scheduled for March
2003. On March 14, the parties submitted to the Administrative Law Judges a
stipulation settling the proceeding. The stipulation resolves all issues
regarding SPS’s fuel costs and wholesale trading activities through December
2001. SPS will withdraw, without prejudice, its request to share in 10 percent
of margins from certain wholesale non-firm sales. SPS had proposed to recover
$1.1 million from Texas customers for the proposed sharing of wholesale
non-firm sales margins. The company had not recorded these proposed revenues
pending the outcome in this proceeding. The parties agreed that SPS would
reduce its December 2001 fuel under-recovery balances by $5.8 million. Taking
into account the withdrawal of proposed margin sharing of wholesale non-firm
sales, the net impacts to SPS’s deferred fuel expense balances, before tax, is
$4.7 million. The stipulation will be considered by the PUCT during an open
meeting in the next several months.

SPS has reported to the PUCT that it has under-collected its fuel costs under
the current Texas retail fixed fuel factors. Taking into account the
stipulation in the fuel cost reconciliation proceeding, SPS has under-collected
through February 2003 by $16.2 million. In March 2003, SPS filed an
application seeking to surcharge Texas retail customer bills from June 2003
through January 2004 to collect the $16.2 million in deferred
expenses. SPS is in the process of preparing a filing with the PUCT to recover in
customer rates current fuel costs under its fixed fuel cost recovery factors in
accordance with state statutes and PUCT regulations. The filing is expected to
be completed in May 2003. Recovery amounts would depend on future fuel rates
once the filing is approved.

New Mexico Fuel Factor

— On Dec. 17, 2001, SPS filed an application with the
NMPRC seeking approval of continued use of its fuel and purchased power cost
adjustment using a monthly adjustment factor, authorization to implement the
proposed monthly factor on an interim basis and approval of the reconciliation
of its fuel and purchase power adjustment clause collections for the period
October 1999 through September 2001. In January 2002, the NMPRC authorized SPS
to implement a monthly adjustment factor on an interim basis beginning with the
February 2002 billing cycle. Hearings were completed in May 2002. SPS’
continuation and reconciliation portion of the file is still pending before the
NMPRC.



New Mexico Renewable Energy Requirements —

In December 2002, the NMPRC adopted
new regulations requiring investor-owned utilities operating in New Mexico to
promote the use of renewable energy technologies by procuring at least 10
percent of their New Mexico retail energy requirements from renewable resources
by no later than 2011.

Golden Spread Electric Cooperative, Inc. —

In October 2001, Golden Spread
Electric Cooperative, Inc. (Golden Spread) filed a complaint and request for
investigation against SPS before the FERC. Golden Spread alleges SPS has
violated provisions of a commitment and dispatch service agreement pursuant to
which SPS conducts joint dispatch of SPS and Golden Spread resources. Golden
Spread seeks damages in excess of $10 million. SPS denies all of Golden
Spread’s allegations. SPS has filed a complaint against Golden Spread in which
it has alleged that Golden Spread has failed to adhere to certain requirements
of the commitment and dispatch service agreement. Both complaints are
presently pending before the FERC and settlement procedures have been ordered
by the Commission. Settlement discussions are ongoing. Even if SPS is
required to pay more to Golden Spread for power purchased under this agreement,
it believes that the amounts will likely be recoverable from customers.

Lamb County Electric Cooperative

— On July 24, 1995, Lamb County Electric
Cooperative, Inc. (LCEC) petitioned the PUCT for a cease and desist order
against SPS. LCEC alleged that SPS had been unlawfully providing service to
oil field customers and their facilities in LCEC’s singly-certificated area.
See further discussion under Item 3 — Legal Proceedings.

Cheyenne

Cheyenne Purchased Power Costs

— On May 25, 2001, the WPSC approved a
stipulation agreement between Cheyenne and intervenors in connection with a
proposed increase in rates charged to Cheyenne’s retail customers to recover
increased power costs.

The stipulation provides for an ECA rate structure with a fixed energy supply
rate for Cheyenne’s customers through 2003; the continuation of the ECA with
certain modifications, including the amortization through December 2005 of
unrecovered costs incurred during 2001 up to the agreed-upon fixed supply
rates; and an agreement that Cheyenne’s energy supply needs will be provided,
in whole or in part, by PSCo in accordance with wholesale tariff rates to be
approved by the FERC. The estimated retail rate increases under the
stipulation provide recovery of an additional $18 million, compared with
prior rate levels, through  2001 and a total of $28 million for
each of the years 2002 and 2003. In 2004 and 2005, Cheyenne will return to
requesting recovery of its actual costs incurred plus the outstanding balance
of any deferral from earlier years.

ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

Competition and Industry
Restructuring

Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a
significant financial impact on Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries, due
to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins
and increased costs of capital. The total impacts of restructuring may have a
significant financial impact on the financial position, results of operation
and cash flows of Xcel Energy. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries cannot predict
when they will be subject to changes in legislation or regulation, nor can they
predict the impacts of such changes on their financial position, results of
operation or cash flows. Xcel Energy believes that the prices its utility
subsidiaries charge for electricity and the quality and reliability of their
service currently place them in a position to compete effectively in the energy
market. For more information on the delay of restructuring for SPS in Texas
and New Mexico, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Retail Business Competition

— The retail electric business faces some
competition as industrial and large commercial customers have some ability to
own or operate facilities to generate their own electricity. In addition,
customers may have the option of substituting other fuels, such as natural gas
for heating, cooling and manufacturing purposes, or the option of relocating
their facilities to a lower cost region. While each of Xcel Energy’s utility
subsidiaries face these challenges, these subsidiaries believe their rates are
competitive with currently available alternatives. Xcel Energy’s utility
subsidiaries are taking actions to manage their operating costs and are working
with their customers to analyze energy efficiency and load management in order
to better position Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries to more effectively
operate in a competitive environment.

Wholesale Business Competition

— The wholesale electric business faces
competition in the supply of bulk power, due to federal and state initiatives
to provide open access to utility transmission systems. Under current FERC
rules, utilities are required to provide wholesale open access transmission
services and to unbundle wholesale merchant and transmission



operations. Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries are operating under a joint
tariff in compliance with these rules. To date, these provisions have not had
a material impact on the operations of Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries.

FERC Restructuring

— During 2001 and 2002, the FERC issued several industry
wide orders affecting, or potentially affecting, the Xcel Energy operating
companies and NRG. In addition, the Xcel Energy utility subsidiaries submitted
proposals to the FERC that could impact future operations, costs and revenues.

Midwest ISO Operations

— In compliance with a condition in the January 2000
FERC order approving the Xcel Energy merger, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin
entered into agreements to join the Midwest Independent Transmission System
Operator, Inc. (Midwest ISO) in August 2000. In December 2001, the FERC
approved the Midwest ISO as the first approved regional transmission
organization (RTO) in the United States, pursuant to FERC Order 2000. On Feb.
1, 2002, the Midwest ISO began interim operations, including regional
transmission tariff administration services for the NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin electric transmission systems. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin
have received all required regulatory approvals to transfer functional control
of their high voltage (100 kilovolts and above) transmission systems to the
Midwest ISO when the Midwest ISO is fully operational. The Midwest ISO will
then control the operations of these facilities and the facilities of
neighboring electric utilities.

In October 2001, the FERC issued an order in the separate proceeding to establish
the initial Midwest ISO regional transmission tariff rates, ruling that all
transmission services, with limited exceptions, in the Midwest ISO region must
be subject to the Midwest ISO regional tariff and administrative surcharges to
prevent discrimination between wholesale transmission service users. The FERC
order unilaterally modified the agreement with the Midwest ISO signed in August
2000. The FERC order increased wholesale transmission costs to NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin by approximately $9 million per year.

The Midwest ISO also submitted an application to the FERC for approval of the
business combination of the Midwest ISO and the Southwestern Power Pool (SPP),
of which SPS is a member. The FERC issued an order in December 2002
conditionally approving the proposed business combination, however in March
2003, the Midwest ISO and the SPP announced the have mutually agreed to terminate the consolidation of
their two organizations.

TRANSLink Transmission Co., LLC (TRANSLink)

— In September 2001, Xcel Energy
and several other electric utilities applied to the FERC to integrate
operations of their electric transmission systems into a single system through
the formation of TRANSLink, a for-profit, independent transmission-only
company. The utilities will participate in TRANSLink through a combination of
divestiture, leases and operating agreements. The initial applicants were:
Alliant Energy’s Iowa company (Interstate Power and Light Co.), Corn Belt Power
Cooperative, MidAmerican Energy Co., Nebraska Public Power District, Omaha
Public Power District and Xcel Energy, on behalf of its operating utilities.
In addition, in late 2002, several other companies stated their intent to join
TRANSLink. They are Great River Energy power cooperative, Dairyland Electric
Power Cooperative, Southern Minnesota Public Power Association and a group of 119
municipal utilities known as the Midwest Municipal Transmission Group. Rochester
Public Utilities joined in early 2003. The participants believe TRANSLink is
the most cost-effective option available to manage transmission and to comply
with regulations issued by FERC in 1999, known as Order No. 2000, that require
investor-owned electric utilities to transfer operational control of their
transmission system to an independent RTO.

Under the proposal, TRANSLink will be responsible for planning, managing and
operating both local and regional transmission assets. TRANSLink also will
construct and own new transmission system additions. TRANSLink will collect
revenue for the use of Xcel Energy’s transmission assets through a
FERC-approved, regulated cost-of-service tariff and will collect its
administrative costs through transmission rate surcharges. Transmission
service pricing will continue to be regulated by the FERC, but construction and
permitting approvals will continue to rest with regulators in the states served
by TRANSLink. The participants also have entered into a memorandum of
understanding with the Midwest ISO in which they agree that TRANSLink will
contract with the Midwest ISO for certain other required RTO functions and
services. In May 2002, the partners formed TRANSLink Development Co., LLC,
which is responsible for pursuing the actions necessary to complete the
regulatory approval of TRANSLink Transmission Co., LLC.

In April 2002, the FERC gave conditional approval for the applicants to
transfer ownership or operations of their transmission systems to TRANSLink and
to form TRANSLink as an independent transmission company operating under the
umbrella RTO organization of the Midwest ISO and a separate RTO in the West,
once it is formed, for PSCo assets. The FERC conditioned TRANSLink’s approval
on the resubmission of its tariff as a separate rate schedule to be
administered by the Midwest ISO. TRANSLink Development Co. made this rate
filing in October 2002. Eleven interveners had requested that the FERC clarify
or reconsider elements of the TRANSLink decision. On Nov. 1, 2002, the FERC
issued its order supporting the approval of the formation of TRANSLink. The
FERC also clarified several issues covered in its April 2002 order. In
December 2002, the



FERC approved the TRANSLink rate schedules to the Midwest ISO tariff subject to
refund, and required TRANSLink to engage in settlement discussions on several
items. TRANSLink anticipates resolving these issues during the second quarter
of 2003. In January 2003, the FERC also approved TRANSLink’s contractual
relationship with the Midwest ISO. This contract delineates the role that
TRANSLink will have within the RTO. Finally, in January 2003, TRANSLink
Development Co. also identified its nine-member independent board of directors.
The establishment of an independent board is required to satisfy Order 2000
obligations. Several state approvals would be required to implement the
proposal, as well as SEC approval. State applications were made in late 2002
and early 2003. Subject to receipt of required regulatory approvals, TRANSLink
is expected to begin operations in the third quarter of 2003.

Standards of Conduct Rulemaking

— In October 2001, the FERC issued a notice of
proposed rulemaking proposing to adopt new standards of conduct rules
applicable to all jurisdictional electric and natural gas transmission
providers. The proposed rules would replace the current rules governing the
electric transmission and wholesale electric functions of the utility
subsidiaries and the rules governing natural gas transportation and wholesale
gas supply functions. The proposed rules would expand the definition of
“affiliate” and further limit communications between transmission functions and
supply functions, and could materially increase operating costs of the utility
subsidiaries. In May 2002, the FERC staff issued a reaction paper, generally
rejecting the comments of parties opposed to the proposed rules. No final rule
has been issued.

Standard Market Design Rulemaking

— In July 2002, the FERC issued a notice of
proposed rulemaking on standard market design rulemaking for regulated
utilities. If implemented as proposed, the rulemaking will substantially
change how wholesale electric supply markets operate throughout the United
States. The proposed rulemaking expands the FERC’s intent to unbundle
transmission operations from integrated utilities and ensure robust competition
in wholesale markets. The rule contemplates that all wholesale and retail
customers will be on a single network transmission service tariff. The rule
also contemplates the implementation of a bid-based system for buying and
selling energy in wholesale electric markets. RTOs or independent transmission
providers will administer the market. RTOs will also be responsible for
regional plans that identify opportunities to construct new transmission,
generation or demand-side programs to reduce transmission constraints and meet
regional energy requirements. Finally, the rule envisions the development of
regional market monitors responsible for ensuring that individual participants
do not exercise unlawful market power. The FERC recently extended the comment
period, but anticipates that the final rules will be in place in 2003 and the
contemplated market changes will take place in 2003 and 2004. However, recent
FERC actions indicate the schedule for the final rules may be delayed.

NSP-Minnesota

Minnesota Restructuring

— In 2001, the Minnesota Legislature passed an energy
security bill that included provisions intended to streamline the siting
process of new generation and transmission facilities. It also included
voluntary benchmarks for achieving renewable energy as a portion of the utility
supply portfolio. There was no further action on restructuring in 2002. There
is unlikely to be any further action on restructuring in 2003.

North Dakota Restructuring

— In 1997, the North Dakota Legislature established,
by statute, an electric utility competition committee (EUC). To date, the
committee has focused on the study of the state’s current tax treatment of the
electric utility industry, primarily in the transmission and distribution
functions. However, the Legislature, without recommendation from the EUC,
modified the coal severance and coal conversion taxes primarily to improve the
competitive status of North Dakota lignite for generation. During 2002, the
committee continued its review and presented legislation to the legislative
assembly in January 2003. No legislation resulted from the review.

TRANSLink

— In December 2002, NSP-Minnesota filed for MPUC approval to transfer
functional control of its electric transmission system to TRANSLink, of which
NSP-Minnesota would be a participant, and related approvals. The proposal
would allow NSP-Minnesota to more cost-effectively comply with 1999 FERC rules
regarding independent transmission operations, known as Order No. 2000.
NSP-Minnesota requested approval by early second quarter 2003 so TRANSLink
could commence operations in third quarter 2003. A similar filing was
submitted to the NDPSC in early January 2003. MPUC and NDPSC action is
pending. No similar filing is required in the South Dakota jurisdiction.

NSP-Wisconsin

Wisconsin Restructuring

— The state of Wisconsin passed legislation in 2001
that reduced the wholesale gross receipts tax on the sale of electricity by 50
percent starting in 2003. This legislation eliminates the double taxation on
wholesale sales from non-utility generators. Additional legislation was passed
that enables regulated utilities to enter into leased generation contracts with
unregulated generation affiliates. The new legislation provides utilities a
new financing mechanism and option to meet



their customers’ energy needs. In 2002, the PSCW approved the first power plan
proposal utilizing the new leased generation contract arrangement. While
industry-restructuring changes continue in Wisconsin, the movement towards
retail customer choice has virtually stopped.

Michigan Restructuring

— Since Jan. 1, 2002, NSP-Wisconsin has been providing
its Michigan electric customers with the opportunity to select an alternative
electric energy provider. This action was required by Michigan’s Customer
Choice Electricity Reliability Act, which became law in June 2002.
NSP-Wisconsin developed and successfully implemented internal procedures, and
obtained MPSC approval for these procedures to meet the Jan. 1, 2002, deadline.
Key elements of internal procedures include the development of retail open
access tariffs and unbundled billing, environmental and fuel disclosure
information, and a code of conduct compliance plan. To date, no NSP-Wisconsin
retail electric customers have converted to a competing supplier.

TRANSLink

— In November 2002, NSP-Wisconsin filed for PSCW approval to transfer
functional control of its electric transmission system to the TRANSLink, of
which NSP-Wisconsin would be a participant, and related approvals. The
proposal would allow NSP-Wisconsin to more cost-effectively comply with FERC
Order No. 2000 and Wisconsin statutes mandating independent transmission
operations. NSP-Wisconsin requested approval by the end of first quarter 2003
so TRANSLink could commence operations in third quarter 2003. PSCW action is
pending after submission of supportive comments by intervenors. No similar
filing is required in the Michigan jurisdiction.

PSCo

Colorado Restructuring

— There was no legislative action with respect to
restructuring in Colorado during the 2000, 2001 or 2002 legislative sessions.
None is expected in 2003.

SPS

New Mexico Restructuring

— In March 2001, the state of New Mexico enacted
legislation that delayed customer choice until 2007 and amended the Electric
Utility Restructuring Act of 1999. In 2001, SPS requested recovery of its
costs of approximately $5.1 million incurred to prepare for customer choice in
New Mexico. A decision on this and other matters is pending before the NMPRC.
SPS expects to receive future regulatory recovery of these costs.

Texas Restructuring

— In June 2001, the Governor of Texas signed legislation
postponing the deregulation and restructuring of SPS until at least 2007. This
legislation amended the 1999 legislation, Senate Bill No. 7 (SB-7), which
provided for retail electric competition beginning January 2002. Under the
amended legislation, prior PUCT orders issued in connection with the
restructuring of SPS are considered null and void. SPS’ restructuring and rate
unbundling proceedings in Texas have been terminated. In addition, under the
new legislation, SPS is entitled to recover all reasonable and necessary
expenditures made or incurred before Sept. 1, 2001, to comply with SB-7.

In December 2001, SPS filed an application with the PUCT to recover $20.3
million in costs related to transition to retail competition from the Texas
retail customers. The filing was amended in March 2002 to reduce the
recoverable costs by $7.3 million, which were associated with over-earnings for
the calendar year 1999. The PUCT approved SPS using the 1999 over-earnings to
offset the claims for reimbursement of transition to competition costs. This
reduced the requested net collection in Texas to $13.0 million.
An order was received from the PUCT in May 2002 that stipulates recovery of $5.9 million through an incremental
cost recovery rider and the capitalization of $1.9 million for metering
equipment. Based on the order, SPS wrote off pretax
restructuring costs of approximately $5 million in the first quarter of 2002.
Recovery of the $5.9 million began in July 2002.

For more information on restructuring in Texas and New Mexico, see Note 15 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Kansas Restructuring

— During the 2001 legislative session, several
restructuring related bills were introduced for consideration by the state
Legislature. To date, however, there is no restructuring mandate in Kansas.

Oklahoma Restructuring

— In 2001, Senate Bill 440 (SB-440) was signed into law
to formally delay electric restructuring until restructuring issues could be
studied further and new enabling legislation could be enacted. SB-440
established the Electric Restructuring Advisory Committee. The Advisory
Committee submitted a report to the Governor and Legislature on Dec. 31, 2001.
During 2002, there was no action taken by the Legislature as a result of this
report. Oklahoma continues to delay retail competition.



TRANSLink

— In November and December 2002, SPS filed for PUCT and NMPRC
approval to transfer functional control of its electric transmission system to
the TRANSLink, of which SPS would be a participant, and related approvals. The
proposal would allow SPS to more cost-effectively comply with FERC Order No.
2000. SPS requested approval by early second quarter 2003 so TRANSLink could
commence operations in third quarter 2003. PUCT and NMPRC action is pending.
No similar filings are required in the Kansas and Oklahoma jurisdictions.

Other

Wyoming Restructuring

— There were no electric industry restructuring
legislation proposals introduced in the Legislature during 2001 or 2002. No
action with respect to electric restructuring is anticipated in 2003.

Capacity and Demand

Assuming normal weather during 2003, system peak demand and the net dependable
system capacity for Xcel Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries are projected
below. The electric production and transmission system of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin are managed as an integrated system (referred to as the NSP
System). The system peak demand for each of the last three years and the
forecast for 2003 are listed below.

System Peak Demand (in Megawatts)

Operating Company




2003 Forecast

NSP System

7,936

8,344

8,259

8,090

PSCo

5,406

5,644

5,872

5,947

SPS

3,870

4,080

4,018

4,052

The peak demand for all systems typically occurs in the summer. The 2002
system peak demand for the NSP System occurred on July 30, 2002. The 2002
system peak demand for PSCo occurred on July 18, 2002. The 2002 system peak
demand for SPS occurred on Aug. 1, 2002.

Energy Sources

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries expect to use the following resources to
meet their net dependable system capacity requirements: 1) Xcel Energy utility
subsidiary electric generating stations, 2) purchases from other utilities,
independent power producers and power marketers, 3) demand-side management
options and 4) phased expansion of existing generation at select power plants.

Purchased Power

Xcel Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries have contractual arrangements to
purchase power from other utilities and nonregulated energy suppliers.
Capacity, typically measured in kilowatts or megawatts, is the measure of the
rate at which a particular generating source produces electricity. Energy,
typically measured in kilowatt-hours or megawatt-hours, is a measure of the
amount of electricity produced from a particular generating source over a
period of time. Purchased power contracts typically require a periodic payment
to secure the capacity from a particular generating source and a charge for the
associated energy actually purchased from such generating source.

The utility subsidiaries of Xcel Energy also make short-term and non-firm
purchases to replace generation from company-owned units that are unavailable
due to maintenance and unplanned outages, to provide each utility’s reserve
obligation, to obtain energy at a lower cost than that which could be produced
by other resource options, including company-owned generation and/or long-term
purchase power contracts, and for various other operating requirements.

NSP System Resource Plan

In December 2002, NSP-Minnesota filed its resource plan with the MPUC for 2003
to 2017. The plan describes how Xcel Energy intends to meet the energy needs
of the NSP System. The plan presented conservation programs to reduce NSP
System’s peak demand and conserve  electricity, an approximate
schedule of power purchase solicitations to meet increasing demand and programs
and plans to maintain the reliable operations of existing resources. In
summary, the plan includes the following elements:



The MPUC will receive comments on the plan in the coming months and act to
approve, modify or reject the plan late in the year. NSP-Minnesota has
requested that the Minnesota Legislature address the issue of spent nuclear
fuel storage limitation and its effect on the future of nuclear generation in
Minnesota in the 2003 legislative session. See Nuclear Power Operations and Waste
Disposal-High-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal under Item 1. The MPUC has suspended the procedure schedule pending the completion of the legislative session.

PSCo Resource Plan

PSCo estimates it will purchase approximately 31 percent of its total electric
system energy input for 2003. Approximately 44 percent of the total system
capacity for the summer 2003 system peak demand for PSCo will be provided by
purchased power.

To meet the demand and energy needs of the rapidly growing economy in Colorado,
PSCo completed a solicitation process that will add approximately 1,800
megawatts of resources to its system over the 2002 to 2005 time period.

Purchased Transmission Services

Xcel Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries have contractual arrangements with
regional transmission service providers to deliver power and energy to the
subsidiaries’ native load customers, which are retail and wholesale load
obligations with terms of more than one year. Point-to-point transmission
services typically include a charge for the specific amount of transmission
capacity being reserved, although some agreements may base charges on the
amount of metered energy delivered. Network transmission services include a
charge for the metered demand at the delivery point at the time of the
provider’s monthly transmission system peak, usually calculated as a 12-month
rolling average.

Fuel Supply and Costs

The following tables show the delivered cost per million British thermal units
(MMBtu) of each significant category of fuel consumed for electric generation,
the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel
and the total weighted average cost of all fuels during such years.

Coal*

Nuclear

Average Fuel

NSP System Generating Plants

Cost

Percent

Cost

Percent

Cost


$

0.96


%

$

0.46


%

$

0.81


$

0.96


%

$

0.47


%

$

0.86


$

1.11


%

$

0.45


%

$

0.91

*

Includes refuse-derived fuel and wood

Coal

Gas

Average Fuel

PSCo Generating Plants

Cost

Percent

Cost

Percent

Cost


$

0.91


%

$

2.25


%

$

1.19


$

0.86


%

$

4.27


%

$

1.41


$

0.91


%

$

3.97


%

$

1.30

Coal

Gas

Average Fuel

SPS Generating Plants

Cost

Percent

Cost

Percent

Cost


$

1.33


%

$

3.27


%

$

1.84


$

1.40


%

$

4.35


%

$

2.31


$

1.45


%

$

4.23


%

$

2.28



NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin normally maintain between 30 and 45 days of
coal inventory at each plant site. Estimated coal requirements at
NSP-Minnesota’s major coal-fired generating plants are approximately 12 million
tons per year. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have long-term contracts
providing for the delivery of up to 100 percent of 2003 coal requirements and
up to 58 percent of their 2004 requirements. Coal delivery may be subject to
short-term interruptions or reductions due to transportation problems, weather
and availability of equipment.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin expect that all of the coal they burn in 2003
will have a sulfur content of less than 1 percent. NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin have contracts for a maximum of 38.4 million tons of low-sulfur
coal for the next five years. The contracts are with two Montana coal
suppliers and three Wyoming suppliers with expiration dates ranging between
2003 and 2007. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin could purchase approximately 42
percent of coal requirements in the spot market in 2004 if spot prices are more
favorable than contracted prices.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin’s current fuel oil inventory is adequate to
meet anticipated 2003 requirements, and they also have access to the spot
market to buy more oil, if needed. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin use both
firm and interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion turbines and
certain boilers. Natural gas supplies for power plants are procured under
short- and intermediate-term contracts to provide an adequate supply of fuel.

To operate NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear generating plants, NSP-Minnesota secures
contracts for uranium concentrates, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment and
fuel fabrication. The contract strategy involves a portfolio of spot purchases
and medium- and long-term contracts for uranium, conversion and enrichment.
Current contracts are flexible and cover 100 percent of uranium, conversion and
enrichment requirements through the year 2005. These contracts expire at
varying times between 2003 and 2006. The overlapping nature of contract
commitments will allow NSP-Minnesota to maintain 50 percent to 100 percent
coverage beyond 2002. NSP-Minnesota expects sufficient uranium, conversion and
enrichment to be available for the total fuel requirements of its nuclear
generating plants. Fuel fabrication is 100 percent committed through 2004 and
30 percent through 2010.

PSCo

PSCo’s primary fuel for its steam electric generating stations is low-sulfur
western coal. PSCo’s coal requirements are purchased primarily under long-term
contracts with suppliers operating in Colorado and Wyoming. During 2002,
PSCo’s coal requirements for existing plants were approximately 10.1 million
tons, a substantial portion of which was supplied pursuant to long-term supply
contracts. Coal supply inventories at Dec. 31, 2002, were approximately 47
days usage, based on the average burn rate for all of PSCo’s coal-fired plants.

PSCo operates the Hayden station, and has partial ownership in the Craig
station in Colorado. All of Hayden station’s coal requirements are supplied
under a long-term agreement. Approximately 75 percent of PSCo’s Craig station
coal requirements are supplied by two long-term agreements. Any remaining
Craig station requirements for PSCo are supplied via spot coal purchases.

PSCo has secured more than 75 percent of Cameo station’s coal requirements for
2003. Any remaining requirements may be purchased from this contract or the
spot market. PSCo has contracted for coal supplies to supply approximately 100
percent of the Cherokee and Valmont stations’ projected requirements in 2003.

PSCo has long-term coal supply agreements for the Pawnee and Comanche stations’
projected requirements. Under the long-term agreements, the supplier has
dedicated specific coal reserves at the contractually defined mines to meet the
contract quantity obligations. In addition, PSCo has a coal supply agreement
to supply approximately 85 percent of Arapahoe station’s projected requirements
for 2003. Any remaining Arapahoe station requirements will be procured via
spot market purchases.

PSCo uses both firm and interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion
turbines and certain boilers. Natural gas supplies for PSCo’s power plants are
procured under short- and intermediate-term contracts to provide an adequate
supply of fuel.



SPS

SPS purchases all of its coal requirements for Harrington and Tolk electric
generating stations from TUCO, Inc. in the form of crushed, ready-to-burn coal
delivered to SPS’ plant bunkers. For the Harrington station, the coal supply
contract expires in 2016 and the coal handling agreement expires in 2004. For
the Tolk station, the coal supply contract expires in 2017 and the coal
handling agreement expires in 2005. At Dec. 31, 2002, coal supplies at the
Harrington and Tolk sites were approximately 44 and 53 days supply,
respectively. TUCO has coal supply agreements to supply 100 percent of the
projected requirements for 2003 for Harrington station and Tolk station. TUCO
has long-term contracts for supply of coal in sufficient quantities to meet the
primary needs of the Tolk station.

SPS has a number of short- and intermediate-term contracts with natural gas
suppliers operating in gas fields with long life expectancies in or near its
service area. SPS also utilizes firm and interruptible transportation to
minimize fuel costs during volatile market conditions and to provide
reliability of supply. SPS maintains sufficient gas supplies under short- and
intermediate-term contracts to meet all power plant requirements; however, due
to flexible contract terms, approximately 50 percent of SPS’ gas requirements
during 2002 were purchased under spot agreements.

Trading Operations

Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries conduct various trading operations,
including the purchase and sale of electric energy. Participation in
short-term wholesale energy markets also provides market intelligence and
information that supports the energy management of each utility subsidiary.
Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries reduce commodity price and credit
risks by using physical and financial instruments to minimize commodity price
and credit risk and hedge supplies and purchases. Optimizing the utility
subsidiaries’ physical assets by engaging in short-term sales and purchase
commitments results in lowering the cost of supply for the customers and the
capturing of additional margins from non-traditional customers. Xcel Energy
and its utility subsidiaries also use these trading operations to capture
arbitrage opportunities created by regional pricing differentials, supply and
demand imbalances and changes in fuel prices. See Pending Regulatory Matters under
Item 1 for a discussion of investigations of trading activities.

Nuclear Power Operations and Waste Disposal

NSP-Minnesota owns two nuclear generating plants: the Monticello plant and the
Prairie Island plant. See additional discussion regarding the nuclear
generating plants at Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Nuclear power plant operation produces gaseous, liquid and solid radioactive
substances. The discharge and handling of such substances are controlled by
federal regulation. High-level radioactive substance includes used nuclear
fuel. Low-level radioactive substance consists primarily of demineralizer
resins, paper, protective clothing, rags, tools and equipment that have become
contaminated through use in the plant.

Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal —

Federal law places responsibility on
each state for disposal of its low-level radioactive substance. Low-level
radioactive substance from NSP-Minnesota’s Monticello and Prairie Island
nuclear plants is currently disposed of at the Barnwell facility located in
South Carolina (all classes of low-level substance) and the Clive facility
located in Utah (class A low-level substance only). Chem Nuclear is the owner
and operator of the Barnwell facility, which has been given authorization by
South Carolina to accept low-level radioactive substance from out of state.
Envirocare, Inc. operates the Clive facility. NSP-Minnesota and Barnwell
currently operate under an annual contract, while NSP-Minnesota uses the
Envirocare facility through various low-level substance processors.
NSP-Minnesota has low-level storage capacity available on-site at Prairie
Island and Monticello that would allow both plants to continue to operate until
the end of their licensed lives, if off-site low-level disposal facilities were
not available to NSP-Minnesota.

High-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal —

The federal government has the
responsibility to dispose of, or permanently store, domestic spent nuclear fuel
and other high-level radioactive substances. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act
requires the Department of Energy (DOE) to implement a program for nuclear
substance management. This includes the siting, licensing, construction and
operation of a repository for domestically produced spent nuclear fuel from
civilian nuclear power reactors and other high-level radioactive substances at
a permanent storage or disposal facility by 1998. The DOE has accepted none of
NSP-Minnesota’s spent nuclear fuel. See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings and Note 19
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this matter.



NSP-Minnesota has on-site storage for spent nuclear fuel at its Monticello and
Prairie Island nuclear plants. The Prairie Island plant is licensed by the
federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to store up to 48 casks of spent fuel at the plant. In 1994, the
Minnesota Legislature adopted a limit on dry cask storage of 17 casks for the
entire state. The 17 casks, which stand outside the Prairie Island plant, are
now full, and under the current configuration the storage pool within the plant
would be full by 2007. Prairie Island cannot operate beyond 2007 unless the
existing spent fuel is moved or the storage capacity is increased. Because the
17-cask limit is a statewide limit, the Monticello plant cannot, under current
state law, store spent fuel in dry casks. Monticello’s on-site storage pool is
expected to be full in 2010. Monticello cannot operate beyond 2010 unless the
existing spent fuel is moved or the storage capacity is increased.

NSP-Minnesota is part of a consortium of private parties working to establish a
private facility for interim storage of spent nuclear fuel. In 1997, Private
Fuel Storage, LLC (PFS) filed a license application with the NRC for a
temporary storage site for spent nuclear fuel on the Skull Valley Indian
Reservation in Utah. The NRC license review process includes formal
evidentiary hearings before an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board (ASLB) and
opportunities for public input. Evidentiary hearings were held in 2000 and
2002, Most of the issues raised by opponents of the project have been
favorably resolved or dismissed. On March 10, 2003, the ASLB ruled that the
likelihood of certain aircraft crashes into the proposed facility was
sufficiently credible that it would have to be addressed before the facility
could be licensed and set forth a potential process for addressing this
concern. PFS is currently evaluating this decision and awaiting ASLB decisions
on the remaining five major issues expected in a few weeks. Due to uncertainty
regarding NRC and other regulatory and governmental approvals, it is possible
that this interim storage may be delayed or not available at all.

If the Prairie Island plant is to continue operating beyond 2007, legislative
authorization of additional storage space is needed. If additional storage
space for continued operations is not authorized, legislation may be needed to
ensure timely implementation of a replacement alternative.

NSP-Minnesota has developed viable replacement power options, including
purchasing new coal or natural gas generation, and also reviewed the
feasibility of supplementing new natural gas generation with additional wind
turbines. These options have been presented to the 2003 Legislature. Each
option involves trade-offs between cost, emissions and operational impacts.

Due to the investment decisions required to be made in conjunction with the
continued efficient operation of the nuclear plants, as well as the time and
cost involved to develop alternatives to the existing nuclear power generation,
NSP-Minnesota believes a decision is necessary in 2003 by the Minnesota
Legislature whether the state will allow the continued use of nuclear power in
the future. Prairie Island will only be able to continue operating beyond 2007
with legislative authorization of additional storage space.

In February 2001, NSP-Minnesota signed a contract with Steam Generating Team,
Ltd. to perform engineering and construction services for the installation of
replacement steam generators at the Prairie Island nuclear power plant.
NSP-Minnesota is evaluating the economics of replacing two steam generators on
unit 1 at the plant. NSP-Minnesota is taking steps to preserve the replacement
option for as early as 2004. The total cost of replacing the steam generators
is estimated to be approximately $132 million.

The NRC is engaged in various ongoing studies and rulemaking activities that
may impose additional requirements upon commercial nuclear power plants.
Management is unable to predict any new requirements or their impact on
NSP-Minnesota’s facilities and operations.

Nuclear Management Co. (NMC)

During 1999, NSP-Minnesota, Wisconsin Electric Power Co., Wisconsin Public
Service Corp. and Alliant Energy Corp. established NMC. The Consumers Power
subsidiary of CMS Energy Corp. joined NMC during 2000, and transferred
operating authority for the Palisades nuclear plant to NMC in 2001. The five
affiliated companies own eight nuclear units on six sites, with total
generation capacity exceeding 4,500 megawatts.

The NRC has approved requests by NMC’s affiliated utilities to transfer
operating authority for their nuclear plants to NMC, formally establishing NMC
as an operating company. NMC manages the operations and maintenance at the
plants, and is responsible for physical security. NMC’s responsibilities also
include oversight of on-site dry storage facilities for used nuclear fuel at
the Prairie Island nuclear plant. Utility plant owners, including Xcel Energy,
continue to own the plants, control all energy produced by the plants, and
retain responsibility for nuclear liability insurance and decommissioning
costs. Existing



personnel continue to provide day-to-day plant operations, with the additional
benefit of sharing ideas and operating experience from all NMC-operated plants
for improved safety, reliability and operational performance.

For further discussion of nuclear issues, see Notes 18 and 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Electric Operating Statistics (Xcel Energy)



GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

Competition and Industry Restructuring

In the early 1990’s, the FERC issued Order No. 636, which mandated the
unbundling of interstate natural gas pipeline services, including sales,
transportation, storage and ancillary services. The implementation of Order
No. 636 has resulted in additional pressure on all local distribution companies
(LDCs) to keep gas supply and transmission prices for their large customers
competitive. Customers have greater ability to buy gas directly from suppliers
and arrange their own pipeline and LDC transportation service. Changes in
regulatory policies and market forces have shifted the industry from
traditional bundled gas sales service to an unbundled transportation and
market-based commodity service.

The natural gas delivery/transportation business has remained competitive as
industrial and large commercial customers have the ability to bypass the local
gas utility through the construction of interconnections directly with, and the
purchase of gas from, interstate pipelines, thereby avoiding the delivery
charges added by the local gas utility.

As LDCs, NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin and PSCo provide transportation service
to large customers. Transportation service does not have an adverse effect on
earnings because the sales and transportation rates have been designed to
produce the same profit margin. However, some transportation customers may
have greater opportunities or incentives to physically bypass the LDCs
distribution system.

The Colorado Legislature passed legislation in 1999 that provides the CPUC the
authority and responsibility to approve voluntary unbundling plans submitted by
Colorado gas utilities in the future. PSCo has not filed a plan to further
unbundle its gas service to all residential and commercial customers and
continues to evaluate its business opportunities for doing so.

Capability and Demand

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin

Xcel Energy categorizes its gas supply requirements as firm or interruptible,
which are customers with an alternate energy supply. The maximum daily
send-out of firm and interruptible for the combined system of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin was 650,641 million British thermal units (MMBtu) for 2002, which
occurred on Jan. 2, 2002.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin purchase gas from independent suppliers. The
gas is delivered under gas transportation agreements with interstate pipelines.
These agreements provide for firm deliverable pipeline capacity of
approximately 604,000 MMBtu/day. In addition, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin
have contracted with providers of underground natural gas storage services.
These storage agreements provide storage for approximately 15 percent of winter
season and 23 percent of peak daily, firm requirements of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin also own and operate two liquefied natural gas
(LNG) plants with a storage capacity of 2.5 billion cubic feet (Bcf) equivalent
and four propane-air plants with a storage capacity of 1.4 Bcf equivalent to
help meet its peak requirements. These peak-shaving facilities have production
capacity equivalent to 246,000 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or approximately
32 percent of peak day firm requirements. LNG and propane-air plants provide a
cost-effective alternative to annual fixed pipeline transportation charges to
meet the peaks caused by firm space heating demand on extremely cold winter
days and can be used to minimize daily imbalance fees on interstate pipelines.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin are required to file for a change in gas supply
contract levels to meet peak demand, to redistribute demand costs among classes
or to exchange one form of demand for another. In October 2001, the MPUC
approved NSP-Minnesota’s 2000-2001 entitlement levels. NSP-Minnesota’s
2001-2002 entitlement levels were approved on April 3, 2002, which allow
NSP-Minnesota to recover the demand entitlement costs associated with the
increase in transportation and storage levels in its monthly PGA. The
2002-2003 entitlement levels are pending MPUC action. NSP-Wisconsin’s winter
2002-2003 supply plan was approved by the PSCW in October 2002.

PSCo and Cheyenne

PSCo and Cheyenne project peak day gas supply requirements for firm sales and
backup transportation, which include transportation customers contracting for firm
supply backup, to be approximately 1,756,000 MMBtu. In addition, firm
transportation customers hold 451,000 MMBtu of capacity without supply backup.
Total firm delivery obligation for PSCo and



Cheyenne are 2,206,870 MMBtu per day. The maximum daily deliveries for both
companies in 2002 for firm and interruptible services were 1,652,459 MMBtu on
Feb. 25, 2002.

PSCo and Cheyenne purchase gas from independent suppliers. The gas supplies
are delivered to the respective delivery systems through a combination of
transportation agreements, with interstate pipelines and deliveries by
suppliers directly to each company. These agreements provide for firm
deliverable pipeline capacity of approximately 1,220,000 MMBtu/day, which
includes 797,000 MMBtu of supplies held under third-party underground storage
agreements. In addition, PSCo operates three company-owned underground storage
facilities, which provide about 38,000 MMBtu of gas supplies on a peak day.
The balance of the quantities required to meet firm peak day sales obligations
are primarily purchased at the companies’ city gate meter stations and a small
amount is received directly from wellhead sources.

PSCo has received approval to close one of its three storage facilities, Leyden
Storage Field. The field’s 110,000 MMBtu peak day capacity was replaced with
additional third-party storage and transportation capacity. See further
discussion at Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

PSCo is required by CPUC regulations to file a gas purchase plan by June of
each year projecting and describing the quantities of gas supplies, upstream
services and the costs of those supplies and services for the period beginning
July 1 through June 30 of the following year. PSCo is also required to file a
gas purchase report by October of each year reporting actual quantities and
costs incurred for gas supplies and upstream services for the 12-month period
ending the previous June 30.

Gas Supply and Costs

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries actively seek gas supply, transportation and
storage alternatives to yield a diversified portfolio that provides increased
flexibility, decreased interruption and financial risk, and economical rates.
This diversification involves numerous domestic and Canadian supply sources
with varied contract lengths.

The following table summarizes the average cost per MMBtu of gas purchased for
resale by Xcel Energy’s regulated retail gas distribution business:

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Wisconsin

PSCo

Cheyenne


$

3.98

$

4.63

$

3.17

$

2.77


$

5.83

$

5.11

$

4.99

$

5.03


$

4.56

$

4.71

$

4.48

$

4.03

The cost of gas supply, transportation service and storage service is recovered
through various cost recovery adjustment mechanisms.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have firm gas transportation contracts with
several pipelines, which expire in various years from 2003 through 2014.
Approximately 80 percent of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin’s retail gas
customers’ needs are supplied from the Northern Natural Gas pipeline system.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have certain gas supply and transportation
agreements that include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of
specified volumes of gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery. At Dec. 31,
2002, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin were committed to approximately $267.7
million in such obligations under these contracts, which expire in various
years from 2003 through 2014.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin purchase firm gas supply utilizing long-term
and short-term agreements from approximately 37 domestic and Canadian
suppliers. This diversity of suppliers and contract lengths allows
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin to maintain competition from suppliers and
minimize supply costs.

PSCo and Cheyenne

PSCo and Cheyenne have certain gas supply and transportation agreements that
include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes of
gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery. At Dec. 31, 2002, PSCo and
Cheyenne were



committed to approximately $906.3 million in such obligations under these
contracts, which expire in various years from 2003 through 2025.

PSCo and Cheyenne have attempted to maintain low-cost, reliable natural gas
supplies by optimizing a balance of long-term and short-term gas purchases,
firm transportation and gas storage contracts. PSCo and Cheyenne also utilize
a mixture of fixed-price purchases and index-related purchases to provide a
less volatile, yet market-sensitive, price to its customers. During 2002, PSCo
and Cheyenne purchased natural gas from approximately 44 suppliers.

Viking

On Nov. 7, 2002, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell Viking and Viking’s
one-third share of Guardian Pipeline to Border Viking Company, whose ultimate
parent is Northern Border Partners L. P. The sale was completed on Jan. 17,
2003, and Xcel Energy received net proceeds of $124 million.



Gas Operating Statistics (Xcel Energy)



NONREGULATED SUBSIDIARIES

Through its non-utility subsidiaries, Xcel Energy invests in and operates several
nonregulated businesses in a variety of industries. The following is an
overview of the significant nonregulated businesses.

NRG Energy, Inc.

NRG is an energy company primarily engaged in the ownership and operation of
power generation facilities and the sale of energy, capacity and related
products in the United States and internationally. For additional information see Item 1 of NRG’s
Annual Report on Form 10-K, incorporated herein by reference at Exhibit 99.02.

Xcel Energy owned 100 percent of NRG Energy at the beginning of 2000. About 18
percent of NRG Energy was sold to the public in an initial public offering in
the second quarter of 2000, leaving Xcel Energy with an 82-percent interest at
Dec. 31, 2000. In March 2001, another 8 percent of NRG Energy was sold to the
public, leaving Xcel Energy with an interest of about 74 percent at Dec. 31,
2001. On June 3, 2002, Xcel Energy purchased the 26 percent of NRG Energy held
by the public so that it again held 100 percent ownership at Dec. 31, 2002. See
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of potential
changes in NRG ownership.

Since the early 1990’s, NRG has pursued a strategy of rapid growth through
acquisitions. Starting in 2000, NRG Energy added new construction to this
strategy. This strategy required significant capital, much of which was
satisfied primarily with debt. As of Dec. 31, 2002 NRG had approximately $9.4
billion of debt on its balance sheet at the corporate and project levels. Due
to a number of reasons, including the overall downturn in the energy industry,
NRG’s financial condition has deteriorated significantly and NRG is facing severe financial
difficulties. NRG has failed to make scheduled payments of interest and principal on its
outstanding bank loans and bonds. As a consequence, NRG may seek
protection under the bankruptcy laws in the future. See Notes 2, 3, 4
and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

NRG is restructuring its operations to become a domestic-based owner-operator
of a fuel-diverse portfolio of electric generation facilities engaged in the
sale of energy, capacity and related products. NRG is working toward this goal
by selective divestiture of non-core assets, realignment of management,
reorganization of power marketing activities and an overall financial
restructuring that will improve liquidity and reduce debt. NRG does not
anticipate any new significant development, and, instead, will focus on
operational performance and asset management. NRG has already made significant
reductions in expenditures, business development activities and personnel.
Power sales and fuel procurement will remain a key strategic element of NRG’s
operations. NRG’s objective will be to optimize the fuel input and the energy
output of its facilities within an appropriate risk and liquidity profile.

The entire independent power industry in the United States is in turmoil. Many
of NRG’s competitors have announced plans to scale back their growth, sell
assets, and restructure their finances. Bankruptcy filings are likely by
several of NRG’s competitors. The results of the wholesale restructuring of
the independent power industry are impossible to predict, but they may include
consolidation within the industry, the sale or liquidation of certain
competitors, the re-regulation of certain markets, and the long-term reduction
in new investment into the industry. Under any scenario, however, NRG
anticipates that it will continue to face competition from numerous companies
in the industry, some of which may have more extensive operating experience,
larger staffs, and greater financial resources than NRG presently possesses.

Many companies in the regulated utility industry, with which the independent
power industry is closely linked, are also restructuring or reviewing their
strategies. Several of these companies are discontinuing going forward with
unregulated investments, seeking to divest of their unregulated subsidiaries or
attempting to have their regulated subsidiaries acquire their unregulated
subsidiaries. This may lead to an increased competition between the regulated
utilities and the unregulated power producers within certain markets. In such
instances, NRG may compete with regulated utilities in the influence of market
designs and rulemaking.

On March 26, 2003, Xcel Energy’s board
of directors approved a tentative settlement with holders of most of NRG’s long-term notes and the steering
committee representing NRG’s bank lenders regarding alleged claims of such creditors against Xcel Energy,
 including claims related to the support and capital subscription agreement between Xcel Energy and NRG
dated May 29, 2002 (the “Support Agreement”). The settlement is subject to a variety of conditions as set
forth below, including definitive documentation. The principal terms of the settlement as of
the date of this report were as follows:

Xcel Energy would pay up to $752 million to NRG to settle all claims of NRG, and the claims
of NRG against Xcel Energy, including all claims under the Support Agreement.

$350 million would be paid at or shortly following the consummation of a restructuring of
NRG’s debt through a bankruptcy proceeding. It is expected that this payment would be made prior to year-end 2003. $50 million
would be paid on Jan. 1, 2004, and all or any part of such payment could be made, at Xcel Energy’s election, in Xcel Energy common stock. Up to $352 million would be paid on April 30, 2004, except to the extent that Xcel Energy had
not received at such time tax refunds equal to $352 million associated with the loss on its investment in NRG.
To the extent Xcel Energy had not received such refunds, the April 30 payment would be due on May 30, 2004.

$390 million of the Xcel Energy payments are contingent on receiving releases from NRG creditors. To
the extent Xcel Energy does not receive a release from an NRG
creditor. Xcel Energy’s obligation to make $390 million of the payments
 would be reduced based on the amount of the creditor’s claim against NRG. As noted below, however, the entire
settlement is contingent upon Xcel Energy receiving releases from at least 85 percent of the claims in various NRG creditor groups.
As a result, it is not expected that Xcel Energy’s payment obligations would be reduced by more than approximately $60 million.
Any reduction would come from the Xcel Energy payment due on April 30, 2004.

Upon the consummation of NRG’s debt
restructuring through a bankruptcy proceeding, Xcel Energy’s exposure on any
guaranties or other credit support obligations incurred by Xcel Energy for the benefit of NRG or any subsidiary would be terminated
and any cash collateral posted by Xcel Energy would be returned to it. The current amount of such cash collateral is approximately
$11.5 million.

As part of the settlement with Xcel Energy, any intercompany claims of Xcel Energy against NRG or any
subsidiary arising from the provision of intercompany goods or
services or the honoring of any guaranty will be paid in full in cash
in the ordinary course except that the agreed amount of such
intercompany claims arising or accrued as of Jan. 31, 2003 will be
reduced from approximately $55 million as asserted by Xcel Energy to
$13 million. The $13 million agreed amount is to be paid upon the
consummation of NRG’s debt restructuring with $3 million in cash and
an unsecured promissory note of NRG on market terms in the principal
amount of $10 million.

NRG and its direct and indirect subsidiaries would
not be reconsolidated with Xcel Energy or any of its other
affiliates for tax purposes at any time after their June 2002
re-affiliation or treated as a party to or otherwise entitled to the
benefits of any tax sharing agreement with Xcel Energy. Likewise, NRG
would not be entitled to any tax benefits associated with the tax
loss Xcel Energy expects to incur in connection with the write down
of its investment in NRG.

Xcel Energy’s obligations under the tentative
settlement, including its obligations to make the payments set forth
above, are contingent upon, among other things, the following:

(1)

Definitive documentation, in form and substance
satisfactory to the parties;

(2)

Between 50 percent and 100 percent of the claims
represented by various NRG facilities or creditor groups (the “NRG
Credit Facilities”) having executed an agreement, in form and
substance satisfactory to Xcel Energy, to support the settlement;

(3)

Various stages of the implementation of the
settlement occurring by dates currently being negotiated, with the
consummation of the settlement to occur by Sept. 30, 2003;

(4)

The receipt of releases in favor of Xcel Energy
by at least 85 percent of the claims represented by the NRG Credit
Facilities;

(5)

The receipt by Xcel Energy of all necessary
regulatory approvals; and

(6)

No downgrade prior to consummation of the
settlement of any Xcel Energy credit rating from the level of such
rating as of March 25, 2003.

Since many of these conditions are not within Xcel Energy’s control, Xcel
Energy cannot state with certainty that the settlement will be effectuated.
Nevertheless, the Xcel Energy management is optimistic at this time that the
settlement will be implemented.

Additional information regarding NRG’s operations is included in Item 1 of Part
I of NRG’s Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002, which is incorporated as
Exhibit 99.02 to this 10-K report and incorporated by reference herein.

e prime, inc.

e prime was incorporated in 1995 under the laws of Colorado. e prime provides
energy related products and services, which include natural gas marketing and
trading and energy consulting. In 1996, e prime received authorization from
the FERC to act as a power marketer. Additionally, e prime owns Young Gas
Storage Company, which owns a 47.5 percent general partnership interest in an
underground gas storage facility in northeastern Colorado.



e prime’s gas trading operations acquire assets and commodities and
subsequently trade around those assets or commodity positions. e prime
captures trading opportunities through price volatility driven by factors such
as asset utilization, locational price differentials, weather, available
supplies, credit and customer actions. Trading margins are captured through
the utilization of transmission, transportation and storage assets, capture of
regional price differences and other factors.

Other Subsidiaries

Although not individually reportable segments, Xcel Energy also has a number of
nonregulated subsidiaries in various lines of business. The most significant
are discussed below.

Xcel Energy International

Xcel Energy International (Xcel International) was formed in 1997 to manage the
international operations of Xcel Energy, outside of NRG.

In August 2002, Xcel International sold a 5-percent interest in Yorkshire Power
for $33 million to CE Electric UK. Xcel Energy and American Electric Power Co.
each held a 50-percent interest in Yorkshire, a UK retail electricity and gas
supplier and electric distributor, before selling 95 percent of Yorkshire to
Innogy Holdings plc in April 2001.

Xcel Energy Argentina’s primary investment consists of the ownership and
operation of three independent power production facilities in Argentina. At Dec. 31,
2002, Xcel Argentina had approximately $112 million invested in these
facilities.

Utility Engineering Corp. (UE)

UE was incorporated in 1985 under the laws of Texas. UE is engaged in
engineering, design, construction management and other miscellaneous services.
UE currently has five wholly owned subsidiaries, including Universal Utility
Services LLC, Precision Resource Co., Quixx Corp., Proto-Power Corp. and
Applied Power Associates Inc.

Planergy International Inc.

Planergy provides energy management, consulting, on-site generation, load
curtailment, demand-side management, energy conservation and optimization,
distributed generation and power quality services, as well as information
management solutions to industrial, commercial and utility customers.

Seren Innovations, Inc.

Seren is constructing a combination cable television, telephone and high-speed
internet access system in two locations: St. Cloud, Minn., and Contra Costa
County in the East Bay area of northern California. As of Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel
Energy’s investment in Seren was approximately $255 million. Seren projects
improvement in its operating results with positive cash flow anticipated in
2005, upon completion of its build-out program, and earnings contribution in 2008. See further discussion in Note 18 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Eloigne Company

Eloigne was established in 1993 and its principal business is the acquisition
of rental housing projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits
under current federal tax law. As of Dec. 31, 2002, approximately $83 million
had been invested in Eloigne projects, including approximately $23 million in
wholly owned properties and approximately $60 million in equity interests in
jointly owned projects. Completed and committed Eloigne projects as of Dec. 31,
2002, are expected to generate tax credits of $76 million over the time period
of 2003 through 2011.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Certain of Xcel Energy’s subsidiary facilities are regulated by federal and
state environmental agencies. These agencies have jurisdiction over air
emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous
substances. Various company activities require registrations, permits,
licenses, inspections and approvals from these agencies. Xcel Energy has
received all



necessary authorizations for the construction and continued operation of its
generation, transmission and distribution systems. Company facilities have
been designed and constructed to operate in compliance with applicable
environmental standards.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries strive to comply with all environmental
regulations applicable to its operations. However, it is not possible at this
time to determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications
of existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of changes to
environmental regulations, interpretations or enforcement policies or,
generally, what effect future laws or regulations may have upon Xcel Energy’s
operations. For more information on environmental contingencies, see Notes 18 and 19
to the Consolidated Financial Statements and environmental matters in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

CAPITAL SPENDING AND FINANCING

For a discussion of expected capital expenditures and funding sources, see
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

EMPLOYEES

The number of Xcel Energy employees at Dec. 31, 2002, is presented in the table
below. Of the employees listed below, 7,449, or 51 percent, are covered under
collective bargaining agreements.

NSP-Minnesota

2,963

NSP-Wisconsin


PSCo

2,625

SPS

1,071

Xcel Energy Services Inc.

2,965

NRG

3,173

Other subsidiaries

1,295

Total

14,642

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Wayne H. Brunetti, 60, Chairman of the Board, August 2001 to present, President
and Chief Executive Officer, August 2000 to present. Previously, Vice
Chairman, President, Chief Operating Officer and Director of NCE since 1997 and
President and Director of PSCo since 1994.

Paul J. Bonavia, 51, President — Energy Markets, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to
present. Previously, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of NCE since
1997.

Benjamin G.S. Fowke III, 44, Vice President and Treasurer, Xcel Energy, November
2002 to present. Previously, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer -
Energy Markets, Xcel Energy from August 2000 to November 2002, Vice President -
Retail Services and Energy Markets, NCE from January 1999 to July 2000 and Vice
President — Finance/Accounting, e prime from May 1997 to December 1998.

Raymond E. Gogel, 52, Vice President and CIO, Xcel Energy, April 2002 to
present. Previously, Vice President and Senior Client Services Principal for
IBM Global Services since June 2001 and Senior Project Executive for IBM Global
Services since January 1998.

Cathy J. Hart, 53, Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Xcel Energy, August
2000 to present. Previously, Secretary of NCE since 1998 and Manager of
Corporate Communications of PSCo from 1993 to 1996. From June 1996 to June
1998, Cathy J. Hart was not employed. For family reasons, she resigned as
Manager of Corporate Communications at PSCo in June 1996 to move to Australia.
She was re-employed by NCE as Corporate Secretary in June 1998.

Gary R. Johnson, 56, Vice President and General Counsel, Xcel Energy, August
2000 to present. Previously, Vice President and General Counsel of NSP since
1991.



Richard C. Kelly, 56, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, Xcel Energy,
August 2002 to present.  Previously, President — Enterprises, Xcel
Energy, since August 2000, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
for NCE from 1997 to August 2000 and Senior Vice President of PSCo from 1990 to
1997.

Cynthia L. Lesher, 54, Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy, August 2000
to present. Chief Human Resources Officer, Xcel Energy, July 2001 to present.
Previously, President of NSP-Gas since July 1997 and prior was Vice President-Human
Resources of NSP.

Tom Petillo, 58, President — Delivery, Xcel Energy, March 2001 to present.
Previously, President — Delivery, Xcel Energy from August 2000 to March 2001,
Executive Vice President of New Century Services from 1998 to August 2000 and
President and Director of New Century International from 1997 to 1998.

David E. Ripka, 54, Vice President and Controller, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to
present. Previously, Vice President and Controller of NRG from June 1999 to
August 2000, Controller of NRG from March 1997 to June 1999 and prior was Assistant
Controller for NSP from June 1992 to March 1997.

Patricia K. Vincent, 44, President — Retail, Xcel Energy, March 2001 to
present. Previously, Vice President of Marketing and Sales of Xcel Energy from
August 2000 to March 2001, Vice President of Marketing & Sales of NCE from
January 1999 to August 2000 and Manager, Director and Vice President of
Marketing and Sales at Arizona Public Service Company from 1992 to January
1999.

David M. Wilks, 56, President — Energy Supply, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to
present. Previously, Executive Vice President and Director of PSCo and New
Century Services from 1997 to August 2000 and President, Chief Operating
Officer and Director of SPS from 1995 to August 2000.



Item 2.

Properties

Virtually all of the utility plant of NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin and PSCo is
subject to the lien of their first mortgage bond indentures.

Electric utility generating stations:

NSP — Minnesota

Summer 2002 Net

Dependable

Station, City and Unit

Fuel

Installed

Capability (Mw)

Sherburne-Becker, Minn

Unit 1

Coal



Unit 2

Coal



Unit 3(a)

Coal



Prairie Island-Welch, Minn

Unit 1

Nuclear



Unit 2

Nuclear



Monticello-Monticello, Minn

Nuclear



King-Bayport, Minn

Coal



Black Dog-Burnsville, Minn

2 Units

Coal/Natural Gas

1955-1960


2 Units

Natural Gas



High Bridge-St. Paul, Minn

2 Units

Coal

1956-1959


Riverside-Minneapolis, Minn

2 Units

Coal

1964-1987


Angus Anson-Sioux Falls, S.D

2 Units

Natural Gas



Inver Hills-Inver Grove Heights, Minn

6 Units

Natural Gas



Blue Lake-Shakopee, Minn

4 Units

Natural Gas



Other

Various

Various


Total

6,238

(a) Based on NSP-Minnesota’s ownership interest of 59 percent.

NSP — Wisconsin

Summer 2002 Net

Dependable

Station, City and Unit

Fuel

Installed

Capability (Mw)

Combustion Turbine:

Flambeau Station-Park Falls, Wis

1 Unit

Natural Gas/Oil



Wheaton-Eau Claire, Wis

6 Units

Natural Gas/Oil



French Island-La Crosse, Wis

2 Units

Oil



Steam:

Bay Front-Ashland, Wis

3 Units

Coal/Wood/Natural Gas

1945-1960


French Island-La Crosse, Wis

2 Units

Wood/RDF*

1940-1948


Hydro:

19 Plants

Various


Total


*

RDF is refuse-derived fuel, made from municipal solid waste.



PSCo

Summer 2002

Net Dependable

Station, City and Unit

Fuel

Installed

Capability (Mw)

Steam:

Arapahoe-Denver, Colo

2 Units

Coal

1950-1955


Cameo-Grand Junction, Colo

2 Units

Coal

1957-1960


Cherokee-Denver, Colo

4 Units

Coal

1957-1968


Comanche-Pueblo, Colo

2 Units

Coal

1973-1975


Craig-Craig, Colo

2 Units

Coal

1979-1980


(a)

Hayden-Hayden, Colo

2 Units

Coal

1965-1976


(b)

Pawnee-Brush, Colo

Coal



Valmont-Boulder, Colo

Coal



Zuni-Denver, Colo

3 Units

Natural Gas/Oil

1948-1954


Combustion Turbines:

Fort St. Vrain-Platteville, Colo

4 Units

Natural Gas

1972-2001


Various Locations

6 Units

Natural Gas

Various


Hydro:

Various Locations

12 Units

Various


Cabin Creek-Georgetown, Colo



Pumped Storage
Wind:

Ponnequin-Weld County, Colo

1999-2001

—

Diesel Generators:

Cherokee-Denver, Colo

2 Units



Total

3,833

(a)

Based on PSCo’s ownership interest of 9.72 percent.

(b)

Based on PSCo’s ownership interest of 75.5 percent of unit 1 and 37.4 percent of unit 2.



SPS

Summer 2002 Net

Dependable

Station, City and Unit

Fuel

Installed

Capability (Mw)

Steam:

Harrington-Amarillo, Texas

3 Units

Coal

1976-1980

1,066

Tolk-Muleshoe, Texas

2 Units

Coal

1982-1985

1,080

Jones-Lubbock, Texas

Natural Gas

2 Units

Natural Gas

1971-1974


Plant X-Earth, Texas

4 Units

Natural Gas

1952-1964


Nichols-Amarillo, Texas

3 Units

Natural Gas

1960-1968


Cunningham-Hobbs, N.M.

2 Units

Natural Gas

1957-1965


Maddox-Hobbs, N.M.

Natural Gas



CZ-2-Pampa, Texas

Purchased Steam



Moore County-Amarillo, Texas

Natural Gas



Gas Turbine:

Carlsbad-Carlsbad, N.M.

Natural Gas



CZ-1-Pampa, Texas

Hot Nitrogen



Maddox-Hobbs, N.M.

Natural Gas



Riverview-Electric City, Texas

Natural Gas



Cunningham-Hobbs, N.M.

Natural Gas



Diesel:

Tucumcari-N.M.

6 Units

1941-1968

—

Total

4,324

Electric utility overhead and underground transmission and distribution lines
(measured in conductor miles) at Dec. 31, 2002:

Conductor Miles

Cheyenne

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Wisconsin

PSCo

SPS

500 kilovolt (kv)

—

2,919

—

—

—

345 kv

—

5,653

1,312


2,735

230 kv

—

1,440

—

10,005

8,998

161 kv

—


1,331

—

—

138 kv

—

—

—


—

115 kv


6,162

1,528

4,789

8,837

Less than 115 kv

2,781

78,316

31,063

57,346

15,477

Electric utility transmission and distribution substations at Dec. 31, 2002:

Quantity of

Substations

Cheyenne

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Wisconsin

PSCo

SPS






Gas utility mains at Dec. 31, 2002:

Miles

Black Mtn Gas

Cheyenne

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Wisconsin

PSCo

Viking

WGI

Transmission

—

—


—

2,263



Distribution



8,608

1,929

18,114

—

—



Listed below are descriptions of NRG’s interests in facilities, operations
and/or projects as of Dec. 31, 2002.

Independent Power Production and Cogeneration Facilities

Net

NRG’s

Owned

Percentage

Capacity

Ownership

Name and Location of Facility

Purchaser/Power Market

(MW)

Interest

Fuel Type

Eastern Region:

Oswego, New York

Huntley, New York

Dunkirk, New York

Arthur Kill, New York

Astoria Gas Turbines, New York

Ilion, New York

Somerset, Massachusetts

Middletown, Connecticut

Montville, Connecticut

Devon, Connecticut

Norwalk Harbor, Connecticut

Connecticut Jet Power, Connecticut

Other — 6 projects

Niagara Mohawk/NYISO

Niagara Mohawk/NYISO

Niagara Mohawk/NYISO

NYISO

NYISO

NYISO

Eastern Utilities Associates

ISO-NE

ISO-NE

ISO-NE

ISO-NE

ISO-NE

Various

1,700













100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

100%

Various

Oil/Gas

Coal

Coal

Gas/Oil

Gas/Oil

Gas/Oil

Coal/Oil/Jet

Oil/Gas/Jet

Oil/Gas

Gas/Oil/Jet

Oil

Jet

Various

Indian River, Delaware

Dover, Delaware

Vienna, Maryland

Conemaugh, Pennsylvania

Keystone, Pennsylvania

Paxton Creek Cogeneration,

Delmarva/PJM

PJM

Delmarva/PJM

PJM

PJM






100%
100%
100%
3.72%
3.70%

Coal/Oil

Gas/Coal

Oil

Coal/Oil

Coal/Oil

Pennsylvania

Commonwealth Atlantic

James River

Virginia Electric & Power

PJM

PJM




100%

50%

50%

Gas

Gas/Oil

Coal

Central Region:

Big Cajun II, Louisiana

Big Cajun I, Louisiana

Bayou Cove, Louisiana

Sterlington, Louisiana

Batesville, Mississippi

McClain, Oklahoma

Mustang, Texas

Other — 3 projects

Cooperatives/SERC-Entergy

Cooperatives/SERC-Entergy

SERC-Entergy

Louisiana Generating

SERC-TVA

SPP-Southern

Golden Spread Electric Coop

Various

1,489








86.04%
100%
100%
100%
100%
77%
25%
Various

Coal

Gas

Gas

Gas

Gas

Gas

Gas

Various

Kendall, Illinois

Rockford I, Illinois

Rockford II, Illinois

Rocky Road Power, Illinois

Audrain, Missouri

Other — 2 projects

MAIN

MAIN

MAIN

MAIN

MAIN/SERC-Entergy

Various

1,168






100%

100%

100%

50%

100%

Various

Gas

Gas

Gas

Gas

Gas

Various

West Coast Region:

El Segundo Power, California

Encina, California

Long Beach Generating, California

San Diego Combustion Turbines,

Saguaro Power Co., Nevada

California DWR

California DWR

California DWR

Cal ISO

Nevada Power






50%

50%

50%

50%

50%

Gas

Gas/Oil

Gas

Gas/Oil

Gas/Oil



Net

NRG’s

Owned

Percentage

Capacity

Ownership

Name and Location of Facility

Purchaser/Power Market

(MW)

Interest

Fuel Type

Other North America:

NEO Corporation, Various

Energy Investors Funds, Various

International Projects:

Various

Various



71.49%
0.73%

Various

Various

Asia-Pacific:

Lanco Kondapalli Power, India

Hsin Yu, Taiwan

Australia:

APTRANSCO

Industrials



30%

60%

Gas/Oil (3)

Gas (3)

Flinders, South Australia

Gladstone Power Station, Queensland

Loy Yang Power A, Victoria

Europe:

South Australian Pool

Enertrade/Boyne Smelters

Victorian Pool




100%
37.50%
25.37%

Coal

Coal

Coal

Killingholme Power A, UK

Enfield Energy Centre, UK

Schkopau Power Station, Germany

MIBRAG mbH, Germany

UK Electricity Grid

UK Electricity Grid

VEAG/Industrials

ENVIA/MIBRAG Mines





100%
25%
41.67%
50%

Gas (3)

Gas/Oil

Coal

Coal

ECK Generating, Czech Republic

CEEP Fund, Poland

Other Americas:

STE/Industrials

Industrials


4.5

44.5%
7.56%

Coal/Gas/Oil (3)

Gas/Coal

TermoRio, Brazil

Itiquira Energetica, Brazil

COBEE, Bolivia

Energia Pacasmayo, Peru

Cahua, Peru

Latin Power, Various

Petrobras

COPEL/Tradener

Electropaz/ELF

Electroperu/Peruvian Grid

Quimpac/Industrials

Various







50%
93.3%
100%
100%
100%
6.75%

Gas/Oil

Hydro

Hydro/Gas

Hydro/Oil

Hydro

Various

Thermal Energy Production And Transmission Facilities

And Resource Recovery Facilities

NRG’s

Percentage

Thermal Energy

Date of

Ownership

Purchaser/MSW

Name and Location of Facility

Acquisition

Net Owned Capacity(1)

Interest

Supplier

NRG Energy Center — Minneapolis,

Minnesota


Steam: 1,403 mmBtu/hr.
(411 MWt)
Chilled water: 42,450
tons (149 MWt)

100%

Approximately 100 steam
customers and 40 chilled
water customers

NRG Energy Center — San Francisco,

California


Steam: 490 mmBtu/hr.
(144 MWt)

100%

Approximately 185 steam

customers

NRG Energy Center — Harrisburg,

Pennsylvania


Steam: 490 mmBtu/hr.
(144 MWt)
Chilled water: 1,800
tons (8 MWt)

100%

Approximately 295 steam
customers and 2 chilled
water customers



NRG’s

Percentage

Thermal Energy

Date of

Ownership

Purchaser/MSW

Name and Location of Facility

Acquisition

Net Owned Capacity(1)

Interest

Supplier

NRG Energy Center — Pittsburgh,

Pennsylvania


Steam: 260 mmBtu/hr.

(76 MWt)

Chilled water: 12,580

tons (44 MWt)

100%

Approximately 30 steam

and 30 chilled water

customers

NRG Energy Center — San Diego,

California


Chilled water: 8,000

tons (28 MWt)

100%

Approximately 20 chilled

water customers

NRG Energy Center Rock-Tenn,

Minnesota


Steam: 430 mmBtu/hr.

(126 MWt)

100%

Rock-Tenn Company

Camas Power Boiler,

Washington


Steam: 200 mmBtu/hr.

(59 MWt)

100%

Georgia-Pacific Corp.

NRG Energy Center — Dover,

Delaware


Steam: 190 mmBtu/hr.

(56 MWt)

100%

Kraft Foods Inc.

NRG Energy Center Washco,

Minnesota


Steam: 160 mmBtu/hr.

(47 MWt)

100%

Andersen Corporation,

Minnesota Correctional

Facility

Energy Center Kladno, Czech

Republic


227 mmBtu/hr. (67 MWt)

44.40%

City of Kladno (2)(3)

Resource Recovery Facilities

Newport, Minnesota


MSW: 1,500 tons/day

100%

Ramsey and Washington
Counties

Elk River, Minnesota


MSW: 1,275 tons/day

85%

Anoka, Hennepin, and

Sherburne Counties;

Tri-County Solid Waste

Management Commission

Penobscot Energy Recovery,

Maine


MSW: 590 tons/day

50%

Bangor Hydroelectric

Company

(1)

Thermal production and transmission capacity is based on 1,000 Btus
per pound of steam production or transmission capacity. The unit mmBtu
is equal to one million Btus.

(2)

Kladno also is included in the Independent Power Production and
Cogeneration Facilities table on the preceding page, under the name ECK
Generating.

(3)

Facilities held for sale.

The debt associated with many of the NRG facilities listed
above is in default and could be subject to foreclosure by the
lenders to such facilities. See Notes 2, 3, 4 and 7
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other Properties

In addition to the above, NRG leases its corporate offices at 901
Marquette, Suite 2300, Minneapolis, Minn. 55402 and various other office
spaces. NRG also owns interests in other construction projects in various
stages of construction, the development of which has been terminated
due to NRG's liquidity situation, as well as other properties not
used for operational purposes.



Item 3.

Legal
Proceedings

In the normal course of business, various lawsuits and claims have arisen
against Xcel Energy in addition to the regulatory matters discussed in Item 1. Management, after consultation with legal counsel, has
recorded an estimate of the probable cost of settlement or other disposition
for such matters.

Legal Contingencies

California Ancillary Services —

On March 11, 2002, the Attorney General of
California filed in federal court, United States District Court
for the Northern District of California, a civil complaint against NRG, certain NRG affiliates, Xcel
Energy, Dynegy, Inc. and Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc., alleging antitrust
violations in the ancillary services market. The complaint alleges that the
defendants repeatedly sold electricity generating capacity to the California
ISO in state court in California. Similar actions have been brought
against other parties in the California market for use as a reserve and subsequently, and
impermissibly, sold the same capacity into the “spot” market for wholesale
power, unlawfully collecting millions of dollars. Similar complaints were
filed against other power generators. The plaintiff seeks an injunction
against further similar acts by the defendants, and also seeks restitution,
disgorgement of all proceeds, including profits, gained from these sales, and
certain civil penalties. On April 17, 2002, the defendants in these various cases removed all of
them to the federal district court, which denied the Attorney General’s motion
to remand the cases to state court. That decision is on appeal to the Ninth
Circuit Court. Meanwhile, the defendants’ motion to dismiss all the cases
based on federal preemption and the filed rate doctrine is pending in the
district court. A notice of bankruptcy filing regarding NRG has also been
filed in this action, providing notice of the involuntary petition.
On March 25, 2003, the federal district court dismissed the
Attorney General's actions against NRG, certain NRG affiliates,
Dynegy, Inc. and Dynegy Power Marketing, Inc. without prejudice.

Connecticut Light & Power Company —

Connecticut Light & Power Company (CL&P)
filed a claim in United States District Court for the District
of Connecticut for recovery of amounts it claims is owing for congestion charges
under the terms of a contract with a subsidiary of NRG. CL&P has served and
filed its motion for summary judgment and NRG has yet to respond. CL&P has
offset approximately $30 million from amounts owed to NRG, claiming that it has
the right to offset those amounts under the contract. NRG has counterclaimed
seeking to recover those amounts, arguing that CL&P has no rights under the
contract to offset them. NRG cannot estimate at this time the likelihood of an
unfavorable outcome in this matter, or the overall exposure for congestion
charges for the full term of the contract. CL&P has also sought
joinder in the involuntary bankruptcy of NRG in Minnesota.

Department of Energy (DOE) Complaint —

On June 8, 1998, NSP-Minnesota filed a
complaint in the Court of Federal Claims against the DOE requesting damages in
excess of $1 billion for the DOE’s partial breach of the Standard Contract.
NSP-Minnesota requested damages consisting of the costs of storage of spent
nuclear fuel at the Prairie Island nuclear generating plant, anticipated costs
related to the Private Fuel Storage, LLC and costs relating to the 1994 state
legislation limiting the number of casks that can be used to store spent
nuclear fuel at Prairie Island. On April 6, 1999, the Court of Federal Claims
dismissed NSP-Minnesota’s complaint. On May 20, 1999, NSP-Minnesota appealed to
the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On Aug. 31, 2000, the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed and remanded to the Court of Federal
Claims. On Dec. 26, 2000, NSP-Minnesota filed a motion with the Court of
Federal Claims to amend its complaint and renew its motion for summary judgment
on the DOE’s liability. On July 31, 2001, the Court of Federal Claims granted
NSP-Minnesota’s motion for summary judgment on liability. On Nov. 28, 2001,
the DOE brought motions for partial summary judgment on the schedule for
acceptance of spent nuclear fuel and the DOE’s obligation to
accept greater than Class C waste. These motions are pending. Limited
discovery with respect to the schedule issues has been conducted. A trial in
NSP-Minnesota’s suit against the DOE is not likely to occur before the second
quarter of 2003.

Fortistar Litigation —

In July 1999, Fortistar Capital, Inc., a Delaware
corporation, filed a complaint in State Court in Minnesota against NRG asserting claims for injunctive
relief and for damages as a result of NRG’s alleged breach of a confidentiality
letter agreement with Fortistar relating to the Oswego facility in New York.
NRG disputed Fortistar’s allegations and asserted numerous counterclaims. In
October 1999, NRG, through a wholly owned subsidiary, closed on the acquisition
of the Oswego facility. On May 8,
2002, the parties resolved the litigation with respect to the Oswego facility
as well as litigation between the parties with respect to Minnesota Methane
LLC. At the end of August 2002, NRG asserted that conditions for consummation
of the settlement had not been met, while Fortistar moved the court to enter
judgment against NRG to enforce the settlement seeking damages in
excess of $35 million plus interest and attorney’s fees.
NRG is opposing Fortistar’s motion on the grounds that conditions to contract
performance have not been satisfied.  No decision has been made on the pending
motion, and NRG cannot predict the outcome of this dispute. See discussion of
additional Fortistar litigation at Note 18 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Lamb County Electric Cooperative

- On July 24, 1995, Lamb County Electric
Cooperative, Inc. (LCEC) petitioned the PUCT for a cease and desist order
against SPS. LCEC alleged that SPS had been unlawfully providing service to
oil field customers and their facilities in LCEC’s singly-certificated area.
SPS responded that it was lawfully entitled to serve oil field customers under
“grandfather rights” granted it in the same order that granted LCEC its
certificated area. Ultimately, the PUCT issued an order granting SPS’ motion
for summary disposition, thus denying LCEC’s petition. LCEC appealed the PUCT’s
order to the District Court, which upheld the order. LCEC then appealed to the
Third Court of Appeals, which reversed the District Court judgment and remanded
the case to the PUCT for an evidentiary hearing. The LCEC complaint was
transferred to the State Office of Administrative Hearings (SOAH) for
processing. On March 6, 2003, an ALJ issued a proposal for decision
recommending that the cooperative’s petition for a cease and desist order be
denied on the basis that SPS is duly certificated to provide the service in the
disputed oil fields. The PUCT will receive proposed exceptions to the judge’s
proposal for decision and is expected to decide the case in April 2003. In
related litigation, on Oct. 18, 1996, LCEC filed an action for damages based on
its claim that SPS had been unlawfully providing service to oil field customers
in its certified area. This case has remained dormant pending a final
determination by the PUCT of the lawfulness of the service. Damages resulting
from a decision adverse to Xcel Energy could be material.

Environmental Contingencies

French Island —

NSP-Wisconsin’s French Island plant generates electricity by
burning a mixture of wood waste and refuse-derived fuel. The fuel is derived
from municipal solid waste furnished under a contract with La Crosse County,
Wisconsin. In October 2000, the EPA reversed a prior decision and found that
the plant was subject to the federal large combustor regulations. Those
regulations became effective on Dec. 19, 2000. NSP-Wisconsin did not have
adequate time to install the emission controls necessary to come into
compliance with the large combustor regulations by the compliance date. As a
result, on March 29, 2001, the EPA issued a finding of violation to
NSP-Wisconsin. NSP-Wisconsin is engaged in ongoing settlement discussions with
the EPA regarding the finding of violation. In April 2001, a conservation
group sent NSP-Wisconsin a notice of intent to sue under the citizen suit
provisions of the Clean Air Act. NSP-Wisconsin could be fined up to $27,500
per day for each violation.

In July 2001, the state of Wisconsin filed a lawsuit against NSP-Wisconsin
in the Wisconsin Circuit Court for La Crosse County, contending that NSP-Wisconsin exceeded dioxin
emission limits on numerous occasions between July 1995 and December 2000 at French Island. In September
2002, the Court approved a settlement in the case requiring NSP-Wisconsin to pay penalties of $167,579 and contribute
$300,000 in installments through 2005 to help fund a household hazardous waste project in the La Crosse area.

In August 2001, NSP-Wisconsin received a Certificate of Authority to install control equipment
necessary to bring the French Island plant into compliance with both the federal large combustor regulations and
state dioxin standard. NSP-Wisconsin began construction of the new air quality equipment in late 2001 and completed construction
in 2002. NSP-Wisconsin has reached an agreement with La Crosse County through which La Crosse County will pay for the extra emissions equipment
required to comply with the regulations.

NRG Opacity Consent Order

— NRG became part of a consent order as a result of
acquiring its Huntley, Dunkirk and Oswego plants from Niagara Mohawk. At the
time of financial close on these assets, a consent order was being negotiated
between Niagara Mohawk and the NYDEC. The order required Niagara Mohawk to pay
a stipulated penalty for each opacity event at these facilities. An
opacity event is an event in time, usually six minutes or
20 minutes, when a plant’s emissions do not meet minimum
levels of air transparency. On Jan. 14,
2002, the NYDEC issued NRG NOVs for opacity events, which had occurred since
the time NRG assumed ownership of Huntley, Dunkirk and Oswego generating
stations. The NYDEC proposed a penalty associated with the NOVs at $900,000.
Subsequently, the NYDEC has indicated that a consent order, not yet received by
NRG, will seek a penalty in excess of that previously proposed. NRG expects to
continue negotiations with NYDEC regarding the proposed consent orders, but
cannot predict the outcome of those negotiations.

Additional Information

For a discussion of other legal claims and environmental proceedings, see Note
18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, incorporated by
reference. For a discussion of proceedings involving utility rates
and other regulatory matters, see Pending
Regulatory Matters under Item 1, and Management’s Discussion and Analysis under
Item 7, all incorporated by reference.



Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No issues were submitted for a vote during the fourth quarter of 2002.

PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Quarterly Stock Data

Xcel Energy’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the
Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange. The trading symbol is
XEL. The following are the reported high and low sales prices based on the
NYSE Composite Transactions for the quarters of 2002 and 2001 and the dividends
declared per share during those quarters.


High

Low

Dividends

First Quarter

$

28.49

$

22.26

$

0.3750

Second Quarter

$

26.49

$

13.91

$

0.3750

Third Quarter

$

17.20

$

5.12

$

0.1875

Fourth Quarter

$

11.60

$

7.40

$

0.1875


High

Low

Dividends

First Quarter

$

30.35

$

24.19

$

0.3750

Second Quarter

$

31.85

$

27.39

$

0.3750

Third Quarter

$

29.51

$

25.00

$

0.3750

Fourth Quarter

$

29.77

$

25.30

$

0.3750

Book value per share at Dec. 31, 2002, was $11.70. Shareholders of record as of
Dec. 31, 2002, were 128,002.

Xcel Energy’s Restated Articles of Incorporation and First Mortgage Bond Trust
Indenture provide for certain restrictions on the payment of cash dividends on
common stock. At Dec. 31, 2002, the payment of cash dividends on common stock
was not restricted except as described below.

Under PUHCA, unless there is
an order from the SEC, a holding company or any subsidiary may only declare and
pay dividends out of retained earnings. Due to 2002 losses incurred by NRG,
retained earnings of Xcel Energy were a deficit of $101 million at Dec. 31,
2002 and, accordingly, dividends cannot be declared until
earnings in 2003 are sufficient to eliminate this deficit or Xcel
Energy is granted relief under the PUHCA. Xcel Energy has
requested authorization from the SEC to pay dividends out of paid-in capital up
to $260 million until Sept. 30, 2003. It is not known when or if the SEC will
act on this request. See Common Stock Dividends under Item 7 for
a discussion of factors affecting Xcel Energy’s payment of
dividends.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

(Millions of dollars,

except share and per share data)


2001(d)

2000(d)



Operating revenues(a)

$

9,524

$

11,333

$

9,223

$

6,883

$

6,606

Operating expenses(a)

$

10,957

$

9,475

$

7,744

$

5,679

$

5,412

Income
(loss) from continuing operations

$

(1,661

)

$


$


$


$


Net income (loss)

$

(2,218

)

$


$


$


$


Earnings available for common stock

$

(2,222

)

$


$


$


$


Average number of common shares
outstanding (000’s)

382,051

342,952

337,832

331,943

323,883

Average number of common and
potentially dilutive shares
outstanding (000’s)

382,051

343,742

338,111

332,054

324,355

Earnings
per share from continuing operations

$

(4.36

)

$

2.14

$

1.51

$

1.70

$

1.91

Earnings per share-basic

$

(5.82

)

$

2.31

$

1.54

$

1.70

$

1.91

Earnings per share-diluted

$

(5.82

)

$

2.30

$

1.54

$

1.70

$

1.91

Dividends declared per share(b)

$

1.13

$

1.50

$

1.45

$

1.47

$

1.46

Total assets

$

27,258

$

28,754

$

21,769

$

18,070

$

15,055

Long-term debt(e)

$

6,550

$

11,556

$

7,011

$

5,582

$

4,057

Book value per share

$

11.70

$

17.91

$

16.32

$

15.78

$

15.44

Return on average common equity

(41.0

)%

13.5

%

9.6

%

10.9

%

12.6

%

Ratio
of earnings (deficiency) to fixed charges(c)(f)

(1.8

)

2.1

1.9

2.4

3.0



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

On Aug. 18, 2000, New Century Energies, Inc. (NCE) and Northern States Power
Co. (NSP) merged and formed Xcel Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy). Xcel Energy, a
Minnesota corporation, is a registered holding company under the Public Utility
Holding Company Act (PUHCA). As part of the merger, NSP transferred its
existing utility operations that were being conducted directly by NSP at the
parent company level to a newly formed subsidiary of Xcel Energy named Northern
States Power Co. Each share of NCE common stock was exchanged for 1.55 shares
of Xcel Energy common stock. NSP shares became Xcel Energy shares on a
one-for-one basis. As a stock-for-stock exchange for shareholders of both
companies, the merger was accounted for as a pooling-of-interests and,
accordingly, amounts reported for periods prior to the merger have been
restated for comparability with post-merger results.

Xcel Energy directly owns six utility subsidiaries that serve electric and
natural gas customers in 12 states. These six utility subsidiaries are Northern
States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation (NSP-Minnesota); Northern States
Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation (NSP-Wisconsin); Public Service Company of
Colorado (PSCo); Southwestern Public Service Co. (SPS); Black Mountain Gas Co.
(BMG), which is in the process of being sold pending regulatory approval; and
Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Co. (Cheyenne). They serve customers in
portions of Arizona, Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North
Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming. During 2002, Xcel
Energy’s regulated businesses also included Viking Gas Transmission Co.
(Viking), which was sold on Jan. 17, 2003, and WestGas InterState Inc. (WGI),
both interstate natural gas pipeline companies.

Xcel Energy also owns or has an interest in a number of nonregulated
businesses, the largest of which is NRG Energy, Inc. (NRG), an independent power
producer. Xcel Energy owned 100 percent of NRG at the beginning of
2000. About 18 percent of NRG was sold to the public in an initial
public offering in the second quarter of 2000, leaving Xcel Energy with an
82-percent interest at Dec. 31, 2000. In March 2001, another 8 percent of NRG
was sold to the public, leaving Xcel Energy with an interest of about 74
percent at Dec. 31, 2001. On June 3, 2002, Xcel acquired the 26 percent
of NRG held by the public so that it again held 100 percent ownership at
Dec. 31, 2002. NRG is facing extreme financial difficulties. There is substantial doubt
as to NRG’s ability to continue as a going concern absent a
restructuring through bankruptcy, and NRG will likely be the
subject of a bankruptcy proceeding. See Note 2, 3, 4 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

In addition to NRG, Xcel Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries include Utility
Engineering Corp. (engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations,
Inc. (broadband telecommunications services), e prime inc. (natural gas
marketing and trading), Planergy International, Inc. (enterprise energy
management solutions), Eloigne Co. (investments in rental housing projects that
qualify for low-income housing tax credits) and Xcel Energy International Inc.
(an international independent power producer).

FINANCIAL REVIEW

The following discussion and analysis by management focuses on those factors
that had a material effect on Xcel Energy’s financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows during the periods presented, or are expected to have
a material impact in the future. It should be read in conjunction with the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes. All Note references refer to the
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

Except for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters
discussed in the following discussion and analysis are forward-looking
statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document
by the words “anticipate,” “estimate,” “expect,” “objective,” “outlook,”
“project,” “possible,” “potential” and similar expressions. Actual results may
vary materially. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially
include, but are not limited to: general economic conditions, including their
impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the
energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors,
including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the
markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of
geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and
foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment
recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset
operation or ownership; structures that affect the speed and
degree to which competition enters the electric and gas markets; the higher
risk associated with Xcel Energy’s nonregulated businesses compared with its
regulated businesses; currency translation and transaction adjustments; risks
associated with the California power market; the items described under Factors
Affecting Results of Operations; and the other risk factors listed from time to
time by Xcel Energy in reports filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC), including Exhibit 99.01 to Xcel Energy’s
Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Xcel Energy’s earnings per share for the past three years were as follows:



Contribution to earnings per share




Continuing Operations Before Extraordinary Items:

Regulated utility

$

1.59

$

1.90

$

1.20

NRG (including impairments and restructuring

charges)

(7.58

)

0.44

0.37

Other nonregulated and holding company

(including tax benefits related to investment in

NRG in 2002)

1.63

(0.21

)

(0.06

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

(4.36

)

2.13

1.51

Discontinued operations – NRG (see Note 3)

(1.46

)

0.14

0.09

Extraordinary items – Regulated utility (see Note 15)

—

0.03

(0.06

)

Total earnings (loss) per share – diluted

$

(5.82

)

$

2.30

$

1.54

Additional information on earnings contributions by operating segments are as
follows:

Contribution to earnings per share




Regulated utility (including extraordinary items):

Electric utility

$

1.33

$

1.66

$

1.03

Gas utility

0.26

0.24

0.17

Total regulated utility

1.59

1.90

1.20

NRG (including discontinued operations) – (see Note 3)

(9.04

)

0.58

0.46

Other nonregulated and holding company:

Tax benefit related to investment in NRG

1.85

0.00

0.00

Other (see Note 21 for components)

(0.22

)

(0.18

)

(0.12

)

Total earnings (loss) per share – diluted

$

(5.82

)

$

2.30

$

1.54

For more information on significant factors that had an impact on earnings, see
below.

Significant Factors that Impacted 2002 Results

Special Charges — Regulated Utility —

Regulated utility earnings from
continuing operations were reduced by approximately 2 cents per share in 2002
due to a $5-million regulatory recovery adjustment for SPS and $9 million in
employee separation costs associated with a restaffing initiative early in the
year for utility and service company operations. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion of these items, which are reported as Special
Charges in operating expenses.

Impairment and Financial Restructuring Charges — NRG —

NRG’s losses from both
continuing and discontinued operations were affected by charges recorded in
2002. Continuing operations included losses of approximately $7.07 per share
in 2002 for asset impairment and disposal losses, and for other charges related
mainly to its financial restructuring. These costs are reported as Special
Charges and Writedowns and Disposal Losses from Investments in operating expenses,
and are discussed further in Note 2 to the Financial Statements. In addition,
discontinued operations included losses of approximately $1.56 per share for
asset impairments and disposal losses, and are discussed further in Note 3 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

During 2002, NRG experienced credit rating downgrades, defaults under certain
credit agreements, increased collateral requirements and reduced liquidity.
These events led to impairment reviews of a number of NRG assets, which
resulted in material write-downs in 2002. In addition
to impairments of projects operating or under development, certain NRG projects
were determined to be held for sale, and estimated losses on disposal for such
projects were also recorded. These impairment charges, some of which related
to equity investments, have reduced Xcel Energy’s earnings for 2002 as follows:
$6.29 of Special Charges in continuing operations, $0.51 of Losses on Disposal
of Investments in continuing operations, and $1.57 of impairment charges included
in discontinued operations. As reported previously, there is substantial doubt as to NRG’s
ability to continue as a going concern, and NRG will likely be the subject of a
bankruptcy proceeding.

NRG also expensed approximately $111 million in 2002 for incremental costs
related to its financial restructuring and business realignment. These costs,
which reduced 2002 earnings by 27 cents per share, include expenses for
financial and legal advisors, contract termination costs, employee separation
and other incremental costs incurred during the financial restructuring period.
These costs also include a charge related to NRG’s NEO landfill gas generation
operations for the estimated impact of a dispute settlement with NRG’s partner
on the NEO project, Fortistar. Most of these costs were paid in 2002. See
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for discussion of accrued
financial restructuring cost activity related to NRG.



Tax Benefit — NRG Investment

— As discussed in Note 11, it was determined in
2002 that NRG was no longer likely to be included in Xcel Energy’s consolidated
income tax group. Approximately $706 million has been recognized at one of
Xcel Energy’s nonregulated intermediate holding companies for the estimated tax
benefits related to Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG, based on the difference
between book and tax bases of such investment. This estimated tax benefit
increased 2002 annual results by $1.85 per share.

Other Nonregulated
& Holding Companies

— Nonregulated and
holding company earnings for 2002 were reduced by losses of approximately 6
cents per share for the combined effects of unusual items that occurred during
the year. As discussed later, Xcel International recorded impairment losses
for Argentina assets of 3 cents per share and disposal losses for Yorkshire
Power of 2 cents per share, Planergy recorded gains from contract sales of 2
cents per share, losses were incurred on holding company debt of 2 cents per
share, and incremental costs related to NRG financial restructuring activities
of 1 cent per share were incurred at the holding company level.

Significant Factors that Impacted 2001 Results

Regulated utility earnings were reduced by a net 1 cent per share from the
combined effects of four unusual items that occurred during the year. Three of
the items affected continuing operations, reducing earnings by 4 cents per
share. The remaining item increased income from extraordinary items by 3 cents
per share.

Conservation Incentive Recovery —

Regulated utility earnings from continuing
operations in 2001 were increased by 7 cents per share due to a Minnesota
Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) decision. In June 2001, the MPUC approved a
plan allowing recovery of 1998 incentives associated with state-mandated
programs for energy conservation. As a result, the previously recorded
liabilities of approximately $41 million, including carrying charges, for
potential refunds to customers were no longer required. The plan approved by
the MPUC increased revenue by approximately $34 million and increased allowance
for funds used during construction by approximately $7 million, increasing
earnings by 7 cents per share for the second quarter of 2001. Based on the
new MPUC policy and less uncertainty regarding conservation incentives to be
approved, conservation incentives are being recorded on a current basis beginning in 2001.

Special Charges — Postemployment Benefits and Restaffing Costs  —

Regulated
utility earnings from continuing operations in 2001 were decreased by 4 cents
per share due to a Colorado Supreme Court decision that resulted in a pretax
write-off of $23 million of a regulatory asset related to deferred
postemployment benefit costs at PSCo.

Also, regulated utility earnings from continuing operations were reduced by
approximately 7 cents per share in 2001 due to $39 million of employee
separation costs associated with a restaffing initiative late in the year for
utility and service company operations. See Note 2 to the Financial Statements
for further discussion of these items, which are reported as Special Charges in
operating expenses.

Extraordinary Items — Electric Utility
Restructuring

— In 2001, extraordinary
income of $18 million before tax, or 3 cents per share, was recorded related to
the regulated utility business to reflect the impacts of industry restructuring
developments for SPS. This represents a reversal of a portion of the 2000
extraordinary loss discussed later. For more information on SPS extraordinary
items, see Note 15 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Significant Factors that Impacted 2000 Results

Special Charges — Merger Costs —

During 2000, Xcel Energy expensed pretax
special charges of $241 million, or 52 cents per share, for costs related to
the merger between NSP and NCE. Of these special charges, approximately 44
cents per share were associated with the costs of merging regulated utility
operations and 8 cents per share were associated with merger impacts on
nonregulated and holding company activities other than NRG. See Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for more information on these merger-related
costs reported as Special Charges.

Extraordinary Items — Electric Utility Restructuring

—

In 2000, extraordinary
losses of approximately $28 million before tax, or 6 cents per share, were
recorded related to the regulated utility business for the expected
discontinuation of regulatory accounting for SPS’ generation business. For more
information on SPS extraordinary items, see Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Statement of Operations

Electric Utility and Commodity Trading
Margins —

Electric fuel and purchased
power expenses tend to vary with changing retail and wholesale sales
requirements and unit cost changes in fuel and purchased power. Due to fuel
cost recovery mechanisms for retail customers in several states, most
fluctuations in energy costs do not materially affect



electric utility margin. However, the fuel clause cost recovery in Colorado
does not allow for complete recovery of all variable production expense, and
cost changes can affect earnings. Electric utility margins reflect the impact
of sharing energy costs and savings relative to a target cost per delivered
kilowatt-hour and certain trading margins under the incentive cost adjustment
(ICA) ratemaking mechanism in Colorado. In addition to the ICA, Colorado has
other adjustment clauses that allow certain costs to be recovered from retail
customers.

Xcel Energy has three distinct forms of wholesale sales: short-term wholesale,
electric commodity trading and natural gas commodity trading. Short-term
wholesale refers to electric sales for resale, which are associated with energy
produced from Xcel Energy’s generation assets or energy and capacity purchased
to serve native load. Electric and natural gas commodity trading refers to the
sales for resale activity of purchasing and reselling electric and natural gas
energy to the wholesale market.

Xcel Energy’s commodity trading operations are conducted by NSP-Minnesota
(electric), PSCo (electric) and e prime (natural gas). Margins from electric
trading activity, conducted at NSP-Minnesota and PSCo, are partially
redistributed to other operating utilities of Xcel Energy, pursuant to a joint
operating agreement (JOA) approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC). Trading margins reflect the impact of sharing certain trading margins
under the ICA. Trading revenues, as discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, are reported net (i.e., margins) in the Consolidated
Statements of Operations. Trading revenue and costs associated with NRG’s
operations are included in nonregulated margins. The following table details
the revenue and margin for base electric utility, short-term wholesale and
electric and natural gas trading activities.

2002 Comparison to 2001 —

Base electric utility revenue decreased $375 million,
while electric utility margins, primarily retail, increased approximately $155
million in 2002, compared with 2001. Base electric revenues decreased largely
due to decreased recovery of fuel and purchased power costs driven by declining
fuel costs in 2002. The higher base electric margins in the year reflect lower
unrecovered costs, due in part to resetting the base-cost recovery at PSCo in
January 2002. In 2001, PSCo’s allowed recovery was approximately $78 million
less than its actual costs, while in 2002 its allowed recovery was
approximately $29 million more than its actual cost. For the year, higher
accrued conservation revenues, sales growth and more favorable temperatures
also contributed to the



higher electric margins and partially offset the lower
base electric revenue. Lower wholesale capacity sales in Texas, as well as the
impact of the conservation incentive adjustment in Minnesota in 2001, as
discussed previously, partially offset the increased margins and contributed to
the lower revenues.

Short-term wholesale margins consist of asset-based trading activity. Electric
and natural gas commodity trading activity margins consist of non-asset-based
trading activity. Short-term wholesale and electric and natural gas commodity
trading sales margins decreased an aggregate of approximately $223 million in
2002, compared with 2001. The decrease in short-term wholesale and electric
commodity trading margin reflects lower power prices and less favorable market
conditions. The decrease in natural gas commodity trading margin reflects
reduced market opportunities.

2001 Comparison to 2000 —

Base electric utility revenue increased by
approximately $500 million, or 9.8 percent, in 2001. Base electric utility
margin increased by approximately $47 million, or 1.6 percent, in 2001. These
revenue and margin increases were due to sales growth, weather conditions in
2001 and the recovery of conservation incentives in Minnesota. Increased
conservation incentives, including the resolution of the 1998 dispute, as
discussed previously, and accrued 2001 incentives, increased revenue and margin
by $49 million. More favorable weather during 2001 increased revenue by
approximately $23 million and margin by approximately $13 million. These
increases were partially offset by increases in fuel and purchased power costs,
which are not completely recoverable from customers in Colorado due to various
cost-sharing mechanisms. Revenue and margin also were reduced in 2001 by
approximately $30 million due to rate reductions in various jurisdictions
agreed to as part of the merger approval process, compared with $10 million in
2000.

Short-term wholesale revenue increased by approximately $221 million, or 39.0
percent, in 2001. Short-term wholesale margin increased $83 million, or 90.2
percent, in 2001. These increases are due to the expansion of Xcel Energy’s
wholesale marketing operations and favorable market conditions for the first
six months of 2001, including strong prices in the western markets,
particularly before the establishment of price caps and other market changes.

Electric and natural gas commodity trading margins, including proprietary electric
trading (i.e., not in electricity produced by Xcel Energy’s own generating
plants) and natural gas trading, increased approximately $48 million for the
year ended Dec. 31, 2001, compared with the same period in 2000. The increase
reflects an expansion of Xcel Energy’s trading operations and favorable market
conditions, including strong prices in the western markets, particularly before
the establishment of pricing caps and other market changes.

Natural Gas Utility Margins —

The following table details the changes in
natural gas utility revenue and margin. The cost of natural gas tends to vary
with changing sales requirements and the unit cost of natural gas purchases.
However, due to purchased natural gas cost recovery mechanisms for retail
customers, fluctuations in the cost of natural gas have little effect on
natural gas margin.

(Millions of dollars)




Natural gas utility revenue

$

1,398

$

2,053

$

1,469

Cost of natural gas purchased and transported

(852

)

(1,518

)

(948

)

Gas utility margin

$


$


$


2002 Comparison to 2001 —

Natural gas utility revenue decreased by $655
million, while natural gas margins increased by $11 million. Natural gas
revenue decreased largely due to decreases in the cost of natural gas, which
are generally passed through to customers. Natural utility gas margin
increased due primarily to more favorable temperatures and sales growth.

2001 Comparison to 2000 —

Natural gas utility revenue increased by
approximately $584 million, or 39.8 percent, for 2001, primarily due to
increases in the cost of natural gas, which are largely passed on to customers
and recovered through various rate adjustment clauses in most of the
jurisdictions in which Xcel Energy operates. Natural gas utility margin
increased by approximately $14 million, or 2.7 percent, for 2001 due to sales
growth and a rate increase in Colorado. These natural gas revenue and margin
increases were partially offset by the impact of warmer temperatures in 2001,
which decreased natural gas revenue by approximately $38 million and natural
gas margin by approximately $16 million.

Nonregulated Operating Margins —

The following table details the changes in
nonregulated revenue and margin included in continuing operations.

(Millions of dollars)




Nonregulated and other revenue

$

2,611

$

2,580

$

1,856

Earnings from equity investments




Nonregulated cost of goods sold

(1,361

)

(1,319

)

(877

)

Nonregulated margin

$

1,322

$

1,478

$

1,162



2002 Comparison to 2001 —

Nonregulated revenue from continuing operations
increased slightly in 2002, reflecting growth from the full-year impact of
NRG’s 2001 generating facility acquisitions but partially offset by lower
market prices. Nonregulated margin from continuing operations decreased in
2002, due to decreased equity earnings. Earnings from equity investments for 2002
decreased compared with 2001, primarily due to decreased equity earnings from
NRG’s West Coast Power project, which experienced less favorable
long-term contracts and higher uncollectible receivables.

2001 Comparison to 2000 —

Nonregulated revenue and margin from continuing operations
increased in 2001, largely due to NRG’s acquisition of generating facilities,
increased demand for electricity, market dynamics, strong performance from
existing assets and higher market prices for electricity.
Earnings from equity investments for 2001 increased compared with 2000,
primarily due to increased equity earnings from NRG projects, which offset
lower equity earnings from Yorkshire Power. As a result of a sales agreement to
sell most of its investment in Yorkshire Power, Xcel Energy did not record any
equity earnings from Yorkshire Power after January 2001.

Non-Fuel Operating Expense and Other Items

—

Other utility operating and
maintenance expense for 2002 decreased by approximately $4 million, or 0.3
percent. The decreased costs reflect lower incentive compensation and other
employee benefit costs, as well as lower staffing levels in corporate areas.
These decreases were substantially offset by higher plant outage and property
insurance costs, in addition to inflationary factors such as market wage
increases.

Other utility operating and maintenance expense for 2001 increased by
approximately $60 million, or 4.1 percent, compared with 2000. The change is
largely due to increased plant outages, higher nuclear operating costs, bad
debt reserves reflecting higher energy prices, increased costs due to customer
growth and higher performance-based incentive costs.

Other nonregulated operating and maintenance expenses for continuing operations
increased $111 million in 2002 and increased $143 million in 2001. These
expenses are included in the results for each nonregulated subsidiary, as discussed
later.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased $131 million, or 14.5 percent,
in 2002 and $140 million, or 18.2 percent, in 2001, primarily due to
acquisitions of generating facilities by NRG and additions to utility plant.
Higher NRG depreciation expense accounted for $87 million of the increase in
2002.

Interest income was higher in 2002 and 2001 due to higher cash balances
at NRG in both years and to interest on affiliate loans in 2001.

Other income was higher in 2002 and 2001 due mainly to a gain
on the sale of nonregulated property and PSCo assets.

Other expense increased in 2002 due largely to variations in
currency exchange losses at NRG.

Interest expense increased $152 million, or
20.8 percent, in 2002 and $114
million, or 18.5 percent, in 2001, primarily due to increased debt of NRG. In
addition, long-term debt was refinanced at higher interest rates during 2002.
Higher NRG interest expense accounted for $105 million of the increase in 2002.

Income tax expense decreased by approximately $959 million in 2002, compared
with 2001. Nearly all of this decrease relates to NRG’s 2002 losses and the
change in tax filing status for NRG effective in the third quarter of 2002, as
discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. NRG is now in a
tax operating loss carryforward position and is no longer assumed to be part of
Xcel Energy’s consolidated tax group. The effective tax rate for continuing
operations, excluding minority interest and before extraordinary
items, was 27.3 percent for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002, and
28.8 percent for the same period
in 2001. The decrease in the effective rate between years reflects a nominal
tax rate at NRG, due to their loss carryforward position. Partially offsetting
the NRG tax rate decrease is the impact of a one-time adjustment to recognize
tax benefits from Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG, as discussed in Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. The effective tax rate for the
regulated utility business and operations other than NRG was
significantly lower in 2002, compared with 2001, due to the benefit
recorded on the investment in NRG and the changes in the items listed in
the rate reconciliation in Note 11.

Weather —

Xcel Energy’s earnings can be significantly affected by weather.
Unseasonably hot summers or cold winters increase electric and natural gas
sales, but also can increase expenses, which may not be fully recoverable.
Unseasonably mild weather reduces electric and natural gas sales, but may not
reduce expenses, which affects overall results. The following summarizes the
estimated impact on the earnings of the utility subsidiaries of Xcel Energy due
to temperature variations from historical averages:

•

weather in 2002 increased earnings by an estimated 6 cents per share;

•

weather in 2001 had minimal impact on earnings per share; and

•

weather in 2000 increased earnings by an estimated 1 cent per share.



NRG Results

NRG Continuing Operations and Tax
Credits

— As previously stated, NRG is facing extreme
financial
difficulties, and there is substantial doubt as to NRG’s ability
to continue as a going concern. During 2002, NRG’s continuing
operations, excluding impacts of asset impairments and disposals and
restructuring costs, experienced significant losses compared with 2001. The
2002 losses are primarily attributable to NRG’s North American operations,
which experienced significant reductions in domestic energy and capacity sales
and an overall decrease in power pool prices and related spark spreads. During
2002, an additional reserve for uncollectible receivables in California was
established by West Coast Power, which reduced NRG’s equity earnings by
approximately $29 million, after tax. West Coast Power’s 2002 income was also
lower than 2001 due to less-favorable contracts and reductions in sales of
energy and capacity. In addition, increased administrative costs, depreciation
and interest expense from completed construction costs also
contributed to the less-than-favorable results for NRG in 2002. Partially
off-setting these earnings reductions was the recognition, in the fourth
quarter of 2002, of approximately $51 million of additional revenues related to the
contractual termination related to NRG’s
Indian River project.

On a stand-alone basis, NRG does not have the ability to recognize all tax
benefits that may ultimately accrue from its losses incurred in 2002, thus
increasing the overall loss from continuing operations. In addition to losing
the
ability to recognize all tax benefits for operating losses, NRG in 2002 also
lost the ability to utilize tax credits generated by its energy projects.
These lower tax credits account for a portion of the decreased earnings
contribution of NRG compared with results in 2001 and 2000, which included
income related to recognition of tax credits.

NRG’s earnings for 2001 increased primarily due to new acquisitions in Europe
and North America, as well as a full year of operation in 2001 of acquisitions
made in the fourth quarter of 2000. In addition, NRG’s 2001 earnings reflected
a reduction in the overall effective tax rate and mark-to-market gains related
to SFAS No. 133

—

“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activity.”
The overall reduction in tax rates in 2001 was primarily due to higher energy
credits, the implementation of state tax planning strategies and a higher
percentage of NRG’s overall earnings derived from foreign projects in lower tax
jurisdictions.

NRG Special Charges — Impairments and
Financial Restructuring

— As discussed
previously, both the continuing and discontinued operations of NRG in 2002
included material losses for asset impairments and estimated disposal losses.
Also, NRG recorded other special charges in 2002, mainly for incremental costs
related to its financial restructuring and business realignment. See Notes 2
and 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of NRG’s
special charges and discontinued operations, respectively.

Other Nonregulated Subsidiaries and Holding Company Results

Contribution to Xcel Energy’s earnings per share




Xcel International

$

(0.05

)

$

(0.02

)

$

0.09

Eloigne Company

0.02

0.03

0.02

Seren Innovations

(0.07

)

(0.08

)

(0.07

)

Planergy International

0.00

(0.04

)

(0.08

)

e prime

0.00

0.02

(0.02

)

Financing costs and preferred dividends

(0.11

)

(0.11

)

(0.07

)

Other nonregulated/holding company results

(0.01

)

0.02

0.01

Subtotal – nonregulated/holding co. excluding

tax benefit

(0.22

)

(0.18

)

(0.12

)

Tax benefit from investment in NRG (Note 11)

1.85

—

—

Total nonregulated/holding company earnings per share

$

1.63

$

(0.18

)

$

(0.12

)



Xcel International —

Xcel International is currently comprised primarily of
power generation projects in Argentina, and previously included an investment
in Yorkshire Power.

In December 2002, a subsidiary of Xcel Argentina decided it would no longer
fund one of its power projects in Argentina and defaulted on its loan
agreements. The default is not material to Xcel Energy. However, this
decision resulted in the shutdown of the Argentina plant facility, pending
financing of a necessary maintenance outage. Updated cash flow projections for
the plant were insufficient to provide recovery of Xcel International’s
investment. An impairment write-down of approximately $13 million, or 3 cents
per share, was recorded in 2002.

In August 2002, Xcel Energy announced it had sold its 5.25-percent interest in
Yorkshire Power Group Limited for $33 million to CE Electric UK. The sale of
the 5.25-percent interest resulted in an after-tax loss of $8.3 million, or 2
cents per share, in 2002. The loss is included in write-downs and disposal
losses from investments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations. Xcel Energy
and American Electric Power Co. initially each held a 50-percent interest in
Yorkshire, a UK retail electricity and natural gas supplier and electricity
distributor, before selling 94.75 percent of Yorkshire to Innogy Holdings plc
in April 2001. As a result of this sales agreement, Xcel Energy did not record
any equity earnings from Yorkshire Power after January 2001. For more
information, see Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Eloigne Company —

Eloigne invests in affordable housing that qualifies for
Internal Revenue Service tax credits. Eloigne’s earnings contribution declined
slightly in 2002 as tax credits on mature affordable housing projects began to
decline. The actual decline in Eloigne’s net income in 2002, compared with
2001, was only $716,000, with 2002 earnings representing 2.1 cents per share and
2001 earnings representing 2.5 cents per share.

Seren Innovations —

Seren operates a combination cable television,
telephone and high-speed Internet access system in St. Cloud, Minn., and Contra
Costa County, California. Operation of its broadband communications network has
resulted in losses. Seren projects improvement in its operating results with
positive cash flow anticipated in 2005, upon completion of its build-out phase,
and a positive earnings contribution
anticipated in 2008.

Planergy International —

Planergy, a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy,
provides energy management services. Planergy’s results for 2002 improved,
largely due to gains from the sale of a portfolio of energy management
contracts, which increased earnings by nearly 2 cents per share.

Planergy’s results for 2000 were reduced by special charges of 4 cents per
share for the write-offs of goodwill and project development costs.

e prime

—

e prime’s results for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, reflect the
favorable structure of its contractual portfolio, including natural gas storage
and transportation positions, structured products and proprietary trading in
natural gas markets. e prime’s earnings were lower in 2002, and higher in
2001, due to varying natural gas commodity trading margins, as discussed
previously.

e prime’s results for 2000 were reduced by special charges of 2 cents per share
for contractual obligations and other costs associated with post-merger changes
in the strategic operations and related revaluations of e prime’s energy
marketing business.

Financing Costs and Preferred Dividends —

Nonregulated results include interest
expense and preferred dividends, which are incurred at the Xcel Energy and
intermediate holding company levels, and are not directly assigned to
individual subsidiaries.

In November 2002, the Xcel Energy holding company issued temporary financing,
which included detachable options for the purchase of Xcel Energy notes, which are
convertible to Xcel Energy common stock. This temporary financing was replaced with longer-term
holding company financing in late November 2002. Costs incurred to redeem the
temporary financing included a redemption premium of $7.4 million, $5.2 million
of debt discount associated with the detachable option and other issuance
costs, which increased financing costs and reduced 2002 earnings by 2 cents per
share.

Other —

Certain costs related to NRG’s restructuring are being incurred at the
holding company level. Approximately $5 million of such costs were incurred in
2002, which reduced earnings by approximately 1 cent per share.



Other nonregulated results for 2000, which include the activity of several
nonregulated subsidiaries, were reduced by merger-related special charges of 2
cents per share. These special charges include $10 million in asset
write-downs and losses resulting from various other nonregulated business
ventures that are no longer being pursued after the Xcel Energy merger.

Factors Affecting Results of Operations

Xcel Energy’s utility revenues depend on customer usage, which varies with
weather conditions, general business conditions and the cost of energy
services. Various regulatory agencies approve the prices for electric and
natural gas service within their respective jurisdictions. In addition, Xcel
Energy’s nonregulated businesses have adversely affected Xcel
Energy’s earnings in 2002. The historical and future trends of Xcel Energy’s operating
results have been, and are expected to be, affected by the following factors:

Impact of NRG Financial Difficulties

- NRG is experiencing severe financial
difficulties, resulting primarily from declining credit ratings and lower
prices for power. These financial difficulties have caused NRG to miss several
scheduled payments of interest and principal on its bonds and incur
approximately $3.1 billion in asset impairment charges.
In addition, as a result of being downgraded, NRG was required to post cash collateral ranging from $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion.
NRG has been unable to post this cash collateral and, as a result, is
in default on various obligations. Furthermore, in November 2002, lenders to NRG accelerated approximately $1.1
billion of NRG’s debt, rendering the debt immediately due and payable. In
February 2003, lenders to NRG accelerated an additional $1 billion of debt.
NRG does not contemplate making any principal or interest payments on its
corporate-level debt pending the restructuring of its obligations and is in
default under various debt instruments. As a consequence of the defaults, the
lenders are able to seek to enforce their remedies, if they so choose, and that
would likely lead to a bankruptcy filing by NRG. NRG continues to work with its
lenders and bondholders on a comprehensive financial restructuring plan. See
further discussion of potential NRG bankruptcy and financial restructuring
under Liquidity and Capital Resources and in Notes 4 and 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Subsequent to its credit downgrade in July 2002, NRG experienced losses as
follows in 2002:

(Millions of dollars)

Third Quarter

Fourth Quarter

Net losses from NRG:

Special Charges – asset impairments

$

(2,466

)

$

(79

)

Special Charges – financial restructuring and other costs

(34

)

(21

)

Write-downs and losses on equity method investments

(118

)

(74

)

Other
income (loss) from continuing operations, including income tax effects


(176

)

NRG loss from continuing operations

(2,478

)

(350

)

Discontinued operations – asset impairments

(600

)

—

Discontinued operations – other



Net NRG loss for period

$

(3,055

)

$

(341

)

These NRG losses have reduced Xcel Energy’s retained earnings to a deficit as
of Dec. 31, 2002. NRG is expected to continue to experience material losses
into 2003, pending a successful financial restructuring and increased power
prices. NRG’s losses in 2003 may include further asset impairments, losses
from asset disposals, and financial restructuring costs as NRG continues its
financial restructuring and decisions are made to realign NRG’s business
operations and divest operating assets. In addition, the impact of any
settlement with NRG’s creditors regarding the financial restructuring of NRG
may also impact Xcel Energy’s operating results and retained earnings, by
material amounts which will not be determinable until settlement terms are
reached. See Note 4 to the Financial Statements for a
discussion of a preliminary settlement with NRG’s creditors. As discussed later, Xcel Energy is
unable without SEC approval under PUHCA to declare dividends on its
common stock until consolidated retained earnings are positive, and continuing
NRG financial impacts may continue to limit the ability of Xcel Energy to declare and pay
dividends.

In the event that NRG’s financial situation ultimately results in a bankruptcy
filing, there may be additional impacts on Xcel Energy’s financial condition
and results of operations. See the “Xcel Energy Impacts” under the “Other
Liquidity and Capital Resource Considerations” section later in Management’s
Discussion and Analysis, and Note 4
to the Financial Statements, for further discussion of the possible effects of
an NRG bankruptcy filing on Xcel Energy.

General Economic Conditions

- The slower United States economy, and the global
economy to a lesser extent, may have a significant impact on Xcel Energy’s
operating results. Current economic conditions have resulted in a decline in
the forward price curve for energy and decreased commodity-trading margins. In
addition, certain operating costs, such as insurance and security, have
increased due to the economy, terrorist activity and the threat of war.
Management cannot predict the impact of a continued economic slowdown,
fluctuating energy prices, war or the threat of war.



However, Xcel Energy
could experience a material adverse impact to its results of operations, future
growth or ability to raise capital from a weakened economy or war.

Sales Growth —

In addition to weather impacts, customer sales levels in Xcel
Energy’s regulated utility businesses can vary with economic conditions,
customer usage patterns and other factors. Weather-normalized sales growth for
retail electric utility customers was estimated to be 1.8 percent in 2002
compared with 2001, and 1.0 percent in 2001 compared with 2000.
Weather-normalized sales growth for firm gas utility customers was estimated to
be approximately the same in 2002 compared with 2001, and 2.6 percent in 2001 compared
with 2000. We are projecting that 2003 weather-normalized sales growth in 2003
compared with 2002 will be 1.5 to 2.0 percent for retail electric utility customers
and 2.5 to 3.0 percent for firm gas utility customers.

Utility Industry Changes  —

The structure of the electric and natural gas
utility industry has been subject to change. Merger and acquisition activity
over the past few years has been significant as utilities combine to capture
economies of scale or establish a strategic niche in preparing for the future.
Some regulated utilities are divesting generation assets. All utilities are
required to provide nondiscriminatory access to the use of their transmission
systems.

In December 2001, the FERC approved Midwest Independent Transmission System
Operator, Inc. (MISO) as the Midwest independent system operator responsible
for operating the wholesale electric transmission system. Accordingly, in
compliance with the FERC’s Order No. 2000, Xcel Energy turned over operational
control of its transmission system to the MISO in January 2002.

Some states had begun to allow retail customers to choose their electricity
supplier, and many other states were considering retail access proposals.
However, the experience of the state of California in instituting competition,
as well as the bankruptcy filing of Enron, have caused indefinite delays in
most industry restructuring.

Xcel Energy cannot predict the outcome of restructuring proceedings in the
electric utility jurisdictions it serves at this time. The resolution of these
matters may have a significant impact on the financial position, results of
operations and cash flows of Xcel Energy.

California Power Market

— NRG operates in the wholesale power market in
California. See Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
description of lawsuits against NRG and other power producers and
marketers involving the California electricity markets. Xcel Energy and NRG
have fully reserved for its uncollected receivables related to the California
power market.

Critical Accounting Policies

— Preparation of Consolidated Financial Statements
and related disclosures in compliance with generally accepted accounting
principles (GAAP) requires the application of appropriate technical accounting
rules and guidance, as well as the use of estimates. The application of these
policies necessarily involves judgments regarding future events, including the
likelihood of success of particular projects, legal and regulatory challenges
and anticipated recovery of costs. These judgments, in and of themselves,
could materially impact the Consolidated Financial Statements and disclosures
based on varying assumptions, which may be appropriate to use. In addition,
the financial and operating environment also may have a significant effect, not
only on the operation of the business, but on the results reported through the
application of accounting measures used in preparing the Consolidated Financial
Statements and related disclosures, even if the nature of the accounting
policies applied have not changed. The following is a list of accounting
policies that are most significant to the portrayal of Xcel Energy’s financial
condition and results, and that require management’s most difficult, subjective
or complex judgments. Each of these has a higher likelihood of resulting in
materially different reported amounts under different conditions or using
different assumptions.



Accounting Policy

Judgments/Uncertainties Affecting Application

See Additional Discussion At

Asset Valuation

•

Regional economic conditions

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

• NRG

• Seren

• Argentina

•

affecting asset operation, market prices

and related cash flows

Foreign currency valuation changes

Results of Operations

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:Factors Affecting Results of Operations

•

•

Regulatory and political environments

and requirements

Levels of future market penetration

and customer growth

•

•

Impacts of NRG Financial Difficulties

Impact of Other Nonregulated Investments

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

•

Notes 2, 3 and 18

NRG Financial Restructuring

•

Terms negotiated to settle NRG’s

obligations to its creditors

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

Liquidity and Capital Resources

•

Ownership interest in and control of

NRG, and related ability to continue

consolidating NRG as a subsidiary

•

•

NRG Financial Issues

Xcel Energy Impacts

•

Impacts of court decisions in future

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

bankruptcy proceedings, including any

obligations of Xcel Energy

•

Notes 4 and 18

Income Tax Accruals

•

Application of tax statutes and

regulations to transactions

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

Factors Affecting Results of Operations

•

Anticipated future decisions of tax

authorities

•

Tax Matters

•

Ability of tax authority

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

•

decisions/positions to withstand legal

challenges and appeals

Ability to realize tax benefits
through

carrybacks to prior periods or

carryovers to future periods

•

Notes 1, 11 and 18

Benefit Plan Accounting

•

Future rate of return on pension and

other plan assets, including impacts of

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

Factors Affecting Results of Operations

any changes to investment portfolio

•

Pension Plan Costs
and Assumptions

composition

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

•

•

Interest rates used in valuing
benefit

obligation

Actuarial period selected to
recognize

deferred investment gains and
losses

•

Notes 1 and 13

Regulatory Mechanisms and Cost Recovery

•

External regulator decisions,

requirements and regulatory

environment

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

Factors Affecting Results of Operations

•

Anticipated future regulatory
decisions

and their impact

•

Utility Industry Changes and
Restructuring

•

Impact of deregulation and
competition

on ratemaking process and
ability to

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

recover costs

Notes 1, 18 and 20

Environmental Issues

•

•

Approved methods for cleanup

Responsible party determination

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:Factors Affecting Results of Operations

•

Governmental regulations and

standards

•

Environmental Matters

•

Results of ongoing research and

development regarding environmental

impacts

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Notes 1 and 18

Uncollectible Receivables

•

Economic conditions affecting

customers, suppliers and market prices

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

Factors Affecting Results of Operations

•

Regulatory environment and impact of

cost recovery constraints on customer

•

California Power Market

financial condition

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

•

Outcome of litigation and regulatory

proceedings

•

Notes 1 and 18

Nuclear Plant

•

Costs of future decommissioning

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Decommissioning and Cost
Recovery

•

•

•

•

Availability of facilities for waste
disposal

Approved methods for waste disposal

Useful lives of nuclear power plants

Future recovery of plant investment

and decommissioning costs

•

Notes 1, 18 and 19



Pension Plan Costs and Assumptions —

Xcel Energy’s pension costs are based on
an actuarial calculation that includes a number of key assumptions, most
notably the annual return level that pension investment assets will earn in the
future, and the interest rate used to discount future pension benefit payments
to a present value obligation for financial reporting. In addition, the
actuarial calculation uses an asset smoothing methodology to reduce volatility
of varying investment performance over time. Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements discusses the
rate of return and discount rate used in the calculation of pension costs and
obligations in the accompanying financial statements.

Pension costs have been increasing in recent years, and are expected to
increase further over the next several years, due to lower than
expected investment returns experienced and decreases in interest rates used to discount benefit
obligations. Investment returns in 2000 and 2001 were below the assumed level
of 9.5 percent, and interest rates have declined from the 7.5 percent to 8 percent
levels used in 1999 and 2000 cost determinations to 7.25 percent used in 2002.
Xcel Energy continually reviews its pension assumptions, and in 2003 expects to
change the investment return assumption to 9.25 percent and the discount rate
assumption to 6.75 percent.

Xcel Energy bases its investment return assumption on expected long-term
performance for each of the investment types included in its pension asset
portfolio. These include equity investments, such as corporate common stocks;
fixed-income investments, such as corporate bonds and U.S. Treasury securities
and non-traditional investments, such as timber or real estate partnerships.
In reaching a return assumption, Xcel Energy considers the actual historical
returns achieved by its asset portfolio over the past 20-year or longer period,
as well as the long-term return levels projected and recommended by investment
experts in the marketplace. The historical weighted average annual return for
the past 20 years for the Xcel Energy portfolio of pension
investments is 12.6 percent, in excess of the current assumption level. The pension cost
determinations assume the continued current mix of investment types over the
long-term. The target and 2002 mix of assets among these portfolio components
is discussed in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. The Xcel
Energy portfolio is heavily weighted toward equity securities, and includes
non-traditional investments that can provide a higher than average return.
However, as is the experience in recent years, a higher weighting in equity
investments can increase the volatility in the return levels actually achieved
by pension assets in any year. Xcel Energy lowered the 2003 pension investment
return assumptions to reflect changing expectations of investment
experts in the marketplace.

The investment gains or losses resulting from the difference between the
expected pension returns assumed on smoothed or “market-related” asset levels
and actual returns earned is deferred in
the year the difference arises and recognized over the subsequent five-year
period. This gain or loss recognition occurs by using a five-year
moving-average value of pension assets to measure expected asset returns in the
cost determination process, and by amortizing deferred investment gains or
losses over the subsequent five-year period. Based on the use of average
market-related asset values, and considering the expected recognition of past
investment gains and losses over the next five years, achieving the assumed
rate of asset return of 9.25 percent in each future year and holding other
assumptions constant, we currently project that the pension costs recognized by
Xcel Energy for financial reporting purposes will increase from a credit, or
negative expense, of $84 million in 2002 to a credit of $45 million in 2003, a
credit of $20 million in 2004, and a net expense of $20 million in 2005.
Pension costs are currently a credit due to the recognized investment asset
returns exceeding the other pension cost components, such as benefits earned
for current service and interest costs for the effects of the passage of time
on discounted obligations.

Xcel Energy bases its discount rate assumption on benchmark interest rates
quoted by an established credit rating agency, Moody’s Investors Service
(Moody’s), and have consistently benchmarked the interest rate used to derive
the discount rate to the movements in long-term corporate bond
indices for bonds rated AAA through BAA by Moody's, which have a
period to maturity comparable to our projected benefit obligations. At Dec. 31, 2002, the annualized Moody’s
Aa index rate, roughly in the middle of the AAA and BAA range, was 6.63
percent, which when rounded to the nearest quarter-percent rate, as is our
policy, resulted in our 6.75 percent pension discount rate at year-end 2002.
This rate was used to value the actuarial benefit obligations at that date, and
will be used in 2003 pension cost determinations.

If Xcel Energy were to use alternative assumptions for pension cost
determinations, a 1 percent change would result in the following impacts on the
estimated pension costs recognized by Xcel Energy for financial reporting purposes:

•

a 1 percent higher rate of
return, 10.25 percent, would decrease 2003 pension costs by $22 million

•

a 1 percent lower rate of
return, 8.25 percent, would increase 2003 pension costs by $22 million

•

a 1 percent higher discount
rate, 7.75 percent, would decrease 2003 pension costs by $8 million

•

a 1 percent lower discount
rate, 5.75 percent, would increase 2003 pension costs by $12 million



Alternative assumptions would also change the expected
future cash funding requirements for the pension plans. Cash funding
requirements can be impacted by changes to actuarial assumptions,
actual asset levels and other pertinent calculations prescribed by
the funding requirements of income tax and other pension-related regulations.
These regulations did not require cash funding in recent years for Xcel
Energy’s pension plans, and do not require funding in 2003. Assuming future
asset return levels equal the actuarial assumption of
9.25 percent for the years 2003-2005,
then under current funding regulations we project that no cash funding would be
required for 2004, $35 million in funding would be required for 2005, and $54
million in funding would be required for 2006. Actual performance can affect
these funding requirements significantly. If the actual return level is 0
percent in 2003 and 2004, which assumes a continued downturn in the financial
markets, and 9.25 percent in 2005 then the 2004 cash-funding requirement would still be zero. However, the
2005 funding requirement would increase to $60 million, and 2006 funding
required would be $70 million. Current funding regulations are under legislative review in
2003, and if not retained in their current form, could change these funding
requirements materially.

Regulation —

Xcel Energy is a registered holding company under the PUHCA. As a
result, Xcel Energy, its utility subsidiaries and certain of its nonutility
subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC under the PUHCA
with respect to issuances and sales of securities, acquisitions and sales of
certain utility properties and intra-system sales of certain goods and
services. In addition, the PUHCA generally limits the ability of registered
holding companies to acquire additional public utility systems and to acquire
and retain businesses unrelated to the utility operations of the holding
company. See further discussion of financing restrictions under Liquidity and
Capital Resources.

The electric and natural gas rates charged to customers of Xcel Energy’s
utility subsidiaries are approved by the FERC and the regulatory commissions in
the states in which they operate. The rates are generally designed to recover
plant investment, operating costs and an allowed return on investment. Xcel
Energy requests changes in rates for utility services through filings with the
governing commissions. Because comprehensive rate changes are requested
infrequently in some states, changes in operating costs can affect Xcel
Energy’s financial results. In addition to changes in operating costs, other
factors affecting rate filings are sales growth, conservation and demand-side
management efforts and the cost of capital.

Most of the retail rate schedules for Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries
provide for periodic adjustments to billings and revenues to allow for recovery
of changes in the cost of fuel for electric generation, purchased energy,
purchased natural gas and, in Minnesota and Colorado, conservation and energy
management program costs. In Minnesota and Colorado, changes in electric
capacity costs are not recovered through these rate adjustment mechanisms. For
Wisconsin electric operations, where automatic cost-of-energy adjustment
clauses are not allowed, the biennial retail rate review process and an interim
fuel-cost hearing process provide the opportunity for rate recovery of changes
in electric fuel and purchased energy costs in lieu of a cost-of-energy
adjustment clause. In Colorado, PSCo has an ICA mechanism that allows for an
equal sharing among customers and shareholders of certain fuel and energy costs
and certain gains and losses on trading margins.

Regulated public utilities are allowed to record as regulatory assets certain
costs that are expected to be recovered from customers in future periods and to
record as regulatory liabilities certain income items that are expected to be
refunded to customers in future periods. In contrast, nonregulated enterprises
would expense these costs and recognize the income in the current period. If
restructuring or other changes in the regulatory environment occur, Xcel Energy
may no longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment, and may be
required to eliminate such regulatory assets and liabilities from its balance
sheet. Such changes could have a material adverse effect on Xcel Energy’s
results of operations in the period the write-off is recorded.

At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy reported on its balance sheet regulatory assets
of approximately $404 million and regulatory liabilities of approximately $297
million that would be recognized in the statement of operations in the absence of
regulation. In addition to a potential write-off of regulatory assets and
liabilities, restructuring and competition may require recognition of certain
stranded costs not recoverable under market pricing. Xcel Energy currently does
not expect to write off any stranded costs unless market price levels change or
cost levels increase above market price levels. See Notes 1 and 20 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory
deferrals.

Merger Rate Agreements —

As part of the merger approval process, Xcel Energy
agreed to reduce its rates in several jurisdictions. The discussion below
summarizes the rate reductions in Colorado, Minnesota, Texas and New Mexico.

As part of the merger approval process in Colorado, PSCo agreed to:

•

reduce its retail electric rates by an annual rate of $11 million for the period of August 2000
through July 2002;

•

file a combined electric and natural gas rate case in 2002, with new rates effective January 2003;

•

cap merger costs associated with the electric operations at $30 million and amortize the merger
costs for ratemaking purposes through 2002;

•

extend its ICA mechanism through
Dec. 31, 2002 with an increase in the ICA base rate from
$12.78 per megawatt hour to a rate based on 2001 actual costs;



•

continue the electric
performance-based regulatory plan (PBRP) and the electric quality service plan (QSP)
currently in effect through 2006, with modifications to cap electric earnings at a 10.5-percent
return on equity for 2002, to reflect no earnings sharing in 2003 since new base rates would have
recently been established, and to increase potential bill credits if quality standards are not met;
and

•

develop a QSP for the natural gas operations to be effective for calendar years 2002 through 2007.

As part of the merger approval process in Minnesota, NSP-Minnesota agreed to:

•

reduce its Minnesota electric rates by $10 million annually through 2005;

•

not increase its electric rates through 2005, except under limited circumstances;

•

not seek recovery of certain merger costs from customers; and

•

meet various quality standards.

As part of the merger approval process in Texas, SPS agreed to:

•

guarantee annual merger savings credits of approximately $4.8 million and amortize merger costs
through 2005;

•

retain the current fuel-recovery mechanism to pass along fuel cost savings to retail customers; and

•

comply with various service quality and reliability standards, covering service installations and
upgrades, light replacements, customer service call centers and electric service reliability.

As part of the merger approval process in New Mexico, SPS agreed to:

•

guarantee annual merger savings credits of approximately $780,000 and amortize merger costs through
December 2004;

•

share net nonfuel operating and maintenance savings equally among retail customers and shareholders;

•

retain the current fuel recovery mechanism to pass along fuel cost savings to retail customers; and

•

not pass along any negative rate impacts of the merger.

PSCo Performance-Based Regulatory Plan —

The Colorado Public Utilities
Commission (CPUC) established an electric PBRP under which PSCo operates. The
major components of this regulatory plan include:

•

an annual electric earnings test with the sharing between customers and
shareholders of earnings in excess of the following limits:

•

all earnings above 10.50-percent return on equity for 2002

•

no earnings sharing for 2003

•

an annual electric earnings test with the sharing of earnings in
excess of the return on equity set in the 2002 rate case for 2004
through 2006

•

an electric QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo
does not achieve certain performance targets relating to electric
reliability and customer service through 2006;

•

a gas QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo does not
achieve certain performance targets relating to gas leak repair time
and customer service through 2007; and

•

an ICA that provides for the sharing of energy costs and savings
relative to an annual baseline cost per kilowatt-hour generated or
purchased. According to the terms of the merger rate agreement in
Colorado, the annual baseline cost will be reset in 2002, based on a
2001 test year. Pursuant to a stipulation approved by the CPUC, the
ICA remains in effect through March 31, 2005, to recover allowed ICA
costs from 2001 and 2002. The recovery of fuel and purchased energy
expense beginning Jan. 1, 2003, will be decided in the PSCo 2002
general rate case. In the interim period until the conclusion of the
general rate case, 2003 fuel and purchased energy expense is recovered
through the interim adjustment clause (IAC).

PSCo regularly monitors and records as necessary an estimated customer refund
obligation under the earnings test. In April of each year following the
measurement period, PSCo files its proposed rate adjustment under the PBRP. The
CPUC conducts proceedings to review and approve these rate adjustments
annually. During 2002, PSCo filed that its electric department earnings were
below the 11-percent return on equity threshold. PSCo has estimated no customer
refund obligation for 2002 under the earnings test, the electric QSP or the gas
QSP. PSCo has estimated no customer refund obligation for 2001 under the
earnings test. The 2001 earnings test filing has not been approved. A hearing
is scheduled for May 2003.

PSCo 2002 General Rate Case

— In May 2002, PSCo filed a combined general retail
electric, natural gas and thermal energy base rate case with the CPUC to
address increased costs for providing services to Colorado customers. This
filing was required as part of the Xcel Energy merger stipulation and agreement
previously approved by the CPUC. Among other things, the case includes
establishing an electric energy recovery mechanism, elimination of the
qualifying facilities capacity cost adjustment (QFCCA), new depreciation rates
and recovery of additional plant investment. PSCo requested an increase to its
authorized rate of return on equity to 12 percent for electricity and 12.25
percent for natural gas. In early 2003, PSCo filed its rebuttal testimony in
this rate case. At this point in the rate proceeding, PSCo is now requesting an
overall annual increase to electric revenue of approximately $233



million. This
is based on a $186-million increase for fuel and purchased energy expense and a
$47-million electric base rate increase. PSCo is requesting an annual base rate
decrease in natural gas revenue of approximately $21 million. The rebuttal case
incorporates several adjustments to the original filing, including lower
depreciation expense, higher fuel and energy expense and various corrections to
the original filing.

Intervenors, including the CPUC staff and the Colorado Office of Consumer
Council (OCC) have filed testimony requesting both electric and natural gas
base rate decreases and increases in fuel and energy revenues that are less
than the amounts requested by PSCo. On Feb. 19, 2003, the CPUC postponed the
scheduled hearings for 30 days to allow parties to pursue a comprehensive
settlement of all issues in this proceeding. PSCo filed a joint motion on
March 14, 2003 extending the filing date of the settlement agreement until
April 1, 2003. New rates are expected to be effective during the second quarter of 2003. A final decision on the
recovery of fuel and energy costs will be applied retroactive to Jan. 1, 2003.
Until such time, PSCo is billing customers under the IAC, assuming 100-percent
pass-through cost recovery.

Tax Matters

— As discussed further in Note 18, the Internal Revenue Service
(IRS) issued a Notice of Proposed Adjustment proposing to disallow interest
expense deductions taken in tax years 1993 through 1997 related to
corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policy loans of PSR Investments, Inc.
(PSRI), a wholly owned subsidiary of PSCo. Late in 2001, Xcel Energy received a
technical advice memorandum from the IRS national office, which communicated a
position adverse to PSRI. Consequently, the IRS examination division has
disallowed the interest expense deductions for the tax years 1993 through 1997.
After consultation with tax counsel, it is Xcel Energy’s position that the tax
law does not support the IRS determination. Although the ultimate resolution
of this matter is uncertain, management continues to believe it will
successfully resolve this matter without a material adverse impact on Xcel
Energy’s results of operations. However, defense of PSCo’s position may
require significant cash outlays on a temporary basis, if refund litigation is
pursued in United States District Court.

The total disallowance of interest expense deductions for the period of 1993
through 1997 is approximately $175 million. Additional interest expense
deductions for the period 1998 through 2002 are estimated to total
approximately $317 million. Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this issue,
tax and interest payable through Dec. 31, 2002, would reduce earnings by an
estimated $214 million, after tax. If COLI interest expense deductions were no
longer available, annual earnings for 2003 would be reduced by an estimated $33
million, after tax, prospectively, which represents 8 cents per share using
2003 share levels.

Environmental Matters —

Our environmental costs include payments for nuclear
plant decommissioning, storage and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel,
disposal of hazardous materials and wastes, remediation of contaminated sites
and monitoring of discharges to the environment. A trend of greater
environmental awareness and increasingly stringent regulation has caused, and
may continue to cause, slightly higher operating expenses and capital
expenditures for environmental compliance.

In addition to nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal
expenses, costs charged to our operating expenses for environmental monitoring
and disposal of hazardous materials and wastes were approximately:

•

$149 million in 2002

•

$146 million in 2001

•

$144 million in 2000

We expect to expense an average of approximately $177 million per year from
2003 through 2007 for similar costs. However, the precise timing and amount of
environmental costs, including those for site remediation and disposal of
hazardous materials, are currently unknown. Additionally, the extent to which environmental costs will
be included in and recovered through rates is not certain.

Capital expenditures on environmental improvements at our regulated facilities,
which include the cost of constructing spent nuclear fuel storage casks, were
approximately:

•

$108 million in 2002

•

$136 million in 2001

•

$57 million in 2000

Our regulated utilities expect to incur approximately $44 million in capital
expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations in 2003 and
approximately $948 million during the period from 2003 through 2007. Most of
the costs are related to modifications to reduce the emissions of
NSP-Minnesota’s generating plants located in the Minneapolis-St. Paul
metropolitan area. See Notes 18 and 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further discussion of our environmental contingencies.

NRG expects to incur as much as $145 million in capital expenditures
over the next five years to address conditions that existed when it acquired
facilities, and to comply with new regulations.



Impact of Other Nonregulated Investments —

Xcel Energy’s investments in
nonregulated operations have had a significant impact on its results of
operations. Xcel Energy does not expect to continue investing in nonregulated
domestic and international power production projects through NRG, but may
continue investing in natural gas marketing and trading through e prime and
construction projects through Utility Engineering. Xcel Energy’s nonregulated
businesses may carry a higher level of risk than its traditional utility
businesses due to a number of factors, including:

•

competition, operating risks, dependence on certain suppliers and customers, and domestic and foreign environmental and
energy regulations;

•

partnership and government actions and foreign government, political, economic and currency risks; and

•

development risks, including uncertainties prior to final legal closing.

Xcel Energy’s earnings from nonregulated subsidiaries, other than NRG, also
include investments in international projects, primarily in Argentina, through
Xcel Energy International, and broadband communications systems through Seren.
Management currently intends to hold and operate these investments, but is
evaluating their strategic fit in Xcel Energy’s business portfolio. As of Dec.
31, 2002, Xcel Energy’s investment in Seren was approximately $255 million.
Seren had capitalized $290 million for plant in service and had incurred
another $21 million for construction work in progress for these systems at Dec.
31, 2002. Xcel Energy International’s gross investment in Argentina, excluding
unrealized currency translation losses of approximately $62 million, was $112
million at Dec. 31, 2002. Given the political and economic climate in
Argentina, Xcel Energy continues to closely monitor the investment for asset
impairment. Currently, management believes that no impairment exists in
addition to what was recognized in 2002, as previously discussed.

Some of Xcel Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries have project investments, as
listed in Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, consisting of
minority interests, which may limit the financial risk, but also limit the
ability to control the development or operation of the projects. In addition,
significant expenses may be incurred for projects pursued by Xcel Energy’s
subsidiaries that do not materialize. The aggregate effect of these factors
creates the potential for volatility in the nonregulated component of Xcel
Energy’s earnings. Accordingly, the historical operating results of Xcel
Energy’s nonregulated businesses may not necessarily be indicative of future
operating results.

Inflation —

Inflation at its current level is not expected to materially affect
Xcel Energy’s prices or returns to shareholders. Since late 2001, the
Argentine peso has been significantly devalued due to the inflationary
Argentine economy. Xcel Energy will continue to experience related currency
translation adjustments through Xcel Energy International.

Pending Accounting Changes

SFAS No. 143 —

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued SFAS No. 143

—

“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” This
statement will require Xcel Energy to record its future nuclear plant
decommissioning obligations as a liability at fair value with a corresponding
increase to the carrying value of the related long-lived asset. The liability
will be increased to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost
will be depreciated over the useful life of the related long-lived asset. If
at the end of the asset’s life the recorded liability differs from the actual
obligations paid, SFAS No. 143 requires that a gain or loss be recognized at
that time. However, rate-regulated entities may recognize a regulatory asset or
liability instead, if the criteria for SFAS No. 71 — “Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation” are met.

Xcel Energy currently follows industry practice by ratably accruing the costs
for decommissioning over the approved cost recovery period and including the
accruals in accumulated depreciation. At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy recorded
and recovered in rates $662 million of decommissioning obligations and had
estimated discounted decommissioning cost obligations of $1.1 billion based on
approvals from the various state commissions, which used a single scenario.
However, with the adoption of SFAS No. 143, a probabilistic view of several
decommissioning scenarios were used, resulting in an estimated discounted
decommissioning cost obligation of $1.6 billion.

Xcel Energy expects to adopt SFAS No. 143 as required on Jan. 1, 2003. In
current estimates for adoption, the initial value of the liability, including
cumulative accretion expense through that date, would be approximately $869
million. This liability would be established by reclassifying accumulated
depreciation of $573 million and by recording two long-term assets totaling
$296 million. A gross capitalized asset of $130 million would be recorded and
would be offset by accumulated depreciation of $89 million. In addition, a
regulatory asset of approximately $166 million would be recorded for the
cumulative effect adjustment related to unrecognized depreciation and accretion
under the new standard. Management expects that the entire transition amount
would be recoverable in rates over time and, therefore, would support this
regulatory asset upon adoption of SFAS No. 143.



Xcel Energy has completed a detailed assessment of the specific applicability
and implications of SFAS No. 143 for obligations other than nuclear
decommissioning. Other assets that may have potential asset retirement
obligations include ash ponds, any generating plant with a Part 30 license and
electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets on property under
easement agreements. Easements are generally perpetual and require retirement
action only upon abandonment or cessation of use of the property for the
specified purpose. The liability is not estimable because Xcel Energy intends
to utilize these properties indefinitely. The asset retirement obligations for
the ash ponds and generating plants cannot be reasonably estimated due to an
indeterminate life for the assets associated with the ponds and uncertain
retirement dates for the generating plants. Since the time period for
retirement is unknown, no liability would be recorded. When a retirement date
is certain, a liability will be recorded.

SFAS No. 143 will also affect Xcel Energy’s accrued plant removal costs for
other generation, transmission and distribution facilities for its utility
subsidiaries. Although SFAS No. 143 does not recognize the future accrual of
removal costs as a GAAP liability, long-standing ratemaking practices approved
by applicable state and federal regulatory commissions have allowed provisions
for such costs in historical depreciation rates. These removal costs have
accumulated over a number of years based on varying rates as authorized by the
appropriate regulatory entities. Given the long periods over which the amounts
were accrued and the changing of rates over time, Xcel Energy has estimated the
amount of removal costs accumulated through historic depreciation expense based
on current factors used in the existing depreciation rates. Accordingly, Xcel
Energy has an estimated regulatory liability accrued in accumulated depreciation for future
removal costs of the following amounts at Dec. 31, 2002:

(Millions of Dollars)

NSP-Minnesota

$


NSP-Wisconsin


PSCo


SPS


Cheyenne


Total Xcel Energy

$


SFAS No. 145 —

In April 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 145 — “Rescission of
FASB Statements No. 4, 44, and 64, Amendment of FASB Statement No. 13, and
Technical Corrections,” which supercedes previous guidance for the reporting of
gains and losses from extinguishment of debt and accounting for leases, among
other things. Adoption of SFAS No. 145 may affect the recognition of impacts
from NRG’s financial improvement and restructuring plan, if existing debt
agreements are ultimately renegotiated while NRG is still a consolidated
subsidiary of Xcel Energy. Other impacts of SFAS No. 145 are not expected to
be material to Xcel Energy.

SFAS No. 146

— In June 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 146 — “Accounting for
Exit or Disposal Activities,” addressing recognition, measurement and reporting
of costs associated with exit and disposal activities, including restructuring
activities. SFAS No. 146 may have an impact on the timing of recognition of
costs related to the implementation of the NRG financial improvement and
restructuring plan; however, such impact is not expected to be material.

SFAS No. 148

— In December 2002, the FASB issued SFAS No. 148 — “Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure,” amending FASB Statement
No. 123 to provide alternative methods of transition for a voluntary change to
the fair value based method of accounting for stock-based employee
compensation, and requiring disclosure in both annual and interim Consolidated
Financial Statements about the method used and the effect of the method used on
results. Xcel Energy continues to account for its stock-based compensation
plans under Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25 — “Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees” and does not plan at this time to adopt the
voluntary provisions of SFAS No. 148.

Emerging Issues Tax Force (EITF) Nos. 02-03 and 98-10

— See Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements regarding reporting changes made in 2002 for
the presentation of trading results and pending changes related to accounting
for the impacts of trading operations in 2003.

FASB Interpretation No. 45 (FIN
No. 45)

—
In November 2002, the FASB issued FIN No. 45 —
“Guarantor’s
Accounting and Disclosure Requirements for Guarantees, Including Indirect
Guarantees of Indebtedness of Others”.  The initial recognition and measurement
provisions of this interpretation are applicable on a prospective basis to guarantees
issued or modified after Dec. 31, 2002, irrespective of the
guarantor’s fiscal year-end.
The disclosure requirements are effective for financial statements of interim or
annual periods ending after Dec. 15, 2002. The interpretation addresses the
disclosures to be made by a guarantor in its interim and annual financial
statements about its obligations under guarantees. The interpretation also clarifies
the requirements related to the recognition of a liability by a guarantor at the
inception of the guarantee for the obligations the guarantor has undertaken in issuing
the guarantee.

FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN No. 46)

— In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN
No. 46 requiring an enterprise’s consolidated financial statements to include
subsidiaries in which the enterprise has a controlling financial interest.
Historically, that requirement has been applied to subsidiaries in which an
enterprise has a majority voting interest, but in many circumstances the
enterprise’s consolidated financial statements do not include the
consolidations of variable interest entities with which it has similar
relationships but no majority voting interest. Under FIN No. 46, the voting
interest approach is not effective in identifying controlling financial
interest. As a result, Xcel Energy expects that it will have to consolidate
its affordable housing investments made through Eloigne, which currently are
accounted for under the equity method.



As of Dec. 31, 2002, the assets of these entities
were approximately $155 million and long-term liabilities were approximately $87 million. Currently,
investments of $62 million are reflected as a component of investments in
unconsolidated affiliates in the Dec. 31, 2002, Consolidated Balance Sheet.
FIN No. 46 requires that for entities to be consolidated, the entities’ assets
be initially recorded at their carrying amounts at the date the new requirement
first applies. If determining carrying amounts as required is impractical, then
the assets are to be measured at fair value as of the first date the new
requirements apply. Any difference between the net consolidated amounts added
to the Xcel Energy’s balance sheet and the amount of any previously recognized
interest in the newly consolidated entity
should be recognized in earnings as the cumulative effect adjustment of an
accounting change. Had Xcel Energy adopted FIN No. 46 requirements early in
2002, there would have been no material impact to net income. Xcel Energy
plans to adopt FIN No. 46 when required in the third quarter of 2003.

DERIVATIVES, RISK MANAGEMENT AND MARKET RISK

Business and Operational Risk

—

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to
commodity price risk in their generation, retail distribution and energy
trading operations. In certain jurisdictions, purchased energy expenses and
natural gas costs are recovered on a dollar-for-dollar basis. However, in
other jurisdictions, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have limited exposure to
market price risk for the purchase and sale of electric energy and natural gas. In such
jurisdictions, electric energy and natural gas expenses are recovered based on fixed price
limits or under established sharing mechanisms.

Xcel Energy manages commodity price risk by entering into purchase and sales
commitments for electric power and natural gas, long-term contracts for coal
supplies and fuel oil, and derivative instruments. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy allows the company to manage the market price risk within
each rate regulated operation to the extent such exposure exists. Management
is limited under the policy to enter into only transactions that manage market
price risk where the rate regulation jurisdiction does not already provide for
dollar-for-dollar recovery. One exception to this policy exists in which we
use various physical contracts and derivative instruments to reduce the cost of
natural gas and electricity we provide to our retail customers even though the regulatory
jurisdiction may provide dollar-for-dollar recovery of actual costs. In these instances, the
use of derivative instruments and physical contracts is done consistently with
the local jurisdictional cost recovery mechanism.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to market price risk for the sale
of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources, including coal, natural
gas and fuel oil used to generate the electric energy within its nonregulated
operations. Xcel Energy manages this market price risk by entering into firm
power sales agreements for approximately 55 to 75 percent of its electric
capacity and energy from each generation facility, using contracts with terms
ranging from one to 25 years. In addition, we manage the market price risk
covering the fuel resource requirements to provide the electric energy by
entering into purchase commitments and derivative instruments for coal, natural
gas and fuel oil as needed to meet fixed-priced electric energy requirements.
Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows the company to manage market price
risks, and provides guidelines for the level of price risk exposure that is
acceptable within the company’s operations.

Xcel Energy is exposed to market price risk for the sale of electric energy and
the purchase of fuel resources used to generate the electric energy from the
company’s equity method investments that own electric operations. Xcel Energy
manages this market price risk through involvement with the management
committee or board of directors of each of these ventures. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy does not cover the activities conducted by the ventures.
However, other policies are adopted by the ventures as necessary and mandated
by the equity owners.

Interest Rate Risk

— Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to
fluctuations in interest rates when entering into variable rate debt
obligations to fund certain power projects being developed or purchased.
Exposure to interest rate fluctuations may be mitigated by entering into
derivative instruments known as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and put- or
call- options. These contracts reduce exposure to the volatility of
cash flows for interest and
result in primarily fixed rate debt obligations when taking into account the
combination of the variable rate debt and the interest rate derivative
instrument. Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows the company to reduce
interest rate exposure from variable rate debt obligations.

At Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, a 100 basis point change in the benchmark rate on
Xcel Energy’s variable debt would impact net income by approximately $52.2
million and $29.9 million, respectively. See Note 16 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a discussion of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries’
interest rate swaps.

Currency Exchange Risk

— Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have certain
investments in foreign countries, creating exposure to foreign currency
exchange risk. The foreign currency exchange risk includes the risk relative
to the recovery of our net investment in a project, as well as the risk
relative to the earnings and cash flows generated from such operations. Xcel
Energy manages exposure to changes in foreign currency by entering into
derivative



instruments as determined by management. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy provides for this risk management activity.

As discussed in Note 21 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Xcel Energy
has substantial investments in foreign projects, through NRG and other
subsidiaries, creating exposure to currency translation risk. Cumulative
translation adjustments, included in the Consolidated Statement of
Stockholders’ Equity as Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, experienced to
date have been material and may continue to occur at levels significant to the
company’s financial position. As of Dec. 31, 2002, NRG had two foreign
currency exchange contracts with notional
amounts of $3.0 million. If the contracts had been discontinued on Dec. 31,
2002, NRG would have owed the counterparties approximately $0.3 million.

Trading Risk

— Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct various trading
operations and power marketing activities, including the purchase and sale of
electric capacity and energy and natural gas. The trading operations are
conducted both in the United States and Europe with primary focus on specific
market regions where trading knowledge and experience have been obtained. Xcel
Energy’s risk management policy allows management to conduct the trading
activity within approved guidelines and limitations as approved by the
company’s risk management committee, which is made up of management personnel
not involved in the trading operations.

The fair value of Xcel Energy’s trading contracts as of Dec. 31, 2002, is as
follows:

(Millions of dollars)

Total Fair Value

Fair value of trading contracts outstanding at Jan. 1, 2002

$

90.1

Contracts realized or settled during 2002

(139.5

)

Fair value of trading contract additions and changes during the year

87.8

Fair value of contracts outstanding at Dec. 31, 2002*

$

38.4

*     Amounts do not include the impact of ratepayer sharing in Colorado.

The future maturities of Xcel Energy’s trading contracts are as follows:

Source of Fair Value

Maturity Less than

Maturity Greater

(Millions of dollars)

1 Year

Maturity 1 to 3 years

Maturity 4 to 5 years

than 5 years

Total Fair Value

Prices actively quoted

$

12.7

$

(7.1

)

$

—

$

(1.9

)

$

3.7

Prices based on
models and other
valuation methods
(including prices
quoted from external
sources)

61.7

52.6

(23.0

)

(56.6

)

34.7

Xcel Energy’s trading operations and power marketing activities measure the
outstanding risk exposure to price changes on transactions, contracts and
obligations that have been entered into, but not closed, using an industry
standard methodology know as Value-at-Risk (VaR). VaR expresses the potential
change in fair value on the outstanding transactions, contracts and obligations
over a particular period of time, with a given confidence interval under normal
market conditions. Xcel Energy utilizes the variance/covariance approach in
calculating VaR. The VaR model employs a 95-percent confidence interval level
based on historical price movement, lognormal price distribution assumption and
various holding periods varying from two to five days.

As of Dec. 31, 2002, the calculated VaRs were:

(Millions of Dollars)

During 2002

Year Ended

Operations

Dec. 31, 2002

Average

High

Low

Electric Commodity Trading

0.29

0.62

3.39

0.01

Natural Gas Commodity
Trading

0.11

0.35

1.09

0.09

Natural Gas Retail Marketing

0.54

0.47

0.92

0.32

NRG
Power Marketing (a)

118.60

76.20

124.40

42.00

(a)

NRG VaR is an undiversified VaR.

As of Dec. 31, 2001, the calculated VaRs were:

(Millions of Dollars)

During 2001

Year Ended

Operations

Dec. 31, 2001

Average

High

Low

Electric Commodity Trading

0.52

1.71

7.37

0.16

Natural Gas Commodity
Trading

0.16

0.15

0.52

0.01

Natural Gas Retail Marketing

0.69

0.39

0.94

0.13

NRG Power Marketing

71.70

78.80

126.60

58.60



In 2001, Xcel Energy changed its holding period for measuring VaR from
electricity trading activity from 21 days to two to five days. Xcel Energy’s
revised holding periods are generally consistent with current industry standard
practice.

Credit Risk

— In addition to the risks discussed previously, Xcel Energy and
its subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk in the company’s risk management
activities. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the
non-performance by a counterparty of its contractual obligations. As Xcel
Energy continues to expand its natural gas and power marketing and trading
activities, exposure to credit risk and counterparty default may increase.
Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries maintain credit policies intended to minimize
overall credit risk and actively monitor these policies to reflect changes and
scope of operations.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct standard credit reviews for all
counterparties. Xcel Energy employs additional credit risk control mechanisms
when appropriate, such as letters of credit, parental guarantees, standardized
master netting agreements and termination provisions that allow for offsetting
of positive and negative exposures. The credit exposure is monitored and, when
necessary, the activity with a specific counterparty is limited until credit
enhancement is provided.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Flows

(Millions of dollars)




Net cash provided by operating activities

$

1,715

$

1,584

$

1,408

Cash provided by operating activities increased during 2002, compared with
2001, primarily due to NRG’s efforts to conserve cash by deferring the payment
of interest payments and managing its cash flows more closely. NRG’s accrued
interest costs rose by nearly $200 million in 2002 compared to year-end 2001
levels. In addition, regulated utility operating cash flows increased in 2002
due to lower 2002 receivables and unbilled revenues, reflecting collections of
higher year-end 2001 amounts. Cash provided by operating activities increased
during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to the higher net income,
depreciation and improved working capital.

(Millions of dollars)




Net cash used in investing activities

$

(2,718

)

$

(5,168

)

$

(3,347

)

Cash used in investing activities decreased during 2002, compared with 2001,
primarily due to lower levels of nonregulated capital expenditures as a result
of NRG terminating its acquisition program due to its financial difficulties.
Such nonregulated expenditures decreased $2.8 billion in 2002 due mainly to NRG
asset acquisitions in 2001 that did not recur in 2002. Cash used in investing
activities increased during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to
increased levels of nonregulated capital expenditures and asset acquisitions,
primarily at NRG. The increase was partially offset by Xcel Energy’s sale of
most of its investment in Yorkshire Power.

(Millions of dollars)




Net cash provided by financing activities

$

1,580

$

3,713

$

2,016

Cash provided by financing activities decreased during 2002, compared with
2001, primarily due to lower NRG capital requirements and constraints on NRG’s
ability to access the capital market due to its financial difficulties, as
discussed previously. NRG’s cash provided from financing activities declined
by $2.7 billion in 2002, compared with 2001. Cash provided by financing
activities increased during 2001, compared with 2000, primarily due to
increased short-term borrowings and net long-term debt issuances, mainly to
fund NRG acquisitions.

See discussion of trends, commitments and uncertainties with the potential for
future impact on cash flow and liquidity under Capital Sources.

Capital Requirements

Utility Capital Expenditures, Nonregulated Investments and Long-term Debt
Obligations —

The estimated cost of the capital
expenditure programs of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries, excluding NRG, and
other capital requirements for the years 2003, 2004 and 2005 are shown in the
table below.



The capital expenditure forecast for 2004 includes new steam generators
at the Prairie Island nuclear plant. These expenditures will not occur unless the Minnesota
Legislature grants additional spent fuel storage at Prairie Island during 2003. The capital
expenditure forecast also includes the early stages of the costs related to modifications to
reduce the emissions of NSP-Minnesota’s generating plants located in the Minneapolis and
St. Paul metropolitan area. This project is expected to cost approximately $1.1 billion with
major construction starting in 2005 and finishing in 2009.

The capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy are subject to continuing
review and modification. Actual utility construction expenditures may vary
from the estimates due to changes in electric and natural gas projected load
growth, the desired reserve margin and the availability of purchased power, as well as
alternative plans for meeting Xcel Energy’s long-term energy needs. In
addition, Xcel Energy’s ongoing evaluation of merger, acquisition and
divestiture opportunities to support corporate strategies, address
restructuring requirements and comply with future requirements to install
emission-control equipment may impact actual capital requirements. For more
information, see Notes 4 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy’s investment in exempt wholesale generators and foreign utility
companies, which includes NRG and other Xcel Energy subsidiaries, is currently
limited to 100 percent of consolidated retained earnings, as a result of the
PUHCA restrictions. At Dec. 31, 2002, such investments exceeded
consolidated retained earnings.

NRG Energy is required to provide financial guarantees of up to approximately
$8 million, for closure and ongoing monitoring costs of some sites to which it
sends coal ash and other waste, by April 30, 2003.

NRG Capital Expenditures —

Management expects NRG’s capital expenditures,which
include refurbishments and environmental compliance, to
total approximately $475 million to $525 million in the years 2003 through 2007.
NRG anticipates funding its ongoing capital requirements through
committed debt facilities, operating cash flows and existing cash.
 NRG’s capital
expenditure program is subject to continuing review and modification. The
timing and actual amount of expenditures may differ significantly based upon
plant operating history, unexpected plant outages, changes in the regulatory
environment and the availability of cash. The pending financial restructuring
or bankruptcy filings of NRG may affect the timing and magnitude of capital resources available to
NRG and, accordingly, the level of capital expenditures NRG can fund.

Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments —

Xcel Energy has a variety of
contractual obligations and other commercial commitments that represent
prospective requirements in addition to its capital expenditure programs. The
following is a summarized table of contractual obligations. See additional
discussion in the Consolidated Statements of Capitalization and Notes 5, 6, 7, 16
and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Payments Due by Period

Contractual

Obligations

(Thousands of dollars)

Total

Less than 1 year

1-3 years

4-5 years

After 5 years

Long-term debt

$

14,311,689

$

7,756,903

$

547,796

$

1,137,934

$

4,869,056

Capital lease

obligations

688,421

34,422

67,771

66,386

519,842

Operating leases(a)

386,215

66,155

125,031

108,534

86,495

Unconditional

purchase obligations

11,240,364

1,317,293

2,214,974

1,817,770

5,890,327

Other long-term

obligations

699,248

42,597

64,517

34,594

557,540

Short-term debt

1,541,963

1,541,963

—

—

—

Total contractual

cash obligations

$

28,867,900

$

10,759,333

$

3,020,089

$

3,165,218

$

11,923,260

(a)  Under some leases, we would have to sell or purchase the property that we lease if we chose to terminate
before the scheduled lease expiration date. Most of our railcar, vehicle and equipment, and aircraft leases
have these terms. We would then own the equipment and could continue to use it in the normal course of
business or sell the equipment. At Dec. 31, 2002, the amount that we would have to pay if we chose to
terminate these leases was approximately $160 million.

Common Stock Dividends

— Future dividend levels will be dependent upon the
statutory limitations discussed below, as well as Xcel Energy’s results of
operations, financial position, cash flows and other factors, and will be
evaluated by the Xcel Energy board of directors.

Under the PUHCA, unless there is an order from the SEC, a holding company or
any subsidiary may only declare and pay dividends out of retained earnings.
Due to 2002 losses incurred by NRG, retained earnings of Xcel Energy were a
deficit of $101 million at Dec. 31, 2002. Xcel Energy did not declare
a dividend on its common stock during the first quarter of 2003. Xcel Energy has requested
authorization from the SEC to pay



dividends out of paid-in capital up to $260
million until Sept. 30, 2003. Xcel Energy did not declare a dividend on its common stock
during the first quarter of 2003. It is not known when or if the SEC will act on
this request. As explained below, Xcel Energy has reached a preliminary settlement
agreement with the various NRG creditors.  Also, Xcel Energy could be required to
cease including NRG as a consolidated subsidiary for financial reporting purposes,
if NRG were to seek protection under the bankruptcy laws and Xcel Energy ceased
to have control over NRG.  In the event the tentative settlement is
effectuated and Xcel Energy is required to cease including NRG as a consolidated subsidiary in its financial statements, the financial impact of these events are expected to positively impact retained earnings and may be sufficient to eliminate the negative retained earnings balance, absent additional charges at NRG.  Xcel Energy cannot predict the precise financial impact of these items at this time.  For this reason, Xcel Energy will continue seeking authorization from the SEC so it is able to pay dividends notwithstanding negative retained earnings.  Xcel Energy intends to make every effort to pay the full common stock dividend of 75 cents per share during 2003.

The Articles of Incorporation of Xcel Energy place restrictions on the amount
of common stock dividends it can pay when preferred stock is
outstanding. Under the provisions, dividend payments may be
restricted if Xcel Energy’s capitalization ratio (on a holding
company basis only,

i.e.

, not on a consolidated basis) is less
than 25 percent. For these purposes, the capitalization ratio is
equal to (1) common stock plus surplus divided by (ii) the sum of
common stock plus surplus plus long-term debt. Based on this
definition, our capitalization ratio at Dec. 31, 2002, was 85
percent. Therefore, the restrictions do not place any effective limit
on our ability to pay dividends because the restrictions are only
triggered when the capitalization ratio is less than 25 percent or
will be reduced to less than 25 percent through dividends (other than
dividends payable in common stock), distributions or acquisitions of
our common stock.

Capital Sources

Xcel Energy expects to meet future financing requirements by periodically
issuing long-term debt, short-term debt, common stock and preferred securities
to maintain desired capitalization ratios. As a result of its registration as a
holding company under the PUHCA, Xcel Energy is required to maintain a common
equity ratio of 30 percent or higher in its consolidated capital structure.

On Nov. 7, 2002, the SEC issued an order authorizing Xcel Energy to engage in
certain financing transactions through March 31, 2003, so long as its common
equity ratio, as reported in its most recent Form 10-K, or Form 10-Q and as
adjusted for pending subsequent items that affect capitalization, was at least
24 percent of its total capitalization. Financings of Xcel Energy authorized
by the SEC included the issuance of debt, including convertible debt, to
refinance or replace Xcel Energy’s $400-million credit facility that expired on
Nov. 8, 2002, issuance of $450 million of common stock, less any amounts issued as
part of the refinancing of the $400-million credit facility, and the renewal of
guarantees for various trading obligations of NRG’s power marketing subsidiary.
The SEC reserved authorizing additional securities issuances by Xcel Energy
through June 30, 2003, while its common equity ratio is below 30 percent.

For this purpose, common equity, including minority interest, at Dec. 31, 2002,
was 23 percent of total capitalization. As a result, Xcel Energy may
experience constraints on available capital sources that may be affected by
factors including earnings levels, project acquisitions and the financing
actions of our subsidiaries. In the event NRG were to seek protection under
bankruptcy laws and Xcel Energy ceased to have control over NRG, NRG would no
longer be a consolidated subsidiary of Xcel Energy for financial reporting
purposes and Xcel Energy’s common equity ratio under the SEC’s method of
calculation would exceed 30 percent.

In December 2002, Xcel Energy filed a request for additional financing
authorization with the SEC. Xcel Energy requested an increase from $2.0
billion to $2.5 billion in the aggregate amount of securities that it may issue
during the period through Sept. 30, 2003. In addition, the request proposed
that common equity will be at least 30 percent of total consolidated
capitalization, provided that in any event that the 30-percent common equity
requirement is not met, Xcel Energy may issue common stock. The notice period
expired with no comments. SEC action on the request is pending. As a result, Xcel
Energy at the present time cannot finance, either on a short-term or
long-term basis, without SEC approval
unless its common equity is at least 30 percent of total capitalization.

With
approval of the request currently pending before the SEC, further described below, management believes it will
have adequate authority under SEC orders and regulations to conduct business as
proposed during 2003 and will seek additional authorization when necessary.

Short-Term Funding Sources —

Historically, Xcel Energy has used a number of
sources to fulfill short-term funding needs, including operating cash flow,
notes payable, commercial paper and bank lines of credit. The amount and
timing of short-term funding needs depend in large part on financing needs for
utility construction expenditures and nonregulated project investments.
Another significant short-term funding need is the dividend payment
requirement, as discussed previously in Common Stock Dividends.

Operating cash flow as a source of short-term funding is reasonably likely to
be affected by such operating factors as weather, regulatory requirements,
including rate recovery of costs, environmental regulation compliance and
industry deregulation, changes in the trends for energy prices and supply, and
operational uncertainties that are difficult to predict. See further
discussion of such factors under Statement of Operations Analysis and Factors
Affecting Results of Operations.

Short-term borrowing as a source of funding is
affected by regulatory actions and access to reasonably
priced capital markets. This varies based on financial performance and
existing debt levels. These factors are evaluated by credit rating agencies
that review Xcel Energy and its subsidiary operations on an ongoing basis.
NRG’s credit situation has affected Xcel Energy’s credit ratings and access to
short-term funding. As a result of a decline in its credit ratings, Xcel
Energy has been unable to utilize the commercial paper market to satisfy any
short-term funding needs. For additional information on Xcel Energy’s
short-term borrowing arrangements, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.



Access to reasonably priced capital markets is also dependent in part on credit
agency reviews. In the past year, our credit ratings and those of our
subsidiaries have been adversely affected by NRG’s credit contingencies,
despite what management believes is a reasonable separation of NRG’s operations
and credit risk from our utility operations and corporate financing activities.
These ratings reflect the views of Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. A security
rating is not a recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject
to revision or withdrawal at any time by the rating company. As of Feb. 10,
2003, the following represents the credit ratings assigned to various Xcel
Energy companies:

Company

Credit Type

Moody’s*

Standard & Poor’s

Xcel Energy

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa3

BBB-

Xcel Energy

Commercial Paper

NP

A3

NSP-Minnesota

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa1

BBB-

NSP-Minnesota

Senior Secured Debt

A3

BBB+

NSP-Minnesota

Commercial Paper

P2

A3

NSP-Wisconsin

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa1

BBB

NSP-Wisconsin

Senior Secured Debt

A3

BBB+

PSCo

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa2

BBB-

PSCo

Senior Secured Debt

Baa1

BBB+

PSCo

Commercial Paper

P2

A3

SPS

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa1

BBB

SPS

Commercial Paper

P2

A3

NRG

Corporate Credit Rating

Caa3**

D**

*

Negative credit watch/negative
outlook

**

Below investment grade

NRG’s access to short-term capital is
currently non-existent outside of bankruptcy.  The
downgrade of NRG’s credit ratings below investment grade in July 2002 has
resulted in cash collateral requirements, as discussed previously and in Notes
4 and 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. In addition, lower credit
ratings will increase the relative cost of NRG’s capital financing compared to
historical levels, assuming NRG could obtain such financing.

In June 2002, Xcel Energy’s access to commercial paper markets was reduced due
to lowered credit ratings, shown previously. Xcel Energy typically uses sources of
financing, both short- and long-term, other than commercial paper to fulfill
its cash needs and manage its capital structure.

NRG Capital Sources

— NRG has generally financed the acquisition and
development of its projects under financing arrangements to be repaid solely
from each of its project’s cash flows, which are typically secured by the
plant’s physical assets and equity interests in the project company. As
discussed above, NRG’s credit situation has significantly affected its credit
ratings and has virtually eliminated its access to short-term funding. See credit ratings in previous table. NRG
anticipates funding its ongoing capital requirements through committed debt
facilities, operating cash flows, and existing cash.

NRG’s operating cash flows have been affected by lower operating margins as a
result of low power prices since mid-2001. Seasonal variations in demand and
market volatility in prices are not unusual in the independent power sector,
and NRG does normally experience higher margins in peak summer periods and
lower margins in non-peak periods. NRG has also incurred significant amounts
of debt to finance its acquisitions in the past several years, and the
servicing of interest and principal repayments from such financing is largely
dependent on domestic project cash flows. Management has concluded that the
forecasted free cash flow available to NRG after servicing project-level
obligations will be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations at NRG.

Substantially all of NRG’s operations are conducted by project subsidiaries and
project affiliates. NRG’s cash flow



and ability to service corporate-level
indebtedness when due is dependent upon receipt of cash dividends and
distributions or other transfers from NRG’s projects and other subsidiaries.
NRG has generally financed the acquisition and development of its projects
under financing arrangements to be repaid solely from each of its project’s
cash flows, which are typically secured by the plant’s physical assets and
equity interests in the project company. In August 2002, NRG suspended
substantially all of its acquisition and development activities indefinitely,
pending a comprehensive restructuring of NRG. The debt agreements of NRG’s
subsidiaries and project affiliates generally restrict their ability to pay
dividends, make distributions or otherwise transfer funds to NRG. As of Dec.
31, 2002, Loy Yang, Energy Center Kladno, LSP Energy (Batesville), NRG South
Central, and NRG Northeast Generating do not currently meet the minimum debt service coverage
ratios required for these projects to make payments to NRG. In addition, NRG’s
subsidiaries, including LSP Kendall, NRG McClain, NRG Mid-Atlantic, NRG South Central and NRG Northeast
Generating are in default on their various debt instruments, resulting in
dividend payment restrictions.

For additional information on NRG’s defaults on short-term and long-term borrowing
arrangements, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Registration Statements —

Xcel Energy’s Articles of Incorporation authorize the
issuance of 1 billion shares of common stock. As of Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy
had approximately 399 million shares of common stock outstanding. In addition,
Xcel Energy’s Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 7 million
shares of $100 par value preferred stock. On Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy had
approximately 1 million shares of preferred stock outstanding. Registered
securities available for issuance are as follows:

In February 2002, Xcel Energy filed a $1-billion shelf registration with the
SEC. Xcel Energy may issue debt securities, common stock and rights to purchase
common stock under this shelf registration. Xcel Energy has approximately
$482.5 million remaining under this registration, which it can only issue when its common equity exceeds 30 percent of its total capitalization absent SEC approval under PUHCA.

In April 2001, NSP-Minnesota filed a $600-million, long-term debt shelf
registration with the SEC. NSP-Minnesota has approximately $415 million
remaining under this registration.

PSCo has an effective shelf registration statement with the SEC under which
$300 million of senior debt securities are available for issuance.

In June 2001, NRG filed a shelf registration with the SEC to sell up to $2
billion in debt securities, common and preferred stock, warrants and other
securities. NRG has approximately $1.5 billion remaining under this shelf
registration. However, NRG’s access to capital markets is severely constrained
and the registration no longer represents access to financing sources.

In March 2003, PSCo issued $250 million of 4.875 percent, First Collateral
Trust Bonds due in 2013. The bonds were issued in a private
placement to qualified institutional buyers and were not registered under the Securities Act of 1933.
Pursuant to a registration rights agreement, PSCo has an obligation
to file a registration statement for an exchange offer for these bonds.

Other Liquidity and Capital Resource Considerations

NRG Financial Issues and Potential Bankruptcy

—

Historically, NRG has obtained cash from operations,
issuance of debt and equity securities, borrowings under credit facilities,
capital contributions from Xcel Energy, reimbursement by Xcel Energy of tax
benefits pursuant to a tax-sharing agreement and proceeds from non-recourse
project financings. NRG has used these funds to finance operations, service
debt obligations, fund the acquisition, development and construction of
generation facilities, finance capital expenditures and meet other cash and
liquidity needs.

As discussed previously, substantially all of NRG’s operations are conducted by project subsidiaries and
project affiliates. NRG’s cash flow and ability to service corporate-level
indebtedness when due is dependent upon receipt of cash dividends and
distributions or other transfers from NRG’s projects and other subsidiaries.
The debt agreements of NRG’s subsidiaries and project affiliates generally
restrict their ability to pay dividends, make distributions or otherwise
transfer funds to NRG. As of Dec. 31, 2002, Loy Yang, Killingholme, Energy
Center Kladno, LSP Energy (Batesville), NRG South Central and NRG Northeast
Generating do not currently meet the minimum debt service coverage ratios
required for these projects to make payments to NRG.

Killingholme, NRG South Central and NRG Northeast Generating are in default on
their credit agreements. NRG believes the situations at Energy Center Kladno,
Loy Yang and Batesville do not create an event of default and will not allow
the lenders to accelerate the project financings.

In all of these cases, NRG’s corporate-level financial obligations to project
lenders is limited to no more than six-months’ debt service.



As previously discussed, NRG’s operating cash flows have been affected by lower operating margins as a
result of low power prices since mid-2001. Seasonal variations in demand and
market volatility in prices are not unusual in the independent power sector,
and NRG does normally experience higher margins in peak summer periods and
lower margins in non-peak periods. NRG has also incurred significant amounts of
debt to finance its acquisitions in the past several years, and the servicing
of interest and principal repayments from such financing is largely dependent
on domestic project cash flows. NRG’s management has concluded that the
forecasted free cash flow available to NRG after servicing project-level
obligations will be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations.

Since mid-2002, as discussed previously, NRG has experienced severe financial
difficulties, resulting primarily from declining credit ratings and lower
prices for power. These financial difficulties have caused NRG to, among other
things, miss several scheduled payments of interest and principal on its bonds
and incur an approximately $3-billion asset impairment charge. The asset
impairment charge relates to write-offs for anticipated losses on sales of
several projects as well as anticipated losses for projects for which NRG has
stopped funding. In addition, as a result of having its credit ratings
downgraded, NRG is in default of obligations to post cash collateral of
approximately $1 billion. Furthermore, on Nov. 6, 2002, lenders to NRG
accelerated approximately $1.1 billion of NRG’s debt under the construction
revolver financing facility, rendering the debt immediately due and payable.
In addition, on Feb. 27, 2003, lenders to NRG accelerated approximately $1.0
billion of NRG Energy’s debt under the corporate revolver financing facility,
rendering the debt immediately due and payable. NRG continues to work with its
lenders and bondholders on a comprehensive restructuring plan. NRG does not
contemplate making any principal or interest payments on its corporate-level
debt pending the restructuring of its obligations. Consequently, NRG is, and
expects to continue to be, in default under various debt instruments. By
reason of these various defaults, the lenders are able to seek to enforce their
remedies, if they so choose, and that would likely lead to a bankruptcy filing
by NRG in 2003.

Whether NRG does or does not reach a consensual restructuring plan with its
creditors, there is a substantial likelihood that NRG will be the subject of a
bankruptcy proceeding in 2003. If an agreement is reached with NRG’s creditors
on a restructuring plan, it is expected that NRG would as soon as practicable
commence a Chapter 11 bankruptcy case and immediately seek approval of a
prenegotiated plan of reorganization. Absent an agreement with NRG’s creditors
and the continued forbearance by such creditors, NRG will be subject to
substantial doubt as to its ability to continue as a going concern and will
likely be the subject of a voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceeding,
which, due to the lack of a prenegotiated plan of reorganization, would be
expected to take an extended period of time to be resolved and may involve
claims against Xcel Energy under the equitable doctrine of substantive
consolidation, as discussed following.

In addition to the collateral requirements, NRG must continue to meet its
ongoing operational and construction funding requirements. Since NRG’s credit
rating downgrade, its cost of borrowing has increased and it has not been able
to access the capital markets. NRG believes that its current funding
requirements under its already reduced construction program may be
unsustainable given its inability to raise money in the capital markets and the
uncertainties involved in obtaining additional equity funding from Xcel Energy.
NRG and Xcel Energy have retained financial advisors to help work through
these liquidity issues.

As discussed above, NRG is not making any payments of principal or interest on
its corporate-level debt, and neither NRG nor any subsidiary is making payment
of principal or interest on publicly held bonds. This failure to pay, coupled
with past and anticipated proceeds from the sales of projects, has provided NRG
with adequate liquidity to meet its day-to-day operating costs. However, there
can be no assurance that holders of NRG indebtedness, on which interest and
principal are not being paid, will not seek to accelerate the payment of their
indebtedness, which would likely lead to NRG seeking relief under the
bankruptcy laws.

At the present time and based on conversations with various lenders, Xcel
Energy management believes that the appropriate course is to seek a consensual
restructuring of NRG with its creditors. Following an agreement on the
restructuring with NRG’s creditors, as described in Note 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, it is expected that NRG would commence a Chapter 11
bankruptcy proceeding and immediately seek approval of a prenegotiated plan of
reorganization. If a consensual restructuring cannot be reached, the
likelihood of NRG becoming subject to a protracted voluntary or involuntary
bankruptcy proceeding is increased. If a consensual restructuring of NRG
cannot be obtained and NRG remains outside of a bankruptcy proceeding, NRG is
expected to continue selling assets to reduce its debt and improve its
liquidity. Through Jan. 31, 2003, NRG completed a number of transactions,
which resulted in net cash proceeds to NRG after debt pay-downs and after
financial advisor fees of approximately $350 million.

Xcel Energy Impacts

— During 2002, Xcel Energy provided NRG with $500 million
of cash infusions. In May 2002, Xcel Energy and NRG entered into a support and
capital subscription agreement (Support Agreement) pursuant to which Xcel Energy agreed, under
certain circumstances, to provide an additional $300 million to
NRG.



Xcel Energy has not, to date, provided funds to NRG under this agreement. See discussion of preliminary Settlement with NRG’s creditors
at Note 4 to the Financial Statements.

Many companies in the regulated utility industry, with which the independent
power industry is closely linked, are also restructuring or reviewing their
strategies. Several of these companies are discontinuing going forward with
unregulated investments, seeking to divest of their unregulated subsidiaries or
attempting to have their regulated subsidiaries acquire their unregulated
subsidiaries. This may lead to an increased competition between the regulated
utilities and the unregulated power producers within certain markets. In such
instances, NRG may compete with regulated utilities in the influence of market
designs and rulemaking.

On March 26, 2003, Xcel Energy’s board
of directors approved a tentative settlement with holders of most of NRG’s long-term notes and the steering
committee representing NRG’s bank lenders regarding alleged claims of such creditors against Xcel Energy,
 including claims related to the Support Agreement. The settlement is subject to a variety of conditions as set
forth below, including definitive documentation. As described in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the settlement would require Xcel Energy to pay up to $752 million over 13 months.
Xcel Energy would expect to fund those payments with cash from tax savings. The principal terms of the settlement as of
the date of this report
were as follows:

Xcel Energy would pay up to $752 million to NRG to
settle all claims of NRG, and the claims
of NRG against Xcel Energy, including all claims under the Support Agreement.

$350 million would be paid at or shortly following the consummation of a restructuring of
NRG’s debt through a bankruptcy proceeding. It is expected that this payment would be made prior to year-end 2003. $50 million
would be paid on Jan. 1, 2004, and all or any part of such payment could be made, at Xcel Energy’s election, in Xcel Energy common stock. Up to $352 million would be paid on April 30, 2004, except to the extent that Xcel Energy had
not received at such time tax refunds equal to $352 million associated with the loss on its investment in NRG.
To the extent Xcel Energy had not received such refunds, the April 30 payment would be due on May 30, 2004.

$390 million of the Xcel Energy payments are contingent on receiving releases from NRG creditors. To
the extent Xcel Energy does not receive a release from an NRG
creditor. Xcel Energy’s obligation to make $390 million of the payments
 would be reduced based on the amount of the creditor’s claim against NRG. As noted below, however, the entire
settlement is contingent upon Xcel Energy receiving releases from at least 85 percent of the claims in various NRG creditor groups.
As a result, it is not expected that Xcel Energy’s payment obligations would be reduced by more than approximately $60 million.
Any reduction would come from the Xcel Energy payment due on April 30, 2004.

Upon the consummation of NRG’s debt
restructuring through a bankruptcy proceeding, Xcel Energy’s exposure on any
guarantees or other credit support obligations incurred by Xcel Energy for the benefit of NRG or any subsidiary would be terminated
and any cash collateral posted by Xcel Energy would be returned to it. The current amount of such cash collateral is approximately
$11.5 million.

As part of the settlement with Xcel Energy, any intercompany claims of Xcel Energy against NRG or any
subsidiary arising from the provision of intercompany goods or
services or the honoring of any guarantee will be paid in full in cash
in the ordinary course except that the agreed amount of such
intercompany claims arising or accrued as of Jan. 31, 2003 will be
reduced from approximately $55 million as asserted by Xcel Energy to
$13 million. The $13 million agreed amount is to be paid upon the
consummation of NRG’s debt restructuring with $3 million in cash and
an unsecured promissory note of NRG on market terms in the principal
amount of $10 million.

NRG and its direct and indirect subsidiaries would
not be reconsolidated with Xcel Energy or any of its other
affiliates for tax purposes at any time after their June 2002
re-affiliation or treated as a party to or otherwise entitled to the
benefits of any tax sharing agreement with Xcel Energy. Likewise, NRG
would not be entitled to any tax benefits associated with the tax
loss Xcel Energy expects to incur in connection with the write down
of its investment in NRG.

Xcel Energy’s obligations under the tentative
settlement, including its obligations to make the payments set forth
above, are contingent upon, among other things, the following:

(1)

Definitive documentation, in form and substance
satisfactory to the parties;

(2)

Between 50 percent and 100 percent of the claims
represented by various NRG facilities or creditor groups (the “NRG
Credit Facilities”) having executed an agreement, in form and
substance satisfactory to Xcel Energy, to support the settlement;

(3)

Various stages of the implementation of the
settlement occurring by dates currently being negotiated, with the
consummation of the settlement to occur by Sept. 30, 2003;

(4)

The receipt of releases in favor of Xcel Energy
by at least 85 percent of the claims represented by the NRG Credit
Facilities;

(5)

The receipt by Xcel Energy of all necessary
regulatory approvals; and

(6)

No downgrade prior to consummation of the
settlement of any Xcel Energy credit rating from the level of such
rating as of March 25, 2003.

Based on the foreseeable effects of a settlement agreement with the major NRG
noteholders and bank lenders and the tax effect of an expected write-off of
Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG, Xcel Energy would recognize the expected tax
benefits of the write-off as of Dec. 31, 2002. The tax benefit has been
estimated at approximately $706 million. This benefit is based on the tax
basis of Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG.

Xcel Energy expects to claim a worthless stock deduction in 2003 on its
investment. This would result in Xcel Energy having a net operating loss for
the year. Under current law, this 2003 net operating loss could be carried
back two years for federal purposes. Xcel Energy expects to file for a tax
refund of approximately $355 million in first quarter 2004. This is refund
based on a two-year carryback. However, under the Bush administration’s new
dividend tax proposal, the carryback could be one year, which would reduce the
refund to $125 million.

As to the remaining $351 million of expected tax benefits, Xcel Energy expects
to eliminate or reduce estimated quarterly income tax payments, beginning in
2003. The amount of cash freed up by the reduction in estimated tax payments
would depend on Xcel Energy’s taxable income.

While it is an exception rather than the rule, especially where one of the
companies involved is not in bankruptcy, the equitable doctrine of substantive
consolidation permits a bankruptcy court to disregard the separateness of
related entities; to consolidate and pool the entities’ assets and liabilities;
and treat them as though held and incurred by one entity where the
interrelationship between the entities warrants such consolidation. In the event the settlement described above is not effectuated, Xcel
Energy believes that any effort to substantively consolidate Xcel Energy with
NRG would be without merit. However, it is possible that NRG or its creditors
would attempt to advance such claims, or other claims under piercing the
corporate veil, alter ego or related theories, should an NRG bankruptcy proceeding commence, particularly in
the absence of a prenegotiated plan of reorganization, and Xcel Energy cannot
be certain how a bankruptcy court would resolve these issues. One of the
creditors of the NRG project Pike, as discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, has already filed involuntary bankruptcy proceedings
against that project and has included claims against both NRG and Xcel Energy.
Also, as discussed in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, a group
of former executives of NRG have commenced an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding
against NRG related to the payments of certain benefits and deferred
compensation amounts claimed to be due them. If a bankruptcy court were to
allow substantive consolidation of Xcel Energy and NRG, it would have a
material adverse effect on Xcel Energy.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements do not reflect any
conditions or matters that would arise if NRG were in bankruptcy.

If NRG were to file for bankruptcy, and the necessary actions were taken by
Xcel Energy to fully relinquish its effective control over NRG, Xcel Energy
anticipates that NRG would no longer be included in Xcel Energy’s consolidated
financial statements, prospectively from the date such actions were taken.
Such de-consolidation of NRG would encompass a change in Xcel Energy’s
accounting for NRG to the equity method, under which Xcel Energy would continue
to record its interest in NRG’s income or losses until Xcel Energy’s investment
in NRG (under the equity method) reached the level of obligations that Xcel
Energy had either guaranteed on behalf of NRG or was otherwise committed to in
the form of financial assistance to NRG. Prior to completion of a bankruptcy
proceeding, a prenegotiated plan of reorganization or other settlement reached
with NRG’s creditors would be the determining factors in assessing whether a
commitment to provide financial assistance to NRG existed at the time of
de-consolidation.

At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy’s pro forma investment in NRG, calculated under
the equity method if applied at that date, was a negative $625 million. If
the amount of guarantees or other financial assistance committed to NRG by Xcel
Energy exceeded that level after de-consolidation of NRG, then NRG’s losses
would continue to be included in Xcel Energy’s results until the amount of
negative investment in NRG reaches the amount of guarantees and financial
assistance committed to by Xcel Energy. As of Dec. 31, 2002, the estimated
guarantee exposure that Xcel Energy had provided on behalf of NRG of
$96 million, as discussed in Note 16, and potential financial assistance was
committed in the form of a support and capital subscription agreement pursuant
to which Xcel Energy agreed, under certain circumstances, to provide an
additional $300 million contribution to NRG if the financial restructuring plan
discussed earlier is approved by NRG’s creditors. Additional commitments for
financial assistance to NRG could be created in 2003 as Xcel Energy, NRG and
NRG’s creditors continue to negotiate terms of a possible prenegotiated plan of
reorganization to resolve NRG’s financial difficulties.

In addition to the effects of NRG’s losses, Xcel Energy’s operating results and
retained earnings in 2003 could also be affected by the tax effects of any
guarantees or financial commitments to NRG, if such income tax benefits were
considered likely of realization in the foreseeable future. The income tax
benefits recorded in 2002 related to Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG, as
discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, includes only
the tax benefits related to cash and stock investments already made in NRG at
Dec. 31, 2002. Additional tax benefits could be recorded in 2003 at the time
that such benefits are considered likely of realization, when the payment of
guarantees and other financial assistance to NRG become probable.

As noted above, a bankruptcy filing by NRG would have several effects on Xcel Energy’s
financial condition and results of operations. If a bankruptcy filing and
other necessary governance actions eliminate Xcel Energy’s control over NRG,
then management anticipates that NRG would no longer be included in Xcel
Energy’s consolidated financial statements, prospectively from the date such
actions were taken. Such de-consolidation of NRG would encompass a change in
Xcel Energy’s accounting for NRG to the equity method, thus all of NRG’s assets
and liabilities would be presented in a single line on
Xcel Energy’s balance sheet at that point. This would reduce Xcel Energy’s
debt leverage ratios and increase its equity ratio as a percent of total
capitalization to above 30 percent, thereby reinstating its financing authority under PUHCA. In addition, the revenues and expenses of NRG would be
reported on a net basis as equity income or losses. Losses would be subject to certain
limitations. Also, the operating, investing and financing cash flows of NRG
would not be included in Xcel Energy’s except to the extent cash flowed between
Xcel Energy and NRG. Finally, there may be tax effects for guarantees or
financial commitments made by Xcel Energy to NRG related to the bankruptcy or
other resolution of NRG’s financial difficulties. See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these possible
effects of an NRG bankruptcy filing on Xcel Energy.

Xcel Energy believes that the ultimate resolution of NRG’s financial
difficulties and going-concern uncertainty will not affect Xcel Energy’s
ability to continue as a going concern. Xcel Energy is not dependent on cash
flows from NRG, nor is Xcel Energy contingently liable to creditors of NRG in
an amount material to Xcel Energy’s liquidity. Xcel Energy believes that its
cash flows from regulated utility operations and anticipated financing capabilities
will be sufficient to fund its non-NRG-related operating, investing and
financing requirements. Beyond these sources of liquidity, Xcel Energy
believes it will have adequate access to additional debt and equity financing that is
not conditioned upon the outcome of NRG’s financial restructuring plan.

Item 7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7, incorporated by
reference.



Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

See Item 15(a)-1 in Part IV for index of financial statements included herein.

See Note 22 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for summarized
quarterly financial data.



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To Xcel Energy Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated
statements of capitalization of Xcel Energy Inc. (a Minnesota corporation) and
subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2002 and 2001, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, common stockholders’ equity and other
comprehensive income and cash flows for the three years ended December 31,
2002. Our audit also included the financial statement schedule listed in the
Index at Item 15. These consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedule based on our audits. We did not audit
the consolidated balance sheet of NRG Energy, Inc. (a wholly owned
subsidiary of Xcel Energy Inc.) for the years ended December
31, 2002 and 2001, or the consolidated statements of operations,
stockholder’s (deficit)/equity and cash flows for the three years ended
December 31, 2002 included in the consolidated financial statements of the Company, which statements reflect total assets and revenues of 40% and 24%
for 2002, respectively, and total assets and revenues of 45% and 21% for 2001,
respectively, and revenues of 20% for 2000, of the related consolidated totals.
Those statements were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished
to us (which as to 2002 expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an
explanatory paragraph describing conditions that raise substantial doubt about NRG
Energy, Inc.’s ability to continue as a going concern and emphasis of a matter
paragraphs related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible

Assets and SFAS No.
144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets

on January
1, 2002 and the adoption of SFAS 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities

on January 1, 2001), and our opinion, insofar as it relates
to the amounts included for NRG Energy, Inc. for the periods described above,
is based solely on the report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Xcel Energy Inc. and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2002 and 2001 and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2002, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.
Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 17 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2001 Xcel Energy Inc. and subsidiaries adopted SFAS No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2002, Xcel Energy Inc. and subsidiaries adopted SFAS No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,

and SFAS No. 144,

Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.

Note 4 to the consolidated financial statements discusses
the implications to the Company related to credit and liquidity constraints, various defaults under credit arrangements
and a likely Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection filing
at NRG Energy, Inc.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

March 28, 2003


REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholder

of
NRG Energy, Inc.:

In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and stockholder’s
(deficit)/equity present fairly, in all material respects, the financial
position of NRG Energy, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2002 and
2001, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2002 in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States of America. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company’s management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
auditing standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about
whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles
used and significant estimates made by management and evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming
that the Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 to
the consolidated financial statements, the Company is experiencing credit and
liquidity constraints and has various credit arrangements that are in default.
As a direct consequence, during 2002 the Company entered into discussions with its creditors to develop a comprehensive restructuring plan.
In connection with its restructuring efforts, it is likely the Company and certain
of its subsidiaries will file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.
These conditions raise substantial doubt about the Company’s ability to
continue as a going concern. Management’s plans in regard to these matters are
also described in Note 1. The consolidated financial statements do not include
any adjustments that might result from the outcome of this uncertainty.

As discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets,” for the year ended December 31, 2002. As discussed
in Note 26 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,” on January 1, 2001. As discussed in Notes
3 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” on January 1, 2002.

/S/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

March 28, 2003


XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(Thousands of Dollars, Except Per Share Data)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Thousands of Dollars)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Thousands of Dollars)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Thousands of Dollars)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION

(Thousands of Dollars)

(a)

Resource recovery financing

(b)

Pollution control financing

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



Dec. 31,

Long-Term Debt - continued (Thousands of dollars)



SPS Debt

Unsecured Senior A Notes, due March 1, 2009, 6.2%

$

100,000

$

100,000

Unsecured Senior B Notes, due Nov. 1, 2006, 5.125%

500,000

500,000

Pollution control obligations, securing pollution control revenue bonds due:

July 1, 2011, 5.2%

44,500

44,500

July 1, 2016, 1.6% at Dec. 31, 2002, and 1.7% at Dec. 31, 2001

25,000

25,000

Sept. 1, 2016, 5.75% series

57,300

57,300

Unamortized discount

(1,138

)

(1,425

)

Total SPS long-term debt

$

725,662

$

725,375

NSP-Wisconsin Debt

First Mortgage Bonds Series due:

Oct. 1, 2003, 5.75%

$

40,000

$

40,000

March 1, 2023, 7.25%

110,000

110,000

Dec. 1, 2026, 7.375%

65,000

65,000

City of La Crosse Resource Recovery Bond, Series due Nov. 1, 2021, 6%

18,600

(a)

18,600

(a)

Fort McCoy System Acquisition, due Oct. 31, 2030, 7%



Senior Notes — due Oct. 1, 2008, 7.64%

80,000

80,000

Unamortized discount

(1,388

)

(1,475

)

Total

313,142

313,088

Less current maturities

40,034


Total NSP-Wisconsin long-term debt

$

273,108

$

313,054

NRG Debt

Remarketable or Redeemable Securities due March 15, 2005, 7.97%

$

257,552

$

232,960

NRG Energy, Inc. Senior Notes, Series due

Feb. 1, 2006, 7.625%

125,000

125,000

June 15, 2007, 7.5%

250,000

250,000

June 1, 2009, 7.5%

300,000

300,000

Nov. 1, 2013, 8%

240,000

240,000

Sept. 15, 2010, 8.25%

350,000

350,000

July 15, 2006, 6.75%

340,000

340,000

April 1, 2011, 7.75%

350,000

350,000

April 1, 2031, 8.625%

500,000

500,000

May 16, 2006, 6.5%

285,728

284,440

NRG Finance Co. I LLC, due May 9, 2006, various rates

1,081,000

697,500

NRG debt secured solely by project assets:

NRG Northeast Generating Senior Bonds, Series due:

Dec. 15, 2004, 8.065%

126,500

180,000

June 15, 2015, 8.842%

130,000

130,000

Dec. 15, 2024, 9.292%

300,000

300,000

South Central Generating Senior Bonds, Series due:

May 15, 2016, 8.962%

450,750

463,500

Sept. 15, 2024, 9.479%

300,000

300,000

MidAtlantic — various, due Oct 1, 2005, 4.625%

409,201

420,892

Flinders Power Finance Pty, due September 2012, various rates 6.14-6.49% at Dec.

31, 2002, and 8.56% at Dec. 31, 2001

99,175

74,886

Brazos Valley, due June 30, 2008, 6.75%

194,362

159,750

Camas Power Boiler, due June 30, 2007, and Aug. 1, 2007, 3.65% and 3.38%

17,861

20,909

Sterling Luxembourg # 3 Loan, due June 30, 2019, variable rate 7.86% at Dec. 31, 2001

360,122

329,842

Crockett Corp. LLP debt, due Dec. 31, 2014, 8.13%

-

234,497

Csepel Aramtermelo, due Oct. 2, 2017, 3.79% and 4.846%

-

169,712

Hsin Yu Energy Development, due November 2006- April 2012, 4-6.475%

85,607

89,964

LSP Batesville, due Jan. 15, 2014, 7.164% and July 15, 2025, 8.16%

314,300

321,875

LSP Kendall Energy, due Sept. 1, 2005, 2.65%

495,754

499,500

McClain, due Dec. 31, 2005, 6.75%

157,288

159,885

NEO, due 2005-2008, 9.35%

7,658

23,956

NRG Energy Center, Inc. Senior Secured Notes, Series due June 15, 2013, 7.31%

133,099

62,408

NRG Peaking Finance LLC, due 2019, 6.67%

319,362

—

NRG Pike Energy LLC, due 2010, 4.92%

155,477

—

PERC, due 2017-2018, 5.2%

28,695

33,220

Audrain Capital Lease Obligation, due Dec. 31, 2023, 10%

239,930

239,930

Saale Energie GmbH Schkopau Capital Lease, due May 2021, various rates

333,926

311,867

Various debt, due 2003-2007, 0.0 - 20.8%

92,573

147,493

Other


—

Total

8,831,596

8,343,986

Less
current maturities — continuing operations

7,193,237

210,885

Less
discontinued operations

445,729

851,196

Total NRG long-term debt

$

1,192,630

$

7,281,905

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



(a)

Resource recovery financing

(b)

Pollution control financing

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.     Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Merger and Basis of Presentation

— On Aug. 18, 2000, Northern States Power Co.
(NSP) and New Century Energies, Inc. (NCE) merged and formed Xcel Energy Inc.
Each share of NCE common stock was exchanged for 1.55 shares of Xcel Energy
common stock. NSP shares became Xcel Energy shares on a one-for-one basis.
Cash was paid in lieu of any fractional shares of Xcel Energy common stock. The
merger was structured as a tax-free, stock-for-stock exchange for shareholders
of both companies, except for fractional shares, and accounted for as a
pooling-of-interests. At the time of the merger, Xcel Energy registered as a
holding company under the PUHCA. References herein to Xcel Energy
relates to Xcel Energy, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries.

Pursuant to the merger agreement, NCE was merged with and into NSP. NSP, as the
surviving legal corporation, changed its name to Xcel Energy. Also, as part of
the merger, NSP transferred its existing utility operations that were being
conducted directly by NSP at the parent company level to a newly formed wholly
owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy, which was renamed NSP-Minnesota.

Consistent with pooling accounting requirements, results and disclosures for
all periods prior to the merger have been restated for consistent reporting
with post-merger organization and operations. All earnings-per-share amounts
previously reported for NSP and NCE have been restated for presentation on an
Xcel Energy share basis.

Business and System of Accounts

— Xcel Energy’s domestic utility subsidiaries
are engaged principally in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution
and sale of electricity and in the purchase, transportation, distribution and
sale of natural gas. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are subject to the
regulatory provisions of the PUHCA. The utility subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by the FERC and state utility commissions. All of the utility
companies’ accounting records conform to the FERC uniform system of accounts or
to systems required by various state regulatory commissions, which are the same
in all material aspects.

Principles of Consolidation

— Xcel Energy directly owns six utility
subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in 12 states. These
six utility subsidiaries are NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo, SPS, BMG and
Cheyenne. Their service territories include portions of Arizona, Colorado,
Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota,
Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming. During the period covered by this report, Xcel
Energy’s regulated businesses also included Viking, which was sold in January
2003, and WGI.

Xcel Energy also owns or has an interest in a number of nonregulated
businesses, the largest of which is NRG Energy, Inc., an
independent power producer. Xcel Energy owned 100 percent of NRG until the
second quarter of 2000, when NRG completed its initial public offering, and 82
percent until a secondary offering was completed in March 2001. At Dec. 31,
2001, Xcel Energy indirectly owned approximately 74 percent of NRG. During the
second quarter of 2002, Xcel Energy acquired the 26 percent of NRG shares that
it did not own through a tender offer and merger. See Note 4 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of the acquisition of
minority NRG common shares.

In addition to NRG, Xcel Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries include Utility
Engineering Corp. (engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations,
Inc. (broadband telecommunications services), e prime inc. (natural gas
marketing and trading), Planergy International, Inc. (enterprise energy
management solutions), Eloigne Co. (investments in rental housing projects that
qualify for low-income housing tax credits) and Xcel Energy International Inc.
(an international independent power producer).

Xcel Energy owns the following additional direct subsidiaries, some of which
are intermediate holding companies with additional subsidiaries: Xcel Energy
Wholesale Energy Group Inc., Xcel Energy Markets Holdings Inc., Xcel Energy
Ventures Inc., Xcel Energy Retail Holdings Inc., Xcel Energy Communications
Group Inc., Xcel Energy WYCO Inc. and Xcel Energy O & M Services Inc. Xcel
Energy and its subsidiaries collectively are referred to as Xcel Energy.

Xcel Energy uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in
partnerships, joint ventures and certain projects. Under this method, we
record our proportionate share of pre-tax income as equity earnings from
investments in affiliates. We record our portion of earnings from
international investments after subtracting foreign income taxes, if
applicable. In the consolidation process, we eliminate all significant
intercompany transactions and balances.



Revenue Recognition —

Revenues related to the sale of energy are generally
recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. However,
the determination of the energy sales to individual customers is based of the
reading of their meter, which occurs on a systematic basis throughout the
month. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since
the date of the last meter reading are estimated and the corresponding unbilled
revenue is estimated.

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries have various rate adjustment mechanisms in
place that currently provide for the recovery of certain purchased natural gas
and electric energy costs. These cost adjustment tariffs may increase or
decrease the level of costs recovered through base rates and are revised
periodically, as prescribed by the appropriate regulatory agencies, for any
difference between the total amount collected under the clauses and the
recoverable costs incurred. In addition Xcel Energy presents its revenue net of any excise or other fiduciary-type taxes or fees.

PSCo’s electric rates in Colorado are adjusted under the ICA mechanism, which
takes into account changes in energy costs and certain trading revenues and
expenses that are shared with the customer. For fuel and purchased energy
expense incurred beginning Jan. 1, 2003, the recovery mechanism shall be
determined by the CPUC in the PSCo 2002 general rate case. In the interim, 2003
fuel and purchased energy expense is recovered through an Interim Adjustment
Clause.

NSP-Minnesota’s rates include a cost-of-fuel and cost-of-gas recovery mechanism
allowing dollar-for-dollar recovery of the respective costs, which are trued-up
on an two-month and annual basis, respectively.

NSP-Wisconsin’s rates include a cost-of-energy adjustment clause for purchased
natural gas, but not for purchased electricity or electric fuel. In Wisconsin,
we can request recovery of those electric costs prospectively through the rate
review process, which normally occurs every two years, and an interim fuel-cost
hearing process.

In Colorado, PSCo operates under an electric performance-based regulatory plan,
which results in an annual earnings test. NSP-Minnesota and PSCo’s rates
include monthly adjustments for the recovery of conservation and energy
management program costs, which are reviewed annually.

SPS’ rates in Texas have fixed fuel factor and periodic fuel filing,
reconciling and reporting requirements, which provide cost recovery. In New
Mexico, SPS also has a monthly fuel and purchased power cost recovery factor.

Trading Operations —

In June 2002, the EITF of the
 FASB reached a partial consensus on
Issue No. 02-03 “Recognition and Reporting of Gains and Losses on Energy
Trading Contracts” under EITF Issue No. 98-10 “Accounting for Contracts
Involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management Activities” (EITF No. 02-03).
The EITF concluded that all gains and losses related to energy trading
activities within the scope of EITF No. 98-10, whether or not settled
physically, must be shown net in the statement of operations, effective for periods
ending after July 15, 2002. Xcel Energy has reclassified revenue from trading
activities for all comparable prior periods reported. Such energy trading
activities recorded as a component of Electric and Gas Trading Costs, which
have been reclassified to offset Electric and Gas Trading Revenues to present
Electric and Gas Trading Margin on a net basis, were $3.3 billion, $3.1 billion
and $2.0 billion for the years ended Dec. 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively. This reclassification had no impact on operating income or
reported net income.

On Oct. 25, 2002, the EITF rescinded EITF No. 98-10. With the rescission of
EITF No. 98-10, energy trading contracts that do not also meet the definition
of a derivative under SFAS No. 133 must be accounted for as executory contracts. Contracts
previously recorded at fair value under EITF No. 98-10 that are not also
derivatives under SFAS No. 133 must be restated to historical cost through a
cumulative effect adjustment. Xcel Energy does not expect the effect of
adopting this decision will be material.

Xcel Energy’s commodity trading operations are conducted by NSP-Minnesota
(electric), PSCo (electric) and e prime (natural gas). Pursuant to a joint
operating agreement (JOA), approved by the FERC as part of the merger, some of
the electric trading activity conducted at NSP-Minnesota and PSCo is
apportioned to the other operating



utilities of Xcel Energy. Trading revenue and costs do not include the revenue
and production costs associated with energy produced from Xcel Energy’s
generation assets or energy and capacity purchased to serve native load.
Trading results are recorded using the mark-to-market accounting. In addition,
trading results include the impacts of the ICA rate-sharing mechanism. Trading
revenue and costs associated with NRG’s operations are included in nonregulated
margins. For more information, see Notes 16 and 17 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Property, Plant, Equipment and Depreciation

— Property, plant and equipment is
stated at original cost. The cost of plant includes direct labor and materials,
contracted work, overhead costs and applicable interest expense. The cost of
plant retired, plus net removal cost, is charged to accumulated depreciation
and amortization. Significant additions or improvements extending asset lives
are capitalized, while repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as
incurred. Maintenance and replacement of items determined to be less than
units of property are charged to operating expenses.

Xcel Energy determines the depreciation of its plant by using the straight-line
method, which spreads the original cost equally over the plant’s useful life.
Depreciation expense, expressed as a percentage of average depreciable
property, was approximately 3.4, 3.1 and 3.3 percent for the years ended Dec.
31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

Property, plant and equipment includes approximately $18 million and $25
million, respectively, for costs associated with the engineering design of the
future Pawnee 2 generating station and certain water rights obtained for
another future generating station in Colorado. PSCo is earning a return on
these investments based on its weighted average cost of debt in accordance with
a CPUC rate order.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction
(AFDC) and Capitalized Interest

—
AFDC, a noncash item, represents the cost of capital used to finance utility
construction activity. AFDC is computed by applying a composite pretax rate to
qualified construction work in progress. The amount of AFDC capitalized as a
utility construction cost is credited to other nonoperating income (for equity
capital) and interest charges (for debt capital). AFDC amounts capitalized are
included in Xcel Energy’s rate base for establishing utility service rates. In
addition to construction-related amounts, AFDC also is recorded to reflect
returns on capital used to finance conservation programs in Minnesota.
Interest capitalized for all Xcel Energy entities (as AFDC for utility
companies) was approximately $83 million in 2002, $56 million in 2001 and $23
million in 2000.

Decommissioning

— Xcel Energy accounts for the future cost of
decommissioning-or permanently retiring-its nuclear generating plants through
annual depreciation accruals using an annuity approach designed to provide for
full rate recovery of the future decommissioning costs. Our decommissioning
calculation covers all expenses, including decontamination and removal of
radioactive material, and extends over the estimated lives of the plants. The
calculation assumes that NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin will recover those
costs through rates. For more information on nuclear decommissioning, see Note
19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

PSCo also previously operated a nuclear generating plant, which has been
decommissioned and re-powered using natural gas. PSCo’s costs associated with
decommissioning were deferred and are being amortized consistent with
regulatory recovery.

Nuclear Fuel Expense

— Nuclear fuel expense, which is recorded as our nuclear
generating plants use fuel, includes the cost of fuel used in the current
period, as well as future disposal costs of spent nuclear fuel. In addition,
nuclear fuel expense includes fees assessed by the U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE) for NSP-Minnesota’s portion of the cost of decommissioning the DOE’s fuel
enrichment facility.

Environmental Costs

— We record environmental costs when it is probable Xcel
Energy is liable for the costs and we can reasonably estimate the liability. We
may defer costs as a regulatory asset based on our expectation that we will
recover these costs from customers in future rates. Otherwise, we expense the
costs. If an environmental expense is related to facilities we currently use,
such as pollution-control equipment, we capitalize and depreciate the costs
over the life of the plant, assuming the costs are recoverable in future rates
or future cash flow.

We record estimated remediation costs, excluding inflationary increases and
possible reductions for insurance coverage and rate recovery. The estimates are
based on our experience, our assessment of the current situation and the
technology currently available for use in the remediation. We regularly adjust
the recorded costs as we revise estimates and as remediation proceeds. If we
are one of several designated responsible parties, we estimate and record only
our share of the cost. We treat any future costs of restoring sites where
operation may extend indefinitely as a capitalized cost of plant retirement.
The depreciation expense levels we can recover in rates include a provision for
these estimated removal costs.

Income Taxes

— Xcel Energy and its domestic subsidiaries, other than NRG and
its domestic subsidiaries, file consolidated federal income tax returns. NRG
and its domestic subsidiaries were included in Xcel Energy’s



consolidated federal income tax returns prior to NRG’s March 2001 public equity
offering, but filed consolidated federal income tax returns, with NRG as the
common parent, separate and apart from Xcel Energy for the periods of March 13,
2001, through Dec. 31, 2001, and Jan. 1, 2002, through June 3, 2002. Since
becoming wholly owned indirect subsidiaries of Xcel Energy on June 3, 2002, NRG
and its domestic subsidiaries have not been reconsolidated with Xcel Energy for
federal income tax purposes, and each of NRG and its domestic subsidiaries will
file separate federal income tax returns as a result of their inclusion in the
Xcel Energy consolidated federal income tax return within the last five years.
Xcel Energy and its domestic subsidiaries file combined and separate state
income tax returns. NRG and one or more of its domestic subsidiaries will be
included in some, but not all, of these combined returns in 2002. Federal
income taxes paid by Xcel Energy, as parent of the Xcel Energy consolidated
group, are allocated to the Xcel Energy subsidiaries based on separate company
computations of tax. A similar allocation is made for state income taxes paid
by Xcel Energy in connection with combined state filings. In accordance with
PUHCA requirements, the holding company also allocates its own net income tax
benefits to its direct subsidiaries based on the positive tax liability of each
company. Xcel Energy defers income taxes for all temporary differences between
pretax financial and taxable income, and between the book and tax bases of
assets and liabilities. Xcel Energy uses the tax rates that are scheduled to be
in effect when the temporary differences are expected to turn around, or
reverse.

Due to the effects of past regulatory practices, when deferred taxes were not
required to be recorded, we account for the reversal of some temporary
differences as current income tax expense. We defer investment tax credits and
spread their benefits over the estimated lives of the related property. Utility
rate regulation also has created certain regulatory assets and liabilities
related to income taxes, which we summarize in Note 20 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. We discuss our income tax policy for international
operations in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Foreign Currency Translation

— Xcel Energy’s foreign operations generally use
the local currency as their functional currency in translating international
operating results and balances to U.S. currency. Foreign currency denominated
assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates in effect at the
end of a reporting period. Income, expense and cash flows are translated at
weighted-average exchange rates for the period. We accumulate the resulting
currency translation adjustments and report them as a component of Other
Comprehensive Income in common stockholders’ equity. When we convert cash
distributions made in one currency to another currency, we include those gains
and losses in the results of operations as a component of Other Nonoperating
Income. Currency exchange transactions resulted in a pretax gain (loss) of $30
million in 2002, $(57) million in 2001 and $(79) million in 2000.

Derivative Financial Instruments

— Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries utilize a
variety of derivatives, including interest rate swaps and locks, foreign
currency hedges and energy contracts, to reduce exposure to corresponding
risks. The energy contracts are both financial- and commodity-based in the
energy trading and energy nontrading operations. These contracts consist
mainly of commodity futures and options, index or fixed price swaps and basis
swaps.

On Jan. 1, 2001, Xcel Energy adopted SFAS
No. 133.  For more information on the impact
of SFAS No. 133, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

For further discussion of Xcel Energy’s risk management and derivative
activities, see Notes 16 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Use of Estimates —

In recording transactions and balances resulting from
business operations, Xcel Energy uses estimates based on the best information
available. We use estimates for such items as plant depreciable lives, tax
provisions, uncollectible amounts, environmental costs, unbilled revenues and
actuarially determined benefit costs. We revise the recorded estimates when we
get better information or when we can determine actual amounts. Those revisions
can affect operating results. Each year we also review the depreciable lives of
certain plant assets and revise them if appropriate.

Cash Items —

Xcel Energy considers investments in certain debt instruments with
a remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of purchase to be cash
equivalents. Those debt instruments are primarily commercial paper and money
market funds.

Restricted cash consists primarily of cash collateral for letters of credit
issued in relation to project development activities. In addition, it includes
funds held in trust accounts to satisfy the requirements of certain debt
agreements and funds held within NRG’s projects that are restricted in their
use. Restricted cash is classified as a
current asset as all restricted cash is designated for interest and principal
payments due within one year.

Cash and cash equivalents includes $385 million
held by NRG, which is not legally restricted. However, this cash is
not available for Xcel Energy's general corporate purposes.



Inventory

— All inventory is recorded at average cost, with the exception of
natural gas in underground storage at PSCo, which is recorded using
last-in-first-out pricing.

Regulatory Accounting

— Our regulated utility subsidiaries account for certain
income and expense items using SFAS No. 71 — “Accounting for the Effects of
Certain Types of Regulation.” Under SFAS No. 71:

•

we defer certain costs, which would otherwise be charged to expense,
as regulatory assets based on our expected ability to recover them in
future rates; and

•

we defer certain credits, which would otherwise be reflected as
income, as regulatory liabilities based on our expectation they will
be returned to customers in future rates.

We base our estimates of recovering deferred costs and returning deferred
credits on specific ratemaking decisions or precedent for each item. We
amortize regulatory assets and liabilities consistent with the period of
expected regulatory treatment. See more discussion of regulatory assets and
liabilities at Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Stock-Based Employee Compensation

— We have several stock-based compensation
plans. We account for those plans using the intrinsic value method. We do not
record compensation expense for stock options because there is no difference
between the market price and the purchase price at grant date. We do, however,
record compensation expense for restricted stock awarded to certain employees,
which is held until the restriction lapses or the stock is forfeited. For more
information on stock compensation impacts, see Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Intangible Assets

— During 2002, Xcel Energy adopted SFAS No. 142- “Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets,” which requires new accounting for intangible
assets and goodwill. Intangible assets with finite lives will be amortized
over their economic useful lives and periodically reviewed for impairment.
Goodwill is no longer being amortized, but will be tested for impairment
annually and on an interim basis if an event occurs or a circumstance changes
between annual tests that may reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below
its carrying value.

Xcel Energy had goodwill of approximately $35 million at Dec. 31, 2002, which
will not be amortized, consisting of $27.8 million of project-related goodwill
at NRG and $7.7 million of project-related goodwill at Utility
Engineering. As part of Xcel Energy's acquisition of NRG’s
minority shares (see Note 4), $62 million of excess purchase price
was allocated to fixed assets related to projects where the fair
value of the fixed assets was higher than the carrying value as of
June 2002, to prepaid pension assets, and to other assets. Net goodwill decreased between 2002 and 2001 due to asset sales at NRG. During 2002, Xcel Energy performed impairment
tests of its intangible assets. Tests have concluded that no write-down of
these intangible assets is necessary.

Intangible assets with finite lives continue to be amortized, and the aggregate
amortization expense recognized in the years ended Dec. 31, 2002, 2001 and
2000, were $4.3 million, $6.3 million and $3.9 million, respectively. The
annual aggregate amortization expense for each of the five succeeding years is
expected to approximate $3.4 million. Intangible assets consisted of the
following:

Dec. 31, 2002

Dec. 31, 2001

Gross Carrying

Accumulated

Gross Carrying

Accumulated

(Millions of dollars)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amortization

Not amortized:

Goodwill

$

42.5

$

7.0

$

44.1

$

7.2

Amortized:

Service contracts

$

73.2

$

17.9

$

76.2

$

15.6

Trademarks

$

5.0

$

0.5

$

5.0

$

0.4

Prior service costs

$

6.9

$

—

$

—

$

—

Other (primarily franchises)

$

2.0

$

0.5

$

1.9

$

0.4

The following table summarizes the pro forma impact of implementing SFAS No.
142 at Jan. 1, 2000, on the net income for the periods presented. The pro
forma income adjustment to remove goodwill amortization is not material to
earnings per share previously reported.



Asset Valuation

— On Jan. 1,
2002, Xcel Energy adopted SFAS No. 144 —
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which
supercedes previous guidance for measurement of asset impairments. Xcel Energy
did not recognize any asset impairments as a result of the adoption. The
method used in determining fair value was based on a number of valuation
techniques, including present value of future cash flows. SFAS No. 144 is
being applied to NRG’s sale of assets as they are reclassified to “held for
sale” and discontinued operations (see Note 3). In addition, SFAS No. 144 is
being applied to test for and measure impairment of NRG’s long-lived assets
held for use (primarily energy projects in operation and under construction),
as discussed further in Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Deferred Financing Costs

— Other assets also included deferred financing costs,
net of amortization, of approximately $198 million at Dec. 31, 2002. We are
amortizing these financing costs over the remaining maturity periods of the
related debt.

Diluted Earnings Per Share

— Diluted earnings per share is based on the
weighted average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding each
period. However, no common equivalent shares are included in the computation
when a loss from continuing operations exists due to their antidilutive effect
(that is, they would make the loss per share smaller). Therefore, common
equivalent shares of approximately 5.4 million were excluded from the diluted
earnings-per-share computations for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002, as shown in
Note 12.

FASB Interpretation No. 46 (FIN No. 46)

— In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN
No. 46 requiring an enterprise’s consolidated financial statements to include
subsidiaries in which the enterprise has a controlling financial interest.
Historically, that requirement has been applied to subsidiaries in which an
enterprise has a majority voting interest, but in many circumstances the
enterprise’s consolidated financial statements do not include the
consolidations of variable interest entities with which it has similar
relationships but no majority voting interest. Under FIN No. 46, the voting
interest approach is not effective in identifying controlling financial
interest. As a result, Xcel Energy expects that it will have to consolidate
its affordable housing investments made through Eloigne, which currently are
accounted for under the equity method.

As of Dec. 31, 2002, the assets of these entities were approximately $155
million and long-term liabilities were approximately $87 million. Currently,
investments of $62 million are reflected as a component of investments in
unconsolidated affiliates in the Dec. 31, 2002, Consolidated Balance Sheet.
FIN No. 46 requires that for entities to be consolidated, the entities’ assets
be initially recorded at their carrying amounts at the date the new requirement
first apply. If determining carrying amounts as required is impractical, then
the assets are to be measured at fair value as of the first date the new
requirements apply. Any difference between the net consolidated amounts added
to the Xcel Energy’s balance sheet and the amount of any previously recognized
interest in the newly consolidated entity
should be recognized in earnings as the cumulative effect adjustment of an
accounting change. Had Xcel Energy adopted FIN No. 46 requirements early in
2002, there would have been no material impact to net income. Xcel Energy
plans to adopt FIN No. 46 when required in the third quarter of 2003.

Reclassifications

— We reclassified certain items in the 2000 and 2001
statements of operations and the 2001 balance sheet to conform to the 2002 presentation.
These reclassifications had no effect on net income or earnings per share. The
reclassifications were primarily to conform the presentation of all
consolidated Xcel Energy subsidiaries to a standard corporate presentation.

2.     Special Charges and Asset Impairments

Special charges included in Operating Expenses for the years ended Dec. 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000 include the following:

NRG Asset Impairments

— As discussed further in Note 4, NRG in 2002 experienced
credit-rating downgrades, defaults under numerous credit agreements, increased
collateral requirements and reduced liquidity. These events resulted in
impairment reviews of a number of NRG assets. NRG completed an analysis of the
recoverability of the asset carrying values of its projects, factoring in the
probability weighting of different courses of action available to NRG, given
its financial position and liquidity constraints. This approach was applied
consistently to asset groups with similar uncertainties and cash flow streams. As a result,
NRG determined that many of its construction projects and its operational
projects became impaired during 2002 and should be written down to fair market
value. In applying those provisions, NRG management considered cash flow
analyses, bids and offers related to those projects. The resulting impairments
were recognized as Special Charges in 2002, as follows:



(Millions of dollars)

Status

Pretax Charge

Fair Value Basis

Projects In Construction or Development

Nelson

Terminated

$


Similar asset prices

Pike

Terminated - chapter 7

involuntary bankruptcy

petition filed October



Similar asset prices

Bourbonnais

Terminated


Similar asset prices

Meriden

Terminated


Similar asset prices

Brazos Valley

Foreclosure completed in

January 2003


Projected cash flows

Kendall, Batesville and other
expansion projects

Terminated


Projected cash flows

Langage (UK)

Terminated


Estimated market price

Turbines and other costs

Equipment being marketed


Similar asset prices

Total

$

2,246

Operating Projects

Audrain

Operating at a loss

$


Projected cash flows

Somerset

Operating at a loss


Projected cash flows

Bayou Cove

Operating at a loss


Projected cash flows

Other

Operating at a loss


Projected cash flows

Total

$


Total NRG Impairment

Charges

$

2,545

All of these impairment charges relate to assets considered held for use under
SFAS No. 144. For fair values determined by similar asset prices, the fair
value represents NRG’s current estimate of recoverability, if
the project assets were to be sold. For fair values determined by estimated market
price, the fair value represents a market bid or appraisal received by NRG that
NRG believes is best reflective of fair value. For fair values determined by
projected cash flows, the fair value represents a discounted cash flow amount
over the remaining life of each project that reflects project-specific
assumptions for long-term power pool prices, escalated future project operating
costs and expected plant operation given assumed market conditions.

Additional asset impairments may be recorded by NRG in periods subsequent to
Dec. 31, 2002, given the changing business conditions and the resolution of the
pending financial restructuring plan. Management is unable to determine the possible
magnitude of any additional asset impairments, but it could be material.

NRG Financial Restructuring and NEO Costs

— In 2002, NRG expensed a pretax
charge of $26 million for expected severance and related
benefits related to its financial restructuring and business realignment.
Through Dec. 31, 2002, severance costs have been recognized for all employees
who had been terminated as of that date. See Note 4 for further discussion of
NRG financial restructuring activities and developments. These costs also
include a charge related to NRG’s NEO landfill gas generation operations, for
the estimated impact of a dispute settlement with NRG’s partner on the NEO
project, Fortistar.

2002 Regulatory Recovery Adjustment —
SPS

— In late 2001, SPS filed an
application requesting recovery of costs incurred to comply with transition to
retail competition legislation in Texas and New Mexico. During 2002, SPS
entered into a settlement agreement with intervenors regarding the recovery of
restructuring costs in Texas,
which was approved by the state regulatory commission in May 2002. Based on
the settlement agreement, SPS wrote off pretax restructuring costs of
approximately $5 million.

2002 Other Nonregulated Asset Impairments

— In 2002, a subsidiary of Xcel
Energy decided it would no longer fund one of its power projects in Argentina.
This decision resulted in the shutdown of the Argentina plant facility, pending
financing of a necessary maintenance outage. Updated cash flow projections for
the plant were insufficient



to provide recovery of Xcel International’s
investment. Nonregulated asset impairments include a write-down of approximately $13 million, for this Argentina facility.

2002 Holding Company NRG Restructuring
Charges

— In 2002, the Xcel Energy holding
company incurred approximately $5 million for charges related to
NRG's financial restructuring.

2002 and 2001 — Utility Restaffing

— During 2001, Xcel Energy expensed pretax
special charges of $39 million for expected staff consolidation costs for an
estimated 500 employees in several utility operating and corporate support
areas of Xcel Energy. In 2002, the identification of affected employees was
completed and additional pretax special charges of $9 million were expensed for
the final costs of staff consolidations. Approximately $6 million of these
restaffing costs were allocated to Xcel Energy’s Utility Subsidiaries. All
564 of accrued staff terminations have occurred. See the summary of costs
below.

2001 — Postemployment Benefits

— PSCo adopted accrual accounting for
postemployment benefits under SFAS No. 112 — “Employers Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits” in 1994. The costs of these benefits had been
recorded on a pay-as-you-go basis and, accordingly, PSCo recorded a regulatory
asset in anticipation of obtaining future rate recovery of these transition
costs. PSCo recovered its FERC jurisdictional portion of these costs. PSCo
requested approval to recover its Colorado retail natural gas jurisdictional
portion in a 1996 retail rate case and its retail electric jurisdictional
portion in the electric earnings test filing for 1997. In the 1996 rate case,
the CPUC allowed recovery of postemployment benefit costs on an accrual basis,
but denied PSCo’s request to amortize the transition costs regulatory asset.
Following various appeals, which proved unsuccessful, PSCo wrote off $23
million pretax of regulatory assets related to
deferred postemployment benefit costs as of June 30, 2001.

2000 — Merger Costs

— At the time of the NCE and NSP-Minnesota merger in 2000,
Xcel Energy expensed pretax special charges totaling $241 million.

The pretax charges included $199 million associated
with the costs of merging regulated operations. Of these pretax charges, $52
million related to one-time, transaction-related costs incurred in connection
with the merger of NSP and NCE, and $147 million pertained to incremental costs
of transition and integration activities associated with merging NSP and NCE to
begin operations as Xcel Energy. The transition costs include approximately
$77 million for severance and related expenses associated with staff
reductions. All 721 of accrued staff terminations have occurred. The staff
reductions were nonbargaining positions mainly in corporate and operations
support areas. Other transition and integration costs include amounts incurred
for facility consolidation, systems integration, regulatory transition, merger
communications and operations integration assistance. An allocation of the
regulated portion of merger costs was made to utility operating companies using
a basis consistent with prior regulatory filings, in proportion to expected
merger savings by company and consistent with service company cost allocation
methodologies utilized under the PUHCA requirements.

The pretax charges also included $42 million of asset
impairments and other costs resulting from the post-merger strategic alignment
of Xcel Energy’s nonregulated businesses.

Accrued Special Charges —

The following table summarizes activity related to
accrued special charges in 2002 and 2001 (Millions of dollars):

Utility

NRG

Merger Transition

Severance *

Severance **

Costs *

Balance, Dec. 31, 1999

$

—

$

—

$

—

2000 accruals recorded — merger costs


—


Adjustments/revisions to prior
accruals

—

—

—

Cash payments made in 2000

(29

)

—

(63

)

Balance, Dec. 31, 2000


—


2001 accruals recorded — restaffing


—

—

Adjustments/revisions to prior
accruals

—

—

—

Cash payments made in 2001

(50

)

—

(7

)

Balance, Dec. 31, 2001


—

—



Utility

NRG

Merger Transition

Severance *

Severance **

Costs *

2002 accruals recorded — various

—


—

Adjustments/revisions to prior
accruals


—

—

Cash payments made in 2002

(33

)

(5

)

—

Balance, Dec. 31, 2002

$


$


$

—

* Reported on the balance sheet in Other Current Liabilities.

** $15.5 million reported on the balance sheet in Other Current Liabilities and
$2.5 million reported in Benefit Obligations and Other.

3.     Discontinued
Operations and Losses on Equity Investments

Pursuant to the requirements of SFAS No. 144, NRG has classified and is
accounting for certain of its assets as held-for-sale at Dec. 31, 2002. SFAS
No. 144 requires that assets held for sale be valued on an asset-by-asset basis
at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. In applying
those provisions, NRG’s management considered cash flow analyses, bids and
offers related to those assets and businesses. As a result, NRG recorded
estimated after-tax losses on assets held for sale of $5.8 million for the year
ended Dec. 31, 2002. This amount is included in Income (loss) from
discontinued operations in the accompanying Statement of Operations. In accordance
with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, assets held for sale will
not their depreciated commencing with their classification as such.

Discontinued Operations

During 2002, NRG agreed to sell certain assets and has entered into purchase and sale
agreements or has committed to a plan to sell. As of Dec. 31, 2002, five international projects (Bulo Bulo,
Csepel, Entrade, Killingholme and Hsin Yu) and one domestic project (Crockett
Cogeneration) had been classified as held-for-sale. The assets and liabilities
of these six projects have been reclassified to the held-for-sale category on
the balance sheet and meet the requirements of SFAS No. 144 for discontinued
operations reporting. As of Dec. 31, 2002, only Hsin Yu and Killingholme’s
assets and liabilities remain in the held-for-sale categories of the balance
sheet as the other entities have been sold. Accordingly, operating results and
estimated losses on disposal of these six projects have been reclassified to
discontinued operations for current and prior periods.

Projects included in discontinued operations are as follows (Dollars in
Millions):

Project

Location

Pre-tax

Disposal Gain (Loss)

Status

Crockett Cogeneration

United States

$

(11.5

)

Sale final 2002

Bulo Bulo

Bolivia

$

(10.6

)

Sale final 2002

Csepel

Hungary

$

21.2

Sale final 2002

Entrade

Czech Republic

$

2.8

Sale final 2002

Killingholme*

United Kingdom

$

—

Sale final 2003

Hsin Yu

Taiwan

$

—

Held for sale

Other

Various

$

0.9

Sales final 2002

Total

$

2.8

* The foreclosure of Killingholme in January 2003 for a gain
of $182.3 million.



Special charges from discontinued operations included in Operating & Other
Expenses above include the following:

(In Thousands)




Asset Impairments —Killingholme (UK)

$

477,868

$

—

$

—

— Hsin Yu (Taiwan)

121,864

—

—

599,732

—

—

Severance and other charges:

7,389

—

—

Total Special Charges

$

607,121

$

—

$

—

These impairment charges relate to assets considered held for sale under SFAS
No. 144, as of Dec. 31, 2002. In January 2003, Killingholme was
transferred to the project lenders. Hsin Yu has historically operated at a
loss and its funding has been discontinued as of Dec. 31, 2002. The fair
values represent discounted cash flows over the remaining life of each project
and reflects project-specific assumptions for long-term power pool prices,
escalated future project operating costs, and expected plant operation given
assumed market conditions.



The major classes of assets and liabilities held for sale are as follows as of
December 31:

Included in other noncurrent assets held for sale is approximately $27 million,
net of $3.6 million of amortization, of goodwill and $11 million, net of $1.9
million of amortization, of intangible assets as of Dec. 31, 2002. There are
no amounts of goodwill or intangibles assets included in noncurrent assets held
for sale.

Losses Related to NRG Equity Investments

As of Dec. 31, 2002,
several projects of NRG incurred losses related to disposal
transactions or asset impairments. In the
accompanying financial statements, the operating results of these projects are
classified in equity earnings from investments in affiliates, and
write-downs of the carrying amount of the investments and losses on disposal
have been classified and reported as a component of write-downs and disposal losses from
investments. During 2002, NRG recorded write-downs and losses on
disposal of $196.2 million of equity investments as follows:

Project

Location

Impairment Loss

Disposal Gain (Loss)

Status

Collinsville

Australia

$

—

$

(3.6

)

Sale final 2002

EDL

Australia

$

—

$

(14.2

)

Sale final 2002

ECKG

Czech Republic

$

—

$

(2.1

)

Sale final 2003

SRW Cogeneration

United States

$

—

$

(48.4

)

Sale final 2002

Mt. Poso

United States

$

—

$

(1.0

)

Sale final 2002

Kingston

Canada

$

—

$

9.9

Sale final 2002

Kondapalli

India

$

(12.7

)

$

—

Sale pending

Loy Yang

Australia

$

(111.4

)

—

Operating

NEO MESI

United States

$

—

$

2.0

Sale final 2002

Other

$

(14.7

)

$

—

Total

$

(138.8

)

$

(57.4

)

During fourth quarter of 2002, NRG and the other owners of the Loy Yang project
engaged in a joint marketing of the project for possible sale. Based on a new
market valuation and negotiations with a potential purchaser, NRG recorded a
write down of $58 million in the fourth quarter of 2002, in addition to the $54
million previously recorded in 2002. At Dec. 31, 2002, the carrying value of
the investment in Loy Yang is approximately $72.9 million. Accumulated other
comprehensive loss at Dec. 31, 2002 includes a reduction for foreign currency
translation losses of approximately $77 million related to Loy Yang. The
foreign currency translation losses will continue to be included as a component
of accumulated other comprehensive loss until NRG commits to a plan to dispose
of its investment.



possible sale of NRG Energy’s investment, which indicate a further impairment
of its book value. After recording this impairment, the book value of NRG’s
investment in Loy Yang is approximately $72.9 million.

Other Equity Investment Losses

Yorkshire Power Group Sale

— In August 2002, Xcel Energy announced it had sold
its 5.25-percent interest in Yorkshire Power Group Limited for $33 million to
CE Electric UK. Xcel Energy and American Electric Power Co. each held a
50-percent interest in Yorkshire, a UK retail electricity and gas supplier and
electricity distributor, before selling 94.75 percent of Yorkshire to Innogy
Holdings plc in April 2001. The sale of the 5.25-percent interest resulted in
an after-tax loss of $8.3 million, or 2 cents per share, in the third quarter
of 2002. The loss is included in write-downs and disposal losses from
investments on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

4.     NRG Acquisition and Restructuring Plan

During 2002, Xcel Energy acquired all of the 26 percent of NRG shares not then
owned by Xcel Energy through a tender offer and merger involving a tax-free
exchange of 0.50 shares of Xcel Energy common stock for each outstanding share
of NRG common stock. The transaction was completed on June 3, 2002.

The exchange of NRG common shares for Xcel Energy common shares was accounted
for as a purchase. The 25,764,852 shares of Xcel Energy stock issued were
valued at $25.14 per share, based on the average market price of Xcel Energy
shares for three days before and after April 4, 2002, when the revised terms of
the exchange were announced and recommended by the independent members of the
NRG Board. Including other costs of acquisition, this resulted in a total
purchase price to acquire NRG’s shares of approximately $656 million.

The process to allocate the purchase price to underlying interests in NRG
assets, and to determine fair values for the interests in assets acquired
resulted in approximately $62 million of amounts being allocated to fixed assets related to
projects where the fair values were in excess of carrying values, to prepaid
pension assets and to other assets. The preliminary purchase price allocation is subject to change
as the final purchase price allocation and asset valuation process is
completed.

In December 2001, Moody’s Investor Service (Moody’s) placed NRG’s long-term
senior unsecured debt rating on review for possible downgrade. In February
2002, in response to this threat to NRG’s investment grade rating, Xcel Energy
announced a financial improvement plan for NRG, which included an initial step
of acquiring 100 percent of NRG through a tender offer and merger involving a
tax-free exchange of 0.50 shares of Xcel Energy common stock for each
outstanding share of NRG common stock. The transaction was completed on June
3, 2002. In addition, the initial plan included: financial support to NRG from
Xcel Energy; marketing certain NRG generating assets for possible sale;
canceling and deferring capital spending for NRG projects; and combining
certain of NRG’s functions with Xcel Energy’s systems and organization. During
2002, Xcel Energy provided NRG with $500 million of cash infusions. Throughout
this period, Xcel Energy was in discussions with credit agencies and believed
that its actions would be sufficient to avoid a downgrade of NRG’s credit
rating.

However, even with NRG’s efforts to avoid a downgrade, on July 26, 2002,
Standard & Poor’s (S&P) downgraded NRG’s senior unsecured bonds below
investment grade, and, three days later, Moody’s also downgraded NRG’s senior
unsecured debt rating below investment grade. Over the next few months, NRG
senior unsecured debt, as well as the secured NRG Northeast Generating LLC
bonds, the secured NRG South Central Generating LLC bonds and
secured LSP Energy (Batesville) bonds were downgraded
multiple times. After NRG failed to make the payment obligations due under
certain unsecured bond obligations on Sept. 16, 2002, both Moody’s and S&P
lowered their ratings on NRG’s unsecured bonds once again.
Currently, unsecured bond obligations carry a rating of between CCC
and D at S&P and between Ca and C at Moody’s depending on the
specific debt issue.

Many of the corporate guarantees and commitments of NRG and its subsidiaries
require that they be supported or replaced with letters of credit or cash
collateral within 5 to 30 days of a ratings downgrade below investment grade by
Moody’s or S&P. As a result of the multiple downgrades, NRG estimated that it
would be required to post collateral of approximately $1.1 billion.

Starting in August 2002, NRG engaged in the preparation of a comprehensive
business plan and forecast. The business plan detailed the strategic merits and
financial value of NRG’s projects and operations. It also anticipated that NRG
would function independently from Xcel Energy and thus all plans and efforts to
combine certain functions of the companies
were terminated. NRG utilized independent electric revenue forecasts from an
outside energy markets consulting firm to develop forecasted cash flow
information included in the business plan. NRG management concluded that the



forecasted free cash flow available to NRG after servicing project-level
obligations would be insufficient to service recourse debt obligations. Based
on this information and in consultation with Xcel Energy and its financial
advisor, NRG prepared and submitted a restructuring plan in November 2002 to
various lenders, bondholders and other creditor groups (collectively, NRG’s
Creditors) of NRG and its subsidiaries. The restructuring plan expected to
serve as a basis for negotiations with NRG’s Creditors in a financially
restructured NRG.

The restructuring plan also included a proposal by Xcel Energy that in return
for a release of any and all claims against Xcel Energy, upon consummation of
the restructuring, Xcel Energy would pay $300 million to NRG and surrender its
equity ownership of NRG.

In mid-December 2002, the NRG bank steering committee submitted a
counterproposal and in January 2003, the bondholder credit committee issued its
counterproposal to the NRG restructuring plan. The counterproposal would
request substantial additional payments by Xcel Energy. A new NRG restructuring
proposal was presented to the creditors at the end of January 2003. A
preliminary settlement has been reached with NRG's creditors. Since many of these
conditions are not within Xcel Energy's control, Xcel Energy cannot state with certainty
that the settlement will be effectuated.  Nevertheless, the Xcel Energy management is
optimistic at this time that the settlement will be implemented.

On March 26, 2003, Xcel Energy’s board
of directors approved a tentative settlement with holders of most of NRG’s long-term notes and the steering
committee representing NRG’s bank lenders regarding alleged claims of such creditors against Xcel Energy,
 including claims related to the support and capital subscription agreement between Xcel Energy and NRG
dated May 29, 2002 (Support Agreement). The settlement is subject to a variety of conditions as set
forth below, including definitive documentation. The principal terms of the settlement as of
the date of this report
were as follows:

Xcel Energy would pay up to $752 million to NRG to
settle all claims of NRG, and the claims
of NRG against Xcel Energy, including all claims under the Support Agreement.

$350 million would be paid at or shortly following the consummation of a restructuring of
NRG’s debt through a bankruptcy proceeding. It is expected that this payment would be made prior to year-end 2003. $50 million
would be paid on Jan. 1, 2004, and all or any part of such payment could be made, at Xcel Energy’s election, in Xcel Energy common stock. Up to $352 million would be paid on April 30, 2004, except to the extent that Xcel Energy had
not received at such time tax refunds equal to $352 million associated with the loss on its investment in NRG.
To the extent Xcel Energy had not received such refunds, the April 30 payment would be due on May 30, 2004.

$390 million of the Xcel Energy payments are contingent on receiving releases from NRG creditors. To
the extent Xcel Energy does not receive a release from an NRG
creditor. Xcel Energy’s obligation to make $390 million of the payments
 would be reduced based on the amount of the creditor’s claim against NRG. As noted below, however, the entire
settlement is contingent upon Xcel Energy receiving releases from at least 85 percent of the claims in various NRG creditor groups.
As a result, it is not expected that Xcel Energy’s payment obligations would be reduced by more than approximately $60 million.
Any reduction would come from the Xcel Energy payment due on April 30, 2004.

Upon the consummation of NRG’s debt
restructuring through a bankruptcy proceeding, Xcel Energy’s exposure on any
guarantees or other credit support obligations incurred by Xcel Energy for the benefit of NRG or any subsidiary would be terminated
and any cash collateral posted by Xcel Energy would be returned to it. The current amount of such cash collateral is approximately
$11.5 million.

As part of the settlement with Xcel Energy, any intercompany claims of Xcel Energy against NRG or any
subsidiary arising from the provision of intercompany goods or
services or the honoring of any guarantee will be paid in full in cash
in the ordinary course except that the agreed amount of such
intercompany claims arising or accrued as of Jan. 31, 2003 will be
reduced from approximately $55 million as asserted by Xcel Energy to
$13 million. The $13 million agreed amount is to be paid upon the
consummation of NRG’s debt restructuring with $3 million in cash and
an unsecured promissory note of NRG on market terms in the principal
amount of $10 million.

NRG and its direct and indirect subsidiaries would
not be reconsolidated with Xcel Energy or any of its other
affiliates for tax purposes at any time after their June 2002
re-affiliation or treated as a party to or otherwise entitled to the
benefits of any tax sharing agreement with Xcel Energy. Likewise, NRG
would not be entitled to any tax benefits associated with the tax
loss Xcel Energy expects to incur in connection with the write down
of its investment in NRG.

Xcel Energy’s obligations under the tentative
settlement, including its obligations to make the payments set forth
above, are contingent upon, among other things, the following:

(1)

Definitive documentation, in form and substance
satisfactory to the parties;

(2)

Between 50 percent and 100 percent of the claims
represented by various NRG facilities or creditor groups (the “NRG
Credit Facilities”) having executed an agreement, in form and
substance satisfactory to Xcel Energy, to support the settlement;

(3)

Various stages of the implementation of the
settlement occurring by dates currently being negotiated, with the
consummation of the settlement to occur by Sept. 30, 2003;

(4)

The receipt of releases in favor of Xcel Energy
by at least 85 percent of the claims represented by the NRG Credit
Facilities;

(5)

The receipt by Xcel Energy of all necessary
regulatory approvals; and

(6)

No downgrade prior to consummation of the
settlement of any Xcel Energy credit rating from the level of such
rating as of March 25, 2003.

Based on the foreseeable effects of a settlement agreement with the major NRG
noteholders and bank lenders and the tax effect of an expected write-off of
Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG, Xcel Energy would recognize the expected tax
benefits of the write-off as of Dec. 31, 2002. The tax benefit has been
estimated at approximately $706 million. This benefit is based on the tax
basis of Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG.

Xcel Energy expects to claim a worthless stock deduction in 2003 on its
investment. This would result in Xcel Energy having a net operating loss for
the year. Under current law, this 2003 net operating loss could be carried
back two years for federal purposes. Xcel Energy expects to file for a tax
refund of approximately $355 million in first quarter 2004. This refund is
based on a two-year carryback. However, under the Bush administration’s new
dividend tax proposal, the carryback could be one year, which would reduce the
refund to $125 million.

As to the remaining $351 million of expected tax benefits, Xcel Energy expects
to eliminate or reduce estimated quarterly income tax payments, beginning in
2003. The amount of cash freed up by the reduction in estimated tax payments
would depend on Xcel Energy’s taxable income.

Negotiations are ongoing. These can be no assurance
the NRG creditors ultimately will accept any consensual restructuring
plan, or whether, in the interim, NRG lenders and bondholders will
forbear from exercising any or all of the remedies available to them,
including acceleration of NRG's indebtedness, commencement of an
involuntary proceeding in bankruptcy and, in the case of a certain
lender, realization on the collateral for their indebtedness.

Throughout the restructuring process, NRG seeks to operate the business in a
manner that NRG management believes will offer to creditors similar protection
as would be offered by a bankruptcy court. NRG attempts to preserve the
enterprise value of the business and to treat creditors within each creditor
class without preference, unless otherwise agreed to by advisors to all
potentially affected creditors. By operating NRG within this framework, NRG
desires to mitigate the risk that creditors will pursue involuntary bankruptcy
proceedings against NRG or its material subsidiaries.

Whether or not NRG reaches a consensual arrangement with NRG’s Creditors, there
is a substantial likelihood that NRG will be the subject of a bankruptcy
proceeding. If an agreement were reached with NRG’s Creditors on a
restructuring plan, it is expected that NRG would commence a Chapter 11
bankruptcy case and immediately seek approval of a prenegotiated plan of
reorganization. Absent an agreement with NRG’s Creditors and the continued
forbearance by such creditors, NRG will be subject to substantial doubt as to
its ability to continue as a going concern and will likely be the subject of a
voluntary or involuntary bankruptcy proceeding, which, due to the lack of a
prenegotiated plan of reorganization, would be expected to take an extended
period of time to be resolved and may involve claims against Xcel Energy under
the equitable doctrine of substantive consolidation.

Potential NRG Bankruptcy  —

A preliminary settlement agreement with
NRG’s creditors on a comprehensive financial restructuring plan that, among
other things, addresses Xcel Energy’s continuing role and degree of ownership
in NRG and obligations to NRG in a restructured NRG has been reached. Following an agreement on
the restructuring with NRG’s creditors and as described previously, it is
expected that NRG would commence a Chapter 11 bankruptcy proceeding and
immediately seek approval of a prenegotiated plan of reorganization. Absent an
agreement with NRG’s creditors and the continued forbearance by such creditors,
NRG will be subject to substantial doubt as to its ability to continue as a
going concern and will likely be the subject of a voluntary or
involuntary bankruptcy proceeding, which, due to the lack of a prenegotiated
plan of reorganization, would be expected to take an extended period of time to
be resolved.

While it is an exception rather than the rule, especially where one of the
companies involved is not in bankruptcy, the equitable doctrine of substantive
consolidation permits a bankruptcy court to disregard the separateness of
related entities, consolidate and pool the entities’ assets and liabilities and
treat them as though held and incurred by one entity where the
interrelationship between the entities warrants such consolidation. Xcel
Energy believes that any effort to substantively consolidate Xcel Energy with
NRG would be without merit. However, it is possible that NRG or its creditors
would attempt to advance such claims or other claims under piercing the
corporate veil, alter ego or related theories should an NRG bankruptcy
proceeding commence, particularly in the absence of a prenegotiated plan of
reorganization, and Xcel Energy cannot be certain how a bankruptcy court would
resolves these issue. One of the creditors of an NRG project, as previously
discussed, has already filed involuntary bankruptcy proceedings against that
project and has included claims against both NRG and Xcel Energy. If a
bankruptcy court were to allow substantive consolidation of Xcel Energy and
NRG, it would have a material adverse effect on Xcel Energy.

The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements do not reflect any
conditions or matters that would arise if NRG were in bankruptcy.

If NRG were to file for bankruptcy, and the necessary actions were taken by
Xcel Energy to fully relinquish its effective control over NRG, Xcel Energy
anticipates that NRG would no longer be included in Xcel Energy’s consolidated
financial statements, prospectively from the date such actions were taken.
Such de-consolidation of NRG would encompass a change in Xcel Energy’s
accounting for NRG to the equity method, under which Xcel Energy would continue
to record its interest in NRG’s income or losses until Xcel Energy’s investment
in NRG (under the equity method) reached the level of obligations that Xcel
Energy had either guaranteed on behalf of NRG or was otherwise committed to in
the form of financial assistance to NRG. Prior to completion of a bankruptcy
proceeding, a prenegotiated plan of reorganization or other settlement reached
with NRG’s creditors would be the determining factors in assessing whether a
commitment to provide financial assistance to NRG existed at the time of
de-consolidation.

At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy’s pro forma investment in NRG, calculated under
the equity method if applied at that date, was a negative $625 million. If
the amount of guarantees or other financial assistance committed to NRG by Xcel
Energy exceeded that level after de-consolidation of NRG, then NRG’s losses
would continue to be included in Xcel Energy’s results until the amount of
negative investment in NRG reaches the amount of guarantees and financial
assistance committed to by Xcel Energy. As of Dec. 31, 2002, the estimated
guarantee exposure that Xcel Energy had related to NRG liabilities was
$96 million, as discussed in Note 16, and potential financial assistance was
committed in the form of a support and capital subscription agreement pursuant
to which Xcel Energy agreed, under certain circumstances, to provide an
additional $300 million contribution to NRG if the financial restructuring plan
discussed earlier is approved by NRG’s creditors. Additional commitments for
financial assistance to NRG could be created in 2003 as Xcel Energy, NRG and
NRG’s creditors continue to negotiate terms of a possible prenegotiated plan of
reorganization to resolve NRG’s financial difficulties.

In addition to the effects of NRG’s losses, Xcel Energy’s operating results and
retained earnings in 2003 could also be affected by the tax effects of any
guarantees or financial commitments to NRG, if such income tax benefits were
considered likely of realization in the foreseeable future. The income tax
benefits recorded in 2002 related to Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG, as
discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, includes only
the tax benefits related to cash and stock investments already made in NRG at
Dec. 31, 2002. Additional tax benefits could be recorded in 2003 at the time
that such benefits are considered likely of realization, when the payment of
guarantees and other financial assistance to NRG become probable.

Xcel Energy believes that the ultimate resolutions of NRG’s financial
difficulties and going-concern uncertainty will not affect Xcel Energy’s
ability to continue as a going concern. Xcel Energy is not dependent on cash
flows from NRG, nor is Xcel Energy contingently liable to creditors of NRG in
an amount material to Xcel Energy’s liquidity. Xcel Energy believes that its
cash flows from regulated utility operations and anticipated financing capabilities
will be sufficient to fund its non-NRG-related operating, investing and
financing requirements. Beyond these sources of liquidity, Xcel Energy
believes it will have adequate access to additional debt and equity financing that is
not conditioned upon the outcome of NRG’s financial restructuring plan.

5.     Short-Term Borrowings

Notes Payable and Commercial Paper —

Information regarding notes payable and
commercial paper for the years ended Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, is:

(Millions of dollars, except interest rates)



Notes payable to banks

$

1,542

$


Commercial paper

—

1,390

Total short-term debt

$

1,542

$

2,225

Weighted average interest rate at year-end

4.33

%

3.41

%

Credit Facilities

— As of Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy had the following credit
facilities available:

Maturity

Term

Credit Line

Xcel Energy

November 2005

5 years

$400 million

NSP-Minnesota

August 2003

364 days

$300 million

PSCo

June 2003

364 days

$530 million

SPS

February 2003

364 days

$250 million

Other subsidiaries

Various

Various

$55 million

The lines of credit provide short-term financing in the form of bank loans and
letters of credit, and, depending on credit ratings, provide support for
commercial paper borrowings. At Dec. 31, 2002, there were $399 million of
loans outstanding under the Xcel Energy line of credit and $88 million for
PSCo. The borrowing rates under these lines of credit is based on the
applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an applicable spread, a
euro dollar rate



margin and the amount of money borrowed. At Dec. 31, 2002,
the weighted average interest rate would have been 2.70 percent and 2.42
percent, respectively. See discussion of NRG short-term debt at Note 7.

On Jan. 22, 2003, Xcel Energy entered into an agreement with Perry Capital and
King Street Capital to provide Xcel Energy with a 9-month, $100-million term
loan facility. The facility carries a 9 percent per annum coupon rate and fees
for early termination, prepayment and extensions within the 9-month period.
Xcel Energy has no current need to draw on the facility, but sought the
additional liquidity to provide financing flexibility. Xcel Energy,
absent SEC approval under PUHCA, can only draw on this facility when
its common equity exceeds 30 percent of total capitalization.

The SPS $250-million facility expired in February 2003 and was replaced with a
$100-million unsecured, 364-day credit agreement. The NSP-Minnesota and PSCo
credit facilities are secured by first mortgages and first collateral trust
bonds, respectively.

6.     Long-Term Debt

Except for SPS and other minor exclusions, all property of our utility
subsidiaries is subject to the liens of their first mortgage indentures, which
are contracts between the companies and their bondholders. In addition,
certain SPS payments under its pollution-control obligations are pledged to
secure obligations of the Red River Authority of Texas.

The utility subsidiaries’ first mortgage bond indentures provide for the
ability to have sinking-fund requirements. These annual sinking-fund
requirements are 1 percent of the highest principal amount of the series of
first mortgage bond at any time outstanding. Sinking-fund requirements at
NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and Cheyenne are $2.8 million and are for one series of
first mortgage bonds for each. Such sinking-fund requirements may be satisfied
with property additions or cash. NSP-Minnesota and SPS have no sinking
fund-requirements.

NSP-Minnesota’s 2011 series bonds are redeemable upon seven-days notice at the
option of the bondholder. Because of the terms that allow the holders to redeem
these bonds on short notice, we include them in the current portion of
long-term debt reported under current liabilities on the balance sheets.

See discussion of NRG long-term debt at Note 7.

Maturities and sinking fund requirements of long-term debt are:


$7,759 million


$239 million


$313 million


$722 million


$420 million

7.     NRG Debt and Capital Leases

As of Dec. 31, 2002, NRG has failed to make scheduled payments on interest
and/or principal on approximately $4 billion of its recourse debt and is in
default under the related debt instruments. These missed payments also have
resulted in cross-defaults of numerous other nonrecourse and limited recourse
debt instruments of NRG. In addition to the missed debt payments, a
significant amount of NRG’s debt and other obligations contain terms that
require that they be supported with letters of credit or cash collateral
following a ratings downgrade. As a result of the downgrades that NRG
has experienced in
2002, NRG estimates that it is in default of its obligations to post collateral
ranging from $1.1 billion to $1.3 billion, principally to fund equity
guarantees associated with its construction revolver financing facility, to
fund debt service reserves and other guarantees related to NRG projects and to
fund trading operations. Absent an agreement on a comprehensive restructuring plan, NRG will
remain in default under its debt and other obligations, because it does not
have sufficient funds to meet such requirements and obligations. As a result,
the lenders will be able, if they choose, to seek to enforce their remedies at
any time, which would likely lead to a bankruptcy filing by NRG. There can be
no assurance that NRG’s creditors ultimately will accept any consensual
restructuring plan, or that, in the interim, NRG’s lenders and bondholders will
continue to forbear from exercising any or all of the remedies available to
them, including acceleration of NRG’s indebtedness, commencement of an
involuntary proceeding in bankruptcy and, in the case of certain lenders,
realization on the collateral for their indebtedness. See Note 4 for discussion
of 2003 developments regarding NRG’s financial restructuring.

Pending the resolution of NRG’s credit contingencies and the timing of possible
asset sales, a portion of NRG’s long-term debt obligations has been classified
as current liabilities for those long-term obligations that  lenders
have the ability to accelerate such
debt within 12 months of the balance sheet date.



Long-term and Short-term Debt Defaults

NRG and its subsidiaries have failed to timely make the
following interest and/or principal payments on its indebtedness:

Debt ($ in millions)

Amount Issued

Rate

Maturity

Interest Due

Principal Due

Date Due

Recourse Debt (unsecured)

NRG Energy ROARS

$

250.0

8.700

%

3/15/2005

$

10.9

$

0.0

9/16/2002

$

250.0

8.700

%

3/15/2005

$

10.9

$

0.0

3/17/2003

NRG Energy senior notes

$

350.0

8.250

%

9/15/2010

$

14.4

$

0.0

9/16/2002

$

350.0

8.250

%

9/15/2010

$

14.4

$

0.0

3/17/2003

NRG Energy senior notes

$

350.0

7.750

%

4/1/2011

$

13.6

$

0.0

10/1/2002

NRG Energy senior notes

$

500.0

8.625

%

4/1/2031

$

21.6

$

0.0

10/1/2002

NRG Energy senior notes

$

240.0

8.000

%

11/1/2003

$

9.6

$

0.0

11/1/2002

NRG Energy senior notes

$

300.0

7.500

%

6/1/2009

$

11.3

$

0.0

12/1/2002

NRG Energy senior notes

$

250.0

7.500

%

6/15/2007

$

9.4

$

0.0

12/15/2002

NRG Energy senior notes

$

340.0

6.750

%

7/15/2006

$

11.5

$

0.0

1/15/2003

NRG Energy senior debentures (NRZ Equity Units)

$

287.5

6.500

%

5/16/2006

$

4.7

$

0.0

11/16/2002

$

287.5

6.500

%

5/16/2006

$

4.7

$

0.0

2/17/2003

NRG Energy senior notes

$

125.0

7.625

%

2/1/2006

$

4.8

$

0.0

2/1/2003

NRG Energy 364-day corporate revolving facility

$

1,000.0

various

3/7/2003

$

7.6

$

0.0

9/30/2002

NRG Energy 364-day corporate revolving facility

$

1,000.0

various

3/7/2003

$

18.6

$

0.0

12/31/2002

Non-Recourse Debt (secured)

NRG Northeast Generating LLC

$

320.0

8.065

%

12/15/2004

$

5.1

$

53.5

12/15/2002

NRG Northeast Generating LLC

$

130.0

8.842

%

6/15/2015

$

5.7

$

0.0

12/15/2002

NRG Northeast Generating LLC

$

300.0

9.292

%

12/15/2024

$

13.9

$

0.0

12/15/2002

NRG South Central Generating LLC

$

500.0

8.962

%

3/15/2016

$

20.2

$

12.8

9/16/2002

$

500.0

8.962

%

3/15/2016

$

0.0

$

12.8

3/17/2003

NRG South Central Generating LLC

$

300.0

9.479

%

9/15/2024

$

14.2

$

0.0

9/16/2002

These missed payments may have also resulted in cross-defaults of numerous
other non-recourse and limited recourse debt instruments of NRG.

Short-term Debt

NRG had an unsecured, revolving line of credit of $1 billion, which terminated
on March 7, 2003. At Dec. 31, 2002, NRG had a $1 billion outstanding balance
under this credit facility. NRG has failed to make interest payments when due.
In addition, NRG violated both the minimum net worth covenant and the minimum
interest coverage ratio requirements of the facility. On Feb. 27, 2003, NRG
received a notice of default on the corporate revolver financing facility,
rendering the debt immediately due and payable. The recourse revolving credit facility
matured on March 7, 2003, and the $1 billion drawn remains outstanding.
Accordingly, the facility is in default.

NRG’s $125-million syndicated letter of credit facility contains terms,
conditions and covenants that are substantially the same as those in NRG’s
$1-billion, 364-day revolving line of credit. As of Dec. 31, 2002, NRG
violated both the minimum net worth covenant and the minimum interest coverage
ratio requirements of the facility. Accordingly, the
facility is in default. NRG had $110 million and $170 million in outstanding
letters of credit as of Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively.

Long-term Debt — Corporate Debt

Equity Units and Debentures

— In 2001, NRG completed the sale of 11.5 million
equity units for an initial price of $25 per unit. Each equity unit initially
consists of a corporate unit comprising a $25 principal amount of NRG’s senior
debentures and an obligation to acquire shares of NRG common stock no later
than May 18, 2004, at a price ranging from between $27.00 and $32.94.
Approximately $4.1 million of the gross proceeds have been recorded as
additional paid in capital to reflect the value of the obligation to purchase
NRG’s common stock. As a result of the merger by Xcel Energy of NRG, holders
of the equity units are no longer obligated to purchase shares of NRG common
stock under the purchase contracts. Instead, holders of the equity units are
now obligated to purchase a



number of shares of Xcel Energy common stock upon
settlement of the purchase contracts equal to the adjusted “settlement rate’’
or the adjusted “early settlement rate’’ as applicable. As a result of the
short-form merger, the adjusted settlement rate is 0.4630, resulting in a settlement price of approximately $55 per Xcel Energy
common share, and the adjusted
early settlement rate is 0.3795, resulting in a settlement price of approximately $65 per
Xcel Energy common share, subject to the terms and conditions of the
purchase contracts set forth in a purchase contract agreement. In October 2002,
NRG announced it would not make the November 2002 quarterly interest payment on
the 6.50-percent senior unsecured debentures due in 2006, which trade with the
associated equity units. The 30-day grace period to make payment ended Dec. 16,
2002, and NRG did not make payment. As a result, this issue is in default. In
addition, NRG did not make the Feb. 17, 2003 quarterly interest payment. In the
event of an NRG bankruptcy, the obligation to purchase shares of Xcel Energy
stock terminates.

Senior Unsecured Notes

— The NRG $125-million, $250-million, $300-million,
$350-million, and $240-million senior notes are unsecured and are used to
support equity requirements for projects acquired and in development. The
interest is paid semi-annually. The 30-day grace period to make payment
related to these issues has passed. NRG did not make the required payments,
and is in default on these notes.

Remarketable or Redeemable Securities

— The $240-million NRG senior notes due
Nov. 1, 2013, are Remarketable or Redeemable Securities (ROARS).
Nov. 1, 2003 is the first remarketing date for these notes.
Interest is payable semi-annually on May 1, and November 1,
of each year through 2003, and then at intervals and interest rates
as discussed in the indenture. On the remarketing date, the notes must
either be mandatorily tendered to and purchased by Credit Suisse Financial Products
or mandatorily redeemed by NRG at prices discussed in the indenture. The notes are
unsecured debt that rank senior to all of NRG’s existing and future subordinated indebtedness.
On Oct. 16, 2002, NRG entered into a termination agreement with the agent that terminated the
remarketing agreement. A termination payment of $31.4 million due on Oct. 17, 2002 has
not been paid.

In March 2000, an NRG sponsored non-consolidated pass-through
trust issued $250 million of 8.70 percent certificates due March 15, 2005.
Each certificate represents a fractional undivided beneficial interest
in the assets of the trust. Interest is payable on the certificates semi-annually
on March 15 and September 15 of each year through 2005. The sole assets of the trust
consist of £160 million, approximately $250 million on the date of issuance, principal amount
7.97 percent Reset Senior Notes due March 15, 2020 issued by NRG.  The Reset Senior Notes were
used principally to finance NRG’s acquisition of the Killingholme facility.
Interest is payable semi-annually on the Reset Senior Notes on March 15 and
September 15 through March 15, 2005, and then at intervals and interest rates established in
a remarketing process. If the Reset Senior Notes are not remarketed on March 15, 2005,
they must be mandatorily redeemed by NRG on such date. On Sept. 16, 2002, NRG Pass-through
Trust I failed to make a $10.9 million interest payment due on the $250 million bonds,
as a consequence of NRG failing to pay interest due on £160 million of 7.97 percent debt.
The 30-day grace period to make payment related to this issue has passed and NRG
did not make the required payments.  NRG is in default on these bonds.

Audrain Capital Lease

— In connection with NRG’s acquisition of the Audrain
facilities, NRG recognized a capital lease on its balance sheet within
long-term debt in the amount of $239.9 million, as of Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001.
The capital lease obligation is recorded at the net present value of the
minimum lease obligation payable. The lease terminates in May 2023. During the
term of the lease only interest payments are due, no principal is due until the
end of the lease. In addition, NRG has recorded in notes receivable, an amount
of approximately $239.9 million, which represents its investment in the bonds
that the county of Audrain issued to finance the project. During December 2002,
NRG Energy received a notice of a waiver of a $24.0-million interest payment
due on the capital lease obligation.

Long-term Debt — Subsidiary

NEO Corp.

— The various NEO notes are term loans. The loans are secured
principally by long-term assets of NEO Landfill Gas collection system. NEO
Landfill Gas is required to maintain compliance with certain covenants
primarily related to incurring debt, disposing of the NEO Landfill Gas assets,
and affiliate transactions. On Oct. 30, 2002, NRG failed to make $3.1 million
in payments under certain non-operating interest acquisition agreements. As a
result, NEO Corp., a direct wholly owned subsidiary of NRG, and NEO Landfill
Gas, Inc., an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NRG, failed to make
approximately $1.4 million in loan payments. Also, the subsidiaries of NEO
Corp. and NEO Landfill Gas, Inc. failed to make approximately $2 million in
payments pursuant to various agreements. NRG received an extension until
November 2002 with respect to NEO Landfill Gas, Inc. to make payments under
such agreements, and such payments were made during the extension period. The
payments relating to NEO Corp. were not made, and the loan was due and payable
on Dec. 20, 2002. A letter of credit was drawn to pay the NEO Corp. loan in
full on Dec. 23, 2002. As of Dec. 31, 2002, NEO Landfill Gas, Inc. was in
default under the loan agreement dated July 6, 1998 due to the failure to meet
the insurance requirements under the loan document. On Jan. 30, 2003, NRG
failed to make $2.7 million in payments under certain acquisition agreements.
As a result, NEO Landfill Gas, Inc. failed to make its payment due on Jan. 30,
2003, under the loan agreement and the subsidiaries of
NEO Landfill Gas failed to make their payments pursuant to various agreements.

Northeast Generating LLC

— In February 2000, NRG Northeast Generating LLC, an
indirect, wholly owned subsidiary of NRG, issued $750 million of project level
senior secured bonds to refinance short-term project borrowings and for certain
other purposes. The bonds are jointly and severally guaranteed by each of NRG
Northeast’s existing and future subsidiaries. The bonds are secured by a
security interest in NRG Northeast’s membership or other ownership interests in
the guarantors and its rights under all inter-company notes between NRG
Northeast and the guarantors. In December 2002, NRG Northeast Generating
failed to make $24.7-million interest and $53.5-million principal payments. NRG
Northeast Generating had a 15-day grace period to make payment. On Dec. 27,
2002, NRG made the $24.7 million interest payment due on the NRG Northeast
Generating bonds but failed to make the $53.5 million principal payment. As a result,
the payment default associated with its failure to make principal payments when
they come due is currently in effect. NRG also failed to make a debt service
reserve



account cash deposit within 30 days of a credit rating downgrade in
July 2002. In addition, NRG Northeast Generation is also in default of its
debt covenants because of the lapse of the 60-day grace period regarding the
necessary dismissal of an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding. For these reasons,
NRG Northeast Generating is in default on these notes.

NRG South Central Generating LLC

— In March 2000, NRG South Central Generating
LLC, an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NRG, issued $800 million of senior
secured bonds in a two-part offering to finance its acquisition of the Cajun
generating facilities. The bonds are secured by a security interest in NRG
Central U.S. LLC’s and South Central Generating Holding LLC’s membership
interests in NRG South Central and NRG South Central’s membership interests in
Louisiana Generating and all of the assets related to the Cajun facilities,
including its rights under a guarantor loan agreement and all inter-company
notes between it and Louisiana Generating, and a revenue account and a debt
service reserve account. On Sept. 15, 2002, NRG South Central Generating
missed a $47-million principal and interest payment. The 15-day grace period to
make payment related to this issue has passed ,and NRG South Central Generating
did not make the required payments. In January 2003, the South Central
Generating bondholders unilaterally withdrew $35.6 million from the restricted
revenue account, relating to the Sept. 15, 2002, interest payment and fees.
On March 17, 2003, South Central bondholders were paid $34.4 million due in relation
to the semi-annual interest payment, and the
$12.8 million principal payment was deferred. NRG South Central remains in default on these notes.

Flinders Power Finance

— In September 2000, Flinders Power Finance Pty (Flinders
Power), an Australian wholly owned subsidiary, entered into a twelve year AUD
$150 million promissory note (US $81.4 million at September 2000). As of
Dec. 31, 2002, there remains $80.5 million outstanding under this facility.
In March 2002, Flinders Power entered into a 10-year AUD $165 million (US$
85.4 million at March 2002) floating rate promissory note for the purpose of
refurbishing the Flinders Playford generating station. As of Dec. 31, 2002,
Flinders Power had drawn $18.7 million (AUD $33 million) of this facility.
Upon NRG’s credit rating downgrade in 2002, there existed a potential default
under these agreements related to the funding of reserve funds. Flinders
continues to work with its lenders subsequent to the downgrade.

NRG Peaker Finance Company LLC

— In June 2002, NRG Peaker Finance Co. LLC (NRG
Peaker), an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of NRG, completed the issuance of
$325 million of Series A Floating Rate Senior Secured Bonds, due 2019. The
bonds are secured by a pledge of membership interests in NRG Peaker and a
security interest in all of its assets, which initially consisted of notes
evidencing loans to the affiliate project owners. The project owners jointly
and severally guaranteed the entire principal amount of the bonds and interest
on such principal amount. The project owner guaranties are secured by a pledge
of the membership interest in three of five project owners and a security
interest in substantially all of the project owners’ assets related to the
peaker projects, including equipment, real property rights, contracts and
permits. NRG has entered into a contingent guaranty agreement in favor of the
collateral agent for the benefit of the secured parties, under which it agreed
to make payments to cover scheduled principal and interest payments on the
bonds and regularly scheduled payments under the interest rate swap agreement,
to the extent that the net revenues from the peaker projects are insufficient
to make such payments, in specified circumstances. As a result
of cross-default provisions, this facility is in default. On Dec. 10, 2002, $16.0 million
in interest, principal, and swap payments were made from restricted cash
accounts. As a result, $319.4 million in principal remains outstanding as of
Dec. 31, 2002.

LSP-Pike Energy LLC

— LSP-Pike Energy LLC received a loan to construct its
power generation facility in Pike County, Mississippi that was financed by the
issuance of Industrial Revenue Bonds (Series 2002). NRG Finance Co. I LLC, an
affiliate of LSP-Pike Energy LLC, purchased the Series 2002 bonds. These bonds
are subject to a
subordination agreement between NRG Finance Co. I LLC, as purchaser, LSP-Pike
Energy LLC, and Credit Suisse First Boston, as administrative agent to a senior
claim. In the case of insolvency or bankruptcy proceedings, or any
receivership, liquidation, reorganization or other similar proceedings, and
even in the event of any proceedings for voluntary liquidation, dissolutions,
or other winding up of the company, the holders of the senior claims shall be
entitled to receive payment in full or cash equivalents of all principal,
interest, charges and fees on all senior claims before the purchaser is
entitled to receive any payment on account of the principal of or interest on
these bonds. As of Oct. 17, 2002, the United States Bankruptcy Court for the
Southern District of Mississippi granted an order of relief to the debtor under
the U.S. bankruptcy laws, thus forcing LSP-Pike Energy LLC into default and
cessation of all benefits granted under the terms of the loan agreement and
issuance of the bonds.



Long-term Debt — Credit Facilities

NRG has several credit facilities used for long-term financing:

(Currency in thousands)

Available line of

Outstanding

Rate at

Facility

credit

Recourse to NRG

End date

Dec. 31, 2002

Dec. 31, 2002

Revolving lines of credit:

NRG Finance Co. I
LLC

$

2,000,000

Yes

May 2006

$

1,081,000

4.92

%

Term loan facilities:

MidAtlantic

$

580,000

No

November 2005

$

409,200

3.30

%

LSP Kendall Energy

$

554,200

No

September 2005

$

495,800

3.19

%

Brazos Valley

$

180,000

No

June 2008

$

194,400

4.41

%

McClain

$

296,000

No

November 2006

$

157,300

4.57

%

NRG Financing Co. I LLC

— The NRG Finance Co. I LLC facility has been used to
finance the acquisition, development and construction of power generating
plants located in the United States, and to finance the acquisition of turbines
for such facilities. The facility is nonrecourse to NRG other than its
obligation to contribute equity at certain times in respect of projects and
turbines financed under the facility. NRG estimates the obligations to
contribute equity to be approximately $819 million as of Dec. 31, 2002. At
Dec. 31, 2002, interest and fees due in September 2002 were not paid, and NRG
has suspended required equity contributions to the projects. Supporting
construction and other contracts associated with NRG’s Pike and Nelson projects
were violated by NRG, in September and October 2002, respectively. In November
2002, lenders to NRG accelerated the approximately $1.08 billion of debt under
the construction revolver facility, rendering the debt immediately due and
payable. Thus, this facility is currently in default.

LSP Kendall Energy

— As part of NRG’s acquisition of the LS Power assets
in January 2001, NRG, through its wholly owned subsidiary LSP Kendall Energy
LLC, has acquired a $554.2-million credit facility. On Jan. 10, 2003, NRG
received a notice of default from LSP Kendall’s lenders indicating that certain
events of default have taken place. By issuing this notice of default, the
lenders have preserved all of their rights and remedies under the Credit
Agreement and other Credit Documents. NRG is negotiating a waiver to this
default notice with the creditors to LSP Kendall.

Brazos Valley

— In June 2001, NRG, through its wholly owned subsidiaries Brazos
Valley Energy LP and Brazos Valley Technology LP, entered into a $180-million
nonrecourse construction credit facility to fund the construction of the
600-megawatt Brazos Valley gas-fired combined-cycle merchant generation
facility, located in Texas. On Jan. 31, 2003, NRG consented to the foreclosure
of its Brazos Valley project by its lenders. As consequence of foreclosure, NRG
no longer has any interest in the Brazos Valley project. However, NRG may be
obligated to infuse additional capital to fund a debt service reserve
account that had never been funded, and may be obligated to make an equity
infusion to satisfy a contingent equity agreement. As of Dec. 31,
2002, NRG recorded $24 million for the potential obligations.

McClain

— In August 2001, NRG entered into a 364-day term loan of up to $296
million. The credit facility was structured as a senior unsecured loan and was
partially nonrecourse to NRG. The proceeds were used to finance the McClain
generating facility acquisition. In November 2001, the credit facility was
repaid from the proceeds of a
$181.0 million term loan and $8.0 million working capital facility entered into
by NRG McClain LLC, with Westdeutsche Landesbank Girozentrale, non-recourse to
NRG. On Sept. 17, 2002, NRG McClain LLC received notice from the agent bank
that the project loan was in default as a result of the downgrade of NRG and of
defaults on material obligations.

8.     Preferred Stock

At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy had six series of preferred stock outstanding,
which were callable at its option at prices ranging from $102.00 to $103.75 per
share plus accrued dividends. Xcel Energy can only pay dividends on its
preferred stock from retained earnings absent approval of the SEC under PUHCA. See Note
12 for a description of such restrictions.

The holders of the $3.60 series preferred stock are entitled to three votes for
each share held. The holders of the other preferred stocks are entitled to one
vote per share. While dividends payable on the preferred stock of any series
outstanding is in arrears in an amount equal to four quarterly dividends, the
holders of preferred stocks, voting as a class, are entitled to elect the
smallest number of directors necessary to constitute a majority of the board of
directors, and the holders of common stock, voting as a class, are entitled to
elect the remaining directors.



The charters of some of Xcel Energy’s subsidiaries also authorize the issuance
of preferred shares. However, at this time, there are no such shares
outstanding. This chart shows data for first- and second-tier subsidiaries:

Preferred Shares

Preferred Shares

Authorized

Par Value

Outstanding

Cheyenne Light, Fuel & Power Co.

1,000,000

$

100.00

None

Southwestern Public Service Co.

10,000,000

$

1.00

None

Public Service Co. of Colorado

10,000,000

$

0.01

None

9.     Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts

SPS Capital I, a wholly owned, special-purpose subsidiary trust of SPS, has
$100 million of 7.85-percent trust preferred securities issued and outstanding
that mature in 2036. Distributions paid by the subsidiary trust on the
preferred securities are financed through interest payments on debentures
issued by SPS and held by the subsidiary trust, which are eliminated in
consolidation. The securities are redeemable at the option of SPS after October
2001, at 100 percent of the principal amount plus accrued interest.
Distributions and redemption payments are guaranteed by SPS.

NSP Financing I, a wholly owned, special-purpose subsidiary trust of
NSP-Minnesota, has $200 million of 7.875-percent trust preferred securities
issued and outstanding that mature in 2037. Distributions paid by the
subsidiary trust on the preferred securities are financed through interest
payments on debentures issued by NSP-Minnesota and held by the subsidiary
trust, which are eliminated in consolidation. The preferred securities are
redeemable at NSP Financing I’s option at $25 per share, beginning in 2002.
Distributions and redemption payments are guaranteed by NSP-Minnesota.

PSCo Capital Trust I, a wholly owned, special-purpose subsidiary trust of PSCo,
has $194 million of 7.60-percent trust preferred securities issued and
outstanding that mature in 2038. Distributions paid by the subsidiary trust on
the preferred securities are financed through interest payments on debentures
issued by PSCo and held by the subsidiary trust, which are eliminated in
consolidation. The securities are redeemable at the option of PSCo after May
2003 at 100 percent of the principal amount outstanding plus accrued interest.
Distributions and redemption payments are guaranteed by PSCo.

The mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts are
consolidated in Xcel Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Distributions paid
to preferred security holders are reflected as a financing cost in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations, along with interest charges.

10.     Joint Plant Ownership

The investments by Xcel Energy’s subsidiaries in jointly owned plants and the
related ownership percentages as of Dec. 31, 2002, are:



NSP-Minnesota is part owner of Sherco 3, an 860-megawatt coal-fueled electric
generating unit. NSP-Minnesota is the operating agent under the joint ownership
agreement. NSP-Minnesota’s share of operating expenses for Sherco 3 is included
in the applicable utility components of operating expenses. PSCo’s assets
include approximately 320 megawatts of jointly owned generating capacity.
PSCo’s share of operating expenses and construction expenditures are included
in the applicable utility components of operating expenses. NRG’s share of
operating expenses and construction expenditures are included in the applicable
nonregulated components of operating expenses. Each of the respective owners
is responsible for the issuance of its own securities to finance its portion of
the construction costs.

11.     Income Taxes

As discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, the tax filing
status of NRG for 2002 will change from filing as a separate consolidated
group, apart from the Xcel Energy consolidated group, to the NRG members filing
on a stand-alone basis. On a stand-alone basis, the NRG member companies do
not have the ability to recognize all tax benefits that may ultimately accrue
from its losses incurred in 2002. NRG may have the ability to receive tax
benefits for such losses in future periods as income is earned.

In consideration of the foreseeable effects of the NRG restructuring plan on
Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG, Xcel Energy has recognized the expected tax
benefits from this investment as of Dec. 31, 2002. The tax benefit was
estimated to be $706 million and was recorded at one of Xcel Energy’s
nonregulated intermediate holding companies. This benefit is based on the
difference between the book and tax bases of Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG.

The actual amount of tax benefit derived by Xcel Energy for its investment in
NRG is dependent upon various factors, including certain factors that may be
affected by the terms of any financial restructuring agreement reached with
NRG’s creditors. Similarly, the amount and timing of tax benefits to be
recorded by NRG, related to 2002 losses, is dependent on estimated future
results of NRG.

Total income tax expense from operations differs from the amount computed by
applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before income tax
expense. The reasons for the difference are:



Income taxes comprise the following expense (benefit) items:

(Thousands of dollars)




Current federal tax expense

$

114,273

$

373,710

$

205,472

Current state tax expense

21,724

26,927

63,428

Current foreign tax expense

18,973

10,988

1,693

Current tax credits

(18,067

)

(66,179

)

(71,270

)

Deferred federal tax expense

(631,468

)

(24,323

)

103,033

Deferred state tax expense

(114,486

)

18,702

12,547

Deferred foreign tax expense

(2,248

)

4,529

(578

)

Deferred investment tax credits

(16,686

)

(12,983

)

(15,295

)

Income
tax expense (benefit) excluding extraordinary items

(627,985

)

331,371

299,030

Tax expense (benefit) on extraordinary items

—

4,807

(8,549

)

Total income tax expense from continuing operations

$

(627,985

)

$

336,178

$

290,481

As of Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy management intended to reinvest the earnings
of NRG’s foreign operations to the extent the earnings were subject to current
U.S. income taxes. Accordingly, U.S. income taxes and foreign withholding taxes
were not provided on a cumulative amount of unremitted earnings of foreign
subsidiaries of approximately $345 million at Dec. 31, 2001. As of Dec. 31,
2002, Xcel Energy management has revised its strategy and no longer intends to
indefinitely reinvest the full amount of earnings of NRG’s foreign operations.
However, no U.S. income tax benefit has been provided on the cumulative amount
of unremitted losses of $339.7 million at Dec. 31, 2002 due to the uncertainty
of realization.

Xcel Energy management intends to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of the
Argentina operations of Xcel Energy International and, therefore, has not
provided deferred taxes for the effects of currency devaluations.

The components of Xcel Energy’s net deferred tax liability (current and
noncurrent portions) at Dec. 31 were:

12.     Common Stock and Incentive Stock Plans

Common Stock and Equivalents

— In February 2002, Xcel Energy issued 23 million
shares of common stock at $22.50 per share. In June 2002, Xcel Energy issued
25.7 million shares of common stock to complete its exchange offer for the
publicly held stock of NRG. As a result of these issuances, Xcel Energy had
approximately 399 million shares outstanding on Dec. 31, 2002.

In November 2002, Xcel Energy issued $230 million of 7.5-percent convertible
senior notes. The senior notes are convertible into shares of Xcel Energy
common stock at a conversion price of $12.33 per share. The conversion of $230
million in notes at a share price of $12.33 would be the equivalent of
approximately 18.7 million shares. However, due to losses experienced in
2002, the impact of the convertible senior notes was antidilutive and,
therefore, was not included in the common stock and equivalent
calculation in 2002.



Other common stock equivalents included stock options, as discussed further,
and NRG equity units. See discussion of NRG equity units, which are
convertible to Xcel Energy common stock, at Note 7. Due to the losses
experienced in 2002, these equivalents were also antidilutive and were not
incorporated in the common stock and equivalents calculation in 2002.

The dilutive impacts of common stock equivalents
affected earnings per share as follows
for the years ending Dec. 31:

(In Thousands, except per share amounts)




Basic EPS Calculation:

Earnings (loss) available for common

$

(2,222,232

)

$

790,725

$

522,587

Weighted average common stock outstanding

382,051

342,952

337,832

Basic earnings per share

$

(5.82

)

$

2.31

$

1.54

Diluted Calculation:

Earnings (loss) available for common

$

(2,222,232

)

$

790,725

$

522,587

Adjustments for Dilutive Securities

—

—

—

Earnings (loss) for Dilutive Securities

$

(2,222,232

)

$

790,725

$

522,587

Weighted average common stock outstanding

382,051

342,952

337,832

Adjustments for Common Stock Equivalents

—



Weighted average Common Stock and Equivalents

382,051

343,742

338,111

Diluted earnings per share

$

(5.82

)

$

2.30

$

1.54

Incentive Stock Plans —

Xcel Energy and some of its subsidiaries have incentive
compensation plans under which stock options and other performance incentives
are awarded to key employees. The weighted average number of common and
potentially dilutive shares outstanding used to calculate our earnings per
share include the dilutive effect of stock options and other stock awards based
on the treasury stock method. The options normally have a term of 10 years and
generally become exercisable from three to five years after grant date or upon
specified circumstances. The tables
below include awards made by us and some of our predecessor companies, adjusted
for the merger stock exchange ratio, and are presented on an Xcel Energy share
basis.

Activity in stock options and performance awards were as follows for the years
ended Dec. 31:




Average

Average

Average

(Awards in Thousands)

Awards

Price

Awards

Price

Awards

Price

Outstanding beginning of year

15,214

$

25.65

14,259

$

25.35

8,490

$

25.12

Granted

—

—

2,581

25.98

6,980

25.31

Options adopted from NRG

3,328

29.97

—

—

—

—

Exercised

(112

)

20.27

(1,472

)

23.00

(453

)

20.33

Forfeited

(1,349

)

28.43

(142

)

27.08

(704

)

25.70

Expired

(100

)

28.87

(12

)

24.07

(54

)

22.62

Outstanding at end of year

16,981

26.29

15,214

25.65

14,259

25.35

Exercisable at end of year

8,993

24.78

7,154

24.78

8,221

24.46

Range of Exercise Prices

$ 11.50 to $25.50

$ 25.51 to $ 27.00

$ 27.01 to 63.60

Options outstanding:

Number outstanding

4,449,827

7,878,856

4,652,424

Weighted average remaining contractual
life (years)

4.7

7.3

7.4

Weighted average exercise price

$

19.87

$

26.29

$

32.44

Options exercisable:

Number exercisable

4,091,097

3,158,956

1,742,579

Weighted average exercise price

$

20.17

$

26.46

$

32.57



Certain employees also may be awarded restricted stock under our incentive
plans. We hold restricted stock until restrictions lapse, generally from two to
three years from the date of grant. We reinvest dividends on the shares we hold
while restrictions are in place. Restrictions also apply to the additional
shares acquired through dividend reinvestment. Restricted shares have
a value equal to the market trading price of Xcel Energy’s stock at
the grant date. We granted 50,083 restricted
shares in 2002 when the grant-date market price was $22.83, 21,774
restricted shares in 2001 when the grant-date
market price was $26.06 and 58,690 restricted shares
in 2000 when the grant-date market price was $19.25. Compensation expense related to these awards was immaterial.

The NCE/NSP merger was a “change in control” under the NSP incentive plan, so
all stock option and restricted stock awards under that plan became fully
vested and exercisable as of the merger date. The NCE/NSP merger was not a
“change in control” under the NCE incentive plans, so there was no accelerated
vesting of stock options issued under them. When NCE and NSP merged, each
outstanding NCE stock option was converted to 1.55 Xcel Energy options.

We apply Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 in accounting for our
stock-based compensation and, accordingly, no compensation cost is recognized
for the issuance of stock options as the exercise price of the options equals
the fair-market value of our common stock at the date of grant. If we had used
the SFAS No. 123 method of
accounting, earnings would have been the same for 2002 and reduced by approximately 1 cent per share for 2001 and 2 cents per share for 2000.

The weighted-average fair value of options granted,
and the assumptions used to estimate such fair value on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes Option Pricing Model were as follows:

2002*



Weighted-average
fair-value per option share at grant date

—

$2.13

$2.57

Expected option life

—

3 - 5 years

3 - 5 years

Stock volatility

—


%


%

Risk-free interest rate

—

3.8-4.8

%

5.3-6.5

%

Dividend yield

—

4.9-5.8

%

5.4-7.5

%

*There were no options granted in 2002.

Common Stock Dividends Per Share —

Historically, we have paid quarterly
dividends to our shareholders. For each quarter in 2001 and for the first two
quarters of 2002, we paid dividends to our shareholders of $0.375 per share.
In the third and fourth quarters of 2002, we paid dividends of $0.1875 per
share. In making the decision to reduce the dividend, the board of directors
considered several factors, including the goal of funding customer growth in
our core business through internal cash flow and reducing our reliance on debt
and equity financings. The board of directors also compared our dividend to
its utility earnings and to the dividend payout of comparable utilities.
Dividends on our common stock are paid as declared by our board of directors.

Dividend and Other Capital-Related Restrictions

— Under PUHCA, unless there is
an order from the SEC, a holding company or any subsidiary may only declare and
pay dividends out of retained earnings. Due to 2002 losses incurred by NRG,
retained earnings of Xcel Energy were a deficit of $101 million at Dec. 31,
2002 and, accordingly, dividends cannot be declared until
earnings in 2003 are sufficient to eliminate this deficit or Xcel
Energy is granted relief under the PUHCA. Xcel Energy has
requested authorization from the SEC to pay dividends out of paid-in capital up
to $260 million until Sept. 30, 2003. Xcel Energy did not declare a dividend on its Common Stock during the first quarter of 2003. It is not known when or if the SEC will
act on this request.

The Articles of Incorporation of Xcel Energy place restrictions on the amount
of common stock dividends it can pay when preferred stock is
outstanding. Under the provisions, dividend payments may be
restricted if Xcel Energy’s capitalization ratio (on a holding
company basis only,

i.e.

, not on a consolidated basis) is less
than 25 percent. For these purposes, the capitalization ratio is
equal to (i) common stock plus surplus divided by (ii) the sum of
common stock plus surplus plus long-term debt. Based on this
definition, our capitalization ratio at Dec. 31, 2002, was 85
percent. Therefore, the restrictions do not place any effective limit
on our ability to pay dividends because the restrictions are only
triggered when the capitalization ratio is less than 25 percent or
will be reduced to less than 25 percent through dividends (other than
dividends payable in common stock), distributions or acquisitions of
our common stock.

In addition, NSP-Minnesota’s first mortgage indenture places certain
restrictions on the amount of cash dividends it can pay to Xcel Energy, the
holder of its common stock. Even with these restrictions, NSP-Minnesota could
have paid more than $825 million in additional cash dividends on common stock
at Dec. 31, 2002.

Under PUHCA, Xcel Energy is also restricted from financing activities when its
common equity to total capitalization ratio is less than 30 percent. As a
result of significant asset impairments at NRG, Xcel Energy’s common equity
ratio fell below 30 percent during 2002. However, the SEC approved Xcel
Energy’s request to allow certain financing transactions through March 31,
2003, so long as its common equity ratio, as reported in its most recent
quarterly or annual report with the SEC and as adjusted for pending subsequent
items that affect capitalization, was at least 24 percent of its total
capitalization. At Dec. 31, 2002, and as adjusted for subsequent items that
affect capitalization, Xcel Energy’s common equity ratio was 23 percent of its
total capitalization. As a result, Xcel Energy could not finance at Dec. 31, 2002 absent SEC approval.

Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement

— In June 2001, Xcel Energy adopted a
Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement. Each share of Xcel Energy’s common
stock includes one shareholder protection right. Under the agreement’s
principal provision, if any person or group acquires 15 percent or more of Xcel
Energy’s outstanding common stock, all other shareholders of Xcel Energy would
be entitled to buy, for the exercise price of $95 per right, common stock of
Xcel Energy having a market value equal to twice the exercise price, thereby
substantially diluting the acquiring person’s or group’s investment. The
rights may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15


percent or more of Xcel Energy’s common stock. The rights should not interfere
with a transaction that is in the best interests of Xcel Energy and its
shareholders because the rights can be redeemed prior to a triggering event for
$0.01 per right.

13.     Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits

Xcel Energy offers various benefit plans to its benefit employees.
Approximately 51 percent of benefit employees are represented by several local
labor unions under several collective-bargaining agreements. At Dec. 31, 2002,
NSP-Minnesota had 2,246 and NSP-Wisconsin had 419 union employees covered under
a collective-bargaining agreement, which expires at the end of 2004. PSCo had
2,193 union employees covered under a collective-bargaining agreement, which
expires in May 2003. SPS had 757 union employees covered under a
collective-bargaining agreement, which expires in October 2005.

Pension Benefits

— Xcel Energy has several noncontributory, defined benefit
pension plans that cover almost all employees. Benefits are based on a
combination of years of service, the employee’s average pay and Social Security
benefits.

Xcel Energy’s policy is to fully fund into an external trust the actuarially
determined pension costs recognized for ratemaking and financial reporting
purposes, subject to the limitations of applicable employee benefit and tax
laws. Plan assets principally consist of the common stock of public companies,
corporate bonds and U.S. government securities. The target range for our
pension asset allocation is 75 to 80 percent with equity investments, 5 to 10
percent with fixed income investments, no cash investments and 10 to 15
percent with nontraditional investments (such as real estate and timber
ventures). At Dec. 31, 2002, the actual pension portfolio mix was 68 percent
equity, 16 percent fixed income, 4 percent cash investments and 12 percent
nontraditional investments.

A comparison of the actuarially computed pension benefit obligation and plan
assets, on a combined basis, is presented in the following table:



The discount rate and compensation increase assumptions above affect the
succeeding year’s pension costs. The rate of return assumption affects the
current year’s pension cost. The return assumption used for 2003 pension cost
calculations will be 9.25 percent. Pension costs include an expected return
impact for the current year that may differ from actual investment performance
in the plan. The cost calculation uses a market-related valuation of pension
assets, which reduces year-to-year volatility by recognizing the differences
between assumed and actual investment returns over a five-year period.

NRG also offers another noncontributory, defined benefit pension plan sponsored
by one of its affiliates. For the year ended Dec. 31, 2002, the total assets
of this plan were $20 million, and its benefit obligation was $30 million. The
pension liability recorded by NRG for this plan was $12 million, and its annual
pension cost was $2 million.

During 2002, one of Xcel Energy’s pension plans (other than the NRG plan just
described) became underfunded, with projected benefit obligations of $590
million exceeding plan assets of $452 million on Dec. 31, 2002. All other Xcel
Energy plans, excluding the NRG plan just described, in the aggregate had plan
assets of $2,188 million and projected benefit obligations of $1,916 million on
Dec. 31, 2002. A minimum pension liability of $107 million was recorded
related to the underfunded plan as of that date. A corresponding reduction in
Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (a component of Stockholders’ Equity)
was also recorded by Xcel Energy, as previously recorded prepaid pension assets
were reduced to record the minimum liability. Net of the related deferred
income tax effects of the adjustments, total Stockholders’ Equity was reduced
by $108 million at Dec. 31, 2002, due to the minimum pension liability for the
underfunded plan.

The components of net periodic pension cost (credit) are:

(Thousands of dollars)




Service cost

$

65,649

$

57,521

$

59,066

Interest cost

172,377

172,159

172,063

Expected return on plan assets

(339,932

)

(325,635

)

(292,580

)

Curtailment

—

1,121

—

Amortization of transition asset

(7,314

)

(7,314

)

(7,314

)

Amortization of prior service cost

22,663

20,835

19,197

Amortization of net gain

(69,264

)

(72,413

)

(60,676

)

Net periodic pension cost (credit) under SFAS No. 87

$

(155,821

)

$

(153,726

)

$

(110,244

)

Credits not recognized due to effects of regulation

71,928

76,509

49,697

Net benefit cost (credit) recognized for financial
reporting

$

(83,893

)

$

(77,217

)

$

(60,547

)

Xcel Energy also maintains noncontributory, defined benefit supplemental
retirement income plans for certain qualifying executive personnel. Benefits
for these unfunded plans are paid out of Xcel Energy’s operating cash flows.

Defined Contribution Plans

— Xcel Energy maintains 401(k) and other defined
contribution plans that cover substantially all employees. Total contributions
to these plans were approximately $23 million in 2002, $29 million in 2001 and
$24 million in 2000.

Until May 6, 2002, Xcel Energy had a leveraged employee stock ownership plan
(ESOP) that covered substantially all employees of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin. Xcel Energy made contributions to this noncontributory, defined
contribution plan to the extent it realized tax savings from dividends paid on
certain ESOP shares. ESOP contributions had no material effect on Xcel Energy
earnings because the contributions were essentially offset by the tax savings
provided by the dividends paid on ESOP shares. Xcel Energy allocated leveraged
ESOP shares to participants when it repaid ESOP loans with dividends on stock
held by the ESOP.

In May 2002, the ESOP was terminated and its assets were combined into the Xcel Energy
Retirement Savings 401(k) Plan. Starting with the 2003 plan year, the ESOP
component of the 401(k) Plan will no longer be leveraged.

Xcel Energy’s leveraged ESOP held no shares of Xcel Energy common stock at the
end of 2002, 10.7 million shares of Xcel Energy common stock at May 6, 2002,
10.5 million shares of Xcel Energy common stock at the end of 2001, and 12
million shares of Xcel Energy common stock at the end of 2000. Xcel Energy
excluded the following



average number of uncommitted leveraged ESOP shares from
earnings per share calculations: 0.7 million in 2002, 0.9 million in 2001 and
0.7 million in 2000. On Nov. 19, 2002, Xcel Energy paid off all of the ESOP
loans. All uncommitted ESOP shares were released and will be used by Xcel
Energy for the 2002 employer matching contribution to its 401(k) plan.

Postretirement Health Care Benefits

— Xcel Energy has contributory health and
welfare benefit plans that provide health care and death benefits to most Xcel
Energy retirees. The former NSP discontinued contributing toward health care
benefits for nonbargaining employees retiring after 1998 and for bargaining
employees of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin who retired after 1999. However,
employees of the former NCE who retired in 2002 continue to receive
employer-subsidized health care benefits. Employees of the former NSP who
retired after 1998 are eligible to participate in the Xcel Energy health care
program with no employer subsidy.

In conjunction with the 1993 adoption of SFAS No. 106 — “Employers’ Accounting
for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pension,” Xcel Energy elected to
amortize the unrecognized accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO)
on a straight-line basis over 20 years.

Regulatory agencies for nearly all of Xcel Energy’s retail and wholesale
utility customers have allowed rate recovery of accrued benefit costs under
SFAS No. 106. PSCo transitioned to full accrual accounting for SFAS No. 106
costs between 1993 and 1997, consistent with the accounting requirements for
rate-regulated enterprises. The Colorado jurisdictional SFAS No. 106 costs
deferred during the transition period are being amortized to expense on a
straight-line basis over the 15-year period from 1998 to 2012. NSP-Minnesota
also transitioned to full accrual accounting for SFAS No. 106 costs, with
regulatory differences fully amortized prior to 1997.

Certain state agencies that regulate Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries have
also issued guidelines related to the funding of SFAS No. 106 costs. SPS is
required to fund SFAS No. 106 costs for Texas and New Mexico jurisdictional
amounts collected in rates, and PSCo is required to fund SFAS No. 106 costs in
irrevocable external trusts that are dedicated to the payment of these
postretirement benefits. Minnesota and Wisconsin retail regulators required
external funding of accrued SFAS No. 106 costs to the extent such funding is
tax advantaged. Plan assets held in external funding trusts principally
consist of investments in equity mutual funds, fixed-income securities and cash
equivalents.

A comparison of the actuarially computed benefit obligation and plan assets for
Xcel Energy postretirement health care plans that benefit employees of its
utility subsidiaries is presented in the following table.



The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2002 for most Xcel Energy plans is
approximately 8 percent, decreasing gradually to 5.5 percent in 2007 and
remaining level thereafter. The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2002
for plans of four of NRG’s affiliates is approximately 12 percent, decreasing
gradually to 5.5 percent in 2009 and remaining level thereafter. A 1-percent
change in the assumed health care cost trend rate would have the following
effects:

(Thousands of dollars)

1-percent increase in APBO components at Dec. 31, 2002

$

79,028

1-percent decrease in APBO components at Dec. 31, 2002

(65,755

)

1-percent increase in service and interest components of the net periodic cost

6,285

1-percent decrease in service and interest components of the net periodic cost

(5,181

)

The components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost are:

(Thousands of dollars)




Service cost

$

7,173

$

6,160

$

5,679

Interest cost

50,135

46,579

43,477

Expected return on plan assets

(21,030

)

(18,920

)

(17,902

)

Amortization of transition obligation

16,771

16,771

16,773

Amortization of prior service cost (credit)

(1,130

)

(1,235

)

(1,211

)

Amortization of net loss (gain)

5,380

1,457


Net periodic postretirement benefit cost (credit)
under SFAS No. 106

57,299

50,812

47,731

Additional cost recognized due to effects of regulation

4,043

3,738

6,641

Net cost recognized for financial reporting

$

61,342

$

54,550

$

54,372

14.     Equity Investments

Xcel Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries have investments in various
international and domestic energy projects, and domestic affordable housing and
real estate projects. We use the equity method of accounting for such
investments in



affiliates, which include joint ventures and partnerships,
because the ownership structure prevents Xcel Energy from exercising a
controlling influence over the operating and financial policies of the
projects. Under this method, Xcel Energy records its portion of the earnings
or losses of unconsolidated affiliates as equity earnings.

A summary of Xcel Energy’s significant equity method investments is listed in
the following table:

Xcel Energy

Geographic

Dec. 31, 2002

Name

Entity Form

Owner Functions

Area

Economic Interest

Loy Yang Power A

Partnership

None

Australia

25.37

%

Gladstone Power Station

Joint Venture

Operator

Australia

37.50

%

MIBRAG GmbH

Partnership

None

Europe

50.00

%

West Coast Power

Partnership

Operator

USA

50.00

%

Lanco Kondapalli Power (1)

Partnership

Operator

India

30.00

%

Rocky Road Power

Partnership

Operator

USA

50.00

%

Schkopau

Tenants in Common

None

Europe

41.67

%

ECK Generating (1)

Partnership

Operator

Czech Republic

USA

44.50

%

Commonwealth Atlantic

Mustang

Joint Venture

None

USA

25.00

%

Quixx Linden L.P.

General/Limited Partnership

Operator

USA

50.00

%

Borger Energy L.P.

General/Limited Partnership

Operator

USA

45.00

%

Various Affordable

Housing Limited

Partnerships

Limited Partnerships

Various

USA

20.00% - 99.99

%

(1) Pending disposition at Dec. 31, 2002.

The following table summarizes financial information for these projects,
including interests owned by Xcel Energy and other parties for the years ended
Dec. 31:

Results of Operations

(Millions of Dollars)




Operating revenues

$

2,516

$

3,583

$

4,664

Operating income (loss)




Net income (loss)




Xcel Energy’s equity earnings of unconsolidated affiliates




Financial Position



West Coast Power

— In 2001, Xcel Energy had a significant investment in West
Coast Power, LLC (through NRG), as defined by applicable SEC regulations, and
accounts for its investments using the equity method. The following is
summarized pretax financial information for West Coast Power:

Results of Operations

(Millions of Dollars)


Operating revenues

$

1,562

Operating income (loss)


Net income (loss)


Financial Position

Yorkshire Power

— During February 2001, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to
sell the majority of its investment in Yorkshire Power to Innogy Holdings plc.
As a result of this sales agreement, Xcel Energy did not record any equity
earnings from Yorkshire Power after January 2001. In April 2001, Xcel Energy
closed the sale of Yorkshire Power. Xcel Energy had retained an interest of
approximately 5.25-percent in Yorkshire Power to comply with
pooling-of-interests accounting requirements associated with the merger of NSP
and NCE in 2000. Xcel Energy received approximately $366 million for the sale,
which approximated the book value of Xcel Energy’s investment.
On Aug. 28,
2002, Xcel Energy sold its remaining 5.25-percent interest in Yorkshire Power
at slightly less than book value.

15.     Extraordinary Items

SPS

—  In the second quarter of 2000, SPS discontinued regulatory accounting under
SFAS No. 71 for the generation portion of its business due to the issuance of a
written order by the Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) in May 2000,
addressing the implementation of electric utility restructuring. SPS’
transmission and distribution business continued to meet the requirements of
SFAS No. 71, as that business was expected to remain regulated. During the
second quarter of 2000, SPS wrote off its generation-related regulatory assets
and other deferred costs totaling approximately $19.3 million. This resulted in
an after-tax extraordinary charge of approximately $13.7 million. During the
third quarter of 2000, SPS recorded an extraordinary charge of $8.2 million
before tax, or $5.3 million after tax, related to the tender offer and
defeasance of first mortgage bonds. The first mortgage bonds were defeased to
facilitate the legal separation of generation, transmission and distribution
assets, which was expected to eventually occur in 2001 under restructuring
requirements in effect in 2000.

In March 2001, the state of New Mexico enacted legislation that amended its
Electric Utility Restructuring Act of 1999 and delayed customer choice until
2007. SPS has requested recovery of its costs incurred to prepare for customer
choice in New Mexico. A decision on this and other matters is pending before
the New Mexico Public Regulation Commission. SPS expects to receive future
regulatory recovery of these costs.

In June 2001, the governor of Texas signed legislation postponing the
deregulation and restructuring of SPS until at least 2007. This legislation
amended the 1999 legislation, Senate Bill No. 7 (SB-7), which provided for
retail electric competition beginning in Texas in January 2002. Under the
amended legislation, prior PUCT orders issued in connection with the
restructuring of SPS are considered null and void. In addition, under the new
legislation, SPS is entitled to recover all reasonable and necessary
expenditures made or incurred before Sept. 1, 2001, to comply with SB-7.



As a result of these recent legislative developments, SPS reapplied the
provisions of SFAS No. 71 for its generation business during the second quarter
of 2001. More than 95 percent of SPS’ retail electric revenues are from
operations in Texas and New Mexico. Because of the delays to electric
restructuring passed by Texas and New Mexico, SPS’ previous plans to implement
restructuring, including the divestiture of generation assets, have been
abandoned. Accordingly, SPS will now continue to be subject to rate regulation
under traditional cost-of-service regulation, consistent with its past
accounting and ratemaking practices for the foreseeable future, at least until
2007.

During the fourth quarter of 2001, SPS completed a $500-million, medium-term
debt financing with the proceeds used to reduce short-term borrowings that had
resulted from the 2000 defeasance. In its regulatory filings and
communications, SPS proposed to amortize its defeasance costs over the
five-year life of the refinancing, consistent with historical ratemaking, and
has requested incremental rate recovery of $25 million of other restructuring
costs in Texas and New Mexico. These nonfinancing restructuring costs have
been deferred and are being amortized consistent with rate recovery. Based on
these 2001 events, management’s expectation of rate recovery of prudently
incurred costs and the corresponding reduced uncertainty surrounding the
financial impacts of the delay in restructuring, SPS restored certain
regulatory assets totaling $17.6 million as of Dec. 31, 2001, and reported
related after-tax extraordinary income of $11.8 million, or 3 cents per share.
Regulatory assets previously written off in 2000 were restored only for items
currently being recovered in rates and items where future rate recovery is
considered probable.

PSCo

— During 2001, PSCo’s subsidiary, 1480 Welton, Inc. redeemed its long term debt and in doing so incurred
redemption premiums and other costs of $2.5 million or $1.5 million or $1.5 million after tax. These items are reported
as an extraordinary item on Xcel Energy’s Consolidated Statement of Operations.

16.     Financial Instruments

Fair Values

The estimated Dec. 31 fair values of Xcel Energy’s recorded financial
instruments are:



(Thousands of dollars)

Carrying Amount

Fair Value

Carrying Amount

Fair Value

Mandatorily
redeemable preferred
securities of
subsidiary trusts

$

494,000

$

463,348

$

494,000

$

486,270

Long-term investments

653,208

651,443

619,976

620,703

Notes receivable,
including current
portion

996,167

996,167

782,079

782,079

Long-term debt,
including current
portion

14,306,509

12,172,059

11,948,527

11,955,741

The carrying amount of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
approximates fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments. The
fair values of Xcel Energy’s long-term investments, mainly debt securities in
an external nuclear decommissioning fund, are estimated based on quoted market
prices for those or similar investments. The fair value of notes receivable is
based on expected future cash flows discounted at market interest rates. The
balance in notes receivable consists primarily of fixed rate, from 4.75 to 19.5
percent, and variable rate notes that mature between 2003 and 2024. Notes
receivable include a $366-million direct financing lease related to a long-term
sales agreement for NRG Energy’s Schkopau project, and other notes related to
projects at NRG Energy that are generally secured by equity interests in
partnerships and joint ventures. The fair value of Xcel Energy’s long-term debt
and the mandatorily redeemable preferred securities are estimated based on the
quoted market prices for the same or similar issues, or the current rates for
debt of the same remaining maturities and credit quality.

The fair value estimates presented are based on information available to
management as of Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001. These fair value estimates have not
been comprehensively revalued for purposes of these Consolidated Financial
Statements since that date, and current estimates of fair values may differ
significantly from the amounts presented herein.



Guarantees

Xcel Energy provides various guarantees and bond indemnities supporting certain
of its subsidiaries. The guarantees issued by Xcel Energy guarantee payment or
performance by its subsidiaries under specified agreements or transactions. As
a result, Xcel Energy’s exposure under the guarantees is based upon the net
liability of the relevant subsidiary under the specified agreements or
transactions. Most of the guarantees issued by Xcel Energy limit the exposure
of Xcel Energy to a maximum amount stated in the guarantees. Unless otherwise
indicated below, the guarantees require no liability to be recorded, contain no
recourse provisions and require no collateral. On Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy
had the following amount of guarantee and exposure under these guarantees:

Triggering Event

Assets Held as

Guarantee Amount

Current Exposure

Term or Expiration

Requiring

Collateral ($

Nature of Guarantee

Guarantor

($ Millions)

($ Millions)

Date

Performance

Millions)

Guarantee
performance and
payment of surety
bonds for itself
and its
subsidiaries

Xcel Energy (d)

$

342.7

$

5.6

2003, 2004, 2005,
2007 and 2012

(b)

$10.0

Guarantee
performance and
payment of surety
bonds for those
subsidiaries

Various

subsidiaries (e)

$

493.8

$

116.0

2003, 2004 and 2005

(b)

N/A

Guarantees made to
facilitate e
prime’s natural
gas acquisition,
marketing and
trading operations

Xcel Energy

$

264.0

$

88.0

Continuous

(a)

N/A

Guarantees for NRG
liabilities associated with power marketing
obligations, fuel
purchasing
transactions and
hedging activities

Xcel Energy

$

219.5

$

96.3

Latest expiration
is Dec. 31, 2003

(a)

N/A

Guarantee of payments of
notes issued by Guardian Pipeline,
LLC, of which Viking is
one of three partners

Xcel Energy

$


$


Terminated Jan 17,

(a)

N/A

Two guarantees
benefiting Cheyenne
to guarantee the
payment obligations
under gas and power
purchase
agreements

Xcel Energy

$

26.5

$

1.7

2011 and 2013

(a)

N/A



Triggering Event

Assets Held as

Guarantee Amount

Current Exposure

Term or Expiration

Requiring

Collateral ($

Nature of Guarantee

Guarantor

($ Millions)

($ Millions)

Date

Performance

Millions)

Construction
contract
performance
guarantee of
Utility Engineering
subsidiaries

Xcel Energy

$

25.0

$

25.0

July 1, 2003

(c)

N/A

Guarantee for
obligations of a
customer in
connection with an
electric sale
agreement

SPS (f)

$

17.7

$

11.0

September 2003

(a)

Electric

transmission system

Guarantees related
to energy
conservation
projects in which
Planergy has
guaranteed certain
energy savings to
the customer

Xcel Energy

$

26.7

$

26.7

Expired Jan. 1, 2003

N/A

N/A

Guarantee for
payments related to
energy or financial
transactions for
XERS Inc., a
nonregulated
subsidiary of Xcel
Energy

Xcel Energy

$

11.1

$

4.1

Continuous

(a)

N/A

Guarantee of
collection of
receivables sold to
a third party

NSP-Minnesota

$

6.2

$

6.2

Latest expiration

in 2007

(a)

Security interest

in underlying

receivable

agreements

Combination of
guarantees
benefiting various
Xcel Energy
subsidiaries

Xcel Energy

$

16.4

$

5.4

Continuous

(a)

N/A

(a)

Nonperformance and/or nonpayment

(b)

Failure of Xcel Energy or one of its subsidiaries to perform under
the agreement that is the subject of the relevant bond. In addition,
per the indemnity agreement between Xcel Energy and the various surety
companies, the surety companies have the discretion to demand that
collateral be posted.

(c)

Failure to meet emission compliance at relevant facility.

(d)

$5.6-million exposure is related to $265 million of performance
bonds associated with a single construction project in which Utility
Engineering is participating. On Dec. 31, 2002 this project was 93
percent complete, and is expected to be fully complete in April 2003.
An estimate of exposure for the remaining bonds cannot be determined as
these are largely bonds posted for the benefit of various
municipalities relating to the normal course of business activities.



(e)

$116-million exposure is related to $491 million of performance
bonds associated with three construction projects in which Utility
Engineering is participating. An estimate of exposure for the
remaining bonds cannot be determined as these are largely bonds posted
for the benefit of various municipalities relating to the normal course
of business activities. Xcel Energy is not obligated under these
agreements.

(f)

SPS would hold title to the collateral and would not be required to
transfer the ownership of the additional transmission related
facilities to the customer. SPS would also have access to the customer
sinking fund account, which is approximately $6.7 million.

Xcel Energy may be required to provide credit enhancements in the form of cash
collateral, letters of credit or other security to satisfy part or potentially
all of these exposures, in the event that Standard & Poor’s or Moody’s
downgrade Xcel Energy’s credit rating below investment grade. In the event of a
downgrade, Xcel Energy would expect to meet its collateral obligations with a
combination of cash on hand and, upon receipt of an SEC order permitting such
actions, utilization of credit facilities and the issuance of securities in the
capital markets.

NRG is directly liable for the obligations of certain of its project affiliates
and other subsidiaries pursuant to guarantees relating to certain of their
indebtedness, equity and operating obligations. In addition, in connection
with the purchase and sale of fuel emission credits and power generation
products to and from third parties with respect to the operation of some of
NRG’s generation facilities in the United States, NRG may be required to
guarantee a portion of the obligations of certain of its subsidiaries. As of
Dec. 31, 2002, NRG’s obligations pursuant to its guarantees of the performance,
equity and indebtedness obligations of its subsidiaries totaled approximately
$374.0 million.

In addition, Xcel Energy provides indemnity protection for bonds issued for
itself and its subsidiaries. The total amount of bonds with this indemnity
outstanding as of Dec. 31, 2002, was approximately $342.7 million, of which
$6.4 million relates to NRG. The total exposure of this indemnification cannot
be determined at this time. Xcel Energy believes the exposure to be
significantly less than the total indemnification.

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The following discussion briefly describes the derivatives of Xcel Energy and
its subsidiaries and discloses the respective fair values at Dec. 31, 2002 and
2001. For more detailed information regarding derivative financial instruments
and the related risks, see Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Interest Rate Swaps —

On Dec. 31, 2002, NRG Energy had interest rate swaps
outstanding with a notional amount of approximately $1.7 billion. The fair
value of those swaps on Dec. 31, 2002, was a liability of approximately $41
million. Other subsidiaries of Xcel Energy also had interest rate swaps
outstanding with
 a notional amount of approximately $100 million, and a fair
value that was a liability of approximately $12 million, at Dec. 31, 2002.

As of Dec. 31, 2001, Xcel Energy had several interest rate swaps converting
project financing from variable-rate debt to fixed-rate debt with a notional
amount of approximately $2.5 billion. The fair value of the swaps as of Dec.
31, 2001, was a liability of approximately $92 million.

Electric Trading Operations —

Xcel Energy participates in the trading of
electricity as a commodity. This trading includes forward contracts, futures
and options. Xcel Energy makes purchases and sales at existing market points
or combines purchases with available transmission to make sales at other market
points. Options and hedges are used to either minimize the risks associated
with market prices, or to profit from price volatility related to our purchase
and sale commitments.

Beginning with the third quarter of 2002, Xcel Energy has presented the results
of its electric trading activity using the net accounting method. The
Consolidated Statements of Operations for 2001 and 2000 have been reclassified to be
consistent. In earlier presentations, the gross accounting method was used.
All financial derivative contracts and contracts that do not include physical
delivery are recorded at the amount of the gain or loss received from the
contract. The mark-to-market adjustments for these transactions are
appropriately reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in Electric and
Gas Trading Revenues.



Regulated Operations —

Xcel Energy’s regulated energy marketing operation uses
a combination of electricity and natural gas purchase for resale futures and
forward contracts, along with physical supply, to hedge market risks in the
energy market. At Dec. 31, 2002, the notional value of these contracts was
approximately $(64.3) million. The fair value of these contracts as of Dec. 31,
2002, was an asset of approximately $33.3 million.

Nonregulated Operations —

Xcel Energy’s nonregulated operations use a
combination of energy futures and forward contracts, along with physical
supply, to hedge market risks in the energy market. At Dec. 31, 2002, the
notional value of these contracts was approximately $253.8 million. The fair
value of these contracts as of Dec. 31, 2002, was an asset of
approximately $69.3 million.

Foreign Currency —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have two foreign currency
swaps to hedge or protect foreign currency denominated cash flows. At Dec. 31,
2002 and 2001, the net notional amount of these contracts was approximately
$3.0 million and $46.3 million, respectively. The fair value of these contracts
as of Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, was a liability of approximately $0.3 million and
$2.4 million, respectively.

Letters of Credit

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries use letters of credit, generally with terms of
one or two years, to provide financial guarantees for certain operating
obligations. In addition, NRG uses letters of credit for nonregulated equity
commitments, collateral for credit agreements, fuel purchase and operating
commitments, and bids on development projects. At Dec. 31, 2002, there were
$154.6 million in letters of credit outstanding, including $110.0 million
related to NRG commitments. The contract amounts of these letters of credit
approximate their fair value and are subject to fees determined in the
marketplace.

17.     Derivative Valuation and Financial Impacts

Use of Derivatives to Manage Risk

Business and Operational Risk —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to
commodity price risk in their generation, retail distribution and energy
trading operations. In certain jurisdictions, purchased power expenses and
natural gas costs are recovered on a dollar-for-dollar basis. However, in
other jurisdictions, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to market
price risk for the purchase and sale of electric energy and natural gas. In
such jurisdictions, we recover purchased power expenses and natural gas costs
based on fixed price limits or under established sharing mechanisms.

Commodity price risk is managed by entering into purchase and sales commitments
for electric power and natural gas, long-term contracts for coal supplies and
fuel oil, and derivative financial instruments. Xcel Energy’s risk management
policy allows us to manage the market price risk within each rate-regulated
operation to the extent such exposure exists. Management is limited under the
policy to enter into only transactions that manage market price risk where the
rate regulation jurisdiction does not already provide for dollar-for-dollar
recovery. One exception to this policy exists in which we use various physical
contracts and derivative instruments to reduce the cost of natural
gas and electricity we provide to our retail customers even though the regulatory jurisdiction
provides dollar-for-dollar recovery of



actual costs. In these instances, the use of
derivative instruments and physical contracts is done consistently
with the local jurisdictional cost recovery mechanism.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to market price risk for the sale
of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources, including coal, natural
gas and fuel oil used to generate the electric energy within its nonregulated
operations. Xcel Energy manages this market price risk by entering into firm
power sales agreements for approximately 55 to 75 percent of its electric
capacity and energy from each generation facility, using contracts with terms
ranging from one to 25 years. In addition, we manage the market price risk
covering the fuel resource requirements to provide the electric energy by
entering into purchase commitments and derivative instruments for coal, natural
gas and fuel oil as needed to meet fixed-priced electric energy requirements.
Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows us to manage the market price risks
and provides guidelines for the level of price risk exposure that is acceptable
within our operations.

Xcel Energy is exposed to market price risk for the sale of electric energy and
the purchase of fuel resources used to generate the electric energy from our
equity method investments that own electric operations. Xcel Energy manages
this market price risk through our involvement with the management committee or
board of directors of each of these ventures. Our risk management policy does
not cover the activities conducted by the ventures. However, other policies are
adopted by the ventures as necessary and mandated by the equity owners.

Interest Rate Risk

— Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are exposed to
fluctuations in interest rates where we enter into variable rate debt
obligations to fund certain power projects being developed or purchased.
Exposure to interest rate fluctuations may be mitigated by entering into
derivative instruments known as interest rate swaps, caps, collars and put or
call options. These contracts reduce exposure to the volatility of
cash flows for interest and
result in primarily fixed-rate debt obligations when taking into account the
combination of the variable rate debt and the interest rate derivative
instrument. Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows us to reduce interest
rate exposure from variable rate debt obligations.

Currency Exchange Risk

— Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have certain
investments in foreign countries exposing us to foreign currency exchange risk.
The foreign currency exchange risk includes the risk relative to the recovery
of our net investment in a project, as well as the risk relative to the
earnings and cash flows generated from such operations. Xcel Energy manages
its exposure to changes in foreign currency by entering into derivative
instruments as determined by management. Our risk management policy provides
for this risk management activity.

Trading Risk

— Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct various trading
operations and power marketing activities ,including the purchase and sale of
electric capacity and energy and natural gas. The trading operations are
conducted both in the United States and Europe with primary focus on specific
market regions where trading knowledge and experience have been obtained. Xcel
Energy’s risk management policy allows management to conduct the trading
activity within approved guidelines and limitations as approved by our risk
management committee made up of management personnel not involved in the
trading operations.

Derivatives as Hedges

2001 Accounting Change —

On Jan. 1, 2001, Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries
adopted SFAS No. 133

-

“Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities.” This statement requires that all derivative instruments as
defined by SFAS No. 133 be recorded on the balance sheet at fair value unless
exempted. Changes in a derivative instrument’s fair value must be recognized
currently in earnings unless the derivative has been designated in a qualifying
hedging relationship. The application of hedge accounting allows a derivative
instrument’s gains and losses to offset related results of the hedged item in
the statement of operations, to the extent effective. SFAS No. 133 requires that the
hedging relationship be highly effective and that a company formally designate
a hedging relationship to apply hedge accounting.

A fair value hedge requires that the effective portion of the change in the
fair value of a derivative instrument be offset against the change in the fair
value of the underlying asset, liability or firm commitment being hedged. That
is, fair value hedge accounting allows the offsetting gain or loss on the
hedged item to be reported in an earlier period to offset the gain or loss on
the derivative instrument. A cash flow hedge requires that the effective
portion of the change in the fair value of a derivative instrument be
recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, and reclassified into earnings in the
same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
The ineffective portion of a derivative instrument’s change in fair value is
recognized currently in earnings.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries formally document hedge relationships,
including, among other things, the identification of the hedging instrument and
the hedged transaction, as well as the risk management objectives and
strategies for undertaking the hedged transaction. Derivatives are recorded in
the balance sheet at fair value. Xcel



Energy and its subsidiaries also formally
assess, both at inception and at least quarterly thereafter, whether the
derivative instruments being used are highly effective in offsetting changes in
either the fair value or cash flows of the hedged items.

Financial Impacts of Derivatives

The impact of the components of SFAS No. 133 on Xcel Energy’s Other
Comprehensive Income, included in Stockholders’ Equity, are detailed in the
following table:

(Millions of Dollars)

Net unrealized transition loss at adoption, Jan. 1, 2001

$

(28.8

)

After-tax net unrealized gains related to derivatives accounted for as hedges

43.6

After-tax net realized losses on derivative transactions reclassified into earnings

19.4

Accumulated other comprehensive income related to SFAS No. 133 at Dec. 31, 2001

$

34.2

After-tax net unrealized losses related to derivatives accounted for as hedges

(68.3

)

After-tax
net realized losses on derivative transactions reclassified into earnings

28.8

Acquisition of NRG minority interest

27.4

Accumulated other comprehensive income related to SFAS No. 133 at Dec. 31, 2002

$

22.1

Xcel Energy records the fair value of its derivative instruments in its
Consolidated Balance Sheet as a separate line item noted as ‘Derivative
Instruments Valuation’ for assets and liabilities, as well as current and
noncurrent.

Cash Flow Hedges —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into derivative
instruments to manage exposure to changes in commodity prices. These
derivative instruments take the form of fixed-price, floating-price or index
sales, or purchases and options, such as puts, calls and swaps. These
derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges for accounting
purposes, and the changes in the fair value of these instruments are recorded
as a component of Other Comprehensive Income. At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy
had various commodity-related contracts extending through 2018.
Amounts deferred in Other Comprehensive Income are recorded as the hedged purchase or sales transaction
is completed. This could include the physical sale of electric energy or the
use of natural gas to generate electric energy. Xcel Energy expects to
reclassify into earnings during 2003 net gains from Other Comprehensive Income
of approximately $12.9 million.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into interest rate swap instruments that
effectively fix the interest payments on certain floating rate debt
obligations. These derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges
for accounting purposes, and the change in the fair value of these instruments
is recorded as a component of Other Comprehensive Income. Xcel Energy expects
to reclassify into earnings during 2003 net losses from Other Comprehensive
Income of approximately $13.4 million.

Hedge effectiveness is recorded based on the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging transactions for the sales of electric energy are recorded as a
component of revenue, hedging transactions for fuel used in energy generation
are recorded as a component of fuel costs, and hedging transactions for
interest rate swaps is recorded as a component of interest expense.



Hedges of Foreign Currency Exposure of a Net Investment
in Foreign Operations —

To preserve the U.S. dollar value of projected foreign
currency cash flows, Xcel Energy, through NRG, may hedge, or protect those cash
flows if appropriate foreign hedging instruments are available.

Derivatives Not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting —

Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries have trading operations that enter into derivative instruments.
These derivative instruments are accounted for on a mark-to-market basis in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. All derivative instruments are
recorded at the amount of the gain or loss from the transaction within
Operating Revenues on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

Normal Purchases or Normal Sales —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into
fixed-price contracts for the purchase and sale of various commodities for use
in its business operations. SFAS No. 133 requires a company to evaluate these
contracts to determine whether the contracts are derivatives. Certain
contracts that literally meet the definition of a derivative may be exempted
from SFAS No. 133 as normal purchases or normal sales. Normal purchases and
normal sales are contracts that provide for the purchase or sale of something
other than a financial instrument or derivative instrument that will be
delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable period in
the normal course of business. Contracts that meet the requirements of normal
are documented as normal and exempted from the accounting and reporting
requirements of SFAS No. 133.

Xcel Energy evaluates all of its contracts within the regulated and
nonregulated operations when such contracts are entered to determine if they
are derivatives and if so, if they qualify and meet the normal designation
requirements under SFAS No. 133. None of the contracts entered into within the
trading operation are considered normal.

Normal purchases and normal sales contracts are accounted for as executory
contracts as required under other generally accepted accounting principles.

18.     Commitments and Contingencies

Commitments

Legislative Resource Commitments —

In 1994, NSP-Minnesota received Minnesota
legislative approval for additional on-site temporary spent fuel storage
facilities at its Prairie Island nuclear power plant, provided NSP-Minnesota
satisfies certain requirements. Seventeen dry cask containers were approved. As
of Dec. 31, 2002, NSP-Minnesota had loaded 17 of the containers. The Minnesota
Legislature established several energy resource and other commitments for
NSP-Minnesota to obtain the Prairie Island temporary nuclear fuel storage
facility approval. These commitments can be met by building, purchasing or, in
the case of biomass, converting generation resources.

Other commitments established by the Legislature included a discount for
low-income electric customers, required conservation improvement expenditures
and various study and reporting requirements to a legislative electric energy
task force. NSP-Minnesota has implemented programs to meet the legislative
commitments. NSP-Minnesota’s capital commitments include the known effects of
the Prairie Island legislation. The impact of the legislation on future power
purchase commitments and other operating expenses is not yet determinable.



See additional discussion of the current operating contingency related to the
spent fuel storage facilities under Operating Contingency.

Capital Commitments —

As discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources under
Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the estimated cost, as of Dec. 31, 2002,
of the capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries and
other capital requirements is approximately $1.5 billion in
2003, $1.2 billion
in 2004 and $1.3 billion in 2005.

The capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy are subject to continuing
review and modification. Actual utility construction expenditures may vary
from the estimates due to changes in electric and natural gas projected load
growth, the desired reserve margin and the availability of purchased power, as
well as alternative plans for meeting Xcel Energy’s long-term energy needs. In
addition, Xcel Energy’s ongoing evaluation of merger, acquisition and
divestiture opportunities to support corporate strategies, address
restructuring requirements and comply with future requirements to install
emission-control equipment may impact actual capital requirements.

Support and Capital Subscription Agreement —

In May 2002, Xcel Energy and NRG
entered into a support and capital subscription agreement pursuant to which
Xcel Energy agreed under certain circumstances to provide up to $300 million to
NRG. Xcel Energy has not to date provided funds to NRG under this agreement.
However, Xcel Energy is willing to make a contribution of $300 million if the
restructuring plan discussed earlier is approved by the creditors. See
additional discussion of NRG restructuring at Note 4.

Leases —

Our subsidiaries lease a variety of equipment and facilities used in
the normal course of business. Some of these leases qualify as capital leases
and are accounted for accordingly. The capital leases expire between 2002 and
2025. The net book value of property under capital leases was approximately
$624 million and $605 million at Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, respectively. Assets
acquired under capital leases are recorded as property at the lower of
fair-market value or the present value of future lease payments and are
amortized over their actual contract term in accordance with practices allowed
by regulators. The related obligation is classified as long-term debt.
Executory costs are excluded from the minimum lease payments.

The remainder of the leases, primarily real estate leases and leases of
coal-hauling railcars, trucks, cars and power-operated equipment are accounted
for as operating leases. Rental expense under operating lease obligations was
approximately $86 million, $58 million and $56 million for 2002, 2001 and 2000,
respectively.

Future commitments under operating and capital leases are:

(Millions of dollars)

Operating Leases

Capital Leases


$


$














Thereafter


1,030

Total minimum obligation

$

1,419

Interest

(795

)

Present value of minimum obligation

$


Technology Agreement —

We have a contract that extends through 2011 with
International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) for information technology
services. The contract is cancelable at our option, although there are
financial penalties for early termination. In 2002, we paid IBM $131.9 million
under the contract and $26 million for other project business. The contract
also commits us to pay a minimum amount each year from 2002 through 2011.

Fuel Contracts —

Xcel Energy has contracts providing for the purchase and
delivery of a significant portion of its current coal, nuclear fuel and natural
gas requirements. These contracts expire in various years between 2003 and
2025. In total, Xcel Energy is committed to the minimum purchase of
approximately $2.3 billion of coal, $122.2 million of
nuclear fuel and $1.6
billion of natural gas including $1.2 billion of natural gas storage and
transportation, or to make payments in lieu thereof, under these contracts. In
addition, Xcel Energy is required to pay additional amounts depending on actual
quantities shipped under these agreements. Xcel Energy’s risk of loss, in the
form of increased costs, from market price changes in fuel is mitigated through
the cost-of-energy adjustment provision of the ratemaking process, which
provides for recovery of most fuel costs.

Purchased Power Agreements —

The utility and nonregulated subsidiaries of Xcel
Energy have entered into agreements with utilities and other energy suppliers
for purchased power to meet system load and energy requirements, replace



generation from company-owned units under maintenance and during outages, and
meet operating reserve obligations. NSP-Minnesota, PSCo, SPS and certain
nonregulated subsidiaries have various pay-for-performance contracts with
expiration dates through the year 2050. In general, these contracts provide for
capacity payments, subject to meeting certain contract obligations, and energy
payments based on actual power taken under the contracts. Most of the capacity
and energy costs are recovered through base rates and other cost-recovery
mechanisms.

NSP-Minnesota has a 500-megawatt participation power purchase commitment with
Manitoba Hydro, which expires in 2005. The cost of this agreement is based on
80 percent of the costs of owning and operating NSP-Minnesota’s Sherco 3
generating plant, adjusted to 1993 dollars. This agreement was
extended through a new agreement during 2002 to include the period starting May 2005 through April 2015. The cost of
the agreement for this extended period is based on a base price, which was
established from May 2001 through April 2002 and will be escalated by the
change in the United States Gross National Product to reflect the current year.
In addition, NSP-Minnesota and Manitoba Hydro have seasonal diversity exchange
agreements, and there are no capacity payments for the diversity exchanges.
These commitments represent about 17 percent of Manitoba Hydro’s system
capacity and account for approximately 9 percent of NSP-Minnesota’s 2002
electric system capability. The risk of loss from nonperformance by Manitoba
Hydro is not considered significant, and the risk of loss from market price
changes is mitigated through cost-of-energy rate adjustments.

At Dec. 31, 2002, the estimated future payments for capacity that the utility
and nonregulated subsidiaries of Xcel Energy are obligated to purchase, subject
to availability, are as follows:

(Thousands of dollars)

Total


$

528,978


548,173


549,261


540,245

2007 and thereafter

5,067,551

Total

$

7,234,208

Environmental Contingencies

We are subject to regulations covering air and water quality, land use, the
storage of natural gas and the storage and disposal of hazardous or toxic
wastes. We continuously assess our compliance. Regulations, interpretations and
enforcement policies can change, which may impact the cost of building and
operating our facilities. This includes NRG, which is subject to regional,
federal and international environmental regulation.

Site Remediation —

We must pay all or a portion of the cost to remediate sites
where past activities of our subsidiaries and some other parties have caused
environmental contamination. At Dec. 31, 2002, there were three categories of
sites:

•

third-party sites, such as landfills, to which we are alleged to be
a potentially responsible party (PRP) that sent hazardous materials and
wastes;

•

the site of a former federal uranium enrichment facility; and

•

sites of former manufactured gas plants (MGPs) operated by our subsidiaries or predecessors.

We record a liability when we have enough information to develop an estimate of
the cost of environmental remediation and revise the estimate as information is
received. The estimated remediation cost may vary materially.

To estimate the cost to remediate these sites, we may have to make assumptions
when facts are not fully known. For instance, we might make assumptions about
the nature and extent of site contamination, the extent of required cleanup
efforts, costs of alternative cleanup methods and pollution-control
technologies, the period over which remediation will be performed and paid for,
changes in environmental remediation and pollution-control requirements, the
potential effect of technological improvements, the number and financial
strength of other PRPs and the identification of new environmental cleanup
sites.

We revise our estimates as facts become known but, at Dec. 31, 2002, our
liability for the cost of remediating sites, including NRG, for which an estimate was possible
was $49 million, of which $11 million was considered to be a current liability.
Some of the cost of remediation may be recovered from:

•

insurance coverage;

•

other parties that have contributed to the contamination; and

•

customers.

Neither the total remediation cost nor the final method of cost allocation
among all PRPs of the unremediated sites has been determined. We have recorded
estimates of our share of future costs for these sites. We are not aware of any
other parties’ inability to pay, nor do we know if responsibility for any of
the sites is in dispute.



Approximately $15 million of the long-term liability and $4 million of the
current liability relate to a U.S. Department of Energy assessment to
NSP-Minnesota and PSCo for decommissioning a federal uranium enrichment
facility. These environmental liabilities do not include accruals recorded and
collected from customers in rates for future nuclear fuel disposal costs or
decommissioning costs related to NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear generating plants. See
Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
nuclear obligations.

Ashland MGP Site —

NSP-Wisconsin was named as one of three PRPs for creosote
and coal tar contamination at a site in Ashland, Wis. The Ashland site includes
property owned by NSP-Wisconsin and two other properties: an adjacent city
lakeshore park area and a small area of Lake Superior’s Chequemegon Bay
adjoining the park.

The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (WDNR) and NSP-Wisconsin have
each developed several estimates of the ultimate cost to remediate the Ashland
site. The estimates vary significantly, between $4 million and $93 million,
because different methods of remediation and different results are assumed in
each. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and WDNR have not yet selected
the method of remediation to use at the site. Until the EPA and the WDNR
select a remediation strategy for all operable units at the site and determine
the level of responsibility of each PRP, we are not able to accurately
determine our share of the ultimate cost of remediating the Ashland site.

In the interim, NSP-Wisconsin has recorded a liability of $19 million for its
estimate of its share of the cost of remediating the portion of the Ashland
site that it owns, using information available to date and reasonably effective
remedial methods. NSP-Wisconsin has deferred, as a regulatory asset, the
remediation costs accrued for the Ashland site because we expect that the
Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) will continue to allow
NSP-Wisconsin to recover payments for environmental remediation from its
customers. The PSCW has consistently authorized recovery in NSP-Wisconsin rates
of all remediation costs incurred at the Ashland site, and has authorized
recovery of similar remediation costs for other Wisconsin utilities.

As an interim action, Xcel Energy proposed, and the EPA and WDNR have approved,
a coal tar removal/groundwater treatment system for one operable unit at the
site for which NSP-Wisconsin has accepted responsibility. The groundwater
treatment system began operating in the fall of 2000. In 2002, NSP-Wisconsin
installed additional monitoring wells in the deep aquifer to better
characterize the extent and degree of contaminants in that aquifer while the
coal tar removal system is operational. In 2002, a second interim response
action was also implemented. As approved by the WDNR, this interim response
action involved the removal and capping of a seep area in a city park. Surface
soils in the area of the seep were contaminated with tar residues. The interim
action also included the diversion and ongoing treatment of groundwater that
contributed to the formation of the seep.

On Sept. 5, 2002, the Ashland site was placed on the National Priorities List
(NPL). The NPL is intended primarily to guide the EPA in determining which
sites require further investigation. Resolution of Ashland remediation issues
is not expected until 2004 or 2005.

NSP-Wisconsin continues to work with the WDNR to access state and federal funds
to apply to the ultimate remediation cost of the entire site.

Other MGP Sites —

NSP-Minnesota has investigated and remediated MGP sites in
Minnesota and North Dakota. The MPUC allowed NSP-Minnesota to defer, rather
than immediately expense, certain remediation costs of four active remediation
sites in 1994. This deferral accounting treatment may be used to accumulate
costs that regulators might allow us to recover from our customers. The costs
are deferred as a regulatory asset until recovery is approved, and then the
regulatory asset is expensed over the same period as the regulators have
allowed us to collect the related revenue from our customers. In September
1998, the MPUC allowed the recovery of a portion of these MGP site remediation
costs in natural gas rates. Accordingly, NSP-Minnesota has been amortizing the
related deferred remediation costs to expense. In 2001, the North Dakota Public
Service Commission allowed the recovery of part of the cost of remediating
another former MGP site in Grand Forks, N.D. The $2.9-million recovered cost of
remediating that site was accumulated in a regulatory asset that is now being
expensed evenly over eight years. NSP-Minnesota may request recovery of costs
to remediate other sites following the completion of preliminary
investigations.

NRG Site Remediation  —

As part of acquiring existing generating assets, NRG has
acquired certain environmental liabilities associated with regulatory
compliance and site contamination. Often, potential compliance implementation
plans are changed, delayed or abandoned due to one or more of the following
conditions: (a) extended negotiations with regulatory agencies, (b) a delay in
promulgating rules critical to dictating the design of expensive control
systems, (c) changes in governmental/regulatory personnel, (d) changes in
governmental priorities or (e) selection of a less expensive compliance option
than originally envisioned.

In response to liabilities associated with these activities, NRG has
established accruals where reasonable estimates of



probable liabilities are
possible. As of Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001, NRG has established such accruals in
the amount of approximately $3.8 million and $5.0 million, respectively,
primarily related to its Northeast region facilities. NRG has not used
discounting in determining its accrued liabilities for environmental
remediation and no claims for possible recovery from third party issuers or
other parties related to environmental costs have been recognized in NRG’s
consolidated financial statements. NRG adjusts the accruals when new
remediation responsibilities are discovered and probable costs become
estimable, or when current remediation estimates are adjusted to reflect new
information. During the years ended Dec. 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000, NRG recorded
expenses of approximately $10.9 million, $15.3 million and $3.4 million related
to environmental matters, respectively.

Asbestos Removal —

Some of our facilities contain asbestos. Most asbestos will
remain undisturbed until the facilities that contain it are demolished or
renovated. Since we intend to operate most of these facilities indefinitely,
we cannot estimate the amount or timing of payments for its final removal. It
may be necessary to remove some asbestos to perform maintenance or make
improvements to other equipment. The cost of removing asbestos as part of
other work is immaterial and is recorded as incurred as operating expenses for
maintenance projects, capital expenditures for construction projects or removal
costs for demolition projects.

Leyden Gas Storage Facility —

In February 2001, the CPUC granted PSCo’s
application to abandon the Leyden natural gas storage facility (Leyden) after
40 years of operation. In July 2001, the CPUC decided that the recovery of all
Leyden costs would be addressed in a future rate proceeding when all costs were
known. Since late 2001, PSCo has operated the facility to withdraw the
recoverable gas in inventory. Beginning in 2003, PSCo will start to flood the
facility with water, as part of an overall plan to convert Leyden into a
municipal water storage facility owned and operated by the city of Arvada,
Colo. As of Dec. 31, 2002, PSCo has deferred approximately $4.5 million of
costs associated with engineering buffer studies, damage claims paid to
landowners and other closure costs. PSCo expects to incur an additional $6
million to $8 million of costs through 2005 to complete the decommissioning and
closure of the facility. PSCo believes that these costs will be recovered
through future rates. Any costs that are not recoverable from customers will
be expensed.

PSCo Notice of Violation —

On Nov. 3, 1999, the United States Department of
Justice filed suit against a number of electric utilities for alleged
violations of the Clean Air Act’s New Source Review (NSR) requirements related
to alleged modifications of electric generating stations located in the South
and Midwest. Subsequently, the U. S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
also issued requests for information pursuant to the Clean Air Act to numerous
other electric utilities, including Xcel Energy, seeking to determine whether
these utilities engaged in activities that may have been in violation of the
NSR requirements. In 2001, Xcel Energy responded to EPA’s initial information
requests related to PSCo plants in Colorado.

On July 1, 2002, Xcel Energy received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the EPA
alleging violations of the NSR requirements of the Clean Air Act at the
Comanche and Pawnee Stations in Colorado. The NOV specifically alleges that
various maintenance, repair and replacement projects undertaken at the plants
in the mid- to late-1990s should have required a permit under the NSR process.
Xcel Energy believes it acted in full compliance with the Clean Air Act and NSR
process. It believes that the projects identified in the NOV fit within the
routine maintenance, repair and replacement exemption contained within the NSR
regulations or are otherwise not subject to the NSR requirements. Xcel Energy
also believes that the projects would be expressly authorized under the EPA’s
NSR policy announced by the EPA administrator on June 22, 2002, and proposed in
the Federal Register on Dec. 31, 2002. Xcel Energy disagrees with the
assertions contained in the NOV and intends to vigorously defend its position.
As required by the Clean Air Act, the EPA met with Xcel Energy in September
2002 to discuss the NOV.

If the EPA is successful in any subsequent litigation regarding the issues set
forth in the NOV or any matter arising as a result of its information requests,
it could require Xcel Energy to install additional emission-control equipment
at the facilities and pay civil penalties. Civil penalties are limited to not
more than $25,000 to $27,500 per day for each violation, commencing from the
date the violation began. The ultimate financial impact to Xcel Energy is not
determinable at this time.

NSP-Minnesota NSR Information Request  —

As stated previously, on Nov. 3, 1999,
the United States Department of Justice filed suit against a number of electric
utilities for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act’s
NSR requirements related to alleged modifications of electric generating
stations located in the South and Midwest. Subsequently, the EPA also issued
requests for information pursuant to the Clean Air Act to numerous other
electric utilities, including Xcel Energy, seeking to determine whether these
utilities engaged in activities that may have been in violation of the NSR
requirements. In 2001, Xcel Energy responded to the EPA’s initial information
requests related to NSP-Minnesota plants in Minnesota. On May 22, 2002, the
EPA issued a follow-up information request to Xcel Energy seeking additional
information regarding NSR compliance at its plants in Minnesota. Xcel Energy
completed its response to the follow-up information request during the fall of
2002.



NSP-Minnesota Notice of Violation —

On Dec. 10, 2001, the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency issued a notice of violation to NSP-Minnesota alleging air
quality violations related to the replacement of a coal conveyor and violations
of an opacity limitation at the A.S. King generating plant. NSP-Minnesota has
responded to the notice of violation and is working to resolve the allegations.

Nuclear Insurance —

NSP-Minnesota’s public liability for claims resulting from
any nuclear incident is limited to $9.4 billion under the 1988 Price-Anderson
amendment to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. NSP-Minnesota has secured $200
million of coverage for its public liability exposure with a pool of insurance
companies. The remaining $9.2 billion of exposure is funded by the Secondary
Financial Protection Program, available from assessments by the federal
government in case of a nuclear accident. NSP-Minnesota is subject to
assessments of up to $88 million for each of its three licensed reactors to be
applied for public liability arising from a nuclear incident at any licensed
nuclear facility in the United States. The maximum funding requirement is $10
million per reactor during any one year.

NSP-Minnesota purchases insurance for property damage and site decontamination
cleanup costs from Nuclear Electric Insurance Ltd. (NEIL). The coverage limits
are $1.5 billion for each of NSP-Minnesota’s two nuclear plant sites. NEIL also
provides business interruption insurance coverage, including the cost of
replacement power obtained during certain prolonged accidental outages of
nuclear generating units. Premiums are expensed over the policy term. All
companies insured with NEIL are subject to retroactive premium adjustments if
losses exceed accumulated reserve funds. Capital has been accumulated in the
reserve funds of NEIL to the extent that NSP-Minnesota would have no exposure
for retroactive premium assessments in case of a single incident under the
business interruption and the property damage insurance coverage. However, in
each calendar year, NSP-Minnesota could be subject to maximum assessments of
approximately $7.5 million for business interruption insurance and $21.6
million for property damage insurance if losses exceed accumulated reserve
funds.

Louisiana Generating — Pointe Coupee

— On Dec. 2, 2002, a petition was filed to
appeal the EPA’s approval of the Louisiana Department of Environmental
Quality’s (LDEQ) revisions to the state implementation plan (“SIP”) regarding
emissions regulations. Pointe Coupee and NRG’s subsidiary, Louisiana
Generating, object to the permitting requirements regarding nitrogen
oxides (NOx) sources requiring the LDEQ to obtain offsets of major increases in
emissions of NOx associated with major modifications of existing facilities or
construction of new facilities areas, including Pointe Coupee Parish. The
plaintiffs’ challenge is based on LDEQ’s failure to comply with requirements
related to rulemaking and the EPA’s regulations, which prohibit EPA from
approving a SIP not prepared in accordance with state law. The court granted a
60-day stay of this proceeding on Feb. 25, 2003 to allow the parties to conduct
settlement discussions. At this time, NRG is unable to predict the eventual
outcome of this matter or any potential loss contingencies.

Louisiana Generating — New Construction
Air Permits

— During 2000, the LDEQ
issued an air permit modification to Louisiana Generating to construct and
operate two 240-megawatt, natural gas-fired turbines. The permit set emissions
limits for certain air pollutants, including NOx. The limitation for
NOx was
based on the guarantees of the manufacturer, Siemens Westinghouse Power
Corporation (Siemens). Louisiana Generating sought an interim emissions limit
to allow Siemens time to install additional control equipment. To establish
the interim limit, LDEQ issued an order and Notice of Potential Penalty in
September 2002, which is, in part, subject to a hearing. LDEQ alleged that
Louisiana Generating did not meet its NOx emissions limit on certain days, did
not conduct all opacity monitoring and did not complete all record keeping and
certification requirements. Louisiana Generating intends to vigorously defend
certain claims and any future penalty assessment, while also seeking an
amendment of its limit for NOx. An initial status conference has been held
with the administrative law judge, and quarterly reports will be submitted to describe progress,
including settlement and amendment of the limit. In addition, NRG may assert
breach of warranty claims against the manufacturer. With respect to the
administrative action described above, at this time NRG is unable to predict
the eventual outcome of this matter or the potential loss contingencies, if
any, to which NRG may be subject.

Legal Contingencies

In the normal course of business, Xcel Energy is a party to routine claims and
litigation arising from prior and current operations. Xcel Energy is actively
defending these matters and has recorded an estimate of the probable cost of
settlement or other disposition.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot
presently be determined. Accordingly, the ultimate resolution of these
matters could have a material adverse effect on Xcel Energy’s
financial position and results of operations.

St. Cloud Gas Explosion —

On Dec. 11, 1998, a natural gas explosion in St.
Cloud, Minn., killed four people, including two NSP-Minnesota employees,
injured approximately 14 people and damaged several buildings. The accident
occurred as a crew from Cable Constructors Inc. (CCI) was installing
fiber-optic cable for Seren. Seren, CCI and Sirti, an architecture/engineering
firm retained by Seren, are named as defendants in 24 lawsuits relating to the
explosion. NSP-Minnesota, Seren’s parent company at the time, is a defendant in
21 of the lawsuits. In addition to compensatory damages, plaintiffs are
seeking punitive damages against CCI and Seren. NSP-Minnesota and Seren deny
any liability for this accident. On July 11, 2000, the National Transportation
Safety Board issued a report, which determined that



CCI’s inadequate
installation procedures and delay in reporting the natural gas hit were the
proximate causes of the accident. NSP-Minnesota has a self-insured retention
deductible of $2 million with general liability coverage limits of $185
million. Seren’s primary insurance coverage is $1 million and its secondary
insurance coverage is $185 million. The ultimate cost to Xcel Energy,
NSP-Minnesota and Seren, if any, is presently unknown.

California Litigation  —

NRG and other power generators and power traders have
been named as defendants in a multi-district litigation proceeding. These
cases were all filed in late 2000 and 2001 in various state courts throughout
California. They allege unfair competition, market manipulation, and price
fixing. All the cases were removed to the appropriate United States District
Courts, and were thereafter made the subject of a petition to the
multi-district litigation panel. The cases were ultimately assigned to Judge
Whaley. In December 2002, Judge Whaley issued an opinion finding that federal
jurisdiction was absent in the district court, and remanded the cases to state
court. On Feb. 20, 2003, however, the Ninth Circuit stayed the remand order
and accepted jurisdiction to hear an appeal of the remand order. NRG
anticipates that filed-rate/federal preemption pleading challenges will once
again be filed once the remand appeal is decided. A notice of bankruptcy
filing regarding NRG has also been filed in this action, providing notice of
the involuntary petition.

Although the complaints contain a number of allegations, the basic claim is
that, by underbidding forward contracts and exporting electricity to
surrounding markets, the defendants, acting in collusion, were able to drive up
wholesale prices on the Real Time and Replacement Reserve markets, through the
Western Coordinating Council and otherwise. The complaints allege that the
conduct violated California antitrust and unfair competition laws. NRG does
not believe that it has engaged in any illegal activities, and intends to
vigorously defend these lawsuits. These six civil actions brought against NRG
and other power generators and power traders in California have been
consolidated in the San Diego County Superior Court, and the plaintiffs in
these six consolidated civil actions filed a master amended complaint
reiterating the allegations contained in their complaints and alleging that the
defendants’ anti-competitive conduct damaged the general public and class
members in an amount in excess of $1.0 billion. Two of the defendants in these
actions, Reliant and Duke, subsequently filed cross-complaints naming
additional market participants, some of whom removed the actions to the United
States District Court for the Southern District of California federal court.
Now under advisement in that court is the plaintiffs’ motion to remand the
cases to state court and motions by the cross-defendants to dismiss the cases
against them.

In addition, Public Utility District No. 1 of Snohomish County, Washington, has
filed a suit against NRG, Xcel Energy and several other market
participants in United States District Court for the
Central District of California contending that some of its trading
strategies, as reported to the FERC in response to that agency’s investigation
of trading strategies discussed above, violated the California Business and
Professions Code. Public Utility District No. 1 of Snohomish County contends
that the effect of those strategies was to increase amounts that it paid for
wholesale power in the spot market in the Pacific Northwest. Judge Whaley
granted a motion to dismiss on the grounds of federal preemption and filed-rate
doctrine, which the plaintiffs have appealed.

Separate class action lawsuits alleging unfair competition
similar to those filed in California, as discussed previously, have
bee filed in Oregon and Washington. These lawsuits have named both
Xcel Energy and NRG as respondents.

California Attorney General —

In addition to the litigation described above,
the California Attorney General has undertaken an investigation into actions
affecting electricity prices in California. In connection with this
investigation, the Attorney General has issued subpoenas and requested other
information from Dynegy and NRG. NRG responded to the interrogatories as
requested. Management cannot make any evaluation of the likelihood of an
unfavorable outcome or an estimate of the amount or range of potential loss in
the above-referenced private actions at this time. NRG knows of no evidence
implicating NRG Energy in plaintiffs’ allegations of collusion.

FirstEnergy Arbitration Claim  —

In August 2002, FirstEnergy terminated the purchase agreements
pursuant to which NRG had agreed to purchase four generating stations for
approximately $1.5 billion. FirstEnergy’s cited rationale for terminating the
agreements was an alleged anticipatory breach by NRG. FirstEnergy notified NRG
that it is reserving the right to pursue legal action against NRG and us for
damages. On Feb. 21, 2003, FirstEnergy submitted filings with the United States
Bankruptcy Court in Minnesota seeking permission to file a demand for
arbitration against NRG. On Feb. 26, 2002, FirstEnergy commenced the
arbitration proceedings against NRG, but have yet to
quantify their damage claim. NRG cannot presently predict the outcome of this dispute.

General Electric Company and Siemens Westinghouse Turbine Purchase Disputes  —

NRG and/or its affiliates have entered into several turbine purchase agreements
with affiliates of General Electric Company (GE) and Siemens. GE and Siemens
have notified NRG that it is in default under certain of those contracts,
terminated such contracts, and demanded that NRG pay the termination fees set
forth in such contracts. GE’s claim amounts to $120 million and Siemens’
approximately $45 million in cumulative termination charges. NRG
has recorded a liability for the amounts they believe they owe under
the contracts and termination provisions. NRG cannot
estimate the likelihood of unfavorable outcomes in these disputes.



Fortistar Litigation  —

On Feb. 26, 2003, Fortistar Capital, Inc. and Fortistar
Methane, LLC filed a $1-billion lawsuit in the Federal District Court for the
Northern District of New York against Xcel Energy Inc. and five former NRG
Energy, Inc. (NRG) or NEO Corp. employees. In the lawsuit, Fortistar claims
that the defendants violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act (RICO) and committed fraud by engaging in a pattern of negotiating and
executing agreements “they intended not to comply with” and “made false
statements later to conceal their fraudulent promises.” The allegations
against Xcel Energy are, for the most part, limited to purported activities
related to the contract for the Pike Energy power facility in Mississippi and
statements related to an “equity infusion” into NRG by Xcel Energy. The
plaintiffs allege damages of some $350 million and also assert entitlement to a
trebling of these damages under the provisions of the RICO. The present and
former NRG and NEO officers and employees have requested indemnity from NRG,
which requests NRG is now examining. Xcel Energy cannot at this time estimate the
likelihood of an unfavorable outcome to the defendants in this lawsuit.

Itiquira Energetica —

NRG’s indirectly controlled Brazilian project company,
Itiquira Energetica S.A., the owner of a 156-megawatt hydro project in Brazil,
is currently in arbitration with a former contractor for the project, Inepar
Industria e Construcoes (Inepar). The dispute was commenced by Itiquira in
September, 2002 and pertains to certain matters arising under the agreement
with the contractor. Itiquira principally asserts that Inepar breached the
contract and caused damages to Itiquira by (i) failing to meet milestones for
substantial completion; (ii) failing to provide adequate resources to meet such
milestones; (iii) failing to pay subcontractors amounts due; and (iv) being
insolvent. Itiquira’s arbitration claim is for approximately $40 million.
Inepar has asserted in the arbitration that Itiquira breached the contact and
caused damages to Inepar by failing to recognize events of force majeure as
grounds for excused delay and extensions of scope of services and material
under the contract. Inepar’s damage claim is for approximately $10 million.
On Nov. 12, 2002, Inepar submitted its affirmative statement of claim, and
Itiquira submitted its response and statement of counterclaims on Dec. 14,
2002. Inepar replied to Itiquira’s response and counterclaims on Jan. 14,
2003. Itiquira was to submit its reply on March 14, 2003, and a
hearing was held
on March 21, 2003. NRG cannot estimate the likelihood
of an unfavorable outcome in this dispute.

NRG Bankruptcy  —

On Oct. 17, 2002, a petition commencing an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding
pursuant to Chapter 7 of the Bankruptcy Code was filed against LSP-Pike Energy,
LLC, a subsidiary of NRG, by Stone & Webster, Inc. and Shaw Constructors, Inc.,
the joining petitioners in the Minnesota involuntary case described above, in
the United States Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of Mississippi.
In their petition, the joining petitioners sought recovery of allegedly unpaid
contractual construction-related obligations in an aggregate amount of $74
million, which amount LSP-Pike Energy, LLC has disputed. LSP-Pike Energy, LLC
filed an answer to the petition in the Mississippi involuntary case and served
various interrogatory and deposition discovery requests on the joining
petitioners. The Mississippi Bankruptcy Court has not entered any order for
relief in the Mississippi involuntary case.

On Nov. 22, 2002, five former NRG executives filed an
involuntary Chapter 11 petition against NRG in the United States
Bankruptcy Court for the District of Minnesota
(Minnesota bankruptcy Court). Under provisions of federal law,
NRG has the full authority to continue to operate its business as if the
involuntary petition had not been filed unless and until a court hearing on the
validity of the involuntary petition is resolved adversely to NRG. NRG
responded to the involuntary petition, contesting the petitioners’ claims and
filing a motion to dismiss the case. A hearing has been set for
April 10, 2003 to consider the motion to dismiss. In their
petition, the petitioners sought recover of severance and other benefits of
approximately $28 million.

NRG and its counsel have been involved in negotiations with the petitioners and
their counsel. As a result of these negotiations, NRG and the petitioners
reached an agreement and compromise regarding their respective claims against
each other (Settlement Agreement). In February 2003, the settlement agreement was executed, pursuant
to which NRG agreed to pay the petitioners an aggregate settlement in the
amount of $12 million.

On Feb. 28, 2003, Stone & Webster, Inc. and
Shaw Constructors, Inc. filed a
petition alleging that they hold unsecured, non-contingent claims against NRG
in a joint amount of $100 million. The Minnesota Bankruptcy Court has discretion in reviewing and ruling on the
motion to dismiss and the review and approval of the Settlement Agreement.
There is a risk that the Minnesota Bankruptcy Court may, among other things,
reject the Settlement Agreement or enter an order for relief under Chapter 11
of Title 11 of the Bankruptcy Code.

See Note 4 for additional discussion of possible NRG
bankruptcy.

NRG Energy, Inc. Shareholder Litigation (Delaware); Rosenfeld v.
NRG Energy, Inc. (Minnesota) —

In February 2002, individual stockholders of NRG
filed nine separate, but similar, purported class action complaints in the Delaware
Court of Chancery, subsequently consolidated and with a single amended complaint,
against Xcel Energy, NRG and the nine members of NRG’s board of directors. In
March, 2002, a similar class action lawsuit was filed in the state trial court for
Hennepin County Minnesota. Each of the actions challenged the proposed purchase by
Xcel Energy, via exchange offer and follow-up merger, of the approximately 26 percent
of the outstanding shares of NRG that it did not already own; contained various allegations
of wrongdoing on the part of the defendants in connection with the proposed purchase, including
violations of fiduciary duties of loyalty and candor; and sought injunctive and damage
relief and an award of fees and expenses. In April 2002 counsel for the parties
to the consolidated action in the Delaware Court of Chancery and the Minnesota
action entered into a memorandum of understanding setting forth an agreement in
principle to settle the actions based on the increase by Xcel Energy of the
exchange ratio in the offer and merger to 0.5000 but subject to confirmatory
discovery, definitive documentation, and court approval. The Minnesota action has
subsequently been dismissed without prejudice. As to the Delaware actions, the
settlement has not been documented, approved or consummated, and, in light of
developments in the litigation that is described under the heading immediately below,
it is uncertain whether the settlement will proceed.



Xcel Energy, Inc. Securities Litigation —

On July 31, 2002,
a lawsuit purporting to be a class action on behalf of purchasers of Xcel Energy’s
common stock between Jan. 31, 2001 and July 26, 2002, was filed in the United States
District Court for the District of Minnesota. The complaint named Xcel Energy;
Wayne H. Brunetti, chairman, president and chief executive officer; Edward J. McIntyre,
former vice president and chief financial officer; and former chairman, James J. Howard
as defendants. Among other things, the complaint alleged violations of Section 10(b)
of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10(b-5) related to allegedly false and
misleading disclosures concerning various issues including but not limited to “round
trip” energy trades, the nature, extent and seriousness of liquidity and credit
difficulties at NRG, and the existence of cross-default provisions (with NRG credit
agreements) in certain of Xcel Energy’s credit agreements. After the filing of the
lawsuit, several additional lawsuits were filed with similar allegations, one of which
added claims on behalf of a purported class of purchasers of two series of Senior Notes
issued by NRG in January 2001. The cases have all been consolidated, and a consolidated
amended complaint has been filed. The amended complaint charges false and misleading disclosures
concerning “round trip” energy trades and the existence of provisions in
Xcel Energy’s credit agreements for cross-defaults in the event of a default by NRG
in one or more of NRG’s credit agreements; it adds as additional defendants Gary R.
Johnson, General Counsel, Richard C. Kelly, president of Xcel Energy Enterprises, three
former executive officers of NRG, David H. Peterson, Leonard A. Bluhm, and William T. Pieper,
and a former independent director of NRG, Luella G. Goldberg; and it adds claims of false
and misleading disclosures, also regarding “round trip” trades and the cross-default
provisions, as well the extent to which the “fortunes” of NRG were tied to Xcel
Energy, especially in the event of a buyback of NRG’s publicly owned shares, under
Section 11 of the Securities Act with respect to issuance of the Senior Notes. The
amended complaint seeks compensatory and rescissionary damages, interest, and an award
of fees and expenses. The defendants have not yet responded to the amended complaint.
Discovery has not commenced.

Xcel Energy Inc. Shareholder Derivative Action; Essmacher v.
Brunetti; McLain v. Brunetti —

On Aug. 15, 2002, a shareholder derivative action was
filed in the United States District Court for the District of Minnesota, purportedly on
behalf of Xcel Energy, against the directors and certain present and former officers citing
essentially the same circumstances as the securities class actions described immediately
preceding and asserting breach of fiduciary duty. This action has been consolidated for
pre-trial purposes with the securities class actions. After the filing of this action,
two additional derivative actions were filed in the state trial court for Hennepin County,
Minnesota, against essentially the same defendants, focusing on allegedly wrongful energy
trading activities and asserting breach of fiduciary duty for failure to establish adequate
accounting controls, abuse of control, and gross mismanagement. Considered collectively,
the complaints seek compensatory damages, a return of compensation received, and awards
of fees and expenses. In each of the cases, the defendants filed motions to dismiss
the complaint for failure to make a proper pre-suit demand, or in the federal court case,
to make any pre-suit demand at all, upon Xcel Energy’s board of directors. The
motions have not yet been ruled upon. Discovery has not commenced.

Newcome v. Xcel Energy Inc.; Barday v. Xcel Energy Inc. —

On Sept. 23, 2002 and Oct. 9, 2002, two essentially identical actions were filed in the
United States District Court for the District of Colorado, purportedly on behalf of
classes of employee participants in Xcel Energy’s, and its predecessors’,
401(k) or ESOP plans from as early as Sept. 23, 1999 forward. The complaints in the
actions, which name as defendants Xcel Energy, its directors, certain former directors,
and certain of present and former officers. The complaints allege violations of the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act in the form of breach of fiduciary duty in
allowing or encouraging purchase, contribution and/or retention of Xcel Energy’s
common stock in the plans and making misleading statements and omissions in that regard.
The complaints seek injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement and other remedial
relief, interest and an award of fees and expenses. The defendants have filed motions
to dismiss the complaints upon which no rulings have yet been made. The plaintiffs
have made certain voluntary disclosure of information, but otherwise discovery has
not commenced. Upon motion of defendants, the cases have been transferred to the
District of Minnesota for purposes of coordination with the securities class actions
and shareholders derivative action pending there.

Stone & Webster, Inc. v. Xcel Energy,
Inc. —

On Oct. 17, 2002,
Stone & Webster, Inc. and Shaw Constructors, Inc. filed an action in the United
States District Court in Mississippi against Xcel Energy;
Wayne H. Brunetti, chairman, president and chief executive officer; Richard C. Kelly,
president of Xcel Energy Enterprises; NRG and certain NRG subsidiaries. Plaintiffs allege
they had a contract with a single purpose NRG subsidiary for construction of a power
generation facility, which was abandoned before completion but after substantial sums
had been spent by plaintiffs. They allege breach of contract, breach of an NRG guarantee,
breach of fiduciary duty, tortious interference with contract, detrimental reliance,
misrepresentation, conspiracy, and aiding and abetting, and seek to impose alter ego
liability on defendants other than the contracting NRG subsidiary through piercing the
corporate veil. The complaint seeks compensatory damages of at least $130 million
plus demobilization and cancellation costs and punitive damages at least treble the
compensatory damages. On Dec. 23, 2002, defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint, which
have not yet been ruled upon. No trial date has been set in this
matter, and Xcel Energy cannot presently predict the outcome of this
dispute.  Plaintiffs have commenced what they characterize as
jurisdictional discovery, which defendants are resisting.

New York Independent System Operator (NYISO) Claims  —

In November 2002, the NYISO notified NRG of claims related to New York City mitigation adjustments,
general NYISO billing adjustments and other miscellaneous charges related to
sales between November 2000 and October 2002. NRG contests both the validity
and calculation of the claims and is currently negotiating with the NYISO over
the ultimate disposition. Accordingly, NRG reduced its revenues by
$21.7 million and recorded a corresponding reserve for the
receivable.

Huntley and Dunkirk Litigation  —

In January 2002, the New York Attorney General and the New York Department of
Environmental Control (NYDEC) filed suit in federal district court in New York
against NRG and Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. (NiMo), the prior owner of the
Huntley and Dunkirk facilities in New York. The lawsuit relates to physical
changes made at those facilities prior to NRG’s assumption of ownership. The
complaint alleges that these changes represent major modifications undertaken
without the required permits having been obtained. Although NRG has a right to
indemnification by the previous owner for fines, penalties, assessments and
related losses resulting from the previous owner’s failure to comply with
environmental laws and regulations, NRG could be enjoined from operating the
facilities if the facilities are found not to comply with applicable permit
requirements. In addition, NRG could be required to bear the costs of
installing emissions controls. In July, 2002, NRG filed a motion to dismiss. On March 27, 2003, the court
dismissed the complaint against NRG without prejudice. If the
case is litigated to a judgment and there is an unfavorable outcome, NRG has
estimated that the total investment that would be required to install pollution
control devices could be as high as $300 million over a ten to twelve-year
period. NRG has asserted that NiMo is obligated to indemnify it for any
related compliance costs



associated with resolution of the NYDEC enforcement
action.

In July 2001, Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. filed a declaratory judgment action in
the Supreme Court for the State of New York, County of Onondaga, against NRG
and its wholly owned subsidiaries Huntley Power LLC and Dunkirk Power LLC.
Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. requests a declaration by the court that, pursuant
to the terms of the asset sales agreement (ASA) under which NRG purchased the
Huntley and Dunkirk generating facilities from Niagara Mohawk, defendants have
assumed liability for any costs for the installation of emissions controls or
other modifications to or related to the Huntley or Dunkirk plants imposed as a
result of violations or alleged violations of environmental law. Niagara Mohawk
Power Corporation also requests a declaration by the court that, pursuant to
the ASA, defendants have assumed all liabilities, including liabilities for
natural resource damages, arising from emissions or releases of pollutants from
the Huntley and Dunkirk plants, without regard to whether such emissions or
releases occurred before, on or after the closing date for the purchase of the
Huntley and Dunkirk plants. NRG has counterclaimed against Niagara Mohawk
Power Corp., and the parties have exchanged discovery requests.

On Oct. 2, 2000, plaintiff NiMo commenced an action against NRG to recover net
damages through the date of judgment, as well as any additional amounts due and
owing for electric service provided to the Dunkirk Plant after Sept. 18, 2000.
NiMo claims that NRG has failed to pay retail tariff amounts for utility
services commencing on or about June 11, 1999 and continuing to Sept. 18, 2000
and thereafter. On Aug. 9, 2002 the parties filed a stipulation consolidating
this action with two other actions against the Huntley and Oswego subsidiaries
of NRG. On Oct. 8, 2002, a Stipulation and Order was filed in the Erie County
Clerk’s Office staying this action pending submission of some or all of the
disputes in the action to the FERC. NRG cannot make an evaluation of the
likelihood of an unfavorable outcome. The cumulative potential loss could
exceed $35 million.

Other Contingencies

Operating Contingency  —

As discussed in Note 19, NSP-Minnesota is experiencing
uncertainty regarding its ability to store used nuclear fuel from its Prairie
Island and Monticello nuclear generating facilities. These facilities store
used nuclear fuel in a storage pool or dry cask storage on the plant site,
pending the availability of a DOE high-level radioactive substance storage or
permanent disposal facility, or a private interim storage facility.

The Prairie Island plant is licensed by the federal Nuclear Regulatory
Commission (NRC) to store up to 48 casks of spent fuel at the plant. In 1994,
the Minnesota Legislature adopted a limit on dry cask storage of 17 casks for
the entire state. The 17 casks, which stand outside the Prairie Island plant,
are now full, and under the current configuration, the storage pool within the
plant would be full by 2007. Prairie Island cannot operate beyond 2007 unless
the existing spent fuel is moved or the storage capacity is increased. Because
the 17-cask limit is a statewide limit, the Monticello plant cannot, under
current state law, store spent fuel in dry casks. Monticello’s on-site storage
pool is expected to be full in 2010. Monticello cannot operate beyond 2010
unless the existing spent fuel is moved or the storage capacity is increased.
Capitalized costs for Prairie Island and Monticello are being depreciated over
these available storage periods, and no unamortized plant investment is
expected to remain if the plants must shut down in 2007 and 2010, respectively.

Due to the investment decisions required to be made in conjunction with the
continued efficient operation of the nuclear plants, as well as the time and
cost involved to develop alternatives to the existing nuclear power generation,
NSP-Minnesota believes a decision is necessary in 2003 by the Minnesota
Legislature whether the state will allow the continued use of nuclear power in
the future. Prairie Island will only be able to continue operating beyond 2007
with legislative authorization of additional storage space. If additional
storage space for continued operations is not authorized, and interim storage
is not available, legislation may be required to ensure expedited siting and
permitting of new generation or transmission facilities in time to replace the
power supply currently provided from NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear plants.

NSP-Minnesota has developed replacement power options, including purchasing new
coal or natural gas generation sources. The feasibility of supplementing new
generation sources with additional wind turbines has been reviewed. These
options have been presented to the 2003 Minnesota Legislature. Each option
involves a balance of cost, environmental impacts and production efficiencies.
Based on the review of these options, NSP-Minnesota believes the most reliable,
lowest-cost, emissions-free method to provide the needed 1,700 megawatts of
energy is to continue to operate the nuclear power plants at Prairie Island and
Monticello, which is possible only with the additional approved storage
capacity for spent fuel, either on-site or in a private facility. We cannot
predict at this time what resource decisions the Minnesota Legislature or MPUC
may make regarding the continued use of NSP-Minnesota’s Prairie Island and
Monticello nuclear plants. If decisions are not made that allow the plants’ use
beyond the storage capacity period, additional costs may need to be incurred to
provide replacement power, either from new generating plants or from purchased
power. The amount of such additional costs, and the level of corresponding rate
recovery provided, are not determinable at this time but may be material.



Tax Matters —

PSCo’s wholly owned subsidiary PSR Investments, Inc. (PSRI) owns
and manages permanent life insurance policies on PSCo employees, known as
corporate-owned life insurance (COLI). At various times, we have made
borrowings against the cash values of these COLI policies and deducted the
interest expense on these borrowings. The IRS had issued a Notice of Proposed
Adjustment proposing to disallow interest expense deductions taken in tax years
1993 through 1997 related to COLI policy loans. A request for technical advice
from the IRS National Office with respect to the proposed adjustment had been
pending. Late in 2001, Xcel Energy received a technical advice memorandum from
the IRS National Office, which communicated a position adverse to PSRI.
Consequently, we expect the IRS examination division to begin the process of
disallowing the interest expense deductions for the tax years 1993 through
1997.

After consultation with tax counsel, it is Xcel Energy’s position that the IRS
determination is not supported by the tax law. Based upon this assessment,
management continues to believe that the tax deduction of interest expense on
the COLI policy loans is in full compliance with the tax law. Therefore, Xcel
Energy intends to challenge the IRS determination, which could require several
years to reach final resolution. Although the ultimate resolution of this
matter is uncertain, management continues to believe the resolution of this
matter will not have a material adverse impact on Xcel Energy’s financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. For this reason, PSRI has not
recorded any provision for income tax or interest expense related to this
matter and has continued to take deductions for interest expense related to
policy loans on its income tax returns for subsequent years. However, defense
of Xcel Energy’s position may require significant cash outlays on a temporary
basis, if refund litigation is pursued in United States District Court.

The total disallowance of interest expense deductions for the period of 1993
through 1997, as proposed by the IRS, is approximately $175 million. Additional
interest expense deductions for the period 1998 through 2002 are estimated to
total approximately $317 million. Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this
issue, tax and interest payable through Dec. 31, 2002, would reduce earnings by
an estimated $214 million after tax.

Seren —

At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy’s investment in Seren was approximately
$255 million. Seren had capitalized $290 million for plant in service and had
incurred another $21 million for construction work in progress for these
systems. The construction of its broadband communications network in Minnesota
and California has resulted in consistent losses. Management currently intends
to hold and operate Seren, and believes that no asset impairment exists. Xcel
Energy projects improvements in Seren’s operating results, with positive cash
flows in 2005 and an earnings contribution anticipated in 2008.

Xcel Energy International  —

At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy’s investment in
Argentina, through Xcel Energy International, was approximately $112 million.
In December 2002, a subsidiary of Xcel Energy decided it would no longer fund
one of its power projects in Argentina. This decision resulted in the shutdown
of the Argentina plant facility, pending financing of a necessary maintenance
outage. Updated cash flow projections for the plant were insufficient to
provide full recovery of Xcel International’s investment. An impairment
write-down of approximately $13 million was recorded in the fourth quarter of
2002.



19.     Nuclear Obligations

Fuel Disposal —

NSP-Minnesota is responsible for temporarily storing used or
spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear plants. The DOE is responsible for
permanently storing spent fuel from NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear plants as well as
from other U.S. nuclear plants. NSP-Minnesota has funded its portion of the
DOE’s permanent disposal program since 1981. The fuel disposal fees are based
on a charge of 0.1 cent per kilowatt-hour sold to customers from nuclear
generation. Fuel expense includes DOE fuel disposal assessments of
approximately $13 million in 2002, $11 million in 2001 and $12 million in 2000.
In total, NSP-Minnesota had paid approximately $312 million to the DOE through
Dec. 31, 2002.
However, we cannot determine whether the amount and method of the DOE’s
assessments to all utilities will be sufficient to fully fund the DOE’s
permanent storage or disposal facility.

The Nuclear Waste Policy Act required the DOE to begin accepting spent nuclear
fuel no later than Jan. 31, 1998. In 1996, the DOE notified commercial spent
fuel owners of an anticipated delay in accepting spent nuclear fuel by the
required date and conceded that a permanent storage or disposal facility will
not be available until at least 2010. NSP-Minnesota and other utilities have
commenced lawsuits against the DOE to recover damages caused by the DOE’s
failure to meet its statutory and contractual obligations.

NSP-Minnesota has its own temporary, on-site storage facilities for spent fuel
at its Monticello and Prairie Island nuclear plants. With the dry cask storage
facilities approved in 1994, management believes it has adequate storage
capacity to continue operation of its Prairie Island nuclear plant until at
least 2007. The Monticello nuclear plant has storage capacity to continue
operations until 2010. Storage availability to permit operation beyond these
dates is not assured at this time. We are investigating all of the alternatives
for spent fuel storage until a DOE facility is available, including pursuing
the establishment of a private facility for interim storage of spent nuclear
fuel as part of a consortium of electric utilities. If on-site temporary
storage at Prairie Island reaches approved capacity, we could seek interim
storage at this or another contracted private facility, if available.



Nuclear fuel expense includes payments to the DOE for the decommissioning and
decontamination of the DOE’s uranium enrichment facilities. In 1993,
NSP-Minnesota recorded the DOE’s initial assessment of $46 million, which is
payable in annual installments from 1993 to 2008. NSP-Minnesota is amortizing
each installment to expense on a monthly basis. The most recent installment
paid in 2002 was $4 million; future installments are subject to inflation
adjustments under DOE rules. NSP-Minnesota is obtaining rate recovery of these
DOE assessments through the cost-of-energy adjustment clause as the assessments
are amortized. Accordingly, we deferred the unamortized assessment of $21
million at Dec. 31, 2002, as a regulatory asset.

Plant Decommissioning —

Decommissioning of NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear facilities
is planned for the years 2010 through 2022, using the prompt dismantlement
method. We are currently following industry practice by ratably accruing the
costs for decommissioning over the approved cost recovery period and including
the accruals in Accumulated Depreciation. Consequently, the total
decommissioning cost obligation and corresponding assets currently are not
recorded in Xcel Energy’s Consolidated Financial Statements.

Monticello began operation in 1971 and is licensed to operate until 2010.
Prairie Island units 1 and 2 began operation in 1973 and 1974, respectively,
and are licensed to operate until 2013 and 2014, respectively. Once a decision
is made by the Minnesota Legislature regarding interim spent fuel storage
facilities, Xcel Energy will make a decision on whether to pursue license
renewal for Monticello and Prairie Island plants. Applications for license
renewal must be submitted to the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) at least
five years prior to license expiration. Preliminary scoping efforts for
license renewal of the Monticello plant have begun, including data collection
and review. The Prairie Island license renewal process has not yet begun.
Xcel Energy’s decision whether to apply for license renewal approval could be
contingent on incremental plant maintenance or capital expenditures, recovery
of which would be expected from customers through the respective rate recovery
mechanisms. Management cannot predict the specific impact of such future
requirements, if any, on its results of operations.

In 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board
(FASB) issued SFAS No. 143 —
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” This statement will require
NSP-Minnesota to record its future nuclear plant decommissioning obligations as
a liability at fair value with a corresponding increase to the carrying value
of the related long-lived asset. The liability will be increased to its present
value each period, and the capitalized cost will be depreciated over the useful
life of the related long-lived asset. If at the end of the asset’s useful life
the recorded liability differs from the actual obligations paid, SFAS No. 143
requires a gain or loss be recognized at that time. However, rate-regulated
entities may recognize a regulatory asset or liability instead, if the criteria
for SFAS No. 71 are met. NSP-Minnesota adopted SFAS No. 143 as
required on Jan. 1, 2003. For additional information, see Note 20 to
the Financial Statements.

Consistent with cost recovery in utility customer rates, we record annual
decommissioning accruals based on periodic site-specific cost studies and a
presumed level of dedicated funding. Cost studies quantify decommissioning
costs in current dollars. Funding presumes that current costs will escalate in
the future at a rate of 4.35 percent per year. The total estimated
decommissioning costs that will ultimately be paid, net of income earned by
external trust funds, is currently being accrued using an annuity approach over
the approved plant recovery period. This annuity approach uses an
assumed rate of return on funding, which is currently 5.5 percent, net of tax,
for external funding and approximately 8 percent, net of tax, for internal
funding. Unrealized gains on nuclear decommissioning investments are deferred
as Regulatory Liabilities based on the assumed offsetting against
decommissioning costs in current ratemaking treatment.

The MPUC last approved NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear decommissioning study request in
April 2000, using 1999 cost data. A new filing was submitted to the MPUC in
October 2002 and requests continuation of the current accrual. Since the
timeframe is getting short on the recovery of the Prairie Island costs, less
than five years at the start of 2003, NSP-Minnesota has recommended that the
next filing be submitted in October 2003. The Department of Commerce has
recommended that the internal fund, which is currently being transferred to the
external funds, be transferred over a shorter period of time. This proposal
would increase the fund cash contribution by approximately $13 million in 2003,
but may not have a statement of operations impact. Although we expect to operate
Prairie Island through the end of each unit’s licensed life, the approved
capital recovery would allow for the plant to be fully depreciated, including
the accrual and recovery of decommissioning costs, in 2007. This is about seven
years earlier than each unit’s licensed life. The approved recovery period for
Prairie Island has been reduced because of the uncertainty regarding spent-fuel
storage. We believe future decommissioning cost accruals will continue to be
recovered in customer rates.



The total obligation for decommissioning currently is expected to be funded 100
percent by external funds, as approved by the MPUC. Contributions to the
external fund started in 1990 and are expected to continue until plant
decommissioning begins. The assets held in trusts as of Dec. 31, 2002,
primarily consisted of investments in fixed income securities, such as
tax-exempt municipal bonds and U.S. government securities that mature in one to
20 years, and common stock of public companies. We plan to reinvest matured
securities until decommissioning begins.

At Dec. 31, 2002, NSP-Minnesota had recorded and recovered in rates cumulative
decommissioning accruals of $662 million. The following table summarizes the
funded status of NSP-Minnesota’s decommissioning obligation at Dec. 31, 2002:

Decommissioning expenses recognized include the following components:

(Thousands of dollars)




Annual decommissioning cost accrual reported as depreciation
expense:

Externally funded

$

51,433

$

51,433

$

51,433

Internally funded (including interest costs)

(18,797

)

(17,396

)

(16,111

)

Interest cost on externally funded decommissioning obligation

(32

)

4,535

5,151

Earnings from external trust funds


(4,535

)

(5,151

)

Net decommissioning accruals recorded

$

32,636

$

34,037

$

35,322

Decommissioning and interest accruals are included with Accumulated
Depreciation on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Interest costs and trust
earnings associated with externally funded obligations are reported in Other
Nonoperating Income on the statement of operations.

Negative accruals for internally funded portions in 2000, 2001 and 2002 reflect
the impacts of the 1999 decommissioning study, which has approved an assumption
of 100-percent external funding of future costs. Previous
studies assumed a portion was funded internally; beginning in 2000, accruals
are reversing the previously accrued internal portion and increasing the
external portion prospectively.

20.     Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

Our regulated businesses prepare their Consolidated Financial Statements in
accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 71, as discussed in Note 1 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements. Under SFAS No. 71, regulatory assets and
liabilities can be created for amounts that regulators may allow us to collect,
or may require us to pay back to customers in future electric and natural gas
rates. Any portion of our business that is not regulated cannot use SFAS No. 71
accounting. The components of unamortized regulatory assets and liabilities
shown on the balance sheet at Dec. 31 were:

Remaining

(Thousands of dollars)

Note Reference

Amortization Period



AFDC recorded in plant (a)

Plant Lives

$

154,158

$

149,591

Conservation
programs (a)(e)

Up to Five Years

53,860

65,825

Losses on reacquired debt


Term of Related Debt

85,888

95,394

Environmental costs

18,19

To be determined

30,974

20,169

Unrecovered electric
production costs (d)


27 months

67,709

—

Unrecovered natural gas costs
(b)


One to Two Years

11,950

11,316

Deferred income tax adjustments


Mainly Plant Lives

18,611

17,799



SFAS No. 143 —

In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB)
issued SFAS No. 143

—

“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations.” This
statement will require Xcel Energy to record its future nuclear plant
decommissioning obligations as a liability at fair value with a corresponding
increase to the carrying value of the related long-lived asset. The liability
will be increased to its present value each period, and the capitalized cost
will be depreciated over the useful life of the related long-lived asset. If
at the end of the asset’s life the recorded liability differs from the actual
obligations paid, SFAS No. 143 requires that a gain or loss be recognized at
that time. However, rate-regulated entities may recognize a regulatory asset or
liability instead, if the criteria for SFAS No. 71 — “Accounting for the
Effects of Certain Types of Regulation” are met.

Xcel Energy currently follows industry practice by ratably accruing the costs
for decommissioning over the approved cost recovery period and including the
accruals in accumulated depreciation. At Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy recorded
and recovered in rates $662 million of decommissioning obligations and had
estimated discounted decommissioning cost obligations of $1.1 billion based on
approvals from the various state commissions, which used a single scenario.
However, with the adoption of SFAS No. 143, a probabilistic view of several
decommissioning scenarios were used, resulting in an estimated discounted
decommissioning cost obligation of $1.6 billion.

Xcel Energy expects to adopt SFAS No. 143 as required on Jan. 1, 2003. In
current estimates for adoption, the initial value of the liability, including
cumulative accretion expense through that date, would be approximately $869
million. This liability would be established by reclassifying accumulated
depreciation of $573 million and by recording two long-term assets totaling
$296 million. A gross capitalized asset of $130 million would be recorded and
would be offset by accumulated depreciation of $89 million. In addition, a
regulatory asset of approximately $166 million would be recorded for the
cumulative effect adjustment related to unrecognized depreciation and accretion
under the new standard. Management expects that the entire transition amount
would be recoverable in rates over time and, therefore, would support this
regulatory asset upon adoption of SFAS No. 143.

Xcel Energy has completed a detailed assessment of the specific applicability
and implications of SFAS No. 143 for obligations other than nuclear
decommissioning. Other assets that may have potential asset retirement
obligations include ash ponds, any generating plant with a Part 30 license and
electric and natural gas transmission and distribution assets on property under
easement agreements. Easements are generally perpetual and require retirement
action only upon abandonment or cessation of use of the property for the
specified purpose. The liability is not estimable because Xcel Energy intends
to utilize these properties indefinitely. The asset retirement obligations for
the ash ponds and generating plants cannot be reasonably estimated due to an
indeterminate life for the assets associated with the ponds and uncertain
retirement dates for the generating plants. Since the time period for
retirement is unknown, no liability would be recorded. When a retirement date
is certain, a liability will be recorded.

The adoption of SFAS No. 143 in 2003
will also affect Xcel Energy's accrued plant removal costs for other
generation, transmission and distribution facilities for its utility
subsidiaries. Although SFAS No. 143 does not recognize the future
accrual of removal costs as a Generally Accepted Accounting
Principles liability, long-standing ratemaking practices approved by
applicable state and federal regulatory commissions have allowed
provisions for such costs in historical depreciation rates. These
removal costs have accumulated over a number of years based on
varying rates as authorized by the appropriate regulatory entities.
Given the long periods over which the amounts were accrued and the
changing of rates through time, we have estimated the amount of
removal costs accumulated through historic depreciation expense based
on current factors used in the existing depreciation rates.
Accordingly, the estimated amounts of future removal costs, which are
considered regulatory liabilities under SFAS No. 143 that are accrued
in accumulated depreciation, are as follows at December 31, 2002:

21.     Segments and Related Information

Xcel Energy has the following reportable segments: Electric Utility, Natural
Gas Utility and its nonregulated energy business, NRG. Previously, e prime was
considered a reportable segment due to the significance of its gross trading
revenues. However, with the change in reporting of trading operations to a net
basis, as discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, e prime is no longer
a reportable segment due to its net trading margins/revenue being below the
quantitative thresholds. e prime is included in the All Other category for all
periods presented.

•

Xcel Energy’s Electric Utility generates, transmits and distributes
electricity in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, North Dakota, South
Dakota, Colorado, Texas, New Mexico, Wyoming, Kansas and Oklahoma. It
also makes sales for resale and provides wholesale transmission
service to various entities in the United States. Electric Utility
also includes electric trading.

•

Xcel Energy’s Natural Gas Utility transmits, transports, stores and
distributes natural gas and propane primarily in portions of
Minnesota, Wisconsin, North Dakota, Michigan, Arizona, Colorado and
Wyoming.

•

NRG develops, acquires, owns and operates several nonregulated
energy-related businesses, including independent power production,
commercial and industrial heating and cooling, and energy-related
refuse-derived fuel production, both domestically and outside the
United States.

Revenues from operating segments not included previously are below the
necessary quantitative thresholds and are therefore included in the All Other
category. Those primarily include a company that trades and markets natural
gas throughout the United States; a company involved in nonregulated power and
natural gas marketing activities throughout the United States; a company that
invests in and develops cogeneration and energy-related projects; a company
that is engaged in engineering, design construction management and other
miscellaneous services; a company engaged in energy consulting, energy
efficiency management, conservation programs and mass market services; an
affordable housing investment company; a broadband telecommunications company;
and several other small companies and businesses.



To report net income for electric and natural gas utility segments, Xcel Energy
must assign or allocate all costs and certain other income. In general, costs
are:

•

directly assigned wherever applicable;

•

allocated based on cost causation allocators wherever applicable; and

•

allocated based on a general allocator for all other costs not assigned by the above two methods.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note
1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Xcel Energy evaluates performance
by each legal entity based on profit or loss generated from the product or
service provided.



Business Segments

(a)




(Millions of Dollars)

NRG

All Other

NRG

All Other

NRG

All Other

Operating revenues
from external
customers — United
States

$1,874

$369

$

1,886

$


$

1,575

$


Operating revenues
from external
customers —
international






—

Equity in earnings
of unconsolidated
affiliates — United
States







Equity in earnings
of unconsolidated
affiliates —
international


—





Consolidated
earnings (loss) —
international

(695

)






NRG’s international assets were $2,36  million and
$3,199 million in 2002 and 2001,
respectively.  NRG’s equity investments and projects outside the United States were
$310 million and $417 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively.

All Other’s international assets were
$69 million and $138 million in 2002 and 2001,
respectively.  All Other’s investments and projects outside the United States were
$0 and $37 million in 2002 and 2001, respectively.

(b)

NRG segment represents the consolidated results of NRG excluding the
earnings attributable to minority shareholders of NRG prior to June 2002,
when Xcel Energy acquired a 100 percent ownership in NRG. All Other includes
minority interest income (expense) related to NRG of
$(13.6) million in 2002,
$65.6 million in 2001, and $29.2 million in 2000. Also, in 2002 All Other
includes income tax benefits related to Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG of
$706 million, as discussed in Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.



22.     Summarized Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Subsequent to the issuance of Xcel Energy’s financial statements for the quarter
ended Sept. 30, 2002, NRG’s management determined that the accounting for
certain transactions required revision.

NRG determined that it had misapplied the provisions of SFAS No. 144 related to
asset grouping in connection with the review for impairment of its long-lived
assets during the quarter ended Sept. 30, 2002. SFAS No. 144 requires that
for purposes of testing recoverability, assets be grouped at the lowest level
for which identifiable cash flows are largely independent of the cash flows of
other assets. NRG recalculated the asset impairment tests in accordance with
SFAS No. 144 using the appropriate asset grouping for independent cash flows for
each generation facility. As a result, NRG concluded that asset impairments
should have been recorded for two projects known as Bayou Cove Peaking Power LLC
and Somerset Power LLC. Since NRG concluded that the “triggering events” that
led to the impairment charge were experienced in the third quarter of 2002, the
asset impairments related to these projects should have been recorded as of
Sept. 30, 2002. NRG calculated the asset impairment charges for Bayou Cove
Peaking Power LLC and Somerset Power LLC to be $126.5 million and $49.3 million,
respectively.

In connection with NRG’s year-end audit, two additional items were found to be
inappropriately recorded as of Sept. 30, 2002. These items included the
inappropriate treatment of interest rate swap transactions as cash flow hedges
and the decrease in the value of a bond remarketing option from the original
price paid by NRG. The error correction for the interest rate swaps resulted in
the recording of additional income of $61.6 million as of Sept. 30, 2002. The
recognition of the decrease in the value of the remarketing option resulted in a
charge to income of $15.9 million as of Sept. 30, 2002.

A summary of the significant effects of the restatement including the impact of fourth quarter discontinued operations decisions,
on Xcel Energy’s
consolidated statements of operations for the three and nine months ended Sept.
30, 2002 is as follows:

As Previously Reported

As Restated

Three Months

Nine Months

Three Months

Nine Months

(Thousands of dollars, except per share amounts)

Ended

Ended

Ended

Ended

Consolidated Statements of Operations:

Revenue

$

2,473,331

$

7,070,824

$

2,473,331

$

7,070,824

Operating income

(1,948,725

)

(1,334,201

)

(2,140,418

)

(1,525,894

)

Income (loss) from continuing operations

(1,496,959

)

(1,317,413

)

(1,627,039

)

(1,447,493

)

Discontinued operations — income (loss)

(577,001

)

(565,741

)

(577,001

)

(565,741

)

Net income (loss)

(2,073,960

)

(1,883,154

)

(2,204,040

)

(2,013,234

)

Earnings (loss) available for common shareholders

(2,075,020

)

(1,886,334

)

(2,205,100

)

(2,016,414

)

Earnings (loss) per share from continuing
operations: basic and diluted

$

(3.77

)

$

(3.51

)

$

(4.10

)

$

(3.85

)

Earnings (loss) per share discontinued operations: basic and diluted

$

(1.45

)

$

(1.50

)

$

(1.45

)

$

(1.50

)

Earnings per share: basic and diluted

$

(5.22

)

$

(5.01

)

$

(5.55

)

$

(5.35

)

During the fourth quarter of 2002, NRG determined that it had
inadvertently offset its investment in Jackson County, Mississippi, bonds in the amount of $155.5
million against long-term debt of the same amount owed to the County.
This resulted in an understatement of NRG’s assets and liabilities by $155.5
million as of Sept. 30, 2002. In addition, the restatement for Bayou Cove Peaking LLC and
Somerset Power LLC impairments reduced the previously reported net property, plant and
equipment balance by $175.8 million. The restatement for the interest rate swaps had no
impact on total shareholder’s equity and the restatement for the remarketing
option reduced other assets by $15.9 million.



Summarized quarterly unaudited financial data is as follows:

Quarter Ended

Sept. 30, 2002

March 31, 2002

June 30, 2002

As Restated

Dec. 31, 2002

(Thousands of dollars, except per share amounts)

(a)

(a)

(a)(d)

(a)

Revenue (c)

$

2,370,584

$

2,226,909

$

2,473,331

$

2,453,548

Operating income
(loss)

298,977

315,548

(2,140,418

)

93,562

Income (loss) from continuing
operations

93,929

85,617

(1,627,039

)

(213,877

)

Discontinued operations — income
(loss)

9,575

1,685

(577,001

)

9,120

Net income
(loss)

103,504

87,302

(2,204,040

)

(204,757

)

Earnings (loss) available for common
shareholders

102,444

86,242

(2,205,100

)

(205,818

)

Earnings (loss) per share from
continuing operations: basic and
diluted

$

0.26

$

0.22

$

(4.10

)

$

(0.54

)

Earnings (loss) per share discontinued
operations: basic and
diluted

$

0.03

$

—

$

(1.45

)

$

0.02

Earnings (loss) per share total : basic and
diluted

$

0.29

$

0.22

$

(5.55

)

$

(0.52

)

Quarter Ended

(Thousands of dollars, except per share amounts)

March 31, 2001

June 30, 2001(b)

Sept. 30, 2001

Dec. 31, 2001(b)

Revenue (c)

$

3,174,066

$

2,743,822

$

2,931,799

$

2,483,735

Operating income

461,097

416,843

635,884

344,323

Income from continuing operations before
extraordinary items

191,974

162,654

264,823

118,236

Discontinued operations — income (loss)

17,336

5,203

8,080

16,373

Extraordinary items — income

—

—

—

10,287

Net income

209,310

167,857

272,903

144,896

Earnings available for common
shareholders

208,250

166,797

271,843

143,835

Earnings per share from continuing
operations before extraordinary items: basic
& diluted

$

0.56

$

0.47

$

0.77

$

0.34

Earnings per share — discontinued
operations: basic & diluted

$

0.05

$

0.02

$

0.02

$

0.05

Earnings per share — extraordinary items:

basic and diluted

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

0.03

Earnings per share: basic and
diluted

$

0.61

$

0.49

$

0.79

$

0.42

•

Second-quarter results were increased by $41 million, or 7 cents per
share, for conservation incentive adjustments, and decreased by $23
million, or 4 cents per share, for a special charge related to post
employment benefits.

•

Fourth-quarter results were decreased by $39 million, or 7 cents per
share, for a special charge related to employee restaffing costs.

(c)

Certain items in the 2001 and 2002 quarterly income statements have
been reclassified to conform to the 2002 annual presentation. These
reclassifications included the netting of trading revenues and
expenses previously reported gross, and NRG’s discontinued operations,
as discussed in Notes 1 and 3 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, respectively.

(d)

Third-quarter 2002 results for NRG have been restated from amounts
previously reported. NRG’s asset impairments and restructuring charges
for the quarter have been restated, increasing NRG’s operating
expenses by $192 million and a correction for interest rate swaps
resulted in additional income of $62 million, for a net effect of $130 million
in additional loss for the quarter. As a result, Xcel Energy’s
Special Charges included in operating expenses for the quarter ended
Sept. 30, 2002 increased by $192 million, or $0.50 per share.



Item 9 — Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

During 2001 and 2002, and through the date of this
report, there were no disagreements
with Xcel Energy’s independent public accountants on accounting principles or
practices, financial statement disclosures, or auditing scope or procedures.

On March 27, 2002, the Audit Committee of Xcel Energy’s Board of Directors
recommended, and the Xcel Energy Board approved, the decision to engage
Deloitte & Touche LLP as its new principal independent accountants for 2002.
Accordingly, on March 27, 2002, Xcel Energy’s management informed Arthur
Andersen LLP that the firm would no longer be engaged as its principal
independent accountants. The reports of Arthur Andersen LLP on the financial
statements of the Company for its year ended Dec. 31, 2001 or 2000 did not
contain an adverse opinion or disclaimer of opinion and were not qualified or
modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting principles. Further,
during 2000 and 2001, and through March 27, 2002, there have been no reportable
events (as defined in Commission Regulation S-K Item 304 (a)(1)(v)).

Xcel Energy has requested that Arthur Andersen LLP furnish it with a letter
addressed to the Commission stating whether or not it agrees with the above
statements. Arthur Andersen LLP’s letter dated March 29,
2002, is incorporated by reference as
Exhibit 16.01 to this Form 10-K.

PART III

Item 10 — Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information required under this Item with respect to directors is set forth in
the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders’ under the caption “Election of Directors,” which is
incorporated by reference. Information with respect to Executive Officers is
included in Item 1 to this report.

Item 11 — Executive Compensation

Information required under this Item is set forth in the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
under the caption “Executive Compensation,” which is incorporated by reference.

Item 12 — Security
Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related
Stockholder Matters

Information concerning the security ownership of the directors and officers of
Xcel Energy is contained under the caption “Common Stock Ownership of Directors
and Executive Officers” in the Xcel Energy Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders which is incorporated by
reference.

Information concerning securities authorized for
issuance under equity compensation plans is contained in Xcel
Energy’s Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference.

Item 13 — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information concerning relationships and related transactions of the directors
and officers of Xcel Energy is contained in the Xcel Energy Proxy Statement for its 2003 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which
is incorporated by reference.

Item 14 — Controls and Procedures

Xcel Energy maintains a set of disclosure controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports that it files or
submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and
Exchange Commission rules and forms. Within the 90 day period prior to the
filing of this report, an evaluation was carried out under the supervision and
with the participation of Xcel Energy’s management, including the Chief
Executive Officer (CEO) and Chief



Financial Officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of Xcel Energy’s disclosure
controls and procedures. Based on that evaluation and except as
indicated otherwise in the next paragraph, the CEO and CFO have
concluded that Xcel Energy’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

During the fourth quarter of 2002, Xcel Energy's
wholly owned subsidiary, NRG, determined
that there were certain deficiencies in the internal controls
relating to financial reporting at NRG caused by NRG's pending
financial restructuring and business realignment. During the second
half of 2002, there were material changes and vacancies in senior NRG
management positions and a diversion of NRG financial and management
resources to restructuring efforts. These circumstances detracted
from NRG's ability through its internal controls to timely monitor
and accurately assess the impact of certain transactions, as would be
expected in an effective financial reporting control environment. NRG
has dedicated and will continue to dedicate in 2003 resources to make
corrections to those control deficiencies. Notwithstanding the
foregoing and as indicated in the certification accompanying the
signature page to this report, the Certifying Officers have certified
that, to the best of their knowledge, the financial statements, and
other financial information included in this report on Form 10-K,
fairly present in all material respects the financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows of Xcel Energy as of, and for
the periods presented in this report.

Subsequent to the date of their evaluation, there
were no significant
changes in Xcel Energy’s internal controls or in other factors that could
significantly affect these controls.

Item 15 — Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1.

Financial Statements and Schedules

Reports of Independent Auditors for the years ended Dec. 31,
2002, 2001 and 2000.

Statements of Operations for the three years ended Dec. 31, 2002.

Statements of Cash Flows for the three years ended Dec. 31, 2002.

Balance Sheets, Dec. 31, 2002 and 2001.

Notes to Financial Statements

Schedule II — Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for
the years ended Dec. 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

2.

Exhibits

* Indicates incorporation by reference

+

Executive Compensation Arrangements and Benefit Plans Covering
Executive Officers and Directors

Xcel Energy

2.01*

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 24, 1999, by and
between Northern States Power Co. and New Century Energies, Inc.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.1 to the Report on Form 8-K
(File No. 1-12907) of New Century Energies, Inc. dated March 24,
1999).

3.01*

Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Company (Filed as Exhibit
4.01 to the Company’s Form 8-K (File no. 1-3034) filed on August 21,
2000).

3.02*

By-Laws of the Company (Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Company’s
Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File no. 333-48590) filed on
October 25, 2000).

4.01*

Trust Indenture dated Dec. 1, 2000, between Xcel Energy Inc. and
Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee.
(Filed as Exhibit 4.01 to the Company’s Form 8-K Report (File No.
1-3034) dated Dec. 18, 2000).

4.02*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated Dec. 15, 2000, between Xcel
Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as
Trustee, creating $600 million principal amount of 7 percent Senior
Notes, Series due 2010. (Filed as Exhibit 4.01 to the Company’s
Form 8-K Report (File No. 1-3034) dated Dec. 18, 2000).

4.03*

Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement dated Dec. 13, 2000, between
Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A., as Rights
Agent. (Filed as Exhibit 1 to the Company’s Form 8-K Report (File
No. 1-3034) dated Jan. 4, 2001).

4.04*

Subordinated Convertible Note, dated Feb. 28, 2002, between NRG
Energy, Inc. and Xcel Energy Inc. (Filed as Exhibit 4.112 to the
Company’s Registration Statement on Form S-4 (File no. 333-84264)
filed on March 13, 2002).

4.05*

$400 million
Five-Year Credit Agreement. (Files as Exhibit 99.02 to
Form 8-K (File No. 001-03034) filed Aug. 6, 2002)

4.125

Registration Rights Agreement dated Nov. 21, 2002 by and among Xcel
Energy Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. and Lazard
Freres & Co. LLC.

4.136

Redemption Agreement dated Nov. 25, 2002 by and among Xcel Energy Inc. and the Buyers listed on
Exhibit A thereto.



4.137

Xcel Energy Inc. 7.5 percent Convertible Senior Notes due 2007, Indenture dated as of Nov. 21, 2002

NSP-Minnesota

4.05*

Trust Indenture, dated Feb. 1, 1937, from NSP to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee.
(Exhibit B-7 to File No. 2-5290).

4.06*

Supplemental and Restated Trust Indenture, dated May 1, 1988, from NSP to Harris Trust and Savings
Bank, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.02 to Form 10-K of NSP for the year 1988, File No. 1-3034).
Supplemental Indentures between NSP and said Trustee, supplemental to Exhibit 4.03, dated as follows:

4.07*

June 1, 1942 (Exhibit B-8 to File No. 2-97667).

4.08*

Feb. 1, 1944 (Exhibit B-9 to File No. 2-5290).

4.09*

Oct. 1, 1945 (Exhibit 7.09 to File No. 2-5924).

4.10*

July 1, 1948 (Exhibit 7.05 to File No. 2-7549).

4.11*

Aug. 1, 1949 (Exhibit 7.06 to File No. 2-8047).

4.12*

June 1, 1952 (Exhibit 4.08 to File No. 2-9631).

4.13*

Oct. 1, 1954 (Exhibit 4.10 to File No. 2-12216).

4.14*

Sept. 1, 1956 (Exhibit 2.09 to File No. 2-13463).

4.15*

Aug. 1, 1957 (Exhibit 2.10 to File No. 2-14156).

4.16*

July 1, 1958 (Exhibit 4.12 to File No. 2-15220).

4.17*

Dec. 1, 1960 (Exhibit 2.12 to File No. 2-18355).

4.18*

Aug. 1, 1961 (Exhibit 2.13 to File No. 2-20282).

4.19*

June 1, 1962 (Exhibit 2.14 to File No. 2-21601).

4.20*

Sept. 1, 1963 (Exhibit 4.16 to File No. 2-22476).

4.21*

Aug. 1, 1966 (Exhibit 2.16 to File No. 2-26338).

4.22*

June 1, 1967 (Exhibit 2.17 to File No. 2-27117).

4.23*

Oct. 1, 1967 (Exhibit 2.01R to File No. 2-28447).

4.24*

May 1, 1968 (Exhibit 2.01S to File No. 2-34250).

4.25*

Oct. 1, 1969 (Exhibit 2.01T to File No. 2-36693).

4.26*

Feb. 1, 1971 (Exhibit 2.01U to File No. 2-39144).

4.27*

May 1, 1971 (Exhibit 2.01V to File No. 2-39815).

4.28*

Feb. 1, 1972 (Exhibit 2.01W to File No. 2-42598).

4.29*

Jan. 1, 1973 (Exhibit 2.01X to File No. 2-46434).

4.30*

Jan. 1, 1974 (Exhibit 2.01Y to File No. 2-53235).

4.31*

Sept. 1, 1974 (Exhibit 2.01Z to File No. 2-53235).

4.32*

April 1, 1975 (Exhibit 4.01AA to File No. 2-71259).

4.33*

May 1, 1975 (Exhibit 4.01BB to File No. 2-71259).

4.34*

March 1, 1976 (Exhibit 4.01CC to File No. 2-71259).

4.35*

June 1, 1981 (Exhibit 4.01DD to File No. 2-71259).

4.36*

Dec. 1, 1981 (Exhibit 4.01EE to File No. 2-83364).

4.37*

May 1, 1983 (Exhibit 4.01FF to File No. 2-97667).

4.38*

Dec. 1, 1983 (Exhibit 4.01GG to File No. 2-97667).

4.39*

Sept. 1, 1984 (Exhibit 4.01HH to File No. 2-97667).

4.40*

Dec. 1, 1984 (Exhibit 4.01II to File No. 2-97667).



4.41*

May 1, 1985 (Exhibit 4.36 to Form 10-K for the year 1985, File No. 1-3034).

4.42*

Sept. 1, 1985 (Exhibit 4.37 to Form 10-K for the year 1985, File No. 1-3034).

4.43*

July 1, 1989 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated July 7, 1989, File No. 1-3034).

4.44*

June 1, 1990 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated June 1, 1990, File No. 1-3034).

4.45*

Oct. 1, 1992 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated Oct. 13, 1992, File No. 1-3034).

4.46*

April 1, 1993 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated March 30, 1993, File No. 1-3034).

4.47*

Dec. 1, 1993 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated Dec. 7, 1993, File No. 1-3034).

4.48*

Feb. 1, 1994 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated Feb. 10, 1994, File No. 1-3034).

4.49*

Oct. 1, 1994 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated Oct. 5, 1994, File No. 1-3034).

4.50*

June 1, 1995 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated June 28, 1995, File No. 1-3034).

4.51*

April 1, 1997 (Exhibit 4.47 to Form 10-K for the year 1997, File No. 1-3034).

4.52*

March 1, 1998 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated March 11, 1998, File No. 1-3034).

4.53*

May 1, 1999 (Exhibit 4.49 to Form 10 of NSP-Minnesota, File No. 000-31709).

4.54*

June 1, 2000 (Exhibit 4.50 to Form 10 of NSP-Minnesota, File No. 000-31709).

4.55*

Aug. 1, 2000 (Assignment and Assumption of Trust Indenture) (Exhibit 4.51 to Form 10 of
NSP-Minnesota, File No. 000-31709).

4.56*

Subordinated Debt Securities Indenture, dated as of Jan. 30, 1997, between Xcel Energy and Norwest
Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee. (Exhibit 4.02 to Form 8-K dated Jan. 28, 1997,
File No. 001-03034).

4.57*

Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement, dated as of Jan. 31, 1997, between Xcel Energy and
Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.05 to Form 8-K dated Jan. 28, 1997, File No.
001-03034).

4.58*

Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement, dated as of Aug. 18, 2000, between Northern States Power
Company and Wilmington Trust Company, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.54 to Form 10 of NSP-Minnesota, File
No. 000-31709).

4.59*

Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of NSP Financing I, dated as of Jan. 31, 1997, including
form of Preferred Security. (Exhibit 4.10 to Form 8-K dated Jan. 28, 1997, File No. 001-03034).

4.60*+

Supplemental Indenture, dated as of Jan. 31, 1997, between Xcel Energy and Norwest Bank Minnesota,
National Association, as trustee, including form of Junior Subordinated Debenture. (Exhibit 4.12 to
Form 8-K dated Jan. 28, 1997, File No. 001-03034).

4.61*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated Aug. 18, 2000 between Xcel Energy, Northern States Power Co. and
Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee (Exhibit 4.57 to Form 10 of
NSP-Minnesota, File No. 000-31709).

4.62*

Common Securities Guarantee Agreement dated as of Jan. 31, 1997, between Xcel Energy and Wilmington
Trust Co., as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.13 to Form 8-K dated Jan. 28, 1997, File No. 001-03034).

4.63*

Common Securities Guarantee Agreement dated as of Aug. 18, 2000, between NSP and Wilmington Trust
Co., as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.59 to Form 10 of NSP-Minnesota, File No. 000-31709).

4.64*

Subscription Agreement, dated as of Jan. 28, 1997, between NSP Financing I and NSP. (Exhibit 4.14
to Form 8-K dated Jan. 28, 1997, File No. 001-03034).

4.65*

Trust Indenture, dated July 1, 1999, between NSP and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association,
as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K dated July 21, 1999, File No. 1-03034).

4.66*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated July 15, 1999, between NSP and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National
Association, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.02 to Form 8-K dated July 21, 1999, File No. 1-03034).



4.67*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Aug. 18, 2000, among Xcel Energy, Northern States Power Co. and
Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.63 to Form 10 of
NSP-Minnesota, File No. 000-31709).

4.117*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated June 1, 2002, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota
Corporation) and BNY Midwest Trust Co., as successor trustee (Exhibit 4.05 to Form 10-Q, dated Sept.
30, 2002, File No. 000-31709).

4.118*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated July 1, 2002, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota
Corporation) and BNY Midwest Trust Co., as successor trustee (Exhibit 4.06 to Form 10-Q, dated Sept.
30, 2002, File No. 000-31709).

4.119*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated July 1, 2002, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota
Corporation) and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee (Exhibit 4.01 to Form
8-k, dated July 8, 2002, File No. 000-31709).

4.120*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated Aug. 1, 2002, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota
Corporation) and BNY Midwest Trust Co., as successor trustee (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-k, dated Aug.
22, 2002, File No. 000-31709).

4.121*

Registration Rights Agreement dated Aug. 29, 2002, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota
Corporation) and Initial Bond Purchasers (Exhibit 4.1 to Form S-4, File No. 333-101531).

NSP-Wisconsin

4.68*

Copy of Trust Indenture, dated April 1, 1947, From NSP-Wisconsin to
Firstar Trust Co. (formerly First Wisconsin Trust Co.). (Filed as
Exhibit 7.01 to Registration Statement 2-6982).

4.69*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1949. (Filed as
Exhibit 7.02 to Registration Statement 2-7825).

4.70*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated June 1, 1957. (Filed as
Exhibit 2.13 to Registration Statement 2-13463).

4.71*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Aug. 1, 1964. (Filed as
Exhibit 4.20 to Registration Statement 2-23726).

4.72*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Dec. 1, 1969. (Filed as
Exhibit 2.03E to Registration Statement 2-36693).

4.73*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Sept. 1, 1973. (Filed as
Exhibit 2.03F to Registration Statement 2-49757).

4.74*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Feb. 1, 1982. (Filed as
Exhibit 4.01G to Registration Statement 2-76146).

4.75*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1982. (Filed as
Exhibit 4.08 to Form 10-K Report 10-3140 for the year 1982).

4.76*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated June 1, 1986. (Filed as
Exhibit 4.09 to Form 10-K Report 10-3140 for the year 1986).

4.77*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1988. (Filed as
Exhibit 4.10 to Form 10-K Report 10-3140 for the year 1988).

4.78*

Copy of Supplemental and Restated Trust Indenture, dated March 1,
1991. (Filed as Exhibit 4.01K to Registration Statement 33-39831).

4.79*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated April 1, 1991. (Filed as
Exhibit 4.01 to Form 10-Q Report 10-3140 for the quarter ended March
31, 1991).

4.80*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1993. (Filed as
Exhibit to Form 8-K Report 10-3140 dated March 3, 1993).

4.81*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Oct. 1, 1993. (Filed as
Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K Report 10-3140 dated Sept. 21, 1993).

4.82*

Copy of Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Dec. 1, 1996. (Filed as
Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K Report 10-3140 dated Dec. 12, 1996).



4.83*

Trust Indenture dated September 1, 2000, between Northern States
Power Co. and Firstar Bank, N.A. as Trustee. (Filed as Exhibit 4.01
to Form 8-K 10-3140 dated Sept. 25, 2000).

4.84*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated September 15, 2000, between
Northern States Power Co. and Firstar Bank, N.A. as Trustee,
creating $80 million principal amount of 7.64 percent Senior Notes,
Series due 2008. (Filed as Exhibit 4.02 to Form 8-K 10-3140 dated
Sept. 25, 2000).

PSCo

4.85*

Indenture, dated as of Dec. 1, 1939, providing for the issuance of First Mortgage Bonds (Form 10 for 1946- Exhibit
(B-1)).

4.86*

Indentures supplemental to Indenture dated as of Dec. 1, 1939:

Previous Filing:

Previous Filing:

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Dated as of

File No.

No.

Dated as of

File No.

No.

March 14, 1941

10, 1946

B-2

Sept. 1, 1970

8-K, September 1970


May 14, 1941

10, 1946

B-3

Feb. 1, 1971

8-K, February 1971


April 28, 1942

10, 1946

B-4

Aug. 1, 1972

8-K, August 1972


April 14, 1943

10, 1946

B-5

June 1, 1973

8-K, June 1973


April 27, 1944

10, 1946

B-6

March 1, 1974

8-K, April 1974


April 18, 1945

10, 1946

B-7

Dec. 1, 1974

8-K, December 1974


April 23, 1946

10-K, 1946

B-8

Oct. 1, 1975

S-7, (2-60082)

2(b)(3)

April 9, 1947

10-K, 1946

B-9

April 28, 1976

S-7, (2-60082)

2(b)(4)

June 1, 1947

S-1, (2-7075)

7(b)

April 28, 1977

S-7, (2-60082)

2(b)(5)

April 1, 1948

S-1, (2-7671)

7(b)(1)

Nov. 1, 1977

S-7, (2-62415)

2(b)(3)

May 20, 1948

S-1, (2-7671)

7(b)(2)

April 28, 1978

S-7, (2-62415)

2(b)(4)

Oct. 1, 1948

10-K, 1948


Oct. 1, 1978

10-K, 1978

D(1)

April 20, 1949

10-K, 1949


Oct. 1, 1979

S-7, (2-66484)

2(b)(3)

April 24, 1950

8-K, April 1950


March 1, 1980

10-K, 1980

4(c)

April 18, 1951

8-K, April 1951


April 28, 1981

S-16, (2-74923)

4(c)

Oct. 1, 1951

8-K, November 1951


Nov. 1, 1981

S-16, (2-74923)

4(c)

April 21, 1952

8-K, April 1952


Dec. 1, 1981

10-K, 1981

4(c)

Dec. 1, 1952

S-9, (2-11120)

2(b)(9)

April 29, 1982

10-K, 1982

4(c)

April 15, 1953

8-K, April 1953


May 1, 1983

10-K, 1983

4(c)

April 19, 1954

8-K, April 1954


April 30, 1984

S-3, (2-95814)

4(c)

Oct. 1, 1954

8-K, October 1954


March 1, 1985

10-K, 1985

4(c)

April 18, 1955

8-K, April 1955


Nov. 1, 1986

10-K, 1986

4(c)

April 24, 1956

10-K, 1956


May 1, 1987

10-K, 1987

4(c)

May 1, 1957

S-9, (2-13260)

2(b)(15)

July 1, 1990

S-3, (33-37431)

4(c)

April 10, 1958

8-K, April 1958


Dec. 1, 1990

10-K, 1990

4(c)

May 1, 1959

8-K, May 1959


March 1, 1992

10-K, 1992

4(d)

April 18, 1960

8-K, April 1960


April 1, 1993

10-Q, June 30, 1993

4(a)

April 19, 1961

8-K, April 1961


June 1, 1993

10-Q, June 30, 1993

4(b)

Oct. 1, 1961

8-K, October 1961


Nov. 1, 1993

S-3, (33-51167)

4(a)(3)

March 1, 1962

8-K, March 1962

3(a)

Jan. 1, 1994

10-K, 1993

4(a)(3)

June 1, 1964

8-K, June 1964


Sept. 2, 1994

8-K, September 1994

4(a)

May 1, 1966

8-K, May 1966


May 1, 1996

10-Q, June 30, 1996

4(a)

July 1, 1967

8-K, July 1967


Nov. 1, 1996

10-K, 1996

4(a)(3)

July 1, 1968

8-K, July 1968


Feb. 1, 1997

10-Q, March 31, 1997

4(a)

April 25, 1969

8-K, April 1969


April 1, 1998

10-Q, March 31, 1998

4(a)

April 21, 1970

8-K, April 1970


Aug. 15, 2002

10-Q, Sept. 30, 2002

4.01

Sept. 15, 2002

10-Q, Sept. 30, 2002

4.02

Sept. 1, 2002

8-K, Sept. 18, 2002

4.02

4.87*

Indenture, dated as of Oct. 1, 1993, providing for the issuance of First Collateral Trust Bonds (Form 10-Q, Sept.
30, 1993 — Exhibit 4(a)).

4.88*

Indentures supplemental to Indenture dated as of Oct. 1, 1993:

Previous Filing:

Previous Filing:

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Dated as of

File No.

No.

Dated as of

File No.

No.

Nov. 1, 1993

S-3, (33-51167)

4(b)(2)

Nov. 1, 1996

10-K, 1996

4(b)(3)

Jan. 1, 1994

10-K, 1993

4(b)(3)

Feb. 1, 1997

10-Q, March 31, 1997

4(b)



Previous Filing:

Previous Filing:

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Dated as of

File No.

No.

Dated as of

File No.

No.

Sept. 2, 1994

8-K, September 1994

4(b)

April 1, 1998

10-Q, March 31, 1998

4(b)

May 1, 1996

10-Q, June 30, 1996

4(b)

Aug. 15, 2002

10-Q, Sept. 30, 2002

4.03

Sept. 1, 2002

8-K, Sept. 18, 2002

4.01

Sept. 15, 2002

10-Q, Sept. 30, 2002

4.04

4.89*

Indenture date May 1, 1998, between PSCo and The Bank of New York, providing for the issuance of Subordinated Debt
Securities (Form 8-K, May 6, 1998 — Exhibit 4.2).

4.90*

Supplemental Indenture dated May 11, 1998, between PSCo and The Bank of New York, (Form 8-K, May 6, 1998 — Exhibit
4.3).

4.91*

Preferred Securities Guarantee Agreement dated May 11, 1998, between PSCo and The Bank of New York, (Form 8-K, May
6, 1998 — Exhibit 4.4).

4.92*

Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of PSCo Capital and Trust I date May 11, 1998, (Form 8-K, May 6, 1998 -
Exhibit 4.1).

4.93*

Indenture dated July 1, 1999, between PSCo and The Bank of New York, providing for the issuance of Senior Debt
Securities (Form 8-K, July 13, 1999, Exhibit 4.1) and Supplemental Indenture dated July 15, 1999, between PSCo and
The Bank of New York (Form 8-K, July 13, 1999, Exhibit 4.2).

4.122*

Registration Rights Agreement dated Sept. 26, 2002, between PSCo and Initial Bond Purchasers. (Exhibit 4.1 to Form
S-4, File No. 333-101913).

SPS

4.94*

Indenture, dated as of Aug. 1, 1946, providing for the issuance of First Mortgage bonds (Registration No. 2-6910, Exhibit
7-A).

4.95*

Indentures supplemental to Indenture dated as of Aug. 1, 1946:

Previous Filing:

Previous Filing:

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Dated as of

File No.

No.

Dated as of

File No.

No.

Feb. 1, 1967

2-25983

2-S

Feb. 1, 1985

10-K, August 1985

4(c)

Oct. 1, 1970

2-38566

2-T

July 15, 1992 (two)

10-K, August 1992

4(a)

Feb. 9, 1977

2-58209

2-Y

Dec. 1, 1992 (two)

10-Q, February 1993


March 1, 1979

2-64022

b(28)

Feb. 15, 1995

10-Q, May 1995


April 1, 1983 (two)

10-Q, May 1983

4(a)

March 1, 1996

333-05199

4(c)

4.96*

Indenture dated Feb. 1, 1999 between SPS and The Chase Manhattan Bank (Form 8-K, Feb. 25, 1999, Exhibit B).

4.97*

Supplemental Indenture dated March 1, 1999, between SPS and The Chase Manhattan Bank (Form 8-K, Feb. 25, 1999, Exhibit C).

4.98*

Supplemental Indenture dated October 1, 2001, between SPS and The Chase Manhattan Bank (Form 8-K, Oct. 23, 2001, Exhibit
4.01).

4.99*

Red River Authority for Texas Indenture of Trust dated July 1, 1991 (Form 10-K, Aug. 31, 1991 -Exhibit 4(b)).

4.100*

Indenture dated Oct. 21, 1996, between SPS and Wilmington Trust Co., (Form 10-Q, Nov. 30, 1996 — Exhibit 4(a)).

4.101*

Supplemental Indenture dated Oct. 21, 1996, between SPS and Wilmington Trust Co., (Form 10-Q, Nov. 30, 1996 — Exhibit
4(b)).

4.102*

Guarantee Agreement dated Oct. 21, 1996, between SPS and Wilmington Trust Co., (Form 10-Q, Nov. 30, 1996 — Exhibit 4(c)).

4.103*

Amended and Restated Trust Agreement dated Oct. 21, 1996, among SPS, David M. Wilks, as initial depositor, Wilmington
Trust Co. and the administrative trustees named therein (Form 10-Q, Nov. 30, 1996 — Exhibit 4(d)).



4.104*

Agreement as to Expenses dated Oct. 21, 1996, between SPS and Southwestern Public Service Capital I, (Form 10-K, Dec.
31, 1996 — Exhibit F).

NRG Energy, Inc.

4.105*

Indenture, dated as of June 1, 1997, between NRG and Norwest Bank
Minnesota, National Association. (Incorporated herein by reference
to Exhibit 4.1 to NRG’s Form S-1 (File No. 333-33397)).

4.106*

Form of Exchange Notes. (Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 4.2 to NRG’s Form S-1 (File No. 333-33397).

4.107*

Loan Agreement, dated June 4, 1999 between NRG Northeast Generating
LLC, Chase Manhattan Bank and Citibank, N.A. (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year
ended Dec. 31, 1999).

4.108*

Indenture between NRG and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National
Association, as Trustee dated as of May 25, 1999 (incorporated
herein by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to NRG’s current report on Form
8-K (File No. 000-15891) dated May 25, 1999 and filed on May 27,
1999).

4.109*

Indenture between NRG and NRG Northeast Generating LLC and The
Chase Manhattan Bank, as Trustee dated as of Feb. 22, 2000.
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891)
for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

4.110*

NRG Energy Pass-Through Trust 2000-1, $250 million 8.70 percent
Remarketable or Redeemable Securities (ROARS) due March 15, 2005.
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891)
for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

4.111*

Trust Agreement between NRG Energy, Inc. and The Bank of New York,
as Trustee, dated March 20, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to
NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31,
1999).

4.112*

Indenture between NRG Energy, Inc. and the Bank of New York , as
Trustee dated March 20, 2000, £160 million pounds sterling Reset
Senior Notes due March 15, 2020. (Incorporated by reference to
NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31,
1999).

4.113*

Indenture, dated March 13, 2001, between NRG Energy, Inc. and The
Bank of New York, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee.
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s current report on Form 8-K
(File No. 001-15891) dated March 15, 2001).

4.114*

First Supplement Indenture, dated March 13, 2001, between NRG
Energy, Inc. and The Bank of New York, a New York banking
corporation, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s
current report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-15891) dated March 15,
2001).

4.115*

364-Day Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of March 8, 2002, among
NRG Energy, Inc., The Financial Institutions Party hereto and ABN
ANRO Bank N.V., as agent. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s
quarterly report on Form 10-Q (File No. 001-15891) for the quarter
ended March 31, 2001).

4.116*

$2.0 billion credit agreement dated May 8, 2001 among NRG Finance
Co. LLC and certain financial institutions named therein.
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q
(File No. 001-15891) for the quarter ended June 30, 2001).

4.126*

Indenture, dated as of Jan. 31, 1996, between NRG Energy and
Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, File
No. 333-33397).

4.127*

Indenture, dated as of Nov. 8, 1999, between NRG Energy and Norwest
Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Current Report on Form 8-k dated Nov. 16, 1999).

4.128*

Indenture, dated as of Sept. 11, 2000, between NRG Energy and
Norwest Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Current Report on Form 8-k
dated Sept. 13, 2000).

4.129*

Form of Supplemental Indenture to be used in connection with the
issuance of debentures (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s
Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-52508).

4.130*

Form of Indenture (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Registration
Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-52508).

4.131*

Form of Purchase Contract Agreement between NRG Energy and the
Purchase Contract Agent to be named therein (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No.
333-52508).



4.132*

Form of Corporate Unit Certificate (Incorporated by reference to
NRG’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-52508).

4.133*

Form of Pledge Agreement among NRG Energy, the Collateral Agent and
the Unit Agent, each to be named therein (Incorporated by reference
to NRG’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No. 333-52508).

4.134*

Form of Remarketing Agreement among NRG Energy and The Bank of New
York, a New York banking corporation, as Trustee (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Registration Statement on Form S-3, File No.
333-52508).

4.135*

$600 million credit agreement among NRG Energy and certain
financial institutions named therein (Incorporated by reference to
NRG’s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2001).

4.136*

Indenture dated June 18, 2002, between NRG Peaker Finance Company LLC,
as Issuer, Bayou Cove Peaking Power LLC and Sterlington Power LLC, as
Guarantors, XL Capital Assurance Inc., as Insurer, and Law Debenture Trust
Co., as Successor Trustee to the Bank of New York (Incorporated by
reference to NRG Energy’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
Dec. 31, 2002, File No. 001-15891).

4.137*

Common Agreement among XL Capital Assurance Inc., Goldman Sachs Mitsui
Marine Derivative Products LP, the Bank of New York, as Trustee and
Collateral Agent, NRG Peaker Finance Co. LLC and each Project Company
Party thereto dated as of June 18, 2002 together with Annex A to the
Common Agreement. (Incorporated by reference to NRG Energy’s Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002, File No. 001-15891).

4.138*

Contingent Guaranty Agreement in favor of Bank of New York, dated June
18, 2002. (Incorporated by reference to NRG Energy’s Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002, File No. 001-15891).

NSP-Minnesota

10.01*

Facilities Agreement, dated July 21, 1976, between NSP and the
Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board relating to the interconnection of
the 500 kilovolt (kv) line. (Exhibit 5.06I to File No. 2-54310).

10.02*

Transactions Agreement, dated July 21, 1976, between NSP and the
Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board relating to the interconnection of
the 500 kv line. (Exhibit 5.06J to File No. 2-54310).

10.03*

Coordinating Agreement, dated July 21, 1976, between NSP and the
Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board relating to the interconnection of
the 500 kv line. (Exhibit 5.06K to File No. 2-54310).

10.04*

Ownership and Operating Agreement, dated March 11, 1982, between
NSP, Southern Minnesota Municipal Power Agency and United Minnesota
Municipal Power Agency concerning Sherburne County Generating Unit
No. 3. (Exhibit 10.01 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30,
1994, File No. 1-3034).

10.05*

Transmission Agreement, dated April 27, 1982, and Supplement No. 1,
dated July 20, 1982, between NSP and Southern Minnesota Municipal
Power Agency. (Exhibit 10.02 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
Sept. 30, 1994, File No. 1-3034).

10.06*

Power Agreement, dated June 14, 1984, between NSP and the Manitoba
Hydro-Electric Board, extending the agreement scheduled to
terminate on April 30, 1993, to April 30, 2005. (Exhibit 10.03 to
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 1994, File No. 1-3034).

10.07*

Power Agreement, dated August 1988, between NSP and Minnkota Power
Co.. (Exhibit 10.08 to Form 10-K for the year 1988, File No.
1-3034).

10.08*

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated Aug. 18, 2000 between
Northern States Power Co. and Xcel Energy Inc. (Exhibit 10.08 to
Form 10 of NSP-Minnesota, File No. 000-31709).

10.09*

Copy of Interchange Agreement dated Sept. 17, 1984, and Settlement
Agreement dated May 31, 1985, between NSP-Wisconsin, the
NSP-Minnesota Co. and Lake Superior District Power Co. (Filed as
Exhibit 10.10 to Form 10-K Report 10-3140 for the year 1985).

PSCo

10.10*

Amended and Restated Coal Supply Agreement entered into Oct. 1,
1984 but made effective as of Jan. 1, 1976 between PSCo and Amax
Inc. on behalf of its division, Amax Coal Co. (Form 10-K, (File no.
001-03280) Dec. 31, 1984 — Exhibit 10(c)(1)).

10.11*

First Amendment to Amended and Restated Coal Supply Agreement
entered into May 27, 1988 but made effective Jan. 1, 1988 between
PSCo and Amax Coal Co. (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-03280) Dec. 31,
1988-Exhibit 10(c)(2).

SPS

10.12*

Coal Supply Agreement (Harrington Station) between SPS and TUCO,
dated May 1, 1979 (Form 8-K (File no. 001-3789), May 14, 1979 -
Exhibit 3).

10.13*

Master Coal Service Agreement between Swindell-Dressler Energy
Supply Co. and TUCO, dated July 1, 1978 (Form 8-K, (File no.
001-3789) May 14, 1979 — Exhibit 5(A)).

10.14*

Guaranty of Master Coal Service Agreement between Swindell-Dressler
Energy Supply Co. and TUCO (Form 8-K, (File no. 3789) May 14, 1979
- - Exhibit 5(B)).

10.15*

Coal Supply Agreement (Tolk Station) between SPS and TUCO dated
April 30, 1979, as amended Nov. 1, 1979 and Dec. 30, 1981 (Form
10-Q, (File no. 3789) Feb. 28, 1982 — Exhibit 10(b)).

10.16*

Master Coal Service Agreement between Wheelabrator Coal Services
Co. and TUCO dated Dec. 30, 1981, as amended Nov. 1, 1979 and Dec.
30, 1981 (Form 10-Q, (File no. 3789) Feb. 28, 1982 — Exhibit
10(c)).



Xcel Energy

10.17*+

Xcel Energy Omnibus Incentive Plan (Exhibit A to Xcel’s Proxy Statement (File no.1-3034) filed Aug.
29, 2000).

10.18*+

Xcel Energy Executive Annual Incentive Award (Exhibit B to Xcel’s Proxy Statement (File no.1-3034)
filed Aug. 29, 2000).

10.19* +

Xcel Energy Senior Executive Severance (Exhibit 10.19 to Form 10-K for the year 2000, File No.
1-3034).

10.20*+

Employment Contract of James J. Howard dated March 24, 1999. (Exhibit 10.14 to Form 10-K for the year
1998. File No. 1-3034).

10.21* +

Employment Agreement, effective Dec. 15, 1997, between company and Mr. Paul J. Bonavia (Form
10-Q, (File no. 001-12927) Sept. 30, 1998 — Exhibit 10(a)).

10.22*+

The employment agreement, dated March 24, 1999, among Northern States Power Co., New Century
Energies, Inc. and Wayne H. Brunetti (Form 10-Q, (File no. 001-12927) March 31, 1999, Exhibit 10(b)).

10.23*+

Summary of Terms and Conditions of Employment of James J Howard, Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer, effective Feb. 1, 1987, as amended and restated effective as of Jan. 28, 1998.
(Agreement filed as Exhibit 10.03 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998, File No.
1-3034).

10.24*+

NSP Severance Plan. (Exhibit 10.12 to Form 10-K for the year 1994, File No. 1-3034).

10.25*+

NSP Deferred Compensation Plan amended effective Jan. 1, 1993. (Exhibit 10.16 to Form 10-K for the
year 1993, File No. 1-3034).

10.26*+

Amended and Restated Executive Long-Term Incentive Award Stock Plan. (Exhibit 10.02 to Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended March 31, 1998, File No. 1-3034).

10.27*+

Stock Equivalent Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Xcel Energy As Amended and Restated Effective
Oct. 1, 1997. (Exhibit 10.15 to Form 10-K for the year 1997. File No. 1-3034).

10.28*+

Form of Key Executive Change in Control Agreement (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-12927) Dec. 31, 1998,
Exhibit 10(a)(1)).

10.29*+

Senior Executive Severance Policy, effective March 24, 1999, between New Century Energies, Inc. and
Senior Executives (Form 10-Q, (File no. 001-12927) March 31, 1999, Exhibit 10(a)(2)).

10.30*+

Employment Agreement, effective August 1, 1997, between the Company and Mr. Wayne H. Brunetti (Form
S-4, Annex I, File No. 33-64951).

10.31*+

New Century Energies Omnibus Incentive Plan, effective August 1, 1997 (Form Def 14A, (File no.
001-12927) Dec. 31, 1997 — Exhibit A).

10.32*+

Directors’ Voluntary Deferral Plan (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-12927) Dec. 31, 1998, Exhibit 10(d) (1)).

10.33*+

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-12927) Dec. 31, 1998, Exhibit 10(e)
(1)).

10.34*+

Salary Deferral and Supplemental Savings Plan for Executive Officers (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-12927)
Dec. 31, 1998, Exhibit 10(f) (1)).

10.35*+

Salary Deferral and Supplemental Savings Plan for Key Managers (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-12927) Dec.
31, 1998, Exhibit 10(g) (1)).

10.36*+

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Key Management Employees, as amended and restated March
26, 1991 (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-3280) Dec. 31, 1991 — Exhibit 10(e)(2)).

10.37*+

Form of Key Executive Severance Agreement, as amended on Aug. 22, and Nov. 27, 1995. (Form 10-K,
(File no. 001-3280) Dec. 31, 1995 — Exhibit 10(3)(4)).

10.38*+

SPS 1989 Stock Incentive Plan as amended April 23, 1996 (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-3789) Aug. 31, 1996
- - Exhibit 10(b)).

10.39*+

Director’s Deferred Compensation Plan as amended Jan. 10, 1990 (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-3789) Aug.
31, 1996 — Exhibit 10(c)).

10.40*+

Supplemental Retirement Income Plan as amended July 23, 1991 (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-3789) Aug. 31,
1996 — Exhibit 10(e)).

10.41*+

EPS Performance Unit Plan dated Oct. 27, 1992 (Form 10-K, (File no. 001-3789) Aug. 31, 1996 — Exhibit
10(a)).



NRG

10.42*+

Employment Contract, dated as of June 28, 1995, between NRG and
David H. Peterson. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.1 to NRG’s Form S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.43*

Note Agreement, dated Aug. 20, 1993, among NRG Energy Center, Inc.
and each of the purchasers named therein. (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.4 to NRG’s Form S-1 (File No. 333-33397).

10.44*

Master Shelf and Revolving Credit Agreement dated August 20, 1993
among NRG Energy Center, Inc., The Prudential insurance
Registrants of America and each Prudential Affiliate, which
becomes party thereto. (Incorporated herein by reference to
Exhibit 10.5 to NRG’s Form S-1 (File No. 333-33397).

10.45*

Energy Agreement dated Feb. 12, 1988 between NRG (formerly known
as Norenco Corp.) and Waldorf Corp. (the “Energy Agreement”).
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to NRG’s Form
S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.46*

First Amendment to the Energy Agreement dated Aug. 27, 1993.
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to NRG’s Form
S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.47*

Second Amendment to the Energy Agreement, dated Aug. 27, 1993.
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to NRG’s Form
S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.48*

Third Amendment to the Energy Agreement dated Aug. 27, 1993.
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to NRG’s Form
S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.49*

Construction, Acquisition, and Term Loan Agreement, dated Sept. 2,
1997 by and among NEO Landfill Gas, Inc , as Borrower, the lenders
named on the signature pages, Credit Lyonnais New York Branch, as
Construction/Acquisition Agent and Lyon Credit Corp. as Term
Agent. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to NRG’s
Form S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.50*

Guaranty, dated Sept. 12, 1997 by NRG in favor of Credit Lyonnais
New York Branch as agent for the Construction/Acquisition Lenders.
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to NRG’s Form
S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.51*

Construction, Acquisition, and Term Loan Agreement, dated Sept. 2,
1997 by and among Minnesota Methane LLC, as Borrower, the lenders
named on the signature pages, Credit Lyonnais New York Branch, as
Construction/Acquisition Agent and Lyon Credit Corp. as Term
Agent. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to NRG’s
Form S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.52*

Guaranty, dated Sept. 12, 1997 by NRG in favor of Credit Lyonnais
New York Branch as agent for the Construction/Acquisition Lenders.
(Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to NRG’s Form
S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.53*

Non Operating Interest Acquisition Agreement dated as of Sept. 12,
1997, by and among NRG and NEO Corp. (Incorporated herein by
reference to Exhibit 10.14 to NRG’s Form S-1, File No. 333-33397).

10.54*

Employment Agreements between NRG and certain officers dated as
of April 15, 1998. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
10.17 of NRG’s Form 10-Q, File No. 001-15891, for the quarter
ended March 31, 1998).

10.55*

Wholesale Standard Offer Service Agreement between Blackstone
Valley Electric Co., Eastern Edison Co., Newport Electric Corp.
and NRG Power Marketing, Inc., dated Oct. 13, 1998. (Incorporated
by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year
ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.56*

Asset Sales Agreement by and between Niagara Mohawk Power Corp.
and NRG Energy, Inc., dated Dec. 23, 1998. (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year
ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.57*

First Amendment to Wholesale Standard Offer Service Agreement
between Blackstone Valley Electric Co., Eastern Edison Co.,
Newport Electric Corp. and NRG Power Marketing, Inc., dated Jan.
15, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No.
000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.58*

Generating Plant and Gas Turbine Asset Purchase and Sale Agreement
for the Arthur Kill generating plants and Astoria gas turbines by
and between Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc., and NRG
Energy, Inc., dated Jan. 27, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to
NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31,
1999).

10.59*

Transition Energy Sales Agreement between Arthur Kill Power LLC
and Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc., dated June 1, 1999.
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891)
for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.60*

Transition Power Purchase Agreement between Astoria Gas Turbine
Power LLC and Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc., dated
June 1,1999. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File
No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).



10.61*

Transition Power Purchase Agreement between Niagara Mohawk Power
Corp. and Huntley Power LLC, dated June 11, 1999. (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year
ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.62*

Transition Power Purchase Agreement between Niagara Mohawk Power
Corp. and Dunkirk Power LLC, dated June 11, 1999. (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year
ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.63*

Power Purchase Agreement between Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. and
Dunkirk Power LLC, dated June 11, 1999.(Incorporated by reference
to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec.
31, 1999).

10.64*

Power Purchase Agreement between Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. and
Huntley Power LLC, dated June 11, 1999. (Incorporated by reference
to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec.
31, 1999).

10.65*

Amendment to the Asset Sales Agreement by and between Niagara
Mohawk Power Corp. and NRG Energy, Inc., dated June 11, 1999.
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891)
for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.66*

Transition Capacity Agreement between Astoria Gas Turbine Power
LLC and Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc., dated June 25,
1999. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No.
000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.67*

Transition Capacity Agreement between Arthur Kill Power LLC and
Consolidated Edison Co. of New York, Inc., dated June 25, 1999.
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891)
for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.68*+

First Amendment to the Employment Agreement of David H. Peterson,
dated June 27, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K
(File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.69*+

Second Amendment to the Employment Agreement of David H. Peterson,
dated Aug. 26, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K
(File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.70*+

Third Amendment to the Employment Agreement of David H. Peterson,
dated Oct. 20, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form 10-K
(File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.71*

Swap Master Agreement between Niagara Mohawk Power Corp. and NRG
Power Marketing, Inc., dated June 11, 1999. (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year
ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.72*

Standard Offer Service Wholesale Sales Agreement between the
Connecticut Light And Power Co. and NRG Power Marketing, Inc.,
dated October 29, 1999. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Form
10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.73*

364-day Revolving Credit Agreement among NRG and The Financial
Institutions party thereto, and ABN-AMRO Bank, N.V., as Agent,
dated as of March 10, 2000. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s
Form 10-K (File No. 000-15891) for the year ended Dec. 31, 1999).

10.74*

Amended agreement for the sale of thermal energy dated Jan. 1,
1983 between NRG Energy (formerly known as Norenco Corp.) and
NSP-Minnesota and Norenco Corp. (Incorporated by reference to
NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, File No. 333-35096).

10.75*

Operations and maintenance agreement dated Nov. 1, 1996 between
NRG Energy and NSP-Minnesota . (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s
Registration on Form S-1, File No. 333-35096).

10.76*

Agreement for the sale of thermal energy and wood byproduct dated
Dec. 1, 1986 between NSP-Minnesota and Norenco Corp. (Incorporated
by reference to NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, File No.
333-35096).

10.77*

Federal and state income tax sharing agreement dated April 4, 1991
between NSP-Minnesota and NRG Group, Inc. (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, File No. 333-35096).

10.78*

Support agreement dated March 27, 2000 between NSP-Minnesota and
CityCorp USA Inc. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Registration
on Form S-1, File No. 333-35096).

10.79*

Administrative services agreement dated Jan. 1, 1992 between
NSP-Minnesota and NRG Thermal Corp. (Incorporated by reference to
NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, File No. 333-35096).

10.80*

Form of option agreement with NSP-Minnesota (Incorporated by
reference to NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, File No. 333-35096).

10.81*

Form of registration rights agreement with NSP-Minnesota
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, File
No. 333-35096).

10.82*

Form of indemnification agreement (Incorporated by reference to
NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, File No. 333-35096).



10.83*

Form of severance agreement entered into between NRG Energy and
each of the following executive officers: James Bender, Leonard
Bluhm, Craig Mataczynski, and John Noer (Incorporated by reference
to NRG’s quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
30, 2001).

Xcel Energy

12.01

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

16.01*

Letter Regarding Change in Accountant. (Exhibit 16.01 to Form 10-K
for the year 2001, File No. 1-3034)

21.01

Subsidiaries of Xcel Energy Inc.

23.01

Consent of Independent Auditors.

23.02

Consent of Independent Accountants.

99.01

Statement pursuant to Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

99.02

Description of Business of NRG Energy, Inc.

99.03*

Exhibit regarding the use of Arthur Andersen Audit Firm. (Exhibit
99.03 to Form 10-K for the year 2001, File No. 1-3034)

99.04

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant
to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.





SCHEDULE II

XCEL ENERGY INC.

AND SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

Years Ended Dec. 31, 2002, 2001 and 2000

(1)

Uncollectible accounts written off or transferred to other parties.



Signatures

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this annual report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Xcel Energy Inc.

March 28, 2003

/s/   Richard C. Kelly

Richard C. Kelly

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the date indicated.



CERTIFICATIONS

I, Wayne H. Brunetti, certify that:

1.     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Xcel Energy Inc. (A
Minnesota Corporation);

2.     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

3.     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.     The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated in this annual report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within
90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report (the “Evaluation
Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls;
and

6.     The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ WAYNE H. BRUNETTI

Wayne H. Brunetti

Chairman, President and Chief

Executive Officer

Date: March 28, 2003



I, Richard C. Kelly, certify that:

1.     I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Xcel Energy Inc. (A
Minnesota Corporation);

2.     Based on my knowledge, this annual report does not contain any untrue
statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make
the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements
were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this annual
report;

3.     Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this annual report, fairly present in all material
respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this annual report;

4.     The registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in
Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the registrant and we have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated
subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities,
particularly during the period in which this annual report is being prepared;

b) evaluated in this annual report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures as of a date within
90 days prior to the filing date of this annual report (the “Evaluation
Date”); and

c) presented in this annual report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5.     The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed, based
on our most recent evaluation, to the registrant’s auditors and the audit
committee of registrant’s board of directors (or persons performing the
equivalent function):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely affect the registrant’s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial data and have identified for the
registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in internal controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other
employees who have a significant role in the registrant’s internal controls;
and

6.     The registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in this
annual report whether or not there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal controls
subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material weaknesses.

/s/ RICHARD C. KELLY

Richard C. Kelly

Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Date: March 28, 2003

151