10-K


c83272e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

x

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO
SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended Dec. 31, 2003

or

o

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-3034

Xcel Energy Inc.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

Minnesota

(State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization)

800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minnesota

(Address of Principal Executive Offices)

41-0448030

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)


(Zip Code)

Registrant’s Telephone Number, including Area Code (612) 330-5500

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Name of Each Exchange on

Registrant

Title of Each Class

Which Registered

Xcel Energy Inc.

Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share

New York, Chicago, Pacific

Xcel Energy Inc.

Rights to Purchase Common Stock, $2.50 par value per share
Cumulative Preferred Stock, $100 par value:

New York, Chicago, Pacific

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $3.60 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.08 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.10 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.11 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.16 Cumulative

New York

Xcel Energy Inc.

Preferred Stock $4.56 Cumulative

New York

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of Act:

None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

x

Yes

o

No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrants’ knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.

x

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is an accelerated filer (as
defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).

x

Yes

o

No

As of June 28, 2003, the aggregate market value of the voting common stock held
by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $5,991,223,342 and there were
398,731,917 shares of common stock outstanding.

As of March 5, 2004, there were 398,146,597 shares of common stock outstanding,
$2.50 par value.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

The Registrant’s Definitive Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders is incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.


Index



Item 1.

Business

COMPANY OVERVIEW

Xcel Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy), a Minnesota corporation, is a registered
holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA).
In 2003, Xcel Energy directly owned five utility subsidiaries that serve
electric and natural gas customers in 11 states. These utility subsidiaries
are Northern States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation (NSP-Minnesota);
Northern States Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation (NSP-Wisconsin); Public
Service Company of Colorado (PSCo); Southwestern Public Service Co. (SPS); and
Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Co. (Cheyenne). These utilities serve customers
in portions of Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota,
Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Along with WestGas
InterState Inc. (WGI), an interstate natural gas pipeline, these companies
comprise our continuing regulated utility operations. In January 2003, Xcel
Energy sold Viking Gas Transmission Co. (Viking), an interstate natural gas
pipeline company. In October 2003, Xcel Energy sold Black Mountain Gas Co.
(BMG), a regulated natural gas and propane distribution company. Both Viking
and BMG are reported as a component of discontinued operations. In January
2004, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell Cheyenne, pending regulatory
approval.

Xcel Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries in continuing operations include
Utility Engineering Corp. (engineering, construction and design); Seren
Innovations, Inc. (broadband telecommunications services); Planergy
International, Inc. (energy management solutions); and Eloigne Co. (investments
in rental housing projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits).
During 2003, the board of directors of Xcel Energy approved management’s plan
to exit certain businesses conducted by the nonregulated subsidiaries Xcel
Energy International Inc. (an international independent power producer,
primarily in Argentina) and e prime inc. (a natural gas marketing and trading
company). Both of these businesses are presented as a component of
discontinued operations. Also during 2003, Planergy closed and sold a
majority of its business operations and final dissolution is expected
in 2004.

During 2003, Xcel Energy also divested its ownership interest in NRG Energy,
Inc. (NRG), an independent power producer. On May 14, 2003, NRG and certain of
its affiliates filed voluntary petitions in the U. S. Bankruptcy Court for the
Southern District of New York for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code to restructure their debt. On Dec. 5, 2003, NRG completed its
reorganization and emerged from bankruptcy. As a result of the reorganization,
Xcel Energy relinquished its ownership interest in NRG. At Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel
Energy reports NRG’s financial activity as a component of discontinued
operations. Xcel Energy is obligated to make payments of up to $752 million to
NRG in early 2004 and expects to fund these payments with cash on hand,
borrowings against Xcel Energy’s revolving credit facilities and proceeds from
a tax refund associated with the write-off of its investment in NRG.

Xcel Energy was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1909. Its executive
offices are located at 800 Nicollet Mall, Minneapolis, Minn. 55402.

For information on the nonregulated subsidiaries of Xcel Energy, see
Nonregulated Subsidiaries under Item 1. For information regarding Xcel Energy’s
segments, see Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy’s web site address is www.xcelenergy.com. Xcel Energy makes
available, free of charge through its web site, its annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and all amendments
to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 as soon as reasonably practicable after such
material is electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC).

Regulated Subsidiaries

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Minnesota was incorporated in 2000 under the laws of Minnesota.
NSP-Minnesota is an operating utility engaged in the generation, purchase,
transmission, distribution and sale of electricity in Minnesota, North Dakota
and South Dakota. NSP-Minnesota also purchases, distributes and sells natural
gas to retail customers and transports customer-owned natural gas in
Minnesota and North Dakota. NSP-Minnesota provides electric utility service to
approximately 1.3 million customers and gas utility service to approximately
440,000 customers.

NSP-Minnesota owns the following direct subsidiaries: United Power and Land
Co., which holds real estate; and NSP Nuclear Corp., which holds
NSP-Minnesota’s interest in the Nuclear Management Co. NSP-Minnesota owned NSP
Financing I, a special purpose financing trust, for which a certificate of
cancellation was filed for dissolution on Sept. 15, 2003.



NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin was incorporated in 1901 under the laws of Wisconsin.
NSP-Wisconsin is an operating utility engaged in the generation, transmission
and distribution of electricity to approximately 235,000 customers in
northwestern Wisconsin and in the western portion of the Upper Peninsula of
Michigan. NSP-Wisconsin is also engaged in the distribution, sale and transport
of customer-owned natural gas in the same service territory to approximately
95,000 customers.

NSP-Wisconsin owns the following direct subsidiaries: Chippewa and Flambeau
Improvement Co., which operates hydro reservoirs; Clearwater Investments Inc.,
which owns interests in affordable housing; and NSP Lands, Inc., which holds
real estate.

PSCo

PSCo was incorporated in 1924 under the laws of Colorado. PSCo is an operating
utility engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission,
distribution and sale of electricity and the purchase, transportation,
distribution and sale of natural gas. PSCo serves approximately 1.3 million
electric customers and approximately 1.2 million natural gas customers in
Colorado.

PSCo owns the following direct subsidiaries: 1480 Welton, Inc., which owns
certain real estate interests for PSCo; P.S.R. Investments, Inc., which owns
and manages permanent life insurance policies on certain employees; and Green
and Clear Lakes Company, which owns water rights. PSCo also holds a controlling
interest in several other relatively small ditch and water companies whose
capital requirements are not significant. PS Colorado Credit Corp., a finance
company that was owned by PSCo and financed certain of PSCo’s current assets,
was dissolved in 2002. PSCo owned PSCo Capital Trust I, a special purpose
financing trust, for which a certificate of cancellation was filed for
dissolution on Dec. 29, 2003.

SPS

SPS was incorporated in 1921 under the laws of New Mexico. SPS is an operating
utility engaged primarily in the generation, purchase, transmission,
distribution and sale of electricity. SPS serves approximately 395,000
electric customers in portions of Texas, New Mexico, Oklahoma and Kansas. The
wholesale customers served by SPS comprise approximately 38 percent of the
total kilowatt-hour sales. A major portion of SPS’ retail electric operating
revenues is derived from operations in Texas.

At Dec. 31, 2003, SPS owned a direct subsidiary, Southwestern Public Service
Capital I (SPS Capital I), a special purpose financing trust, for which a
certificate of cancellation was filed for dissolution on Jan. 5, 2004.

Other Regulated Subsidiaries

Cheyenne was incorporated in 1900 under the laws of Wyoming. Cheyenne is an
operating utility engaged in the purchase, transmission, distribution and sale
of electricity and natural gas, primarily serving approximately 38,000 electric
customers and 31,000 natural gas customers in and around Cheyenne, Wyo. In
January 2004, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell Cheyenne, pending
regulatory approval.

BMG is a natural gas and propane distribution company located in Cave Creek,
Ariz. In October 2003, Xcel Energy sold BMG.

Viking is an interstate natural gas pipeline serving portions of Minnesota,
Wisconsin and North Dakota. In January 2003, Xcel Energy sold Viking, including
its ownership interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC, another interstate natural
gas pipeline.

WGI was incorporated in 1990 under the laws of Colorado. WGI is a small
interstate natural gas pipeline company engaged in transporting natural gas
from the PSCo system near Chalk Bluffs, Colo., to the Cheyenne system near
Cheyenne, Wyo.

UTILITY REGULATION

Ratemaking Principles

Xcel Energy is subject to the regulatory oversight of the SEC under PUHCA. The
rules and regulations under PUHCA impose a number of restrictions on the
operations of registered holding company systems. These restrictions include,
subject to certain exceptions, a requirement



that the SEC approve securities
issuances, payments of dividends out of capital or unearned surplus, sales and acquisitions of utility assets or of securities of utility companies and
acquisitions of other businesses. PUHCA also generally limits the operations
of a registered holding company to a single integrated public utility system,
plus additional energy-related businesses. PUHCA rules require that
transactions between affiliated companies in a registered holding company
system be performed at cost, with limited exceptions. See additional discussion
of PUHCA requirements under Factors Affecting Results of Operations and
Liquidity and Capital Resources in Management’s Discussion and Analysis under
Item 7.

The Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) has jurisdiction over rates for
electric transmission service in interstate commerce and electric energy sold
at wholesale, hydro facility licensing, accounting practices and certain other
activities of Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries. Federal, state and local
agencies also have jurisdiction over many of Xcel Energy’s other activities,
including regulation of retail rates and environmental matters.

NSP-Minnesota

Retail rates, services and other aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s operations are
subject to the jurisdiction of the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission
(MPUC), the North Dakota Public Service Commission (NDPSC) and the South Dakota
Public Utilities Commission (SDPUC) within their respective states. The MPUC
has regulatory authority over aspects of NSP-Minnesota’s financial activities,
including security issuances, certain property transfers, mergers with other
utilities and transactions between NSP-Minnesota and its affiliates. In
addition, the MPUC reviews and approves NSP-Minnesota’s electric resource plans
and gas supply plans for meeting customers’ future energy needs. The MPUC also
certifies the need for generating plants greater than 50 megawatts and
transmission lines greater than 100 kilovolts. NSP-Minnesota is subject to the
jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations,
accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale and the transmission of
electricity in interstate commerce. NSP-Minnesota has received authorization
from the FERC to make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.

The Minnesota Environmental Quality Board (MEQB) is empowered to select and
designate sites for new power plants with a capacity of 50 megawatts or more
and wind energy conversion plants with a capacity of five megawatts or more. It
also designates routes for electric transmission lines with a capacity of 100
kilovolts or more. No power plant or transmission line may be constructed in
Minnesota except on a site or route designated by the MEQB. The NDPSC has
regulatory authority over the need for certain generating and transmission
facilities, and the siting and routing of certain new generation and
transmission facilities in North Dakota.

NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin is subject to regulation by the Public Service Commission of
Wisconsin (PSCW) and the Michigan Public Service Commission (MPSC). In
addition, each of the state commissions certifies the need for new generating
plants and electric and retail gas transmission lines of designated capacities
to be located within the respective states before the facilities may be sited
and built. NSP-Wisconsin is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with
respect to its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices, wholesale
sales for resale and the transmission of electricity in interstate
commerce. NSP-Wisconsin has received authorization from the FERC to
make wholesale electric sales at market-based prices.

The PSCW has a biennial base-rate filing requirement. By June of each
odd-numbered year, NSP-Wisconsin must submit a rate filing for the two-year
test year period beginning the following January. The filing procedure and
review generally allow the PSCW sufficient time to issue an order and implement
new base rates effective with the start of the test year.

PSCo

PSCo is subject to the jurisdiction of the Colorado Public Utilities Commission
(CPUC) with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and issuance
of securities. PSCo is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to
its wholesale electric operations, accounting practices, wholesale sales for
resale and the transmission of electricity in interstate commerce. PSCo has
received authorization from the FERC to make wholesale electricity sales at
market-based prices. Also, PSCo holds a FERC certificate that allows it to
transport natural gas in interstate commerce without PSCo becoming subject to
full FERC jurisdiction under the federal Natural Gas Act.



SPS

The Public Utility Commission of Texas (PUCT) has jurisdiction over SPS’ Texas
operations as an electric utility and over its retail rates and services. The
municipalities in which SPS operates in Texas have original jurisdiction over
SPS’ rates in those communities. The New Mexico Public Regulation Commission
(NMPRC) has jurisdiction over the issuance of securities. The NMPRC, the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission and the Kansas Corporation Commission have
jurisdiction with respect to retail rates and services and construction of
transmission or generation in their respective states. SPS is subject to the
jurisdiction of the FERC with respect to its wholesale electric operations,
accounting practices, wholesale sales for resale and the transmission of
electricity in interstate commerce. SPS has received authorization from the
FERC to make wholesale electricity sales at market-based prices.

Cheyenne

Cheyenne is subject to the jurisdiction of the Wyoming Public Service
Commission (WPSC) with respect to its facilities, rates, accounts, services and
issuance of securities. Cheyenne is subject to the jurisdiction of the FERC
with respect to its accounting practices and the transmission of electricity in
interstate commerce.

Other

WGI is subject to FERC jurisdiction with respect to its accounting practices
and holds a FERC certificate, which allows it to transport natural gas in
interstate commerce pursuant to the provisions of the Natural Gas Act.

Fuel, Purchased Gas and Resource Adjustment Clauses

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Minnesota’s retail
electric rate schedules in Minnesota, North Dakota and South Dakota
jurisdictions
provide for monthly adjustments
to billings and revenues for changes in prudently incurred cost of fuel and purchased energy. NSP-Minnesota is permitted to recover these costs through fuel
clause mechanisms individually approved by the regulators in each
jurisdiction. The fuel clause mechanisms allow NSP-Minnesota to bill customers for the cost of
fuel used to generate electricity at its plants and energy purchased from other
suppliers.

In general, capacity costs are not recovered through the fuel
clause adjustment. NSP-Minnesota’s electric wholesale customers do not have a
fuel clause provision in their contracts. Instead, the contracts have an annual
price escalation factor subject to a rate cap.

The MPUC has opened an investigation to consider the continuing
usefulness of fuel clause adjustments for electric utilities in Minnesota. No
action has been proposed. The MPUC has the authority to disallow recovery of
certain costs if it finds the utility was not prudent in its procurement
activities.

NSP-Minnesota’s retail gas rate
schedules for Minnesota and North Dakota include a purchased gas adjustment
(PGA) clause that provides for prospective monthly rate adjustments to reflect
the forecasted cost of purchased gas. The annual difference between the gas
costs collected through PGA rates and the actual gas costs are collected or
refunded over the subsequent 12-month period. The MPUC has the authority to
disallow recovery of certain costs if it finds the utility was not prudent in
its procurement activities.

NSP-Minnesota is required by Minnesota law to spend a minimum of 2 percent of
Minnesota electric revenue and 0.5 percent of Minnesota gas revenue on
conservation improvement programs. These costs are recovered through an annual
cost recovery mechanism for electric and gas conservation and energy management
program expenditures. NSP-Minnesota is required to request a new cost
recovery level annually.

NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Wisconsin does not have an automatic electric fuel adjustment clause for
Wisconsin retail customers. Instead, it has a procedure that compares actual
monthly and anticipated annual fuel costs with those costs that were included
in the latest retail electric rates. If the comparison results in a difference
outside a prescribed range, the PSCW may hold hearings limited to fuel costs
and revise rates upward or downward. Any revised rates would remain in effect
until the next rate change. The adjustment approved is calculated on an annual
basis, but applied prospectively. Most of NSP-Wisconsin’s wholesale electric
rate schedules provide for adjustments to billings and revenues for changes in
the cost of fuel and purchased energy.



NSP-Wisconsin has a retail gas cost recovery mechanism for Wisconsin operations
to recover changes in the actual cost of natural gas and transportation and
storage services. The PSCW has the authority to disallow certain costs if it
finds the utility was not prudent in its procurement activities.

NSP-Wisconsin’s gas and retail electric rate schedules for Michigan customers
include gas cost recovery factors and power supply cost recovery factors,
respectively, which are based on 12-month projections. After each 12-month
period, a reconciliation is submitted whereby over-collections are refunded and
any under-collections are collected from the customers over the subsequent
12-month period.

PSCo

PSCo has several retail adjustment clauses that recover fuel, purchased energy
and resource costs:

PSCo recovers fuel and purchased energy costs from its wholesale customers
through a fuel cost adjustment clause accepted for filing by the FERC. In
February 2004, the FERC approved a
revised wholesale fuel adjustment clause for PSCo, which PSCo
submitted as part of a settlement agreement with certain of its
wholesale customers contesting past charges under PSCo's prior fuel
adjustment clause.

SPS

Fuel and purchased energy costs are recovered in Texas through a fixed fuel and
purchased energy recovery factor, which is part of SPS’ retail electric rates.
In July 2003, a unanimous settlement was reached providing for the
implementation of an expedited procedure for revising the fixed fuel factors on
a semi-annual basis. The Texas retail fuel factors will change each November
and May based on the projected cost of natural gas.

If it appears that SPS will materially over-recover or under-recover these
costs, the factor may be revised upon application by SPS or action by the PUCT.
The regulations require refunding or surcharging over- or under-recovery
amounts, including interest, when they exceed 4 percent of the utility’s annual
fuel and purchased energy costs, as allowed by the PUCT, if this condition is
expected to continue. In 2003, SPS has received approval and implemented two
fuel surcharge applications in Texas to recover additional fuel cost
under-recoveries totaling approximately $28.9 million.

PUCT regulations require periodic examination of SPS fuel and purchased energy
costs, the efficiency of the use of such fuel and purchased energy, fuel
acquisition and management policies and purchase energy commitments. Under the
PUCT’s regulations, SPS is required to file an application for the PUCT to
retrospectively review at least every three years the operations of SPS’
electric generation and fuel management activities. In May 2003, a stipulation
was approved by the PUCT, resolving all issues regarding SPS’ fuel costs and
wholesale trading activities



from January 2000 through
December 2001. The
parties agreed that SPS would reduce its December 2001 fuel under-recovery balances by
$5.8 million. The net
impact to SPS’ income, before tax, was a reduction of $4.7 million recorded in
2003. SPS has agreed to file its next reconciliation for electric generation
and fuel management activities for the period from January 2002 through
December 2003 by June 2004.

The NMPRC regulations provide for a fuel and purchased power cost adjustment
clause for SPS’ New Mexico retail jurisdiction. SPS files monthly and annual
reports of its fuel and purchased power costs with the NMPRC. The NMPRC
authorized SPS to implement a monthly adjustment factor beginning with the
February 2002 billing cycle. In accordance with the NMPRC regulations, SPS
must file its next New Mexico fuel factor continuation case no later than
August 2005.

SPS recovers fuel and purchased energy costs from its wholesale customers
through a fuel cost adjustment clause accepted for filing by the FERC.

Cheyenne

All electric demand and purchased power costs are recoverable through an energy
adjustment clause. All purchased gas costs are recoverable through a gas cost
adjustment clause. Differences in costs incurred from costs recovered in rates,
including interest, are deferred and recovered through prospective adjustments
to rates. Rate changes for cost recovery require WPSC approval before going
into effect.

Other Regulatory Mechanisms and Requirements

General

See discussion of PUHCA regulation at Management’s
Discussion and Analysis — Liquidity and Capital Resources.

See discussions of regional transmission organizations (RTO) at Electric
Utility Operations below.

NSP-Minnesota

“PLUS” Performance-Based Regulation —

In December 2000, the NDPSC approved
NSP-Minnesota’s “PLUS” performance-based regulation proposal, effective January
2001, for its electric operations in North Dakota. The plan established
operating and service performance standards in the areas of system reliability,
customer satisfaction, price and worker safety. NSP-Minnesota’s performance
determines the range of allowed return on equity for its North Dakota electric
operations. The plan will generate refunds or surcharges when earnings fall
outside of the allowed return on equity range. The PLUS plan will remain in
effect through 2005. In late 2003, NSP-Minnesota proposed certain changes to
the performance indices for the 2004 and 2005 plan years, but it is unknown if
the NDPSC will approve the changes.

Minnesota Emissions Reduction Project (MERP) —

On Dec. 18, 2003, the MPUC
approved NSP-Minnesota’s proposal to convert two coal-fueled electric
generating plants to natural gas, and to install advanced pollution control
equipment at a third coal-fired plant. All three plants are in the Minneapolis
– St. Paul metropolitan area. These improvements are expected to significantly
reduce air emissions from these facilities, while increasing the capacity at
system peak by 300 megawatts. The projects are expected to come on line
between 2007 and 2009, at a cumulative investment of approximately $1 billion.
The MPUC also approved NSP-Minnesota’s proposal to recover prudent costs of the
projects through a rate adjustment provision applicable to retail electric
rates beginning Jan. 1, 2006, including a rate of return on the construction
work in progress. The MPUC approval has a sliding return on equity (ROE) scale
based on actual construction cost compared with a target level of construction
costs (based on an equity ratio of 48.5 percent and debt of
51.5 percent) to incentivize NSP-Minnesota to control
construction costs.

Actual Costs as a Percent of Target Costs

ROE

Less than or equal to 75%

11.47

%

Over 75% and up through 85%

11.22

%

Over 85% and up through 95%

11.00

%

Over 95% and up through 105%

10.86

%

Over 105% and up through 115%

10.55

%

Over 115% and up through 125%

10.22

%

Over 125%

9.97

%



PSCo

The CPUC established an electric performance-based regulatory plan (PBRP) under
which PSCo operates. The PBRP includes an annual electric earnings test, an
electric quality of service plan and a natural gas quality of service plan.
See further discussion under Item 7, Management’s Discussion and Analysis.

SPS

Prior to June 2001, SPS operated under an earnings test in Texas, which
required all excess earnings to be refunded to retail customers. SPS did not
operate under an earnings test in Texas in 2003, 2002 or the remainder of 2001.

Pending Regulatory Matters

General

Section 206 Investigation Against All Wholesale Electric Sellers —

In November
2001, the FERC issued an order under Section 206 of the Federal Power Act
initiating a “generic” investigation proceeding against all jurisdictional
electric suppliers making sales in interstate commerce at market-based rates.
NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS previously received FERC
authorization to make wholesale sales at market-based rates, and have been
engaged in such sales subject to a tariff on file at the FERC. The order
proposed that all wholesale electric sales at market-based rates conducted
starting 60 days after publication of the FERC order in the Federal Register
would be subject to refund conditioned on factors determined by the FERC. In
December 2001, the FERC issued a supplemental order delaying the effective date
of the subject-to-refund condition, but subject-to-further investigation and
proceedings.

In November 2003, the FERC issued a final order requiring amendments to the
market-based wholesale tariffs of all FERC-jurisdictional electric utilities,
to impose new market behavior rules, and requiring submission of compliance
tariff amendments in December 2003. NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo, and
SPS each made a timely compliance filing. Violations of the new tariffs could
result in the loss of certain wholesale sales revenues or the loss of authority
to makes sales at market-based rates.

Additionally, in connection with their market-based rate authority,
NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo, and SPS have an obligation to file, on a
periodic basis, an updated market power analysis based on a supply margin
assessment (SMA). Xcel Energy, on behalf of itself and the Xcel Energy
operating companies with market-based rate authority, filed such an updated
market power analysis on January 6, 2004. The analysis shows that the Xcel
Energy operating companies with market-based rate authority do not have undue
market power, based on application of the FERC market power assessment screen
(the SMA screen). However, FERC is presently evaluating on a generic basis
continued use of the SMA screen. The Xcel Energy analysis showed that if the
screen is modified to take into account load obligations, the Xcel Energy
companies do not possess market power. Depending on what market screen it
ultimately adopts, FERC may deny the Xcel Energy operating companies continued
market-based rate authority, or, more likely, make continued authorization
subject to certain mitigation in certain geographic markets.

Commodity Futures Trading Commission Investigation

— In 2002 and 2003, the
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) issued broad subpoenas to Xcel
Energy on behalf of its affiliates calling for production, among other things,
of “documents related to natural gas and electricity trading,” as well as
documents concerning the reporting of energy transactions to industry
publications. The CFTC also requested testimony from current and former
employees and executives concerning the reporting of energy transactions. Xcel
Energy produced documents and other materials, including documents identifying
instances where Xcel Energy’s e prime subsidiary reported natural gas
transactions to an industry publication in a manner inconsistent with the
publication’s instructions. Xcel Energy determined that several e prime
employees reported inaccurate trading information to one industry publication
and may have reported inaccurate trading information to other industry
publications. e prime ceased reporting to publications in 2002.

In January 2004, Xcel Energy and e prime reached a settlement agreement with
the CFTC with respect to allegations that e prime submitted inaccurate
information to industry publications. Without admitting or denying the CFTC’s
findings, e prime agreed to pay $16 million to settle the matter. The CFTC
order resolving the matter recognized Xcel Energy’s cooperation in the CFTCs
investigation. Xcel Energy officials pledged to continue cooperating with the
CFTC.

Prior to the CFTC investigation, e prime had 32 employees. As a result of the
investigation and Xcel Energy’s decision to exit the natural gas merchant
business, e prime has severed all but four of its employees.



SEC Trading Investigation —

Pursuant to a formal order of investigation, on
June 26, 2002, the SEC issued a subpoena to Xcel Energy requesting all
documents concerning any so-called “round trip trades” with Reliant Resources,
Inc. Pursuant to another formal order of investigation, on Oct. 3, 2002, the SEC issued a subpoena to Xcel Energy
calling for additional information concerning certain energy trades between
Xcel Energy on the one hand and Duke Energy Corporation and Mirant Corporation
on the other, involving the same product, quantity and price executed on the
same day. Xcel Energy has produced documents and has cooperated in these
investigations, but cannot predict the outcome of any investigation.

FERC Transmission Inquiry —

In October 2002

,

the FERC Office of Market
Oversight and Investigations began a formal, non-public standard industry
inquiry relating to the treatment by certain public utility companies of
affiliates in generator interconnection and other transmission matters. In
connection with the inquiry, the FERC asked Xcel Energy and its utility
subsidiaries for certain information and documents. Xcel Energy and its utility
subsidiaries have responded to the requests. This standard audit process is
pending.

NSP-Minnesota

Minnesota Service Quality Investigation

— In 2002, the MPUC directed the Office
of the Attorney General and the Minnesota Department of Commerce (state
agencies) to investigate the accuracy of NSP-Minnesota’s electric reliability
records, which are summarized and reported to the MPUC on a monthly basis with
an annual true-up.

On Sept. 24, 2003, NSP-Minnesota and the state agencies announced that they had
reached a settlement agreement that would be submitted to the MPUC for its
approval. Among the provisions are:

•

$1 million in refunds to Minnesota customers who have experienced
the longest duration of outages, which have been accrued at Sept. 30,
2003;

•

additional actions to improve system reliability in an effort to
reduce outage frequency and duration. These actions, including tree
trimming and cable replacement, will target the primary outage causes.
At least an additional $15 million, above amounts being currently
recovered in rates, is to be spent in Minnesota on these outage
prevention improvements by Jan. 1, 2005; and

•

development of a revised service quality plan containing a standard
for service outage documentation, new performance measures, new
thresholds for current performance measures and a new structure for
consequences that will result from failure to meet these performance
measures.

On Nov. 14, 2003, NSP-Minnesota submitted a proposed service quality plan and
an update regarding certain service quality settlement agreement provisions
already implemented by NSP-Minnesota. On Jan. 22, 2004, the MPUC
voted to modify the
settlement to include an annual independent audit of NSP-Minnesota’s service
outage records and under-performance payments for any future finding of
inaccurate data by an independent auditor. Both state agencies and
NSP-Minnesota have the option to void the settlement
if they choose not to accept the MPUC’s
modification. On March 10, 2004, the MPUC issued its order formally approving the settlement as modified.
All parties to the proceeding have twenty days from the date of the order to seek clarification or hearing.

South Dakota Service Quality —

In 2002, the SDPUC investigated NSP-Minnesota’s
electric service quality. In particular, the investigation focused on
NSP-Minnesota operations in the Sioux Falls area. NSP-Minnesota committed to a
number of actions to improve reliability, which were implemented; and in
December 2003 provided the SDPUC with an updated 10-year capacity plan.
NSP-Minnesota has completed the commitments made in December 2002 relating to
service quality in the Sioux Falls area. In 2003, NSP-Minnesota also worked
with the SDPUC to provide information and to answer inquiries regarding service
quality. No docket was opened and the matter is now resolved.

Renewable Transmission Cost Recovery —

In 2002, NSP-Minnesota filed for MPUC
approval to establish a Renewable Cost Recovery (RCR) adjustment mechanism to
recover the costs of transmission investments incurred to deliver renewable
energy resources. The MPUC approved the RCR adjustment mechanism and the
two-phase filing mechanism in April 2003. In February 2004, the MPUC
conditionally approved the initial Phase 1 facility eligibility determination
filing. NSP-Minnesota then filed for approval to recover $6 million of annual
additional transmission costs from May 2004 to December 2004. The request is
pending MPUC approval. The RCR adjustment mechanism provides for annual
filings to set the RCR adjustment rates using updated transmission cost
information.

Time-of-Use Pilot Project —

As required by MPUC Orders, NSP-Minnesota has been
working to develop a time-of-use pilot project that would attempt to measure
customer response and conservation potential of such a program. This pilot
project explores providing customers with pricing signals and information that
could better inform customers about their use of electricity and its costs.
NSP-Minnesota has petitioned the MPUC for recovery of program costs. The 2002
program costs were approximately $2 million. The DOC has supported deferred



accounting to provide for recovery of
prudent, otherwise unrecovered and
appropriate costs, subject to a normal prudence review process. The
Office of the Attorney General has argued that cost recovery should
be
denied for several reasons. A MPUC hearing was held in January 2004 and
requested NSP-Minnesota to further substantiate the prudence and
appropriateness of the costs incurred. A final decision by the MPUC is
expected in the second half of 2004.

NSP-Wisconsin

2004 General Rate Case —

On June 1, 2003, NSP-Wisconsin filed its required
biennial rate application with the PSCW requesting no change in Wisconsin
retail electric and natural gas base rates. NSP-Wisconsin requested the PSCW
approve its application without hearing, pending completion of the Staff’s
audit.

On Dec. 22, 2003, the PSCW issued an interim order in the rate case approving
NSP-Wisconsin’s request for alternative accounting treatment of the loss on
reacquired debt associated with the refinancing of $110 million first mortgage
bonds. In November 2003, NSP-Wisconsin had filed a proposal to amortize the
loss on reacquired debt over the 15-year term of the new $150 million issue, as
opposed to the “revenue neutral” method, which was specified in the PSCW order
approving the refinancing and resulted in a shorter amortization period.
Because the alternative method approved by the PSCW results in a longer
amortization period, NSP-Wisconsin lowered financing costs by $394,000 in 2003
and expects to lower financing costs by $1,894,000 in 2004.

On Feb. 19, 2004, the PSCW verbally approved NSP-Wisconsin’s request for no
change in retail electric and natural gas rates and determined to forego a
public rate hearing based on the results of the PSCW’s staff audit. A final
written order was issued on Feb. 23, 2004. In approving NSP-Wisconsin’s
request, the current 11.9 percent return on common equity was retained and the
existing fuel credit factor will be rolled into base rates, effective March 15,
2004. The PSCW also allowed NSP-Wisconsin the option of filing updated fuel
costs in the fall of 2004 for the purpose of resetting the fuel component of
rates in 2005.

PSCo

Incentive Cost Adjustment and Interim Adjustment Clause —

PSCo’s ICA mechanism
was in place for periods prior to 2003. The CPUC conducted a proceeding to
review and approve the incurred and recoverable 2001 costs under the ICA. On
July 10, 2003, a stipulation and settlement agreement was filed with the CPUC,
which resolved all issues. The stipulation and settlement agreement also
provides for a prospective revenue adjustment related to the maximum allowable
natural gas hedging costs that will be a part of the electric commodity
adjustment for 2004 and is expected to reduce 2004 rates by an estimated $4.6
million. The stipulation and settlement agreement was approved by the CPUC in
August 2003. An evaluation of the 2002 recoverable ICA costs is pending before
the CPUC with a decision expected no later than September 2004. In 2003, PSCo’s
prudently incurred fuel and purchased energy costs are fully recoverable under
the IAC and are not subject to sharing; however, they will still be subject to
a future review by the CPUC.

Wholesale Electric Rate Case

— On June 19, 2003, PSCo filed a wholesale electric
rate case with the FERC, proposing to increase the annual electric sales rates
charged to wholesale customers, other than Cheyenne. On Aug. 1, 2003, PSCo
submitted a revised filing correcting an error in the calculation of income
taxes. The revised filing requested an approximately $2 million annual increase
with new rates effective in January 2004, subject to refund. In August 2003,
PSCo reached a settlement in principle in this case. In December 2003, PSCo filed the offer of settlement for
FERC approval, which was accepted by the FERC in February 2004.

Electric Commodity Trading Investigation —

In the comprehensive settlement
agreement that concluded the PSCo 2002 general retail rate case, PSCo agreed to
file an application with the CPUC in January 2004 for a review of the Colorado
regulatory treatment of its wholesale electric commodity trading operations. In
the filing, PSCo offered to replace the margin sharing between shareholders and
retail customers that resulted from the rate case settlement with a defined
trading benefit that would reduce retail electric rates by $2.02 million in
2005 and by $1.3 million in 2006. In return for this defined benefit, PSCo
proposed to retain for shareholders all margins earned from electric commodity
trading in 2005 and 2006 and to bear all risk of loss associated with electric
commodity trading. PSCo’s proposal is pending before the CPUC. A decision is
expected in October 2004.

PSCo Wholesale Fuel Adjustment
Clause Proceedings —

Certain wholesale electric sales
customers of PSCo filed complaints with the FERC in 2002 alleging PSCo has been
improperly collecting certain fuel and purchased energy costs through the
wholesale fuel cost adjustment clause included in their rates related to the
periods 1996 through 2002. The FERC consolidated these complaints and set them
for hearing. Claims were estimated at approximately $30 million. In August
2003, PSCo reached agreements in principle with all of the complainants under
which such claims, as well as issues those customers had raised in response to
PSCo’s proposal to change the base demand and energy rates applicable to
wholesale requirements sales, were compromised and settled. Under the proposed
settlement agreements, PSCo accrued a liability of $1.1 million
in 2003 and made either cash payments or billing credits
to respective customers in January 2004. The
settlements also provide for



revisions to the base demand and energy rates
filed in the PSCo wholesale electric rate case that is currently pending before the FERC in a separate docket, as discussed
above. As a part of the settlement, the customers agreed to withdraw their
fuel clause investigation complaints. In January 2004, the customers filed
motions to conditionally withdraw their complaints pending approval of the base
rate settlement proposals. The settlement proposal is pending FERC acceptance.

Electric Department Earnings Test Proceedings

— PSCo has filed with the CPUC
its annual electric department earnings test report for 2002. PSCo did not
earn above its allowed authorized return on equity and, accordingly, has not
recorded any refund obligations. The CPUC has opened a docket to consider
whether PSCo’s cost of debt has been adversely affected by the financial
difficulties at NRG and, if so, whether any adjustments to PSCo’s cost of
capital should be made. The 2002 proceeding has been set for hearing in
September 2004.

Capacity Cost Adjustment

— In October 2003, PSCo filed with the CPUC an
application to recover approximately $31.5 million of incremental capacity
costs through a purchased capacity cost adjustment (PCCA) rider beginning March
1, 2004. The purpose of the PCCA is to recover purchased capacity payments to
third party power suppliers that will not be recovered in PSCo’s current base
electric rates or other recovery mechanisms. In addition, PSCo has proposed to
return to its retail customers 100 percent of any electric earnings in excess
of its authorized rate of return on equity allowed in the last rate case,
currently 10.75 percent. In February 2004, PSCo updated its
filing which will reduce the recovery amount from the original filing, and
proposed that the PCCA rider become effective in the later part of 2004; a
decision by the CPUC is pending.

Home Builders Association of Metropolitan Denver —

In February 2001, Home
Builders Association of Metropolitan Denver (HBA) filed a complaint with the
CPUC seeking a reparations award of $13.6 million for PSCo’s failure to update
its gas extension policy construction allowances from 1996 to 2002 under its
tariff. On Sept. 24, 2003, the CPUC issued its decision, directing PSCo to pay
a portion of the claimed reparations to HBA members, including interest, based
on a revised construction allowance for the period Feb. 24, 1999, through May
31, 2002. In March 2004, PSCo filed a settlement which, if approved by the
CPUC, would provide payment of approximately $700,000 to HBA.

California Refund Proceeding —

A number of parties purchasing energy in markets
operated by the California Independent System Operator (California ISO) or the
California Power Exchange (PX) have asserted prices paid for such energy were
unjust and unreasonable and that refunds should be made in connection with
sales in those markets for the period Oct. 2, 2000 through June 20, 2001. PSCo
supplied energy to these markets during this period and has been an active
participant in the proceedings. The FERC ordered an investigation into the
California ISO and PX spot markets and concluded that the electric market
structure and market rules for wholesale sales of energy in California were
flawed and have caused unjust and unreasonable rates for short-term energy
under certain conditions. The FERC ordered modifications to the market
structure and rules in California and established an administrative law judge
(ALJ) to make findings with respect to, among other things, the amount of
refunds owed by each supplier based on the difference between what was charged
and what would have been charged in a more functional market, i.e., the “market
clearing price,” which is based on the unit providing energy in an hour with
the highest incremental cost. The initial proceeding related to California’s
demand for $8.9 billion in refunds from power sellers. The ALJ subsequently
stated that after assessing a refund of $1.8 billion for power prices, power
suppliers were owed $1.2 billion because the State was holding funds owed to
suppliers. Because of the low volume of sales that PSCo had into California
after this date, PSCo’s exposure is estimated at approximately $1.2 million,
which is offset by amounts owed by the California ISO to PSCo in excess of that
amount.

Certain California parties have sought rehearing of this decision. Among other
things, they have asserted that the refund effective date should be set at an
earlier date. They have based this request in part on the argument that the
use by sellers of certain trading strategies in the California market resulted
in unjust and unreasonable rates, thereby justifying an earlier refund
effective date. The FERC subsequently allowed the purchasing parties to
request from sellers, including PSCo, additional information regarding the
market participants’ use of certain strategies and the effect those strategies
may have had on the market. Based on the additional information they obtained,
these purchasing entities argued to the FERC that use of these strategies did
justify an earlier refund effective date. PSCo has estimated that the
requested earlier effective date could increase PSCo’s refund exposure to
approximately $15 million.

In an order issued on October 16, 2003, the FERC determined that the refund
effective date should not be reset to an earlier date, and gave clarification
how refunds should be determined for the previously set refund period. The
proceeding is still pending at the FERC to address the refund level issue.
Certain California parties have filed appeals of the FERC’s decision not to
establish an earlier refund effective date.

FERC Investigation Against Wholesale Electric Sellers

— On June 25, 2003, the
FERC issued two show cause orders addressing alleged improper market behavior
in the California electricity markets. In the first show cause order, the FERC
found that 24 entities may have worked in concert through partnerships,
alliances or other arrangements to engage in activities that constitute gaming
and/or anomalous market



behavior. The FERC initiated
proceedings against these 24 entities requiring that they show cause why their behavior did not constitute gaming and/or anomalous market behavior. PSCo was
not named in this order. In a second show cause order, the FERC indicated that
various California parties, including the California ISO, have alleged that 43
entities individually engaged in one or more of seven specific types of
practices that the FERC has identified as constituting gaming or anomalous
market behavior within the meaning of the California ISO and California Power
Exchange tariffs. PSCo was listed in an attachment to that show cause order as
having been alleged to have engaged in one of the seven identified practices,
namely circular scheduling. Subsequent to the show cause order, PSCo provided
information to the FERC staff showing PSCo did not engage in circular
scheduling. Subsequently, certain California parties requested that FERC make
PSCo subject to the show cause proceeding addressing partnerships and expand
the scope of the show cause order addressing gaming and/or anomalous to have
PSCo address an allegation that it engaged in another of the specified
activities, namely “load shift.”

On Aug. 29, 2003, the FERC trial staff filed a motion to dismiss PSCo from the
show cause proceeding. On Jan. 22, 2004, the FERC granted its Trial Staff’s
motions to dismiss certain parties, including PSCo, of the show cause
proceedings addressing the use of gaming or anomalous market behavior. The
FERC also rejected requests to expand the scope of the show cause proceedings.
On February 23, 2004, certain California parties sought rehearing of the FERC’s
orders.

Pacific Northwest FERC Refund Proceeding

— In July 2001, the FERC ordered a
preliminary hearing to determine whether there may have been unjust and
unreasonable charges for spot market bilateral sales in the Pacific Northwest
for the period Dec. 25, 2000 through June 20, 2001. PSCo supplied energy to the
Pacific Northwest markets during this period and has been an active participant
in the hearings. In September 2001, the presiding ALJ concluded that prices in
the Pacific Northwest during the referenced period were the result of a number
of factors, including the shortage of supply, excess demand, drought and
increased natural gas prices. Under these circumstances the ALJ concluded that
the prices in the Pacific Northwest markets were not unreasonable or unjust and
no refunds should be ordered. Subsequent to the ruling the FERC has allowed the
parties to request additional evidence regarding the use of certain strategies
and how they may have impacted the markets in the Pacific Northwest markets.
For the referenced period, parties have claimed the total amount of
transactions with PSCo subject to refund are $34 million.

On June 25, 2003, the FERC issued an order terminating the proceeding without
ordering further proceedings. On Nov. 10, 2003, in response to requests for
rehearing, FERC reaffirmed this ruling to terminate the proceeding without
refunds. Certain purchasers have filed appeals of the FERC’s orders in this
proceeding.

CPUC Reliability Inquiry —

In January 2004, the CPUC staff issued an initial
report regarding its informal inquiry of PSCo’s electric distribution system
reliability (Initial Report). The Initial Report makes several recommendations
for improving reliability and noted that PSCo had already taken steps toward
improvement. In February 2004, PSCo provided the CPUC with its written and
oral responses to the Initial Report describing its action plan to improve
electric distribution system reliability. PSCo identified $24.9 million in
expenditures directed at this effort that it would make during 2004.

The Initial Report recommended audits of PSCo’s electric distribution system
operations and maintenance practices and its IT systems supporting electric
distribution reliability. PSCo believes the audits are unnecessary in light of
its action plan to address the reliability concerns raised in the Initial
Report. The CPUC has taken the Initial Report and PSCo’s response under
advisement.

SPS

Texas Fuel Surcharge
Application —

In November 2003, SPS submitted a fuel cost
surcharge factor application in Texas to recover an additional $25 million of
fuel cost under recoveries accrued during June through September 2003. In
February 2004, the parties in the proceeding submitted a unanimous settlement
for SPS to collect net under-recoveries experienced through December 2003 of
$22 million. The surcharge will go into effect May 2004 and will continue for
12 months. The settlement is pending review and approval by the PUCT.

Lamb County Electric
Cooperative —

On July 24, 1995, Lamb County Electric
Cooperative, Inc. (LCEC) petitioned the PUCT for a cease and desist order
against SPS. LCEC alleged that SPS had been unlawfully providing service to oil
field customers and their facilities in LCEC’s singly-certificated area. The
PUCT denied LCEC’s petition. See further discussion under Item 3 — Legal
Proceedings.



Cheyenne

As previously noted, in January 2004, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell
Cheyenne to Black Hills Corporation. The sale is subject to regulatory
approval by the Wyoming Public Service Commission, the FERC and the SEC. Xcel
Energy expects to complete the sale in 2004.

ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

Competition and Industry Restructuring

Retail competition and the unbundling of regulated energy service could have a
significant financial impact on Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries, due
to an impairment of assets, a loss of retail customers, lower profit margins
and increased costs of capital. During the past several years, there have been
several restructuring initiatives initiated in the various states Xcel Energy
and its utility subsidiaries operate, as well as the Federal level. However,
we believe such risk has been mitigated, to a certain degree, as a result of
less focus recently on such initiatives. The total impacts of restructuring
may have a significant financial impact on the financial position, results of
operation and cash flows of Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries. Xcel
Energy and its utility subsidiaries cannot predict when they will be subject to
changes in legislation or regulation, nor can they predict the impacts of such
changes on their financial position, results of operation or cash flows. Xcel
Energy believes that the prices its utility subsidiaries charge for electricity
and the quality and reliability of their service currently place them in a
position to compete effectively in the energy market.

Retail Business
Competition

— The retail electric business faces some
competition as industrial and large commercial customers have some ability to
own or operate facilities to generate their own electricity. In addition,
customers may have the option of substituting other fuels, such as natural gas
or steam/chilled water for heating, cooling and manufacturing purposes, or the
option of relocating their facilities to a lower cost region. While each of
Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries face these challenges, these subsidiaries
believe their rates are competitive with currently available alternatives. Xcel
Energy’s utility subsidiaries are taking actions to manage their operating
costs and are working with their customers to analyze energy efficiency and
load management in order to better position Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries
to more effectively operate in a competitive environment.

Wholesale Business
Competition

— The wholesale electric business faces
competition in the supply of bulk power, due to federal and state initiatives,
to provide open access to utility transmission systems. Under current FERC
rules, investor-owned utilities are required to provide wholesale open access
transmission services and to unbundle wholesale merchant and transmission
operations. Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries are operating under a joint
tariff in compliance with these rules. To date, these provisions have not had a
material impact on the operations of Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries.

Utility Industry Changes

— The structure of the electric and natural gas
utility industry has been subject to change. Merger and acquisition activity in
the past had been significant as utilities combined to capture economies of
scale or establish a strategic niche in preparing for the future, although such
activity slowed substantially after 2001. All investor-owned utilities were
required to provide nondiscriminatory access to the use of their transmission
systems in 1996. The FERC continues to pursue the expansion of competitive
wholesale electricity markets through regional transmission organizations and
standard market design rules. In addition, the FERC issued a series of
regulatory orders in 2003. These orders, among other things, standardized the
methods and pricing of power generation interconnections, establish new
standards of conduct rules for transmission providers and new market behavioral
rules for utilities with wholesale market-based sales rate authority. Xcel
Energy has not yet estimated the full impact of the new FERC regulatory orders,
but it could be material.

Some states had begun to allow retail customers to choose their electricity
supplier, while other states have delayed or canceled industry restructuring.
There were no significant retail electric or natural gas restructuring efforts
in the states served by Xcel Energy in 2003. In 1999, the state of Texas implemented retail restructuring
legislation and major portions of the state have restructured and are providing
retail competition. In Xcel Energy’s Texas service area, which is outside the
Electric Reliability Council of Texas, retail electric competition has been
delayed until at least 2007. The State of New Mexico repealed its Electric
Industry Restructuring Act of 1999.

Xcel Energy cannot predict the outcome of restructuring proceedings in the
electric utility jurisdictions it serves at this time. The resolution of these
matters may have a significant impact on the financial position, results of
operations and cash flows of Xcel Energy.

Midwest ISO Operations

— In August 2000, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin joined
the Midwest Independent Transmission System Operator, Inc. (MISO). In December
2001, the FERC approved the MISO as the first regional transmission
organization (RTO) in the United States under FERC Order No. 2000. On Feb. 1,
2002, the MISO began interim operations, including regional transmission tariff
administration



services for the NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin electric
transmission systems. In 2002, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin received all required regulatory approvals to
transfer functional control of their high voltage (100 kilovolts and above)
transmission systems to the MISO. The MISO membership grants MISO functional
control over the operations of these facilities and the facilities of
neighboring electric utilities.

In October 2001, the FERC issued an order in a separate proceeding to establish
the initial MISO regional transmission tariff rates, ruling that all
transmission services, with limited exceptions, in the MISO region must be
subject to the MISO regional tariff and administrative surcharges to prevent
discrimination between wholesale transmission service users. The FERC order
unilaterally modified the agreement with the MISO signed in August 2000. The
FERC order increased wholesale transmission costs to NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin by approximately $9 million per year.

On July 25, 2003, MISO filed proposed changes to its regional open access
transmission tariff to implement a new Transmission and Energy Markets Tariff
(TEMT) that would establish certain wholesale energy and transmission service
rates based on locational marginal cost pricing effective in 2004.
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin presently receive transmission services from
MISO for service to their retail loads and would be subject to the new tariff,
if approved by the FERC. On Oct. 17, 2003, MISO filed to withdraw the TEMT,
after numerous parties filed protests to the proposal. The FERC issued an
order approving the withdrawal and provided guidance on MISO’s proposals on
Oct. 29, 2003. MISO is now conducting a stakeholder consultation process to
prepare and submit a revised TEMT in March 2004 to be effective Dec. 1, 2004.
Management believes any new tariff, if approved by the FERC, could have a
material effect on wholesale power supply or transmission service costs to
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.

Southwest Power Pool (SPP) Restructuring

— SPS is a member of the SPP regional
reliability council, and SPP acts as tariff administrator for the SPS system.
In October 2003, SPP filed for FERC authorization to transform its operation
into an RTO under FERC Order No. 2000. In addition, SPP made unilateral
changes to the existing SPP membership agreement, which increases the current
costs of SPS membership in SPP by approximately $1.5 million per year, in order
to fund the start of RTO operations. On Oct. 31, 2003, SPS submitted a
conditional notice of withdrawal from SPP in order to preserve flexibility with
regard to future RTO membership. On Feb. 10, 2004, the FERC conditionally
approved SPP’s proposed formation as an RTO, subject to SPP meeting certain
requirements. The order also provides that SPS may only terminate its current
membership in SPP with FERC approval. If SPS elects to be a member of the SPP
RTO, SPS will be required to transfer functional control of its electric
transmission system to SPP and take all transmission services, including
services required to serve retail native loads, under the SPP regional tariff.

TRANSLink Transmission Co., LLC (TRANSLink)

— In September 2001, Xcel Energy
and several other mid-continent electric utilities applied to the FERC to
integrate operations of their electric transmission systems into a single
system through the formation of TRANSLink, a for-profit, independent
transmission-only company. The utilities were to participate in TRANSLink
through a combination of divestiture, leases and operating agreements.
TRANSLink was intended to be a cost-effective option to manage transmission and
to comply with the Order No. 2000 regulations issued by the FERC that required
investor-owned electric utilities to transfer operational control of their
transmission system to an independent RTO.

Under the proposal, TRANSLink would have been responsible for planning,
managing and operating both local and regional transmission assets. TRANSLink
would also have constructed and owned new transmission system additions. In
November 2003, however, the formation activity for TRANSLink was suspended due
to continued market and regulatory uncertainty.

Generation Interconnection Rules

— In August 2003, the FERC issued final rules
requiring the standardization of generation interconnection procedures and
agreements for interconnection of new electric generators of 20 megawatts or
more to the transmission systems of all FERC-jurisdictional electric utilities,
including Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries. The FERC also established
pricing rules for interconnections and related transmission system upgrades.
As required by the FERC, Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries submitted a
compliance filing on Jan. 20, 2004. The FERC approval of the compliance
changes to the Xcel Energy utility subsidiaries’ tariff, the MISO regional
tariff, and the SPP regional tariff, which will govern most generation
interconnections to the Xcel Energy utility subsidiaries’ transmission system,
are pending. On March 5, 2004, the FERC issued an order on rehearing adopting
certain changes to the pricing provisions of the final rules.

Standards of Conduct Rulemaking

— In November 2003, the FERC issued final
standards of conduct rules affecting all FERC jurisdictional transmission
utilities, which will require a greater functional separation of electric
transmission functions from the wholesale energy marketing and sales functions
and from “energy affiliates”. Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries filed their
initial compliance plan on Feb. 9, 2004. Full compliance is required by June
1, 2004. Xcel Energy and other parties have requested the FERC to grant
clarification or rehearing of certain aspects of the final rules. Management
has estimated the cost of compliance with the new standards of conduct rules at
approximately $1 million in 2004.



Standard Market Design Rulemaking

— In July 2002, the FERC issued a notice of
proposed rulemaking on wholesale standard market design (SMD) for regulated
utilities. If implemented as proposed, the rulemaking would substantially
change how wholesale electric supply markets operate throughout the United
States. The proposed rulemaking expands the FERC’s intent to unbundle
transmission operations from integrated utilities and ensure robust competition
in wholesale markets. The rule contemplates that all wholesale and retail
customers will be on a single network transmission service tariff. The rule
also contemplates the implementation of a bid-based system for buying and
selling energy in wholesale electric markets using location marginal pricing.
RTOs or independent transmission providers will administer the market. RTOs
will also be responsible for regional plans that identify opportunities to
construct new transmission, generation or demand-side programs to reduce
transmission constraints and meet regional energy requirements. Finally, the
rule envisions the development of regional market monitors responsible for
ensuring that individual participants do not exercise unlawful market power.
The FERC later extended the comment period, but the final rules could be in
place in 2004 and the contemplated market changes in 2004 or 2005. Recent MISO
actions indicate that the MISO plans to establish a market design similar to
SMD by December 2004, which would impact wholesale markets on the NSP-Minnesota
and NSP-Wisconsin systems. The SPP RTO proposal approved by the FERC in
February 2004 anticipates establishing a wholesale electric market applying
certain aspects of SMD beginning in 2005, which would impact wholesale markets
on the SPS system.

NSP-Minnesota

Minnesota Restructuring

— In 2001, the Minnesota Legislature passed an energy
security bill that included provisions intended to streamline the siting
process of new generation and transmission facilities. It also included
voluntary benchmarks for achieving renewable energy as a portion of the
utility’s supply portfolio; however, the benchmarks are mandatory for
NSP-Minnesota (subject to certain conditions). In 2003, the Minnesota
Legislature revised the 2001 statute to require Minnesota utilities to develop
and submit analyses to the MPUC of the transmission upgrades required to
deliver the benchmark quantities of renewable energy as part of biennial
transmission planning process established by the 2001 energy security
bill. There was no other action on restructuring in 2002 or 2003.

North Dakota Restructuring

— In 1997, the North Dakota Legislature established,
by statute, an Electric Utility Competition Committee (EUC). While its
legislated scope is quite broad, the committee focused much of its initial
efforts on the study of the state’s current tax treatment of the electric
utility industry. In 2003, the legislature expanded the membership of the
committee and extended its life to 2007.

NSP-Wisconsin

Wisconsin Restructuring

— The State of Wisconsin passed legislation in 2001
that reduced the wholesale gross receipts tax on the sale of electricity by 50
percent starting in 2003. This legislation eliminates the double taxation on
wholesale sales from non-utility generators. Additional legislation was passed
that enables regulated utilities to enter into leased generation contracts with
unregulated generation affiliates. The new legislation provides utilities a new
financing mechanism and option to meet their customers’ energy needs. In 2002,
the PSCW approved the first power plant proposal utilizing the new leased
generation contract arrangement. While industry-restructuring changes continue
in Wisconsin, the movement towards retail customer choice has virtually ceased.

Michigan Restructuring

— Since Jan. 1, 2002, NSP-Wisconsin has been providing
its Michigan electric customers with the opportunity to select an alternative
electric energy provider. This action was required by Michigan’s Customer
Choice Electricity Reliability Act, which became law in June 2000.
NSP-Wisconsin developed and successfully implemented internal procedures, and
obtained MPSC approval for these procedures to meet the Jan. 1, 2002 deadline.
Key elements of internal procedures included the development of retail open
access tariffs and unbundled billing, environmental and fuel disclosure
information, and a code of conduct compliance plan. To date, no NSP-Wisconsin
retail electric customers have converted to a competing supplier.

PSCo

Colorado Restructuring

— There was no legislative action with respect to
restructuring in Colorado during the 2001, 2002 or 2003 legislative sessions.
None is expected in 2004.

SPS

New Mexico Restructuring

— In March 2001, the State of New Mexico enacted
legislation that delayed customer choice until 2007 and amended the Electric
Utility Restructuring Act of 1999. In April 2003, the State of New Mexico
repealed the Electric Utility Restructuring Act of 1999. The repeal
legislation provided utilities the opportunity to recover their transition
costs incurred to comply with the Restructuring Act of 1999. Utilities may retain these transition
costs as a regulatory asset on their books pending recovery, which shall be
completed by Jan. 1, 2010. At Dec. 31, 2003, SPS had deferred $5.1 million of
New Mexico restructuring costs.



Texas Restructuring

— In June 2001, the Governor of Texas signed legislation
postponing retail competition and restructuring of SPS until at least 2007.
This legislation amended the 1999 legislation, Senate Bill No. 7 (SB-7), which
provided for retail electric competition beginning January 2002. Under the
amended legislation, prior PUCT orders issued in connection with the
restructuring of SPS are considered null and void. SPS’ restructuring and rate
unbundling proceedings in Texas have been terminated. In addition, under the
new legislation, SPS is entitled to recover all reasonable and necessary
expenditures made or incurred before Sept. 1, 2001, to comply with SB-7.

For more information on restructuring in Texas and New Mexico, see Note 14 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Kansas Restructuring

— During the 2001 legislative session, several
restructuring related bills were introduced for consideration by the state
legislature. To date, however, there is no restructuring mandate in Kansas.

Oklahoma Restructuring

— In 2001, Senate Bill 440 (SB-440) was signed into law
to formally delay electric restructuring until restructuring issues could be
studied further and new enabling legislation could be enacted. SB-440
established the Electric Restructuring Advisory Committee. The Advisory
Committee submitted a report to the Governor and Legislature on Dec. 31, 2001.
During 2002 and 2003, there was no action taken by the Legislature as a result
of this report. Oklahoma continues to delay retail competition.

Capacity and Demand

Assuming normal weather during 2004, system peak demand and the net dependable
system capacity for Xcel Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries are projected
below. The electric production and transmission system of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin are managed as an integrated system (referred to as the NSP
System). The system peak demand for each of the last three years and the
forecast for 2004 are listed below.

System Peak Demand (in Megawatts)

Operating Company




2004 Forecast

NSP System

8,344

8,259

8,289

8,278

PSCo

5,644

5,872

6,419

6,132

SPS

4,080

4,018

4,338

4,497

The peak demand for all systems typically occurs in the summer. The 2003 system
peak demand for the NSP System occurred on Aug. 20, 2003. The 2003 system peak
demand for PSCo occurred on July 24, 2003. The 2003 system peak demand for SPS
occurred on Aug. 5, 2003.

Energy Sources

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries expect to use the following resources to
meet their net dependable system capacity requirements: 1) Xcel Energy utility
subsidiary electric generating stations, 2) purchases from other utilities,
independent power producers and power marketers, 3) demand-side management
options, and 4) phased expansion of existing generation at select power plants.

Purchased Power

Xcel Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries have contractual arrangements to
purchase power from other utilities and nonregulated energy suppliers.
Capacity, typically measured in kilowatts or megawatts, is the measure of the
rate at which a particular generating source produces electricity. Energy,
typically measured in kilowatt-hours or megawatt-hours, is a measure of the
amount of electricity produced from a particular generating source over a
period of time. Purchase power contracts typically require a periodic payment
to secure the capacity from a particular generating source and a charge for the
associated energy actually purchased from such generating source.



The utility subsidiaries of Xcel Energy also make short-term and non-firm
purchases to replace generation from company-owned units that are unavailable
due to maintenance and unplanned outages, to provide each utility’s reserve
obligation, to obtain energy at a lower cost than that which could be produced by other resource options, including
company-owned generation and/or long-term purchase power contracts, and for
various other operating requirements.

NSP System Resource Plan

In December 2002, NSP-Minnesota filed its resource plan with the MPUC for 2003
to 2017. The plan describes how Xcel Energy intends to meet the energy needs of
the NSP System. The plan presented conservation programs to reduce NSP System’s
peak demand and conserve electricity, an approximate schedule of power purchase
solicitations to meet increasing demand and programs and plans to maintain the
reliable operations of existing resources. In summary, the plan includes the
following elements:

In May 2003, the Minnesota Legislature approved additional dry cask storage for
the NSP-Minnesota nuclear power plants. See Nuclear Power Operations and Waste
Disposal-High-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal below. In February 2004, the
MPUC approved a request by NSP-Minnesota to close the 2002 resource plan docket
and address issues in the upcoming 2004 resource plan filing, to be filed in
October 2004.

NSP-Minnesota Power Purchase Agreement

NSP-Minnesota has a 500-megawatt participation power purchase commitment with
the Manitoba Hydro Electric Board, which expires in April 2015. The cost,
through April 2005, is based on 80 percent of the costs of owning and operating
NSP-Minnesota’s Sherco 3 generating unit, adjusted to 1993 dollars. The cost
for the period May 2005 through April 2015 is based on a base price and will be
escalated by the change in the United States Gross National Product to reflect
the current year. In addition, NSP-Minnesota and Manitoba Hydro have seasonal
diversity exchange agreements, and there are no capacity payments for the
diversity exchanges. These commitments represent about 17 percent of Manitoba
Hydro’s system capacity and account for approximately 6 percent of
NSP-Minnesota’s 2003 electric system capability. The risk of loss from
nonperformance by Manitoba Hydro is not considered significant, and the risk of
loss from market price changes is mitigated through cost-of-energy rate
adjustments.

NSP-Minnesota Combustion Turbine Proposal

In November 2003, NSP-Minnesota proposed investing approximately $164 million
in generating capacity in Minnesota and South Dakota to ensure adequate
electric capacity for its Upper Midwest customers. NSP-Minnesota is requesting
authorization for a $100-million project to add two combustion turbines at its
Blue Lake peaking plant in Shakopee, Minn., and for a $64-million project to
add one turbine at its Angus Anson peaking plant in Sioux Falls, S.D.

Each of the three new turbines would be fired by natural gas and would have a
summer capacity of approximately 160 megawatts. Currently, the Blue Lake plant
has four units fired by oil and a net dependable capacity of 174 megawatts; the Angus Anson
plant has two units that can be fired by either natural gas or oil
and a net dependable capacity of 226 megawatts.

The Blue Lake proposal requires a certificate of need from the MPUC, a site
permit from the MEQB, and air quality permits from the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency. The Angus Anson expansion requires an amended facility permit
from the South Dakota Public Utilities Commission and air quality permits from
the South Dakota Department of Environment and Natural Resources. The projects
also require approval by MISO with regards to interconnection and transmission
service requests. Final approval is not certain, but decisions on the
respective projects are expected in 2004.



NSP-Minnesota Transmission Certificates of Need

In December 2001, NSP-Minnesota proposed construction of various transmission
system upgrades to provide transmission outlet capacity for up to 825 MW of
renewable energy generation (wind and biomass) being constructed in southwest
and western Minnesota. In March 2003, the MPUC granted three certificates of
need to NSP-Minnesota, thereby approving construction, subject to certain
conditions. The initial projected cost of the transmission upgrades was
approximately $160 million. The first of the transmission facilities is now
pending MEQB approval as to siting and routing; additional MEQB siting/routing
applications are expected to be filed in 2004. The actual in-service dates
could be affected by regulatory delays or the need to amend the certificates to
reflect increased demand for generation interconnection services. In 2003, the
MPUC also approved a Renewable Cost Recovery adjustment that will allow
NSP-Minnesota to recover the revenue requirements associated with certain
transmission investments associated with delivery of renewable energy resources
through an automatic adjustment mechanism starting in 2004.

PSCo Resource Plan

PSCo estimates it will purchase approximately 37 percent of its total electric
system energy input for 2004. Approximately 48 percent of the total system
capacity for the summer 2004 system peak demand for PSCo will be provided by
purchased power.

To meet the demand and energy needs of the rapidly growing economy in Colorado,
PSCo added approximately 1,800 megawatts of resources to its system between
2002 and beginning of 2004.

In April 2004, PSCo plans to file a least cost resource plan to serve the
growing needs for future years. This resource plan is expected to include a
proposal to build a 750-megawatt coal plant at the existing site of the
Comanche generating station in Pueblo, Colo. The project would cost
approximately $1.3 billion and could begin producing electricity by late 2009.
Several public power entities have the option to participate in the ownership
of the facility. Such ownership would reduce PSCo’s supply from the plant and
its capital investment. Various regulatory approvals are required before any
construction could begin.

Purchased Transmission Services

Xcel Energy’s electric utility subsidiaries have contractual arrangements with
regional transmission service providers to deliver power and energy to the
subsidiaries’ native load customers, which are retail and wholesale load
obligations with terms of more than one year. Point-to-point transmission
services typically include a charge for the specific amount of transmission
capacity being reserved, although some agreements may base charges on the
amount of metered energy delivered. Network transmission services include a
charge for the metered demand at the delivery point at the time of the
provider’s monthly transmission system peak, usually calculated as a 12-month
rolling average.

Fuel Supply and Costs

The following tables show the delivered cost per million British thermal units
(MMBtu) of each significant category of fuel consumed for electric generation,
the percentage of total fuel requirements represented by each category of fuel
and the total weighted average cost of all fuels during such years.

Coal*

Nuclear

Average Fuel

NSP System Generating Plants

Cost

Percent

Cost

Percent

Cost


$

0.99


%

$

0.43


%

$

0.90


$

0.96


%

$

0.46


%

$

0.81


$

0.96


%

$

0.47


%

$

0.86

*Includes refuse-derived fuel and wood

Coal

Natural Gas

Average Fuel

PSCo Generating Plants

Cost

Percent

Cost

Percent

Cost


$

0.92


%

$

4.49


%

$

1.42


$

0.91


%

$

2.25


%

$

1.19


$

0.86


%

$

4.27


%

$

1.41



Coal

Natural Gas

Average Fuel

SPS Generating Plants

Cost

Percent

Cost

Percent

Cost

2003**

$

0.93


%

$

5.24


%

$

2.10


$

1.33


%

$

3.27


%

$

1.84


$

1.40


%

$

4.35


%

$

2.31

**The lower 2003 SPS coal costs reflect a prior period fuel credit adjustment.
The normalized cost per MMBtu was approximately $1.14. These reduced coal
costs were due to renegotiated coal transportation contracts.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin normally maintain between 30 and 45 days of
coal inventory at each plant site. Estimated coal requirements at
NSP-Minnesota’s major coal-fired generating plants are approximately 12.5
million tons per year. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have long-term contracts
providing for the delivery of up to 100 percent of 2004 coal requirements and
up to 92 percent of their 2005 requirements. Coal delivery may be subject to
short-term interruptions or reductions due to transportation problems, weather,
and availability of equipment.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin expect that all of the coal they burn in 2004
will have an average sulfur content of less than 0.6 percent. NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin have contracts for a maximum of 34.7 million tons of low-sulfur
coal for the next four years. The contracts are with one Montana coal supplier,
three Wyoming suppliers and one Minnesota oil refinery, with expiration dates
ranging between 2005 and 2007. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin could purchase
approximately 9 percent of coal requirements in the spot market in 2005 if spot
prices are more favorable than contracted prices.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin’s current fuel oil inventory is adequate to
meet anticipated 2004 requirements, and they also have access to the spot
market to buy more oil, if needed. NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin use both
firm and interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion turbines and
certain boilers. Natural gas supplies for power plants are procured under
short- and intermediate-term contracts to provide an adequate supply of fuel.

To operate NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear generating plants, NSP-Minnesota secures
contracts for uranium concentrates, uranium conversion, uranium enrichment and
fuel fabrication. The contract strategy involves a portfolio of spot purchases
and medium- and long-term contracts for uranium, conversion and enrichment.
Current nuclear fuel supply contracts cover 71 percent of uranium requirements
through 2007 with no coverage of requirements for 2008 and beyond. Current
contracts for conversion services requirements cover 68 percent of the
requirements through 2008 with no coverage of requirements for 2009 and beyond.
Current enrichment services contracts cover 79 percent of the requirements
through 2006 with no coverage of requirements for 2007 and beyond. These
current contracts expire at varying times between 2004 and 2008. NSP-Minnesota
expects sufficient uranium, conversion and enrichment to be available for the
total fuel requirements of its nuclear generating plants. Contracts for
additional uranium and enrichment services are currently being negotiated that
would provide additional supply requirements through 2007 for uranium and 2010
for enrichment services. Fuel fabrication is 100 percent committed for Prairie
Island Unit 1 through 2007 and through 2006 for Prairie Island Unit 2. Both
Prairie Island Units are not contracted for fuel fabrication beyond those
dates. NSP-Minnesota is currently in negotiations with various
vendors to pursue fuel fabrication for Prairie Island plant needs
beyond the current fuel contracts. Fuel fabrication for Monticello is covered through 2010.

PSCo

PSCo’s generation stations use low-sulfur western coal purchased primarily
under long-term contracts with suppliers operating in Colorado and Wyoming.
During 2003, PSCo’s coal requirements for existing plants were approximately
10.2 million tons, a substantial portion of which was supplied pursuant to
long-term supply contracts. Coal supply inventories at Dec. 31, 2003 were
approximately 39 days usage, based on the average burn rate for all of PSCo’s
coal-fired plants.

PSCo operates the Hayden station, and has partial ownership in the Craig
station in Colorado. All of Hayden station’s coal requirements are supplied
under a long-term agreement. Approximately 75 percent of PSCo’s Craig station
coal requirements are supplied by two long-term agreements. Any remaining Craig
station requirements for PSCo are supplied via spot coal purchases.

PSCo has contracted for coal supplies to supply approximately 100 percent of
the Cherokee, Cameo and Valmont stations’ projected requirements in 2004.



PSCo has long-term coal supply agreements for the Pawnee and Comanche stations’
projected requirements. Under the long-term agreements, the supplier has
dedicated specific coal reserves at the contractually defined mines to meet the
contract quantity obligations. In addition, PSCo has a coal supply agreement to
supply approximately 65 percent of Arapahoe station’s projected requirements
for 2004. Any remaining Arapahoe station requirements will be procured via spot
market purchases.

PSCo uses both firm and interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion
turbines and certain boilers. Natural gas supplies for PSCo’s power plants are
procured under short- and intermediate-term contracts to provide an adequate
supply of fuel.

SPS

SPS purchases all of its coal requirements for Harrington and Tolk electric
generating stations from TUCO, Inc. in the form of crushed, ready-to-burn coal
delivered to the plant bunkers. TUCO, in turn, arranges for the purchase,
receiving, transporting, unloading, handling, crushing, weighing, and delivery
of coal to the plant bunkers to meet SPS’s requirements. TUCO is responsible
for negotiating and administering contracts with coal suppliers, transporters,
and handlers. For the Harrington station, the coal supply contract with TUCO
expires Dec. 31, 2016. For the Tolk station, the coal supply contract with
TUCO expires Dec. 31, 2017. TUCO’s current coal handling contract for
Harrington station expires on July 31, 2004; however, amendments that will
extend that agreement, and TUCO’s coal handling contract for Tolk station, are
being negotiated by the parties. At Dec. 31, 2003, coal supplies at the
Harrington and Tolk sites were approximately 37 and 35 days supply,
respectively. TUCO has coal supply agreements to supply 100 percent of the
projected 2004 requirements for Harrington and Tolk stations. TUCO has
long-term contracts for supply of coal in sufficient quantities to meet the
primary needs of the Harrington and Tolk stations.

SPS uses both firm and
interruptible natural gas and standby oil in combustion turbines and
certain boilers. Natural gas suppliers for SPS’ power plants are
procured under short- and intermediate-term contracts to provide an
adequate supply of fuel.

Trading Operations

Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries conduct various trading operations,
including the purchase and sale of electric capacity and energy. Participation
in short-term wholesale energy markets provides market intelligence and
information that supports the energy management of each utility subsidiary.
Xcel Energy and its utility subsidiaries reduce commodity price and credit
risks by using physical and financial instruments to minimize commodity price
and credit risk and hedge supplies and purchases. Optimizing the utility
subsidiaries’ physical assets by engaging in short-term sales and purchase
commitments results in lowering the cost of supply for the customers and the
capturing of additional margins from non-traditional customers. Xcel Energy and
its utility subsidiaries also use these trading operations to capture arbitrage
opportunities created by regional pricing differentials, supply and demand
imbalances and changes in fuel prices. See Pending Regulatory Matters under
Item 1 for a discussion of investigations of trading activities.

Nuclear Power Operations and Waste Disposal

NSP-Minnesota owns two nuclear generating plants: the Monticello plant and the
Prairie Island plant. See additional discussion regarding the nuclear
generating plants at Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Nuclear power plant operation produces gaseous, liquid and solid radioactive
substances. The discharge and handling of such substances are controlled by
federal regulation. High-level radioactive substance includes used nuclear
fuel. Low-level radioactive substance consists primarily of demineralizer
resins, paper, protective clothing, rags, tools and equipment that have become
contaminated through use in the plant.

Low-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal —

Federal law places responsibility on
each state for disposal of its low-level radioactive substance. Low-level
radioactive substance from NSP-Minnesota’s Monticello and Prairie Island
nuclear plants is currently disposed of at the Barnwell facility located in
South Carolina (all classes of low-level substance), and the Clive facility
located in Utah (class A low-level substance only). Chem Nuclear is the owner
and operator of the Barnwell facility, which has been given authorization by
South Carolina to accept low-level radioactive substance from out of state.
Envirocare, Inc. operates the Clive facility. NSP-Minnesota
has an annual contract with Barnwell,



while NSP-Minnesota uses the Envirocare
facility through various low-level substance processors. NSP-Minnesota has low-level storage capacity available on-site at
Prairie Island and Monticello that would allow both plants to continue to
operate until the end of their licensed lives, if off-site low-level disposal
facilities were not available to NSP-Minnesota.

High-Level Radioactive Waste Disposal —

The federal government has the
responsibility to dispose of, or permanently store, domestic spent nuclear fuel
and other high-level radioactive substances. The Nuclear Waste Policy Act
requires the Department of Energy (DOE) to implement a program for nuclear
substance management. This includes the siting, licensing, construction and
operation of a repository for domestically produced spent nuclear fuel from
civilian nuclear power reactors and other high-level radioactive substances at
a permanent storage or disposal facility. The DOE has accepted none of
NSP-Minnesota’s spent nuclear fuel. See Item 3 — Legal Proceedings and Note 18
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of this matter.

NSP-Minnesota has on-site storage for spent nuclear fuel at its Monticello and
Prairie Island nuclear plants. The Prairie Island plant is licensed by the
federal Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) to store up to 48 casks of spent
fuel at the plant. In 1994, the Minnesota Legislature adopted a limit on dry
cask storage of 17 casks for the entire state. The 17 casks, which stand
outside the Prairie Island plant, are now full. On May 29, 2003, the Minnesota
Legislature enacted legislation that allows NSP-Minnesota to continue to
operate the facility and store spent fuel there until its licenses with NRC
expire in 2013 and 2014. This will enable NSP-Minnesota to store at least 12
more casks of spent fuel outside the Prairie Island nuclear generating plant.
The legislation transfers the primary authority concerning future spent-fuel
storage issues from the state Legislature to the MPUC. It also allows for
additional storage without the requirement of an affirmative vote from the
state Legislature, if the NRC extends the licenses of the Prairie Island and
Monticello plants and the MPUC grants a certificate of need for such additional
storage. See Note 18 in the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion of the matter.

Visual Inspections
—

Required visual inspections have been performed of the
Prairie Island Unit 2 upper and lower reactor vessel heads, and
the Unit 1 upper head. Reactor vessel heads for both units were
found to be in compliance with all NRC requirements. Xcel Energy has
placed orders and plans to replace the reactor vessel upper heads of
Prairie Island Unit 2 during the 2005 refueling outage and
Unit 1 during the 2006 refueling outage.

Private Fuel Storage —

NSP-Minnesota is part of a consortium of private parties
working to establish a private facility for interim storage of spent nuclear
fuel. In 1997, Private Fuel Storage, LLC (PFS) filed a license application with
the NRC for a temporary storage site for spent nuclear fuel on the Skull Valley
Indian Reservation in Utah. The NRC license review process includes formal
evidentiary hearings before an Atomic Safety and Licensing Board (ASLB) and
opportunities for public input. Evidentiary hearings were held in 2000 and
2002. Most of the issues raised by opponents of the project have been
favorably resolved or dismissed. On March 10, 2003, the ASLB ruled that the
likelihood of certain aircraft crashes into the proposed facility was
sufficiently credible that it would have to be addressed before the facility
could be licensed and set forth a potential process for addressing this
concern. PFS has submitted responses to all NRC concerns. Public hearings with
the ASLB are expected to begin in early 2004. Due to uncertainty regarding NRC
and other regulatory and governmental approvals, it is possible that this
interim storage may be delayed or not available at all.

Prairie Island Steam Generator Replacement —

In February 2001, NSP-Minnesota
signed a contract with Steam Generating Team, Ltd. to perform engineering and
construction services for the installation of replacement steam generators at
the Prairie Island nuclear power plant. NSP-Minnesota plans to replace both
steam generators in Prairie Island Unit 1 in the fall 2004 refueling outage.
The total cost of replacing the steam generators is estimated to be
approximately $132 million.

Nuclear Management Co. (NMC)

During 1999, NSP-Minnesota, Wisconsin Electric Power Co., Wisconsin Public
Service Corp. (WPS) and Alliant Energy Corp. established NMC. The objective in
creating NMC was to enhance operational excellence in nuclear plant operations
by consolidating resources, combining talent and gaining efficiencies. The
Consumers Power subsidiary of CMS Energy Corp. joined NMC during 2000, and
transferred operating authority for the Palisades nuclear plant to NMC in 2001.
The five affiliated companies own eight nuclear units on six sites, with total
generation capacity exceeding 4,500 megawatts. WPS is selling its Kewaunee
Nuclear Power Plant to a subsidiary of Dominion Resources, Inc., and may not
continue to participate in NMC.

The NRC has approved requests by NMC’s affiliated utilities to transfer
operating authority for their nuclear plants to NMC, formally establishing NMC
as an operating company. NMC manages the operations and maintenance at the
plants, and is responsible for physical security. NMC’s responsibilities also
include oversight of on-site dry storage facilities for used nuclear fuel at
the Prairie Island nuclear plant. Utility plant owners, including
NSP-Minnesota, continue to own the plants, control all energy produced by the
plants, and retain responsibility for nuclear liability insurance and
decommissioning costs. Existing personnel continue to provide day-to-day plant
operations, with the additional benefit of implementing best practices from all
NMC-operated plants for improved safety, reliability and operational
performance.

For further discussion of nuclear issues, see Notes 17 and 18 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Electric Operating Statistics (Xcel Energy)

Year Ended Dec. 31,




Electric Sales (millions of Kwh)

Residential

23,428

23,302

22,113

Commercial and Industrial

58,274

57,815

57,755

Public Authorities and Other

1,169

1,143

1,103

Total Retail

82,871

82,260

80,971

Sales for Resale

21,981

23,256

26,104

Total Energy Sold

104,852

105,516

107,075

Number of Customers at End of Period

Residential

2,801,550

2,756,565

2,722,832

Commercial and Industrial

404,046

394,620

387,579

Public Authorities and Other

81,158

81,341

100,819

Total Retail

3,286,754

3,232,526

3,211,230

Wholesale




Total Customers

3,286,965

3,232,835

3,211,535

Electric Revenues (thousands of dollars)

Residential

$

1,812,501

$

1,677,231

$

1,697,390

Commercial and Industrial

3,104,734

2,791,550

2,979,730

Public Authorities and Other

108,466

98,394

91,438

Regulatory Accrual Adjustment

—

4,766

15,480

Total Retail

5,025,701

4,571,941

4,784,038

Wholesale

805,396

715,144

1,478,038

Other Electric Revenues

121,094

148,292

132,661

Total Electric Revenues

$

5,952,191

$

5,435,377

$

6,394,737

Kwh Sales per Retail Customer

25,214

25,448

25,215

Revenue per Retail Customer

$

1,529.08

$

1,414.36

$

1,489.78

Residential Revenue per Kwh

7.74

¢

7.20

¢

7.68

¢

Commercial and Industrial Revenue per Kwh

5.33

¢

4.83

¢

5.16

¢

Wholesale Revenue per Kwh

3.66

¢

3.08

¢

5.66

¢



NATURAL GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

Competition and Industry Restructuring

Changes in regulatory policies and market forces have shifted the industry from
traditional bundled natural gas sales service to an unbundled transportation
and market-based commodity service at the wholesale level and for larger
commercial and industrial customers. These customers have greater ability to
buy natural gas directly from suppliers and arrange their own pipeline and
retail local distribution company (LDC) transportation service.

The natural gas delivery/transportation business has remained competitive as
industrial and large commercial customers have the ability to bypass the local
natural gas utility through the construction of interconnections directly with,
and the purchase of natural gas from, interstate pipelines, thereby avoiding
the delivery charges added by the local natural gas utility.

As LDCs, NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and Cheyenne provide unbundled
transportation service to large customers. Transportation service does not have
an adverse effect on earnings because the sales and transportation rates have
been designed to make them economically indifferent to whether natural gas has
been sold and transported or merely transported. However, some transportation
customers may have greater opportunities or incentives to physically bypass the
LDCs distribution system.

Capability and Demand

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin

Xcel Energy categorizes its natural gas supply requirements as firm or
interruptible (customers with an alternate energy supply). The maximum daily
send-out (firm and interruptible) for the combined system of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin was 727,354 million British thermal units (MMBtu) for 2003, which
occurred on Jan. 20, 2003.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin purchase natural gas from independent
suppliers. The natural gas is delivered under natural gas transportation
agreements with interstate pipelines. These agreements provide for firm
deliverable pipeline capacity of approximately 610,000 MMBtu/day. In addition,
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have contracted with providers of underground
natural gas storage services. These storage agreements provide storage for
approximately 17 percent of winter natural gas requirements and 22 percent of
peak day, firm requirements of NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin also own and operate two liquefied natural gas
(LNG) plants with a storage capacity of 2.5 Billion cubic feet (Bcf) equivalent
and four propane-air plants with a storage capacity of 1.4 Bcf equivalent to
help meet its peak requirements. These peak-shaving facilities have production
capacity equivalent to 242,708 MMBtu of natural gas per day, or approximately
30 percent of peak day firm requirements. LNG and propane-air plants provide a
cost-effective alternative to annual fixed pipeline transportation charges to
meet the peaks caused by firm space heating demand on extremely cold winter
days.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin are required to file for a change in natural
gas supply contract levels to meet peak demand, to redistribute demand costs
among classes or to exchange one form of demand for another. NSP-Minnesota’s
2002-2003 entitlement levels were approved on Feb. 27, 2003, which allow
NSP-Minnesota to recover the demand entitlement costs associated with the
increase in transportation, supply, and storage levels in its monthly PGA. The
2003-2004 entitlement levels are pending MPUC action. NSP-Wisconsin’s winter
2003-2004 supply plan was approved by the PSCW in October 2003.

PSCo and Cheyenne

PSCo and Cheyenne project peak day natural gas supply requirements for firm
sales and backup transportation, which include transportation customers
contracting for firm supply backup, to be approximately 1,769,706 MMBtu and
44,380 MMBtu, respectively. In addition, firm transportation customers hold
438,560 MMBtu for PSCo and 139 MMBtu for Cheyenne, of capacity without supply
backup. Total firm delivery obligation for PSCo is 2,208,266 MMBtu and for
Cheyenne is 44,519 MMBtu, per day. The maximum daily deliveries for both
companies in 2003 for firm and interruptible services were 1,588,833 MMBtu for
PSCo and 65,738 MMBtu for Cheyenne on Feb. 24, 2003.

PSCo and Cheyenne purchase natural gas from independent suppliers. The natural
gas supplies are delivered to the respective delivery systems through a
combination of transportation agreements with interstate pipelines and
deliveries by suppliers directly to each company. These



agreements provide for
firm deliverable pipeline capacity of approximately 1,842,891 MMBtu/day, which
includes 816,866 MMBtu of supplies held under third-party underground storage
agreements. In addition, PSCo operates three company-owned underground storage
facilities, which provide about 45,000 MMBtu of natural gas supplies on a peak
day. The balance of the quantities required to meet firm peak day sales
obligations are primarily purchased at the companies’ city gate meter stations
and a small amount is received directly from wellhead sources.

PSCo has received approval and is in the process of closing the
Leyden Storage Field. The field’s 110,000 MMBtu peak day capacity was replaced
with additional third-party storage and transportation capacity. See further
discussion at Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

PSCo is required by CPUC regulations to file a natural gas purchase plan by
June of each year projecting and describing the quantities of natural gas
supplies, upstream services and the costs of those supplies and services for
the period beginning July 1 through June 30 of the following year. PSCo is also
required to file a natural gas purchase report by October of each year
reporting actual quantities and costs incurred for natural gas supplies and
upstream services for the 12-month period ending the previous June 30.

Natural Gas Supply and Costs

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries actively seek natural gas supply,
transportation and storage alternatives to yield a diversified portfolio that
provides increased flexibility, decreased interruption and financial risk, and
economical rates. This diversification involves numerous domestic and Canadian
supply sources with varied contract lengths.

The following table summarizes the average cost per MMBtu of natural gas
purchased for resale by Xcel Energy’s regulated retail natural gas distribution
business:

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Wisconsin

PSCo

Cheyenne


$

5.47

$

6.23

$

4.94

$

4.65


$

3.98

$

4.63

$

3.17

$

2.77


$

5.83

$

5.11

$

4.99

$

5.03

The cost of natural gas supply, transportation service and storage service is
recovered through various cost recovery adjustment mechanisms.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have firm natural gas transportation contracts
with several pipelines, which expire in various years from 2004 through 2014.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin have certain natural gas supply and
transportation agreements that include obligations for the purchase and/or
delivery of specified volumes of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of
delivery. At Dec. 31, 2003, NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin were committed to
approximately $622.3 million in such obligations under these contracts.

NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin purchase firm natural gas supply utilizing
long-term and short-term agreements from approximately 20 domestic and Canadian
suppliers. This diversity of suppliers and contract lengths allows
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin to maintain competition from suppliers and
minimize supply costs.



PSCo and Cheyenne

PSCo and Cheyenne have certain natural gas supply and transportation agreements
that include obligations for the purchase and/or delivery of specified volumes
of natural gas or to make payments in lieu of delivery. At Dec. 31, 2003, PSCo
and Cheyenne were committed to approximately $940.9 million and $4.4 million,
respectively, in such obligations under these contracts, which expire in
various years from 2004 through 2030. Any contracts entered into by
PSCo to serve Cheyenne will be transferred in conjunction with the
sale of Cheyenne.

PSCo and Cheyenne purchase natural gas by optimizing a balance of long-term and
short-term natural gas purchases, firm transportation and natural gas storage
contracts. PSCo and Cheyenne also utilize a mixture of fixed-price purchases
and index-related purchases to provide a less volatile, yet market-sensitive,
price to its customers. During 2003, PSCo and Cheyenne purchased natural gas
from approximately 40 suppliers.

Viking

In January 2003, Xcel
Energy sold Viking, including its partial interest in Guardian
Pipeline, LLC, to Border Viking Co., whose
ultimate parent is Northern Border Partners L. P. Xcel Energy received net
proceeds of $124 million.

BMG

On Oct. 20, 2003, Xcel Energy completed the sale of BMG to Southwest Gas
Corp. Xcel Energy received net proceeds of $24 million.



Gas Operating Statistics (Xcel Energy)

Year Ended Dec. 31,




Gas Deliveries (thousands of Dth)

Residential

141,550

143,513

135,633

Commercial and Industrial

93,036

95,749

96,503

Total Retail

234,586

239,262

232,136

Transportation and Other

129,198

146,149

150,101

Total Deliveries

363,784

385,411

382,237

Number of Customers at End of Period

Residential

1,604,466

1,565,603

1,523,391

Commercial and Industrial

150,183

147,952

145,850

Total Retail

1,754,649

1,713,555

1,669,241

Transportation and Other

3,304

3,199

3,054

Total Customers

1,757,953

1,716,754

1,672,295

Gas Revenues (thousands of dollars)

Residential

$

1,037,932

$

836,729

$

1,227,670

Commercial and Industrial

605,225

452,846

709,242

Total Retail

1,643,157

1,289,575

1,936,912

Transportation and Other

67,115

73,785

85,891

Total Gas Revenues

$

1,710,272

$

1,363,360

$

2,022,803

Dth Sales per Retail Customer

133.69

139.63

139.07

Revenue per Retail Customer

$

936.46

$

752.57

$

1,160.35

Residential Revenue per Dth

$

7.33

$

5.83

$

9.05

Commercial and Industrial Revenue per Dth

$

6.51

$

4.73

$

7.35

Transportation and Other Revenue per Dth

$

0.52

$

0.50

$

0.57



NONREGULATED SUBSIDIARIES

Through its non-utility subsidiaries, Xcel Energy invests in and operates
several nonregulated businesses in a variety of industries. The following is an
overview of the significant nonregulated businesses.

NRG Energy, Inc.

NRG is an energy company primarily engaged in the ownership and operation of
power generation facilities and the sale of energy, capacity and related
products in the United States and internationally.

During 2003, Xcel Energy relinquished its ownership interest in NRG. On May
14, 2003, NRG and certain of its affiliates filed voluntary petitions in the U.
S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York for reorganization
under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to restructure their debt. On
Dec. 5, 2003, NRG completed its reorganization and emerged from bankruptcy. As
a result of the reorganization, Xcel Energy relinquished its ownership interest
in NRG. At Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy reports NRG’s financial activity as a
component of discontinued operations. Xcel Energy is obligated to make
payments of up to $752 million to NRG in 2004 and expects to fund these
payments with cash on hand, borrowings against Xcel Energy's revolving credit facilities and proceeds from a tax refund associated with the
write-off of its investment in NRG.

Since the early 1990’s, NRG has pursued a strategy of rapid growth through
acquisitions. Starting in 2000, NRG added new construction to this strategy.
This strategy required significant capital, much of which was satisfied
primarily with debt. Due to a number of factors, including the overall
downturn in the energy industry, NRG’s financial condition deteriorated
significantly and resulted in the bankruptcy filing. Prior to its emergence
from bankruptcy and Xcel Energy’s divestiture of ownership, NRG sold a
significant amount of its assets. See Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

e prime, inc.

e prime was incorporated in 1995 under the laws of Colorado. e prime provided
energy related products and services, which included natural gas marketing and
trading and energy consulting. In 1996, e prime received authorization from the
FERC to act as a power marketer.

e prime’s gas trading operations acquired assets and commodities and
subsequently traded around those assets or commodity positions. e prime
captured trading opportunities through price volatility driven by factors such
as asset utilization, locational price differentials, weather, available
supplies, credit and customer actions. Trading margins were captured through
the utilization of transmission, transportation and storage assets, capture of
regional price differences and other factors. Xcel Energy’s board of directors
made a decision in December 2003 to discontinue operations of e prime.
Consequently, e prime is in the process of shutting down operations. As part
of Xcel Energy’s decision to exit the natural gas merchant business, e prime
has severed all but four of its employees. At Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy
reported e prime’s financial activity as a component of discontinued
operations.

Other Subsidiaries

Although not individually reportable segments, Xcel Energy also has a number of
nonregulated subsidiaries in various lines of business. The most significant
are discussed below.

Xcel Energy International

Xcel Energy International was formed in 1997 to manage the international
operations of Xcel Energy.

Xcel Energy and American Electric Power Co. each held a 50-percent interest in
Yorkshire, a UK retail electricity and gas supplier and electric distributor,
before selling 95 percent of Yorkshire to Innogy Holdings plc in April 2001. In
August 2002, Xcel International sold the remaining 5-percent interest in
Yorkshire Power for $33 million to CE Electric UK. Xcel Energy International’s
primary operations are conducted through Xcel Energy Argentina. Xcel Energy
Argentina’s primary investment consists of the ownership and operation of three
independent power production facilities in Argentina.

In December 2003, the board of directors of Xcel Energy approved management’s
plan to exit the businesses conducted by Xcel Energy International. Xcel
Energy is in the process of marketing the remaining assets and operations of
these businesses to prospective buyers and expects to exit the businesses
during 2004. At Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy reported Xcel Energy
International’s financial activity as a component of discontinued operations.



Results of discontinued nonregulated operations in 2003 include an after-tax
loss expected on the disposal of all Xcel Energy International assets of $59
million based on the estimated fair value of such assets. The fair value
represented a market bid or appraisal received that is believed to best reflect
the assets fair value at Dec. 31, 2003. Xcel Energy’s remaining investment in
Xcel Energy International at Dec. 31, 2003, was approximately $39 million.

Utility Engineering Corp. (UE)

UE was incorporated in 1985 under the laws of Texas. UE is engaged in
engineering, design, construction management and other miscellaneous services.
UE currently has five wholly owned subsidiaries, including Universal Utility
Services LLC, Precision Resource Co., Quixx Corp., Proto-Power Corp. and
Applied Power Associates Inc.

Planergy International Inc.

Planergy provides energy management, consulting, on-site generation, load
curtailment, demand-side management, energy conservation and optimization,
distributed generation and power quality services, as well as information
management solutions to industrial, commercial and utility customers. During
2003, Planergy closed the majority of its business operations. Planergy sold
its remaining operating units in December 2003 and January 2004, and final
dissolution is expected in 2004.

Seren Innovations, Inc.

Seren operates a combination cable television, telephone and high-speed
Internet access system in St. Cloud, Minn., and Contra Costa County,
California. Operation of its broadband communications network has resulted in
losses. Seren has completed its build-out phase and has been experiencing
improvement in its operating results. Neutral cash flow is expected in 2004
and positive cash flow is projected for 2005. A positive earnings contribution
is anticipated in 2007, assuming customer addition goals are met. As of Dec.
31, 2003, Xcel Energy’s investment in Seren was approximately $265 million.
Seren had capitalized $331 million for plant in service and had incurred
another $10 million for construction work in progress for these systems at Dec.
31, 2003.

Eloigne Company

Eloigne was established in 1993 and its principal business is the acquisition
of rental housing projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits
under current federal tax law. As of Dec. 31, 2003, approximately $84 million
had been invested in Eloigne projects, including approximately $22 million in
wholly owned properties and approximately $62 million in equity interests in
jointly owned projects. Completed Eloigne projects as of Dec. 31, 2003, are
expected to generate tax credits of $39 million over the time period of 2004
through 2012.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Certain of Xcel Energy’s subsidiary facilities are regulated by federal and
state environmental agencies. These agencies have jurisdiction over air
emissions, water quality, wastewater discharges, solid wastes and hazardous
substances. Various company activities require registrations, permits,
licenses, inspections and approvals from these agencies. Xcel Energy has
received all necessary authorizations for the construction and continued
operation of its generation, transmission and distribution systems. Company
facilities have been designed and constructed to operate in compliance with
applicable environmental standards.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries strive to comply with all environmental
regulations applicable to its operations. However, it is not possible at this
time to determine when or to what extent additional facilities or modifications
of existing or planned facilities will be required as a result of changes to
environmental regulations, interpretations or enforcement policies or,
generally, what effect future laws or regulations may have upon Xcel Energy’s
operations. For more information on environmental contingencies, see Notes 17
and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements and environmental matters in
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.

CAPITAL SPENDING AND FINANCING

For a discussion of expected capital expenditures and funding sources, see
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7.



EMPLOYEES

The number of Xcel Energy employees at Dec. 31, 2003, is presented in the table
below. Of the employees listed below, 5,655, or 51 percent, are covered under
collective bargaining agreements.

NSP-Minnesota*

2,938

NSP-Wisconsin


PSCo

2,579

SPS

1,044

Xcel Energy Services Inc.

2,973

Other subsidiaries


Total

11,048

* NSP-Minnesota employees include 341 employees loaned to the NMC. In
addition, the NMC has 817 employees of its own.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Wayne H. Brunetti, 61, Chairman of the Board, August 2001 to present, Chief
Executive Officer, August 2000 to present. Previously, President, Xcel Energy,
August 2000 to October 2003, Vice Chairman, President, Chief Operating Officer
and Director of NCE since 1997 and President and Director of PSCo since 1994.

Paul J. Bonavia, 52,
President — Commercial Enterprises, December 2003 to
present and President — Energy Markets, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to present.
Previously, Senior Vice President and General Counsel of NCE since 1997.

Benjamin G.S. Fowke III, 45, Chief Financial Officer, Xcel Energy, October 2003
to present, Vice President and Treasurer, Xcel Energy, November 2002 to
present. Previously, Vice President and Chief Financial Officer — Energy
Markets, Xcel Energy from August 2000 to November 2002, Vice President — Retail
Services and Energy Markets, NCE from January 1999 to July 2000 and Vice
President — Finance/Accounting, e prime from May 1997 to December 1998.

Raymond E. Gogel, 53, Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Xcel
Energy, April 2002 to present. Previously, Vice President and Senior Client
Services Principal for IBM Global Services since June 2001 and Senior Project
Executive for IBM Global Services since January 1998.

Cathy J. Hart, 54, Vice President and Corporate Secretary, Xcel Energy, August
2000 to present. Previously, Secretary of NCE since 1998.

Gary R. Johnson, 57, Vice President and General Counsel, Xcel Energy, August
2000 to present. Previously, Vice President and General Counsel of NSP since
1991.

Richard C. Kelly, 57, President and Chief Operating Officer, Xcel Energy,
October 2003 to present. Previously, Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer, Xcel Energy, August 2002 to October 2003, President — Enterprises,
Xcel Energy, August 2000 to August 2002, Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer for NCE from 1997 to August 2000 and Senior Vice President of
PSCo from 1990 to 1997.

Cynthia L. Lesher, 55, Chief Administrative Officer, Xcel Energy, August 2000
to present and Chief Human Resources Officer, Xcel Energy, July 2001 to
present. Previously, President of NSP-Gas since July 1997 and prior was Vice
President-Human Resources of NSP.

Teresa S. Madden, 47, Vice President and Controller, Xcel Energy, January 2004
to present. Previously, Vice President of Finance for Xcel Energy Customer and
Field Operations from August 2003 to January 2004, Interim CFO for Rogue Wave
Software, Inc. from February 2003 to July 2003, Corporate Controller for Rogue
Wave Software, Inc. from October 2000 to February 2003, Controller for NCE,
1997 to August 2000.

David E. Ripka, 54, Vice President and Controller, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to
January 2004. Previously, Vice President and Controller of NRG from June 1999
to August 2000, Controller of NRG from March 1997 to June 1999 and prior was
Assistant Controller for NSP from June 1992 to March 1997.



Patricia K. Vincent, 45,
President — Customer and Field Operations, Xcel
Energy, July 2003 to present. Previously, President — Retail, Xcel Energy,
March 2001 to July 2003, Vice President of Marketing and Sales of Xcel Energy
from August 2000 to March 2001, Vice President of Marketing and Sales of NCE from January 1999 to August 2000 and
Manager, Director and Vice President of Marketing and Sales at Arizona Public
Service Company from 1992 to January 1999.

David M. Wilks, 57, President — Energy Supply, Xcel Energy, August 2000 to
present. Previously, Executive Vice President and Director of PSCo and New
Century Services from 1997 to August 2000 and President, Chief Operating
Officer and Director of SPS from 1995 to August 2000.



Item 2.

Properties

Virtually all of the utility plant of NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin and PSCo is
subject to the lien of their first mortgage bond indentures.

Electric utility generating stations:

NSP — Minnesota

Summer 2003 Net

Dependable

Station, City and Unit

Fuel

Installed

Capability (Mw)

Sherburne-Becker, Minn

Unit 1

Coal



Unit 2

Coal



Unit 3(a)

Coal



Prairie Island-Welch, Minn

Unit 1

Nuclear



Unit 2

Nuclear



Monticello-Monticello, Minn

Nuclear



King-Bayport, Minn

Coal



Black Dog-Burnsville, Minn

2 Units

Coal/Natural Gas

1955-1960


2 Units

Natural Gas



High Bridge-St. Paul, Minn

2 Units

Coal

1956-1959


Riverside-Minneapolis, Minn.

2 Units

Coal

1964-1987


Angus Anson-Sioux Falls, S.D.

2 Units

Natural Gas



Inver Hills-Inver Grove Heights, Minn

6 Units

Natural Gas



Blue Lake-Shakopee, Minn

4 Units

Natural Gas



Other

Various

Various


Total

6,393

(a) Based on NSP-Minnesota’s ownership interest of 59 percent.



NSP — Wisconsin

Summer 2003 Net

Dependable

Station, City and Unit

Fuel

Installed

Capability (Mw)

Combustion Turbine:

Flambeau Station-Park Falls, Wis
1 Unit

Natural Gas/Oil



Wheaton-Eau Claire, Wis

6 Units

Natural Gas/Oil



French Island-La Crosse, Wis

2 Units

Oil



Steam:

Bay Front-Ashland, Wis

3 Units

Coal/Wood/Natural Gas

1945-1960


French Island-La Crosse, Wis

2 Units

Wood/RDF*

1940-1948


Hydro:

19 Plants

Various


Total


* RDF is refuse-derived fuel, made from municipal solid waste.



PSCo

Summer 2003

Net Dependable

Station, City and Unit

Fuel

Installed

Capability (Mw)

Steam:

Arapahoe-Denver, Colo

2 Units

Coal

1950-1955


Cameo-Grand Junction, Colo

2 Units

Coal

1957-1960


Cherokee-Denver, Colo

4 Units

Coal

1957-1968


Comanche-Pueblo, Colo

2 Units

Coal

1973-1975


Craig-Craig, Colo

2 Units (a)

Coal

1979-1980


Hayden-Hayden, Colo

2 Units (b)

Coal

1965-1976


Pawnee-Brush, Colo

Coal



Valmont-Boulder, Colo

Coal



Zuni-Denver, Colo

3 Units

Natural Gas/Oil

1948-1954


Combustion Turbines:

Fort St. Vrain-Platteville, Colo

4 Units

Natural Gas

1972-2001


Various Locations

6 Units

Natural Gas

Various


Hydro:

Various Locations

12 Units

Various


Cabin Creek-Georgetown, Colo



Pumped Storage

Wind:

Ponnequin-Weld County, Colo

1999-2001

—

Diesel Generators:

Cherokee-Denver, Colo

2 Units



Total

3,847

(a) Based on PSCo’s ownership interest of 9.72 percent.

(b) Based on PSCo’s ownership interest of 75.5 percent of unit 1 and 37.4
percent of unit 2.



SPS

Summer 2003 Net

Dependable

Station, City and Unit

Fuel

Installed

Capability (Mw)

Steam:

Harrington-Amarillo, Texas

3 Units

Coal

1976-1980

1,066

Tolk-Muleshoe, Texas

2 Units

Coal

1982-1985

1,080

Jones-Lubbock, Texas

2 Units

Natural Gas

1971-1974


Plant X-Earth, Texas

4 Units

Natural Gas

1952-1964


Nichols-Amarillo, Texas

3 Units

Natural Gas

1960-1968


Cunningham-Hobbs, N.M.

2 Units

Natural Gas

1957-1965


Maddox-Hobbs, N.M.

Natural Gas



CZ-2-Pampa, Texas

Purchased Steam



Moore County-Amarillo, Texas

Natural Gas



Gas Turbine:

Carlsbad-Carlsbad, N.M.

Natural Gas



CZ-1-Pampa, Texas

Hot Nitrogen



Maddox-Hobbs, N.M.

Natural Gas



Riverview-Electric City, Texas

Natural Gas



Cunningham-Hobbs, N.M.

Natural Gas



Diesel:

Tucumcari-N.M.

6 Units

1941-1968

—

Total

4,324

Electric utility overhead and underground transmission and distribution lines
(measured in conductor miles) at Dec. 31, 2003:

Conductor Miles

Cheyenne

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Wisconsin

PSCo

SPS

500 kilovolt (kv)

—

2,919

—

—

—

345 kv

—

5,653

1,312


2,754

230 kv

—

1,442

—

10,428

9,224

161 kv

—


1,494

—

—

138 kv

—

—

—


—

115 kv


6,278

1,528

5,033

10,828

Less than 115 kv

3,220

78,372

31,076

68,805

21,672

Electric utility transmission and distribution substations at Dec. 31, 2003:

Cheyenne

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Wisconsin

PSCo

SPS

Quantity






Gas utility mains at Dec. 31, 2003:

Miles

Cheyenne

NSP-Minnesota

NSP-Wisconsin

PSCo

WGI

Transmission

—


—

2,272


Distribution


8,702

1,967

18,587

—



Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

In the normal course of business, various lawsuits and claims have arisen
against Xcel Energy in addition to the regulatory matters discussed in Item 1.
Management, after consultation with legal counsel, has recorded an estimate of
the probable cost of settlement or other disposition for such matters.

Legal Contingencies

Department of Energy (DOE) Complaint —

On June 8, 1998, NSP-Minnesota filed a
complaint in the Court of Federal Claims against the DOE requesting damages in
excess of $1 billion for the DOE’s partial breach of the Standard Contract.
NSP-Minnesota requested damages consisting of the costs of storage of spent
nuclear fuel at the Prairie Island nuclear generating plant, anticipated costs
related to the Private Fuel Storage, LLC and costs relating to the 1994 state
legislation limiting the number of casks that can be used to store spent
nuclear fuel at Prairie Island. On April 6, 1999, the Court of Federal Claims
dismissed NSP-Minnesota’s complaint. On May 20, 1999, NSP-Minnesota appealed to
the Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On Aug. 31, 2000, the Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed and remanded to the Court of Federal
Claims. On Dec. 26, 2000, NSP-Minnesota filed a motion with the Court of
Federal Claims to amend its complaint and renew its motion for summary judgment
on the DOE’s liability. On July 31, 2001, the Court of Federal Claims granted
NSP-Minnesota’s motion for summary judgment on liability. On Nov. 28, 2001, the
DOE brought motions for partial summary judgment on the schedule for acceptance
of spent nuclear fuel and the DOE’s obligation to accept greater than Class C
waste. These motions are pending. Limited discovery with respect to the
schedule issues has been conducted. A trial in NSP-Minnesota’s suit against the
DOE is not likely to occur before the second quarter of 2004.

Lamb County Electric
Cooperative

— On July 24, 1995, Lamb County Electric
Cooperative, Inc. (LCEC) petitioned the PUCT for a cease and desist order
against SPS. LCEC alleged that SPS had been unlawfully providing service to oil
field customers and their facilities in LCEC’s singly certificated area. A
trial on the merits was held in October 2002, and on May 23, 2003, the PUCT
issued an order denying LCEC’s petition for a cease and desist order against
SPS. The basis of the decision was the determination that SPS was granted a
certificate of convenience and necessity in 1976 to serve the disputed
customers. LCEC has filed an appeal of the decision with the District Court in
Travis County, Texas. The appeal is expected to include a substantial review of
the record evidence introduced at the PUCT proceeding. The Texas Attorney
General has responded to the appeal on behalf of the PUCT and SPS, Texaco
Exploration and Production Inc. and Apache Corporation have intervened in the
proceeding and filed briefs in support of the PUCT’s decision. A hearing on the
appeal is currently scheduled for April 9, 2004.

On October 18, 1996, LCEC filed a suit for damages against SPS in the District
Court in Lamb County, Texas, based on the same facts as alleged in its petition
for a cease and desist order at the PUCT. This suit has been dormant since it
was filed, awaiting a final determination at the PUCT of the legality of SPS
providing electric service to the disputed customers. The PUCT order of May 23,
2003, found that SPS was legally serving the disputed customers thus
collaterally determining the issue of liability contrary to LCEC’s position in
the suit. An adverse ruling on the appeal of the May 23, 2003 PUCT order could
result in a re-determination of the legality of SPS’ service to
the disputed customers.

St. Cloud Gas Explosion

— Twenty-five lawsuits have been filed as a result of a
Dec. 11, 1998, gas explosion in St. Cloud, Minn. that killed four persons
(including two employees of NSP-Minnesota), injured several others and damaged
numerous buildings. Most of the lawsuits name as defendants NSP-Minnesota, Xcel
Energy’s Seren subsidiary, Cable Constructors, Inc. (CCI) (the contractor hired
by Seren that struck the marked gas line), and Sirti, an
architectural/engineering firm hired by Seren for its St. Cloud cable
installation project. The court granted the plaintiffs’ request to amend the
complaint to seek punitive damages against Seren and CCI. The plaintiffs
brought a similar motion against NSP-Minnesota, which was subsequently denied
by the court. On Nov. 11, 2003, court-ordered mediation was conducted. As a
result of this mediation NSP-Minnesota reached a confidential settlement with a
group of plaintiffs representing the most significant claims asserted against
NSP-Minnesota. In November and December of 2003, similar mediations were
conducted that resulted in confidential settlements with various plaintiffs
representing the most significant claims asserted against Seren. The
settlements will be paid primarily by NSP-Minnesota and Seren’s insurance
carriers. Remaining settlement payments by NSP-Minnesota are not material. A
trial date has not been set for the remaining lawsuits although Seren’s
insurance carriers have initiated mediation efforts with these plaintiffs.

Fortistar Litigation —

On Feb. 26, 2003, Fortistar Capital, Inc. and Fortistar
Methane, LLC filed a $1-billion lawsuit in the Federal District Court for the
Northern District of New York against Xcel Energy Inc. and five former
employees of NRG or NEO Corp., a subsidiary of NRG. In the lawsuit, Fortistar
claims that the defendants violated the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt
Organizations Act (RICO) and committed fraud by engaging in a pattern of
negotiating and executing agreements “they intended not to comply with” and
“made false statements later to conceal their fraudulent promises.” The
allegations against Xcel Energy are, for the most part, limited to purported
activities related to the



contract for the Pike Energy power
facility in
Mississippi and statements related to an “equity infusion” into NRG by Xcel Energy. The plaintiffs allege
damages of
some $350 million and also assert entitlement to a trebling of these damages
under the provisions of the RICO. A settlement has been reached between
plaintiffs and defendants resulting in the dismissal of this lawsuit.

Stone & Webster, Inc. vs. Xcel Energy Inc. —

On Oct. 17, 2002, Stone & Webster,
Inc. and Shaw Constructors, Inc. filed an action in the U.S. District Court for
the Southern District of Mississippi against Xcel Energy; Wayne H. Brunetti,
Chairman, and Chief Executive Officer; Richard C. Kelly, Vice President and
Chief Operating Officer, and NRG and certain NRG subsidiaries. The plaintiffs
alleged they had a contract with a single purpose NRG subsidiary for the
construction of a power generation facility, which was abandoned before
completion but after substantial sums had been spent by plaintiffs. They
alleged breach of contract, breach of an NRG guarantee, breach of fiduciary
duty, tortious interference with contract, detrimental reliance,
misrepresentation, conspiracy and aiding and abetting, and sought to impose
alter ego liability on defendants other than the contracting NRG subsidiary
through piercing the corporate veil. The complaint sought compensatory damages
of at least $130 million plus demobilization and cancellation costs and
punitive damages at least treble the compensatory damages. On Dec. 23, 2002,
the defendants filed motions to dismiss the complaint, which the court denied.
In September 2003, the parties reached a settlement that resulted in the
dismissal of the lawsuit.

Xcel Energy Inc. Shareholder Derivative Action; Essmacher vs. Brunetti; McLain
vs. Brunetti —

On Aug. 15, 2002, a shareholder derivative action was filed in
the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota, purportedly on behalf of
Xcel Energy, against the directors and certain present and former officers,
citing allegedly false and misleading disclosures concerning various issues and asserting breach of fiduciary duty. This
action has been consolidated for pre-trial purposes with other securities class
actions, described in Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, and an amended complaint was filed. After the filing of this action,
two additional derivative actions were filed in the state trial court for
Hennepin County, Minn., against essentially the same defendants, focusing on
allegedly wrongful energy trading activities and asserting breach of fiduciary
duty for failure to establish adequate accounting controls, abuse of control
and gross mismanagement. Considered collectively, the complaints seek
compensatory damages, a return of compensation received, and awards of fees and
expenses. In each of the cases, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the
complaint or amended complaint for failure to make a proper pre-suit demand, or
in the federal court case, to make any pre-suit demand at all, upon Xcel
Energy’s board of directors. The motions in federal court have not been ruled
upon. In an order dated Jan. 6, 2004, the Minnesota district court judge
granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss both of the state
court actions. On March 3, 2004, plaintiffs filed notices of
appeal related to this decision.

Discovery is proceeding in conjunction with the securities litigation,
previously described.

Newcome vs. Xcel Energy Inc.; Barday vs. Xcel Energy Inc. —

On Sept. 23, 2002,
and Oct. 9, 2002, two essentially identical actions were filed in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Colorado, purportedly on behalf of classes
of employee participants in Xcel Energy’s and its predecessors’ 401(k) or ESOP
plans, from as early as Sept. 23, 1999, forward. The complaints in the actions
name as defendants Xcel Energy, its directors, certain former directors, James
J. Howard and Giannantonio Ferrari, and certain present and former officers,
Edward J. McIntyre and David E. Ripka. The complaints allege violations of the
ERISA in the form of breach of fiduciary duty in allowing or encouraging
purchase, contribution and/or retention of Xcel Energy’s common stock in the
plans and making misleading statements and omissions in that regard. The
complaints seek injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement and other remedial
relief, interest and an award of fees and expenses.
The defendants filed
motions to dismiss the complaints. On March 10, 2004,
defendants’ motions were granted in part and denied in part. The
plaintiffs have made certain voluntary disclosure of information, and discovery
is proceeding in conjunction with the securities litigation previously
described. Upon motion of defendants, the cases have been transferred to the
District of Minnesota for purposes of coordination with the securities class
actions and shareholders derivative action pending there.

Additional Information

For more discussion of legal claims and environmental proceedings, see Note
17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements under Item 8, incorporated by
reference. For a discussion of proceedings involving utility rates and other
regulatory matters, see Pending Regulatory Matters under Item 1, and
Management’s Discussion and Analysis under Item 7, incorporated by reference.

Item 4.

Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No issues were submitted for a vote during the fourth quarter of 2003.



PART II

Item 5.

Market for Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities

Quarterly Stock Data

Xcel Energy’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the
Chicago Stock Exchange and the Pacific Stock Exchange. The trading symbol is
XEL. The following are the reported high and low sales prices based on the NYSE
Composite Transactions for the quarters of 2003 and 2002 and the dividends
declared per share during those quarters.


High

Low

Dividends

First Quarter

$

13.40

$

10.40

$

0.0000

Second Quarter

$

15.79

$

12.69

$

0.3750

Third Quarter

$

15.69

$

13.60

$

0.0000

Fourth Quarter

$

17.40

$

15.28

$

0.3750


High

Low

Dividends

First Quarter

$

28.49

$

22.26

$

0.3750

Second Quarter

$

26.49

$

13.91

$

0.3750

Third Quarter

$

17.20

$

5.12

$

0.1875

Fourth Quarter

$

11.60

$

7.40

$

0.1875

Book value per share at Dec. 31, 2003, was $12.95.
The number of common shareholders of record as of
Dec. 31, 2003 was 121,900.

Xcel Energy’s Restated Articles of Incorporation provide for certain restrictions on the payment
of cash dividends on common stock. At Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002, the payment of
cash dividends on common stock was not restricted except as described below.

Under PUHCA, unless there is an order from the SEC, a holding company or any
subsidiary may only declare and pay dividends out of retained earnings. Due to
2002 losses incurred by NRG, retained earnings of Xcel Energy were a deficit of
$101 million at Dec. 31, 2002 and, accordingly, dividends could not be declared
until earnings in 2003 were sufficient to eliminate this deficit or Xcel Energy
was granted relief under the PUHCA. See Common Stock Dividends under Item 7
for a discussion of factors affecting Xcel Energy’s payment of dividends during
2003.

See Item 12 for information concerning securities authorized for issuance under
equity compensation plans.



Item 6.

Selected Financial Data

(Millions of dollars, except share and per-share data)






Operating revenues (a)

$

7,938

$

7,035

$

8,724

$

7,298

$

6,754

Operating expenses (a)

$

6,852

$

5,894

$

7,505

$

7,005

$

5,713

Income (loss) from continuing operations (a)

$


$


$


$


$


Net income (loss)

$


$

(2,218

)

$


$


$


Earnings available for common stock

$


$

(2,222

)

$


$


$


Average number of common shares outstanding (000’s)

398,765

382,051

342,952

337,832

331,943

Average number of common and potentially dilutive shares
outstanding (000’s) (f)

418,912

384,646

343,742

338,111

332,054

Earnings per share from continuing operations (a)

$

1.27

$

1.37

$

1.69

$

0.91

$

1.35

Earnings per share-basic

$

1.55

$

(5.82

)

$

2.31

$

1.54

$

1.70

Earnings per
share-diluted (f)

$

1.50

$

(5.77

)

$

2.30

$

1.54

$

1.70

Dividends declared per share (b)

$

0.75

$

1.13

$

1.50

$

1.45

$

1.47

Total assets
(d)

$

20,205

$

29,436

$

28,754

$

21,769

$

18,070

Long-term debt (e)

$

6,519

$

5,319

$

4,230

$

3,884

$

3,839

Book value per share

$

12.95

$

11.70

$

17.91

$

16.32

$

15.78

Return on average common equity

12.6

%

(41.0

)%

13.5

%

9.6

%

10.9

%

Ratio of earnings to fixed charges (c)

2.2

2.5

2.8

2.1

2.5



Item 7.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

BUSINESS SEGMENTS AND ORGANIZATIONAL OVERVIEW

Xcel Energy Inc. (Xcel Energy), a Minnesota corporation, is a registered
holding company under the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (PUHCA).
In 2003, Xcel Energy directly owned five utility subsidiaries that serve electric and
natural gas customers in 11 states. These utility subsidiaries are Northern
States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation (NSP-Minnesota); Northern States
Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation (NSP-Wisconsin); Public Service Company of
Colorado (PSCo); Southwestern Public Service Co. (SPS) and Cheyenne Light, Fuel
and Power Co. (Cheyenne). These utilities serve customers in portions of Colorado,
Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota, New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota,
Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming. Along with WestGas InterState Inc. (WGI), an
interstate natural gas pipeline, these companies comprise our continuing
regulated utility operations. In January 2003, Xcel Energy sold Viking Gas
Transmission Co. (Viking), an interstate natural gas pipeline company,
including Viking’s interest in Guardian Pipeline, LLC. In October 2003, Xcel
Energy sold Black Mountain Gas Co. (BMG), a regulated natural gas and propane
distribution company. Both Viking and BMG are reported as a component of
discontinued operations. In January 2004, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to
sell Cheyenne, pending regulatory approval.

Xcel Energy’s nonregulated subsidiaries in continuing operations include
Utility Engineering Corp. (engineering, construction and design), Seren
Innovations, Inc. (broadband telecommunications services), Planergy
International, Inc. (energy management solutions) and Eloigne Co. (investments
in rental housing projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits).
During 2003, the board of directors of Xcel Energy approved management’s plan
to exit businesses conducted by the nonregulated subsidiaries Xcel Energy
International Inc. (an international independent power producer, operating
primarily in Argentina) and e prime inc. (a natural gas marketing and trading
company). Both of these businesses are presented as a component of
discontinued operations.

During 2003, Xcel Energy also divested its ownership interest in NRG Energy,
Inc. (NRG), an independent power producer. On May 14, 2003, NRG and certain of
its affiliates filed voluntary petitions in the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the
Southern District of New York for reorganization under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code to restructure their debt. On Dec. 5, 2003, NRG completed its
reorganization and emerged from bankruptcy. As a result of the reorganization,
Xcel Energy relinquished its ownership interest in NRG. At Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel
Energy reports NRG’s financial activity as a component of discontinued
operations. Xcel Energy is obligated to make payments of up to $752 million to
NRG in 2004 and expects to fund these payments with cash on hand and proceeds
from a tax refund associated with the write-off of its investment in NRG.

See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
discontinued operations.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Except for the historical statements contained in this report, the matters
discussed in the following discussion and analysis are forward-looking
statements that are subject to certain risks, uncertainties and assumptions.
Such forward-looking statements are intended to be identified in this document
by the words “anticipate,” “believe,” “estimate,” “expect,” “intend,” “may,”
“objective,” “outlook,” “plan,” “project,” “possible,” “potential,” “should”
and similar expressions. Actual results may vary materially. Factors that could
cause actual results to differ materially include, but are not limited to:
general economic conditions, including the availability of credit and its
impact on capital expenditures and the ability of Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries to obtain financing on favorable terms; business conditions in the
energy industry; actions of credit rating agencies; competitive factors,
including the extent and timing of the entry of additional competition in the
markets served by Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries; unusual weather; effects of
geopolitical events, including war and acts of terrorism; state, federal and
foreign legislative and regulatory initiatives that affect cost and investment
recovery, have an impact on rates or have an impact on asset operation or
ownership; structures that affect the speed and degree to which competition
enters the electric and natural gas markets; the higher risk associated with
Xcel Energy’s nonregulated businesses compared with its regulated businesses;
costs and other effects of legal and administrative proceedings, settlements,
investigations and claims; risks associated with the California power market;
the items described under Factors Affecting Results of Operations; and the
other risk factors listed from time to time by Xcel Energy in reports filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC), including Exhibit 99.01 to
Xcel Energy’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended Dec. 31, 2003.

FINANCIAL REVIEW

The following discussion and analysis by management focuses on those factors
that had a material effect on Xcel Energy’s financial condition, results of
operations and cash flows during the periods presented, or are expected to have
a material impact in the future. It should be read in conjunction with the
accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes. All note references
refer to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Summary of Financial Results

The following table summarizes the earnings contributions of Xcel Energy’s
business segments on the basis of generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP). Continuing operations consist of the following:

•

regulated utility subsidiaries, operating in the electric and natural gas segments; and

•

several nonregulated subsidiaries and the holding company, where corporate financing activity occurs.

Discontinued operations consist of the following:

•

the regulated natural gas businesses Viking and BMG, which were sold in 2003;

•

NRG, which emerged from bankruptcy in late 2003, at which time Xcel
Energy divested its ownership interest in NRG; and

•

the nonregulated subsidiaries Xcel Energy International and e
prime, which were classified as held for sale in late 2003 based on the
decision to divest them.

Prior-year financial statements have been restated to conform to the current
year presentation and classification of certain operations as discontinued.
See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a further discussion of
discontinued operations.

Contribution to earnings

(Millions of dollars)




GAAP income (loss) by segment

Regulated electric utility segment income — continuing operations

$

462.5

$

486.8

$

556.0

Regulated natural gas utility segment income — continuing operations

94.9

89.0

63.1

Other utility results (a)

6.6

20.4

18.4

Total utility segment income — continuing operations

564.0

596.2

637.5

Other nonregulated results and holding company costs (a)

(54.0

)

(68.5

)

(58.3

)

Total income — continuing operations

510.0

527.7

579.2

Regulated utility income — discontinued operations

24.3

10.4

6.0

NRG income (loss) — discontinued operations

(251.4

)

(3,444.1

)

195.1

Other nonregulated income — discontinued operations (b)

339.5

688.0

2.8

Total income (loss) — discontinued operations

112.4

(2,745.7

)

203.9

Extraordinary item — net of tax

—

—

11.8

Total GAAP income (loss)

$

622.4

$

(2,218.0

)

$

794.9

Contribution to earnings per share




GAAP earnings per share contribution by segment

Regulated electric utility segment — continuing operations

$

1.10

$

1.27

$

1.62

Regulated natural gas utility segment — continuing operations

0.23

0.23

0.19

Other utility results (a)

0.02

0.05

0.05

Total utility segment earnings per share — continuing operations

1.35

1.55

1.86

Other nonregulated results and holding company costs (a)

(0.12

)

(0.18

)

(0.18

)

Total earnings per share — continuing operations

1.23

1.37

1.68

Regulated utility earnings — discontinued operations

0.06

0.03

0.02

NRG earnings (loss) — discontinued operations

(0.60

)

(8.95

)

0.56

Other nonregulated earnings — discontinued operations (b)

0.81

1.78

0.01

Total earnings (loss) per share — discontinued operations

0.27

(7.14

)

0.59

Extraordinary item

—

—

0.03

Total GAAP earnings (loss) per share — diluted

$

1.50

$

(5.77

)

$

2.30



(a) Not a reportable segment. Included in All Other segment results in Note 20 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(b) Includes tax benefit related to NRG. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

The regulated utility segment contribution to income from continuing operations
was lower in 2003 primarily due to higher operating costs and weather impacts,
as well as share dilution. The increase in income from discontinued operations
in 2003 is largely due to lower NRG-related losses compared with 2002. NRG
recorded more than $3 billion of asset impairment and other charges in 2002 as
it commenced its financial restructuring. Results from discontinued operations
include NRG-related tax benefits in both 2003 and 2002, as discussed in the
Discontinued Operations section later.

Common Stock Dilution

—

Dilution, primarily from common stock and convertible
securities issued in 2002, reduced the utility segment earnings from continuing
operations by 12 cents per share for 2003, compared with average common stock
and equivalent levels in 2002. Total earnings from continuing operations were
reduced by 11 cents per share for 2003, compared with 2002 share
levels. In 2003 and 2002, approximately 418.9 million and
384.6 million average common shares and equivalents,
respectively, were used in the calculation of diluted earnings per
share.

Because the divestiture of NRG has required its reclassification to
discontinued operations in 2003, as discussed later, Xcel Energy is now
reporting income from continuing operations in 2003 and 2002. Under accounting
requirements, the calculation of diluted earnings per share must be changed for
prior periods that reported losses, in which equivalents were previously
considered antidilutive. Accordingly, the average common shares assumed in the
diluted earnings per share amounts for the third and fourth quarters of 2002,
the year 2002 and the first three quarters of 2003 have been recalculated to
assume more share dilution and are different from amounts previously reported
for those periods. See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
further discussion of the calculation of average shares and earnings per share.

Statement of Operations Analysis — Continuing Operations

The following discussion summarizes the items that affected the individual
revenue and expense items reported in the Statement of Operations.

Electric Utility and Commodity Trading Margins

Electric fuel and purchased power expenses tend to vary with changing retail
and wholesale sales requirements and unit cost changes in fuel and purchased
power. Due to fuel cost recovery mechanisms for retail customers in several
states, most fluctuations in energy costs do not materially affect electric
utility margin. The retail fuel clause cost recovery mechanism in Colorado
changed in 2003. For 2002 and 2001, electric utility margins in Colorado
reflect the impact of sharing energy costs and savings between customers and
shareholders relative to a target cost per delivered kilowatt-hour under the
retail incentive cost adjustment (ICA) ratemaking mechanism. For 2003, PSCo is
authorized to fully recover its retail electric fuel and purchased energy
expense through the interim adjustment clause (IAC). In addition to the IAC,
PSCo has other adjustment clauses that allow certain costs to be recovered from
retail customers.

Xcel Energy has two distinct forms of electric wholesale sales: short-term
wholesale and electric commodity trading. Short-term wholesale refers to
electric sales for resale, which are associated with energy produced from Xcel
Energy’s generation assets or energy and capacity purchased to serve native
load. Electric commodity trading refers to the sales for resale activity of
purchasing and reselling electric energy to the wholesale market. Short-term
wholesale and electric trading activities are considered part of the electric
utility segment.

Xcel Energy’s electric commodity trading operations are conducted by
NSP-Minnesota and PSCo. Margins from electric trading activity are partially
redistributed to other operating utilities of Xcel Energy, pursuant to a joint
operating agreement (JOA) approved by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission
(FERC). PSCo’s short-term wholesale and electric trading margins reflect the
impact of regulatory sharing, if applicable, of certain margins with Colorado
retail customers. Trading revenues, as discussed in Note 1 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, are reported net (i.e., on a margin basis) in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. Trading revenue and costs associated
with NRG’s operations are included in discontinued operations. Xcel Energy has
participated in natural gas commodity trading through e prime, which is now
considered a discontinued operation for all periods presented. Consequently,
neither NRG nor e prime trading activity is reflected in the following table.
The following table details the revenue and margin for base electric utility,
short-term wholesale and electric commodity trading activities:



Base

Electric

Electric

Short-Term

Commodity

Consolidated

(Millions of dollars)

Utility

Wholesale

Trading

Totals


Electric utility revenue

$

5,773

$


$

—

$

5,952

Electric fuel and purchased power-utility

(2,592

)

(118

)

—

(2,710

)

Electric trading revenue-gross

—

—



Electric trading costs

—

—

(316

)

(316

)

Gross margin before operating expenses

$

3,181

$


$


$

3,259

Margin as a percentage of revenue

55.1

%

34.1

%

5.1

%

51.9

%


Electric utility revenue

$

5,232

$


$

—

$

5,435

Electric fuel and purchased power-utility

(2,029

)

(170

)

—

(2,199

)

Electric trading revenue-gross

—

—

1,529

1,529

Electric trading costs

—

—

(1,527

)

(1,527

)

Gross margin before operating expenses

$

3,203

$


$


$

3,238

Margin as a percentage of revenue

61.2

%

16.3

%

0.1

%

46.5

%


Electric utility revenue

$

5,607

$


$

—

$

6,395

Electric fuel and purchased power-utility

(2,559

)

(613

)

—

(3,172

)

Electric trading revenue-gross

—

—

1,337

1,337

Electric trading costs

—

—

(1,268

)

(1,268

)

Gross margin before operating expenses

$

3,048

$


$


$

3,292

Margin as a percentage of revenue

54.4

%

22.2

%

5.2

%

42.6

%

The following summarizes the components of the changes in base electric utility
revenue and base electric utility margin for the years ended Dec. 31:

Base Electric Utility Revenue

(Millions of dollars)

2003 vs. 2002

2002 vs. 2001

Sales growth (excluding weather impact)

$


$


Estimated impact of weather

(29

)


Conservation incentive recovery

—

(34

)

Fuel and purchased power cost recovery


(414

)

Air quality improvement recovery (AQIR)


—

Capacity sales


(54

)

Rate reductions and customer refunds

(29

)


Renewable development fund recovery


—

Other


(1

)

Total base electric utility revenue
increase (decrease)

$


$

(375

)

2003 Comparison with 2002

—

Base electric utility revenues increased due to
weather-normalized retail sales growth of approximately 1.5 percent, higher
fuel and purchased power costs, which are largely passed through to customers,
and higher capacity sales in Texas. In addition, the AQIR was implemented in
Colorado in January 2003 for the recovery of investments and related costs to
improve air quality. Partially offsetting the higher revenues was the impact
of warmer temperatures during the summer of 2002 compared with the summer of
2003, as well as 2003 rate reductions related to lower property taxes in
Minnesota and estimated customer refunds related to service quality
requirements in Colorado.

2002 Comparison with 2001

—

Base electric utility revenues decreased due mainly
to lower fuel and purchased power costs, which are largely passed through to
customers, and lower capacity sales in Texas. In addition, 2002 revenues were
lower due to the 2001 allowed recovery of 1998 incentives associated with
state-mandated programs for energy conservation. The amounts were previously
recorded as liabilities potentially due to Minnesota customers. Partially
offsetting the decreases in revenue was weather-normalized retail sales growth
of approximately 1.8 percent, the impact of warmer temperatures during the
summer of 2002 compared with 2001 and lower 2002 estimated customer refunds
related to both service quality requirements in Colorado and property tax
refunds in Minnesota.



Base Electric Utility Margin

(Millions of dollars)

2003 vs. 2002

2002 vs. 2001

Sales growth (excluding weather impact)

$


$


Estimated impact of weather

(23

)


Conservation incentive recovery

—

(34

)

Purchased capacity costs

(50

)

(32

)

Fuel and purchased power cost recovery

(41

)


AQIR


—

Capacity sales


(54

)

Rate reductions and customer refunds

(29

)


Renewable development fund recovery


—

Other



Total base electric utility margin
increase (decrease)

$

(22

)

$


2003 Comparison to 2002

—

Base electric utility margin decreased due mainly to
higher purchased capacity costs associated with new contracts to support
growth, the allowed recovery of fuel and purchased power costs in excess of
actual costs in 2002 under the sharing provisions of the incentive cost
adjustment mechanism in Colorado, compared with passing through costs with no
sharing provisions under the IAC in 2003 and the impact of weather. Also
decreasing margin were 2003 rate reductions related to lower property taxes in
Minnesota and estimated refunds to customers related to service quality
requirements in Colorado. The decreases were partially offset by
weather-normalized sales growth, the implementation of the AQIR and higher
capacity sales, as previously discussed.

2002 Comparison to 2001

—

Base electric utility margin increased due to
weather-normalized retail sales growth, the impact of weather and lower 2002
estimated customer refunds related to both service quality requirements in
Colorado and property tax refunds in Minnesota. In addition, the higher base
electric margins in 2002 reflect lower unrecovered costs, due in part to
resetting the base-energy-cost recovery at PSCo in January 2002. In 2001,
PSCo’s allowed recovery was approximately $78 million less than its actual
costs, while in 2002, its allowed recovery was approximately $29 million more
than its actual costs. Partially offsetting the increased margin was the 2001
conservation incentive recovery discussed previously and higher purchased
capacity costs due to new contracts to support growth and lower capacity sales
in Texas.

Short-Term Wholesale and Electric Commodity Trading Margin

2003 Comparison to 2002

—

Short-term wholesale and electric commodity trading
margins increased approximately $43 million in 2003 compared with 2002. The
increase reflects more favorable market conditions in the northern regions.

2002 Comparison to 2001

—

Short-term wholesale and electric commodity trading
sales margins decreased an aggregate of approximately $209 million in 2002,
compared with 2001. The decrease in short-term wholesale and electric commodity
trading margin reflects less favorable market conditions in the western
regions.

Natural Gas Utility Margins

The following table details the changes in natural gas utility revenue and
margin. The cost of natural gas tends to vary with changing sales requirements
and the unit cost of wholesale natural gas purchases. However, due to purchased
natural gas cost recovery mechanisms for sales to retail customers,
fluctuations in the wholesale cost of natural gas have little effect on natural
gas margin.

(Millions of dollars)




Natural gas utility revenue

$

1,710

$

1,363

$

2,023

Cost of natural gas purchased and
transported

(1,208

)

(853

)

(1,521

)

Natural gas utility margin

$


$


$




The following summarizes the components of the changes in natural gas revenue
and margin for the years ended Dec. 31:

Natural Gas Revenue

(Millions of dollars)

2003 vs. 2002

2002 vs. 2001

Sales growth (excluding weather impact)

$


$

—

Estimated impact of weather on firm sales volume

—


Purchased natural gas adjustment clause recovery


(675

)

Rate changes — Colorado

(14

)

—

Transportation and other

(2

)

(7

)

Total natural gas revenue increase (decrease)

$


$

(660

)

2003 Comparison to 2002

—

Natural gas revenue increased mainly due to higher
natural gas costs in 2003, which are passed through to customers.

2002 Comparison to 2001

—

Natural gas revenue decreased mainly due to lower
natural gas costs in 2002, which are passed through to customers.

Natural Gas Margin

(Millions of dollars)

2003 vs. 2002

2002 vs. 2001

Sales growth (excluding weather impact)

$


$

—

Estimated impact of weather on firm sales volume

(4

)


Rate changes — Colorado

(14

)

—

Transportation and other


(10

)

Total natural gas margin increase (decrease)

$

(8

)

$


2003 Comparison to 2002

—

Natural gas margin decreased due to base rate
decreases agreed to in the settlement of the PSCo 2002 general rate case and
the impact of warmer winter temperatures in 2003 compared with 2002. The rate
case settlement agreement is discussed further under Factors Affecting Results
of Continuing Operations. Partially offsetting the rate decrease was
weather-normalized sales growth of 1.6 percent.

2002 Comparison to 2001

—

Natural gas margin increased due mainly to the impact
of colder winter temperatures in 2002 compared with 2001.

Weather —

Xcel Energy’s earnings can be significantly affected by weather.
Unseasonably hot summers or cold winters increase electric and natural gas
sales, but also can increase expenses. Unseasonably mild weather reduces
electric and natural gas sales, but may not reduce expenses, which affects
overall results. The impact of weather on earnings is based on the number of
customers, temperature variances and the amount of gas or electricity the
average customer historically has used per degree of temperature.

The following summarizes the estimated impact on the earnings of the utility
subsidiaries of Xcel Energy due to temperature variations from historical
averages:

•

weather in 2003 had minimal impact on earnings per share;

•

weather in 2002 increased earnings by an estimated 6 cents per share; and

•

weather in 2001 had minimal impact on earnings per share.

Nonregulated Operating Margins

The following table details the changes in nonregulated revenue and margin
included in continuing operations:

(Millions of dollars)




Nonregulated and other revenue

$


$


$


Nonregulated cost of goods sold

(157

)

(133

)

(128

)

Nonregulated margin

$


$


$




2003 Comparison to 2002

—

Nonregulated revenue increased in 2003, due mainly to
increasing customer levels in Seren’s communication business. Nonregulated
margin decreased in 2003, due to higher cost of goods sold at a subsidiary of
Utility Engineering offsetting the revenue increases at Seren.

2002 Comparison to 2001

—

Nonregulated margin decreased in 2002 compared to
2001, due to higher cost of goods sold at a subsidiary of Utility Engineering.

Non-Fuel Operating Expense and Other Items

Other Utility Operating and Maintenance Expense

—

Other utility operating and
maintenance expense for 2003 increased by approximately $91 million, or 6.1
percent, compared with 2002. The increase is due primarily to higher employee
related costs, including higher performance-based compensation of $36 million,
restricted stock unit grants of $29 million, lower pension credits of $19
million and higher medical and health care costs of $9 million. In 2002 there
were no restricted stock unit grants and only a partial award of
performance-based compensation. In addition, other utility operating and
maintenance expense for 2003 reflects inventory write-downs of $8 million,
higher uncollectible accounts receivable of $3 million, higher reliability
expenses of $6 million and a software project write-off of $2 million. The
increase was partially offset by lower information technology costs resulting
from centralization.

Other utility operating and maintenance expense for 2002 decreased by
approximately $3 million, or 0.2 percent, compared with 2001. The decreased
costs reflect lower incentive compensation and other employee benefit costs of
$20 million, as well as lower staffing levels in the corporate areas of
approximately $11 million due to completion of the corporate merger synergy
plans in late 2001. These decreases were substantially offset by higher costs
associated with plant outages of $11 million due to planned outages at multiple
plants and higher property insurance costs of $9 million due to unfavorable
market conditions in 2002, in addition to inflationary factors such as market
wage increases and general market inflation.

Other Nonregulated Operating and Maintenance Expense

—

Other nonregulated
operating and maintenance expenses decreased $8 million, or 7.7 percent, in
2003 compared with 2002. Other nonregulated operating and maintenance expenses
in 2002 increased $20 million, or 22.8 percent, compared with 2001. The 2002
expenses included employee severance costs at the holding company. These
expenses are included in the results for each nonregulated subsidiary, as
discussed later.

Depreciation and Amortization Expense

—

Depreciation and amortization expense
decreased by approximately $15 million, or 2.0 percent, for 2003, compared with
2002. This decrease reflects the impacts of nuclear plant life extensions at
Prairie Island and certain depreciation rate changes in Colorado, partially
offset by increasing depreciation related to plant additions. The increase in
depreciation and amortization in 2002 compared with 2001 is also due to the
impacts of plant additions.

In December 2003, the Minnesota Public Utilities Commission (MPUC) extended the
authorized useful lives of the two NSP-Minnesota generating units at the
Prairie Island nuclear plant until 2013 and 2014, respectively. The recovery
was effective Jan. 1, 2003, and the net effect on depreciation and
amortization, partially offset by revisions to nuclear decommissioning accrual,
was a $22 million decrease in depreciation expense. In addition, effective
July 1, 2003, the Colorado Public Utilities Commission (CPUC) lengthened the
depreciable lives of certain electric utility plant at PSCo as a part of the
general Colorado rate case, which will reduce annual depreciation expense by
$20 million and reduced 2003 depreciation expense by approximately $10 million.

Special Charges

—

Special charges reported in 2003 relate to the TRANSLink
project and NRG restructuring costs. Special charges for 2002 include NRG
restructuring costs, as discussed later, but are largely related to regulated
utility costs as discussed in the following paragraph. All 2001 special
charges relate to utility costs. See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for further discussion of these items.

Regulated utility earnings from continuing operations were reduced by
approximately 2 cents per share in 2002 due to a $5 million regulatory recovery
adjustment for SPS and $9 million in employee separation costs associated with
a restaffing initiative for utility and service company operations. Regulated
utility earnings from continuing operations in 2001 were lower by 4 cents per
share due to a Colorado Supreme Court decision that resulted in a pretax
write-off of $23 million of a regulatory asset related to deferred
post-employment benefit costs at PSCo. Also, regulated utility earnings from
continuing operations were reduced by approximately 7 cents per share in 2001
due to $39 million of employee separation costs associated with a restaffing
initiative late in the year for utility and service company operations.



Interest and Other Income, Net of Nonoperating Expenses

—

Interest and other
income, net of nonoperating expenses decreased $9 million in 2003 compared with
2002. Interest income decreased $13 million in 2003 compared with 2002
primarily due to interest received on tax refunds in 2002. Other income
decreased $11 million primarily due to a gain on the sale of contracts at
Planergy in 2002. Partially offsetting these decreases was an increase in
allowance for funds used during construction resulting from lower levels of
short-term debt used to finance utility construction.

Interest and other income, net of nonoperating expenses increased $14 million
from 2002 compared with 2001. Interest income increased by $8 million
primarily due to interest received on tax refunds in 2002. Other income
increased by $13 million, primarily due to a gain on the sale of contracts at
Planergy in 2002. Partially offsetting these increases was a decrease in the
gain on disposal of assets of $5 million due to a gain recorded in 2001 by
PSCo.

Interest and Financing
Costs

—

Interest and financing costs increased
approximately $30 million, or 7.1 percent, for 2003 compared with 2002. This
increase was due to the full-year impact of the issuance of long-term debt in
the latter part of 2002 intended to reduce dependence on short-term debt. In
addition, during the fourth quarter of 2002, Xcel Energy incurred approximately
$15 million to redeem temporary holding company debt. During 2003, Xcel Energy
issued approximately $1.7 billion of long-term debt to refinance higher coupon
debt. These actions are expected to reduce 2004 interest costs by
approximately $15 million compared with 2003 levels.

Interest and financing costs increased $56 million, or 15.3 percent, in 2002
compared with 2001. During 2002, certain long-term debt was refinanced at
higher interest rates. Additionally, certain redemption costs were incurred,
as noted previously.

Income Tax Expense

—

Income tax expense decreased by approximately $77 million
in 2003, compared with a decrease of $69 million in 2002. The effective tax
rate for 2003 was 23.7 percent, compared with 30.9 percent in 2002. The
decrease in the effective rate in 2003 was due largely to approximately $36
million of tax adjustments recorded mainly in the fourth quarter of 2003 to
reflect the successful resolution of various outstanding tax issues related to
prior years. The tax issues resolved during 2003 included the tax
deductibility of certain merger costs associated with the merger to form Xcel
Energy and NCE and the deductibility, for state purposes, of certain tax
benefit transfer lease benefits. Tax expense also decreased in 2003 due to
lower income levels in 2003. The decrease in 2002 was primarily due to
increased tax credits and lower pretax income in 2002. See Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Other Nonregulated Subsidiaries and Holding Company Results

The following tables summarize the net income and earnings per share
contributions of the continuing operations of Xcel Energy’s nonregulated
businesses and holding company results:

Contribution to Xcel
Energy’s

(Millions of dollars)

earnings




Eloigne Company

$

7.7

$

8.0

$

8.7

Seren Innovations

(18.4

)

(27.0

)

(26.8

)

Planergy

(7.7

)

(1.7

)

(12.0

)

Financing costs — holding company

(44.1

)

(47.4

)

(34.0

)

Special charges — holding company

(11.2

)

(2.9

)

—

Other nonregulated and holding company results

19.7

2.5

5.8

Total
nonregulated/holding company earnings (loss) — continuing operations

$

(54.0

)

$

(68.5

)

$

(58.3

)

Contribution to Xcel
Energy’s

earnings per share




Eloigne Company

$

0.02

$

0.02

$

0.03

Seren Innovations

(0.04

)

(0.07

)

(0.08

)

Planergy

(0.02

)

—

(0.04

)

Financing costs and preferred dividends — holding company

(0.09

)

(0.13

)

(0.11

)

Special charges — holding company

(0.03

)

(0.01

)

—

Other nonregulated and holding company results

0.04

0.01

0.02

Total nonregulated/holding company earnings (loss) per
share — continuing operations

$

(0.12

)

$

(0.18

)

$

(0.18

)



Eloigne Company —

Eloigne invests in affordable housing that qualifies for
Internal Revenue Service tax credits. Eloigne’s earnings contribution declined
slightly in 2003 and 2002 as tax credits on mature affordable housing projects
began to decline.

Seren Innovations —

Seren operates a combination cable television, telephone
and high-speed Internet access system in St. Cloud, Minn., and Contra Costa
County, Calif. Operation of its broadband communications network has resulted
in losses. Seren has completed its build-out phase and has been experiencing
improvement in its operating results. Neutral cash flow is expected in 2004
and positive cash flow is projected for 2005. A positive earnings contribution
is anticipated in 2007, assuming customer addition goals are met.

Planergy

—

Planergy provides energy management services. Planergy’s losses
were lower in 2002 largely due to pretax gains of approximately $8 million from
the sale of a portfolio of energy management contracts, which reduced losses by
approximately 2 cents per share.

Financing Costs and Preferred Dividends —

Nonregulated results include interest
expense and the earnings-per-share impact of preferred dividends, which are
incurred at the Xcel Energy and intermediate holding company levels, and are
not directly assigned to individual subsidiaries.

In November 2002, the Xcel Energy holding company issued temporary financing,
which included detachable options for the purchase of Xcel Energy notes, which
are convertible to Xcel Energy common stock. This temporary financing was
replaced with long-term holding company financing in late November 2002. Costs
incurred to redeem the temporary financing included a redemption premium of
$7.4 million, $5.2 million of debt discount associated with the detachable
option, and other issuance costs, which increased financing costs and reduced
2002 earnings by 2 cents per share.

Financing costs and preferred dividends per share for 2003 included above
reflect the impact of dilutive securities, as discussed further in Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. The impact of the dilutive securities,
if converted, is a reduction of interest expense of approximately $11 million,
or 3 cents per share.

Holding Company Special Charges —

During 2002, NRG experienced credit-rating
downgrades, defaults under certain credit agreements, increased collateral
requirements and reduced liquidity. These events ultimately led to the
restructuring of NRG in late 2002 and its bankruptcy filing in May 2003. See
Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Certain costs related to
NRG’s restructuring were incurred at the holding company level and included in
continuing operations and reported as Special Charges. Approximately $12
million of these costs were incurred in 2003 and $5 million were incurred in
2002, which reduced after-tax earnings by approximately 2 cents per share and 1
cent per share, respectively. Costs in 2003 included approximately $32 million
of financial advisor fees, legal costs and consulting costs related to the NRG
bankruptcy transaction. These charges were partially offset by a $20 million
pension curtailment gain related to the termination of NRG employees from Xcel
Energy’s pension plan. In 2003, Xcel Energy also recorded a $7 million charge
in connection with the suspension of the formation of the independent
transmission company TRANSLink Transmission Co., LLC (TRANSLink). See Note 2
to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of these
special charges.

Other Nonregulated

—

In 2003, Utility Engineering sold water rights, resulting
in a pretax gain (reported as nonoperating income) of $15 million. The gain
increased after-tax income by approximately 2 cents per share.



Statement of Operations Analysis — Discontinued Operations

A summary of the various components of discontinued operations is as follows
for the years ended Dec. 31:

Regulated Natural Gas Utility Results — Discontinued Operations

During 2003, Xcel Energy completed the sale of two subsidiaries in its
regulated natural gas utility segment: Viking, including its interest in
Guardian Pipeline, LLC, and BMG. After-tax disposal gains of $23.3 million, or
6 cents per share, were recorded for the natural gas utility segment, primarily
related to the sale of Viking.

Viking had minimal income in 2003, as it was sold in January of that year.
Income from Viking was higher in 2002 compared with 2001 primarily due to
increased revenues.

NRG Results — Discontinued Operations

Due to NRG’s emergence from bankruptcy in December 2003 and Xcel Energy’s
corresponding divestiture of its ownership interest in NRG, Xcel Energy’s share
of NRG results for current and prior periods is now shown as a component of
discontinued operations.

2003 NRG Results
Compared with 2002

—

As a result of NRG’s bankruptcy filing in
May 2003, Xcel Energy ceased the consolidation of NRG and began accounting for
its investment in NRG using the equity method in accordance with Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 18 — “The Equity Method of Accounting for
Investments in Common Stock.” After changing to the equity method, Xcel Energy
was limited in the amount of NRG’s losses subsequent to the bankruptcy date
that it was required to record. In accordance with these limitations under the
equity method, Xcel Energy stopped recognizing equity in the losses of NRG
subsequent to the quarter ended June 30, 2003. These limitations provided for
loss recognition by Xcel Energy until its investment in NRG was written off to
zero, with further loss recognition to continue if its financial commitments to
NRG exist beyond amounts already invested. Xcel Energy initially recorded more
losses than the limitations allow as of June 30, 2003, but upon Xcel Energy’s
divestiture of its interest in NRG, the NRG losses recorded in excess of Xcel
Energy’s investment in and financial commitment to NRG were reversed in the
fourth quarter of 2003. This resulted in a noncash gain of $111 million, or 26
cents per share, for the quarter and an adjustment of the total NRG losses
recorded for the year 2003 to $251 million, or 60 cents per share.



NRG’s results included in Xcel Energy’s earnings for 2003 were as follows:

Six months ended

(Millions of dollars)

June 30, 2003

Total NRG loss

$

(621

)

Losses not recorded by Xcel Energy under the equity method*


Equity in losses of NRG included in Xcel Energy results for 2003

$

(251

)

*

These represent NRG losses incurred in the first and second quarters
of 2003 that were in excess of the amounts recordable by Xcel Energy under
the equity method of accounting limitations discussed previously.

Following its credit downgrade in July 2002, NRG experienced credit and
liquidity constraints and commenced a financial and business restructuring,
including a voluntary petition for bankruptcy protection. This restructuring
created significant incremental costs and resulted in numerous asset
impairments as the strategic and economic value of assets under development and
in operation changed.

NRG’s asset impairments and related charges in 2003 include approximately $40
million in first-quarter charges related to NRG’s NEO landfill gas projects and
equity investments, and approximately $500 million was recorded in the second
quarter. The impairment and related charges in the second quarter of 2003
resulted from planned disposals of the Loy Yang project in Australia and the
McClain and Brazos Valley projects in the United States, and regulatory
developments and changing circumstances throughout the second quarter that
adversely affected NRG’s ability to recover the carrying value of certain
Connecticut merchant generation units. As of the bankruptcy filing date (May
14, 2003), Xcel Energy had recognized $263 million of NRG’s impairments and
related charges for the Connecticut facilities and Brazos Valley as these
charges were recorded by NRG prior to May 14, 2003. Consequently, Xcel Energy
recorded its equity in NRG results for the second quarter (including these
impairments) in excess of its financial commitment to NRG under the settlement
agreement reached in March 2003 among Xcel Energy, NRG and NRG’s creditors.
These excess losses were reversed upon NRG’s emergence from bankruptcy in
December 2003, as discussed previously.

In 2003, NRG’s operating results (excluding the unusual items discussed above)
were affected by higher market prices due to higher natural gas prices and an
increase in capacity revenues due to additional projects becoming operational
in the later part of 2002. In addition, the sale of an NRG investment in 2002
resulted in a favorable impact in 2003 as the investment generated substantial
equity losses in the prior years. The increase was offset by losses incurred on
contracts in Connecticut due to increased market prices, increased operating
expenses, contract terminations and liquidated damages triggered by NRG’s
financial condition and additional restructuring charges.

During 2002, the tax filing status of NRG for 2002 and future years changed
from being included as part of Xcel Energy’s consolidated federal income tax
group to filing on a stand-alone basis. On a stand-alone basis, NRG did not
have the ability to recognize all tax benefits that may ultimately accrue from
its 2003 operating losses and is currently in a net operating loss carry
forward position for tax purposes. Accordingly, NRG’s results for 2003 include
no material tax effects.

2002 NRG Results Compared with 2001

—

NRG losses in 2002 were $3.4 billion, or
$8.95 per share, due primarily to asset impairment charges and estimated
disposal losses of more than $3 billion and other charges recorded in the third
and fourth quarters of 2002 related to NRG’s financial restructuring. Also,
NRG recorded other incremental costs related to its financial restructuring and
business realignment.

During 2002, NRG’s operations, excluding impacts of asset impairments and
disposals and restructuring costs, experienced significant losses compared with
2001. The 2002 losses are primarily attributable to NRG’s North American
operations, which experienced significant reductions in domestic energy and
capacity sales and an overall decrease in power pool prices and related spark
spreads. In addition, increased administrative costs, depreciation and
interest expense from completed construction contributed to the
less-than-favorable results for NRG in 2002.

As discussed previously, on a stand-alone basis, NRG did not have the ability
to recognize all tax benefits that may ultimately accrue from its losses
incurred in 2002, thus increasing the overall loss from continuing operations.
In addition to losing the ability to recognize all tax benefits for operating
losses, NRG in 2002 also lost the ability to utilize tax credits generated by
its energy projects. These lower tax credits account for a portion of the
decreased earnings contribution of NRG compared with results in 2001, which
included income related to recognition of tax credits.



See Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion of the 2003 change in accounting for NRG, Xcel Energy’s limitation
for recognizing NRG’s losses due to its bankruptcy filing and further
discussion of NRG’s results included in discontinued operations, including
asset impairment charges.

Other Nonregulated Results — Discontinued Operations

During 2003, the board of directors of Xcel Energy approved management’s plan
to exit the businesses conducted by its nonregulated subsidiaries, Xcel Energy
International and e prime. Xcel Energy is in the process of marketing the
assets and operations of these businesses to prospective buyers and expects to
exit the businesses during 2004.

2003 Nonregulated Results Compared with 2002 —

Results of discontinued
nonregulated operations, other than NRG, include an after-tax loss of $59
million, or 14 cents per share, expected on the disposal of Xcel Energy
International’s assets, based on the estimated fair value of such assets. Xcel
Energy’s remaining investment in Xcel Energy International at Dec. 31, 2003,
was approximately $39 million. These losses from discontinued nonregulated
operations also include a charge of $16 million for costs of settling a
Commodity Futures Trading Commission trading investigation of e prime.

2002 Nonregulated Results Compared with 2001

—

Nonregulated and holding company
earnings for 2002 were reduced by impairment losses recorded by Xcel Energy
International for Argentina assets and disposal losses for Yorkshire Power. In
2002, Xcel Energy International decided it would no longer fund one of its
power projects in Argentina. This decision resulted in the shutdown of the
Argentina plant facility, pending financing of a necessary maintenance outage.
Updated cash flow projections for the plant were insufficient to provide
recovery of Xcel Energy International’s investment. The write-down for this
Argentina facility was approximately $13 million, or 3 cents per share.

In August 2002, Xcel Energy announced it had sold Xcel Energy International’s
5.25-percent interest in Yorkshire Power Group Limited for $33 million to CE
Electric UK. Xcel Energy International and American Electric Power Co. each
held a 50-percent interest in Yorkshire, a UK retail electricity and natural
gas supplier and electricity distributor, before selling 94.75 percent of
Yorkshire to Innogy Holdings plc in April 2001. The sale of the 5.25-percent
interest resulted in an after-tax loss of $8.3 million, or 2 cents per share,
in the third quarter of 2002.

Tax Benefits Related to Investment in NRG —

With NRG’s emergence from
bankruptcy in December 2003, Xcel Energy has divested its ownership interest in
NRG and plans to take a loss deduction in 2003. These benefits, since related
to Xcel Energy’s investment in discontinued NRG operations, are also reported
as discontinued operations. During 2002, Xcel Energy recognized an initial
estimate of the expected tax benefits of $706 million. This benefit was based
on the estimated tax basis of Xcel Energy’s cash and stock investments already
made in NRG, and their deductibility for federal income tax purposes.

Based on the results of a 2003 study, Xcel Energy recorded $105 million of
additional tax benefits in the third quarter of 2003, reflecting an updated
estimate of the tax basis of Xcel Energy’s investments in NRG and state tax
deductibility. Upon NRG’s emergence from bankruptcy, an additional $288
million of tax benefit was recorded in the fourth quarter of 2003 to reflect
the deductibility of expected settlement payments of $752 million,
uncollectible receivables from NRG, other state tax benefits and further
adjustments to the estimated tax basis in NRG. Another $11 million of state
tax benefits were accrued earlier in 2003 based on projected impacts.

Based on current forecasts of taxable income and tax liabilities, Xcel Energy
expects to realize approximately $1.1 billion of cash savings from these tax
benefits through a refund of taxes paid in prior years and reduced taxes
payable in future years. Xcel Energy used $130 million of these tax benefits
in 2003 and expects to use $480 million in 2004. The remainder of the tax
benefit carry forward is expected to be used over subsequent years.

Extraordinary Item — Electric Utility Restructuring

In 2001, SPS recorded extraordinary income of $18 million before tax, or 3
cents per share, related to the regulated utility business to reflect the
impacts of industry restructuring developments for SPS. This represented a
reversal of a portion of an extraordinary loss recorded in 2000 related to
industry restructuring. For more information on this 2001 extraordinary item,
see Note 14 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Factors Affecting Results of Continuing Operations

Xcel Energy’s utility revenues depend on customer usage, which varies with
weather conditions, general business conditions and the cost of energy
services. Various regulatory agencies approve the prices for electric and
natural gas service within their respective jurisdictions and affect our
ability to recover our costs from customers. In addition, Xcel Energy’s
nonregulated businesses have had an adverse impact on Xcel Energy’s earnings in
2003 and 2002. The historical and future trends of Xcel Energy’s operating
results have been, and are expected to be, affected by a number of factors,
including the following:

General Economic Conditions

Economic conditions may have a material impact on Xcel Energy’s operating
results. The United States economy is showing recent signs of recovery as
measured by growth in the gross domestic product. However, certain operating
costs, such as insurance and security, have increased due to economic
uncertainty, terrorist activity and war or the threat of war. Management cannot
predict the impact of a future economic slowdown, fluctuating energy prices,
war or the threat of war. However, Xcel Energy could experience a material
adverse impact to its results of operations, future growth or ability to raise
capital from a stalled economic recovery.

Sales Growth

In addition to the impact of weather, customer sales levels in Xcel Energy’s
regulated utility businesses can vary with economic conditions, customer usage
patterns and other factors. Weather-normalized sales growth for retail electric
utility customers was estimated to be 1.5 percent in 2003 compared with 2002,
and 1.8 percent in 2002 compared with 2001. Weather-normalized sales growth for
firm gas utility customers was estimated to be approximately 1.6 percent in
2003 compared with 2002, and relatively flat in 2002 compared with 2001.
Projections indicate that weather-normalized sales growth in 2004 compared with
2003 will be approximately 2.2 percent for retail electric utility customers
and 2.4 percent for firm gas utility customers.

Utility Industry Changes

The structure of the electric and natural gas utility industry has been subject
to change. Merger and acquisition activity in the past has been significant as
utilities combined to capture economies of scale or establish a strategic niche
in preparing for the future, although such activity slowed substantially after
2001. All utilities were required to provide nondiscriminatory access to the
use of their transmission systems in 1996. In addition, the FERC issued a
series of regulatory orders in 2003. These orders, among other things,
standardized the methods and pricing of power generation interconnections,
established new standards of conduct rules for transmission providers and new
code of conduct rules for utilities with market-based rate authority. Xcel
Energy has not yet estimated the full impact of the new FERC regulatory orders,
but it could be material.

Some states had begun to allow retail customers to choose their electricity
supplier, while other states have delayed or canceled industry restructuring.
There were no significant retail electric or natural gas restructuring efforts
in the states served by Xcel Energy in 2003.

Xcel Energy cannot predict the outcome of restructuring proceedings in the
electric utility jurisdictions it serves at this time. The resolution of these
matters may have a significant impact on the financial position, results of
operations and cash flows of Xcel Energy.

Pension Plan Costs and Assumptions

Xcel Energy’s pension costs are based on an actuarial calculation that includes
a number of key assumptions, most notably the annual return level that pension
investment assets will earn in the future and the interest rate used to
discount future pension benefit payments to a present value obligation for
financial reporting. In addition, the actuarial calculation uses an
asset-smoothing methodology to reduce the volatility of varying investment
performance over time. Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements
discusses the rate of return and discount rate used in the calculation of
pension costs and obligations in the accompanying financial statements.

Pension costs have been increasing in recent years, and are expected to
increase further over the next several years, due to lower-than-expected
investment returns experienced in 2000, 2001 and 2002 and decreases in interest
rates used to discount benefit obligations. While investment returns exceeded
the assumed level of 9.25 percent in 2003, investment returns in 2001 and 2002
were below the assumed level of 9.5 percent and discount rates have declined
from the 7.25-percent to 8-percent levels used in 1999 through 2002 cost
determinations to 6.75 percent used in 2003. Xcel Energy continually reviews
its pension assumptions and, in 2004, expects to change the investment return
assumption to 9.0 percent and the discount rate assumption to 6.25 percent.



The investment gains or losses resulting from the difference between the
expected pension returns assumed on smoothed or “market-related” asset levels
and actual returns earned is deferred in the year the difference arises and
recognized over the subsequent five-year period. This gain or loss recognition
occurs by using a five-year, moving-average value of pension assets to measure
expected asset returns in the cost determination process, and by amortizing
deferred investment gains or losses over the subsequent five-year period.
Based on the use of average market-related asset values, and considering the
expected recognition of past investment gains and losses over the next five
years, achieving the assumed rate of asset return of 9.0 percent in each future
year and holding other assumptions constant, Xcel Energy currently projects
that the pension costs recognized for financial reporting purposes in
continuing operations will increase from a credit, or negative expense, of $51
million in 2003 to a credit of $25 million in 2004 and zero in 2005. Pension
costs are currently a credit due to the recognized investment asset returns
exceeding the other pension cost components, such as benefits earned for
current service and interest costs for the effects of the passage of time on
discounted obligations.

Xcel Energy bases its discount rate assumption on benchmark interest rates
quoted by an established credit rating agency, Moody’s Investors Service
(Moody’s), and has consistently benchmarked the interest rate used to derive
the discount rate to the movements in the long-term corporate bond indices for
bonds rated Aaa through Baa by Moody’s, which have a period to maturity
comparable to our projected benefit obligations. At Dec. 31, 2003, the
annualized Moody’s Aa index rate, roughly in the middle of the Aaa and Baa
range, declined by about 0.5 percent from the prior year end, which resulted in
a corresponding decrease from 6.75 percent at year-end 2002 to a 6.25-percent
pension discount rate at year-end 2003. This rate was used to value the
actuarial benefit obligations at that date, and will be used in 2004 pension
cost determinations.

If Xcel Energy were to use alternative assumptions for pension cost
determinations, a 1-percent change would result in the following impacts on the
estimated pension costs recognized by Xcel Energy for financial reporting
purposes:

•

a 100 basis point higher rate of return, 10.0 percent, would decrease 2004 pension costs by $18.4 million;

•

a 100 basis point lower rate of return, 8.0 percent, would increase 2004 pension costs by $18.4 million;

•

a 100 basis point higher discount rate, 7.25 percent, would decrease 2004 pension costs by $9.5 million; and

•

a 100 basis point lower discount rate, 5.25 percent, would increase 2004 pension costs by
$8.8 million.

Alternative Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (ERISA) funding assumptions
would also change the expected future cash funding requirements for the pension
plans. Cash funding requirements can be affected by changes to actuarial
assumptions, actual asset levels and other calculations prescribed by the
funding requirements of income tax and other pension-related regulations.
These regulations did not require cash funding in recent years for Xcel
Energy’s pension plans, and do not require funding in 2004. Assuming that
future asset return levels equal the actuarial assumption of 9.0 percent for
the years 2004 and 2005, Xcel Energy projects, under current funding
regulations, that cash funding would be required in the amount of approximately
$0 million for 2005 and $15 million for 2006. Actual performance can affect
these funding requirements significantly. Current funding regulations were
under legislative review in 2004 and, if not retained in their current form,
could change these funding requirements materially. To begin meeting these
projected funding requirements, PSCo elected to make a voluntary contribution
of $30 million to its pension plan for bargaining employees in 2003, and it
plans to voluntarily contribute another $10 million to the plan in 2004.

Regulation

Xcel Energy, its utility subsidiaries and certain of its nonutility
subsidiaries are subject to extensive regulation by the SEC under the PUHCA
with respect to issuances and sales of securities, acquisitions and sales of
certain utility properties and intra-system sales of certain goods and
services. In addition, the PUHCA generally limits the ability of registered
holding companies to acquire additional public utility systems and to acquire
and retain businesses unrelated to the utility operations of the holding
company. See further discussion of financing restrictions under Liquidity and
Capital Resources.

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries also are regulated by the FERC and state
regulatory commissions. Decisions by these regulators can significantly impact
Xcel Energy’s results of operations. Xcel Energy expects to periodically file
for rate changes based on changing energy market and general economic
conditions.

The electric and natural gas rates charged to customers of Xcel Energy’s
utility subsidiaries are approved by the FERC and the regulatory commissions in
the states in which they operate. The rates are generally designed to recover
plant investment, operating costs and an allowed return on investment. Xcel
Energy requests changes in rates for utility services through filings with the
governing commissions. Because comprehensive rate changes are requested
infrequently in some states, changes in operating costs can affect Xcel
Energy’s financial results. In addition to changes in operating costs, other
factors affecting rate filings are sales growth, conservation and demand-side
management efforts and the cost of capital.



Most of the retail rates for Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries provide for
periodic adjustments to billings and revenues to allow for recovery of changes
in the cost of fuel for electric generation, purchased energy, purchased
natural gas and, in Minnesota and Colorado, conservation and energy-management program costs. In Minnesota and
Colorado, changes in purchased electric capacity costs are not recovered
through these rate-adjustment mechanisms. For Wisconsin electric operations,
where automatic cost-of-energy adjustment clauses are not allowed, the biennial
retail rate review process and an interim fuel-cost hearing process provide the
opportunity for rate recovery of changes in electric fuel and purchased energy
costs in lieu of a cost-of-energy adjustment clause. In Colorado, PSCo has an
interim adjustment clause that allows for recovery of all prudently incurred
electric fuel and purchased energy expenses in 2003. In 2004, PSCo generally
is expected to recover all prudently incurred electric fuel and purchased
energy costs through an electric commodity adjustment clause. Additionally,
this fuel mechanism also has in place a sharing among customers and
shareholders of certain fuel and energy costs, with an $11.25 million maximum
on any cost sharing over or under an allowed electric commodity adjustment
formula rate, and a sharing among shareholders and customers of certain gains
and losses on trading margins.

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries make substantial investments in plant
additions to build and upgrade power plants, and expand and maintain the
reliability of the energy distribution system. In addition to filing for
increases in base rates charged to customers to recover the costs associated
with such investments, in 2003 approval was obtained from Colorado and
Minnesota regulators to recover, through a rate surcharge, certain costs to
upgrade plants and lower emissions in the Denver and Minneapolis-St. Paul
metropolitan areas. These rate recovery mechanisms are expected to provide
significant cash flows to enable recovery of costs incurred on a timely basis.

Regulated public utilities are allowed to record as regulatory assets certain
costs that are expected to be recovered from customers in future periods and to
record as regulatory liabilities certain income items that are expected to be
refunded to customers in future periods. In contrast, nonregulated enterprises
would expense these costs and recognize the income in the current period. If
restructuring or other changes in the regulatory environment occur, Xcel Energy
may no longer be eligible to apply this accounting treatment, and may be
required to eliminate such regulatory assets and liabilities from its balance
sheet. Such changes could have a material effect on Xcel Energy’s results of
operations in the period the write-off is recorded.

At Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy reported on its balance sheet regulatory assets
of approximately $572 million and regulatory liabilities of approximately $1.2
billion that would be recognized in the statement of operations in the absence
of regulation. In addition to a potential write-off of regulatory assets and
liabilities, restructuring and competition may require recognition of certain
stranded costs not recoverable under market pricing. See Notes 1 and 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of regulatory
deferrals.

PSCo 2002 General Rate Case

—

In May 2002, PSCo filed a combined general retail
electric, natural gas and thermal energy base rate case with the CPUC as
required in the merger approval agreement with the CPUC to form Xcel Energy. On
April 4, 2003, a comprehensive settlement agreement was reached, which
addressed all significant issues in the rate case. In mid-2003, the CPUC
approved the final settlement, which provided for:

•

a decrease in annual base rates of approximately $33 million for
natural gas and $230,000 for electricity, including an annual reduction
to electric depreciation expense of approximately $20 million,
effective July 1, 2003;

•

an interim adjustment clause (IAC) that fully recovers prudently
incurred 2003 electric fuel and purchased energy expense above the
expense recovered through electric base rates during 2003;

•

a new electric commodity adjustment clause (ECA) for 2004-2006,
with an $11.25-million cap on any cost sharing over or under an allowed
ECA formula rate; and

•

an authorized return on equity of 10.75 percent for electric
operations and 11.0 percent for natural gas and thermal energy
operations.

PSCo Performance-Based
Regulatory Plan (PBRP)

—

The CPUC established an
electric PBRP under which PSCo operates. The major components of this
regulatory plan include:

•

an annual electric earnings test with the sharing between customers and shareholders of earnings in excess of the following limits:

•

all earnings above an 11-percent return on equity for 2001 and a 10.50-percent return on equity for 2002;

•

no earnings sharing for 2003 as PSCo established new rates in its general rate case; and

•

an annual electric earnings test with the sharing of earnings in
excess of the return on equity for electric operations of 10.75 percent
for 2004 through 2006;



•

an electric quality of service plan (QSP) that provides for bill
credits to customers if PSCo does not achieve certain performance
targets relating to electric reliability and customer service through
2006; and

•

a natural gas QSP that provides for bill credits to customers if PSCo
does not achieve certain performance targets relating to natural gas
leak repair time and customer service through 2007.

PSCo regularly monitors and records as necessary an estimated customer refund
obligation under the PBRP. In April of each year following the measurement
period, PSCo files its proposed rate adjustment under the PBRP. The CPUC
conducts proceedings to review and approve these rate adjustments annually.

•

In 2001, PSCo did not earn a return on equity in excess of 11 percent
and met the electric and gas QSP benchmarks. The CPUC has accepted the
QSP components of the PBRP filing and approved the earnings test.

•

In 2002, PSCo did not earn a return on equity in excess of 10.5
percent, so no refund liability has been recorded. Both electric and
gas QSP benchmarks were met. Therefore, no liability has been recorded for the earnings
test.
A CPUC decision is pending. The CPUC is considering whether PSCo’s
cost of debt has been adversely affected by the financial difficulties
of NRG, and if so, whether any adjustments to PSCo’s cost of capital
should be made. A hearing has been set for August 2004.

•

The 2003 QSP results will be filed in April 2004. An estimate of
customer refund obligations under the electric QSP plan was recorded in
2003 relating to the electric service unavailability and customer
complaint measures. No refund under the gas QSP is anticipated.

In 2003, PSCo filed an application to put into effect a purchased-capacity
cost-adjustment mechanism that would allow it to recover 100 percent of its
incremental purchased-capacity costs over the level of these costs in rates.
As a part of this application, PSCo proposed to modify the PBRP for 2004
through 2006 to provide that 100 percent of any earnings in excess of a
10.75-percent return on equity for electric operations be returned to
customers. The application is pending approval of the CPUC.

Tax Matters

The Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued a notice of proposed adjustment
proposing to disallow interest expense deductions taken in tax years 1993
through 1997 related to corporate-owned life insurance (COLI) policy loans of
PSR Investments, Inc. (PSRI), a wholly owned subsidiary of PSCo. Late in 2001,
Xcel Energy received a technical advice memorandum from the IRS national
office, which communicated a position adverse to PSRI. Consequently, the IRS
examination division has disallowed the interest expense deductions for the tax
years 1993 through 1997. Xcel Energy plans to challenge the IRS determination,
which could require several years to reach final resolution. Because it is
Xcel Energy’s position that the IRS determination is not supported by tax law,
Xcel Energy has not recorded any provision for income tax or interest expense
related to this matter and continues to take deductions for interest expense
related to policy loans on its income tax returns for subsequent years.
However, defense of PSCo’s position may require significant cash outlays on a
temporary basis if refund litigation is pursued in United States District
Court.

The total disallowance of interest expense deductions for the period 1993
through 1997 is approximately $175 million. Additional interest expense
deductions for the period 1998 through 2003 are estimated to total
approximately $404 million. Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this issue,
tax and interest payable through Dec. 31, 2003, would reduce earnings by an
estimated $254 million, after tax. If COLI interest expense deductions were no
longer available, annual earnings for 2004 would be reduced by an estimated $36
million, after tax, prospectively, which represents 9 cents per share using
2003 share levels.

Environmental Matters

Environmental costs include payments for nuclear plant decommissioning, storage
and ultimate disposal of spent nuclear fuel, disposal of hazardous materials
and wastes, remediation of contaminated sites and monitoring of discharges to
the environment. A trend of greater environmental awareness and increasingly
stringent regulation has caused, and may continue to cause, slightly higher
operating expenses and capital expenditures for environmental compliance.



In addition to nuclear decommissioning and spent nuclear fuel disposal
expenses, costs charged to operating expenses for environmental monitoring and
disposal of hazardous materials and wastes were approximately:

•

$133 million in 2003;

•

$138 million in 2002; and

•

$130 million in 2001.

Xcel Energy expects to expense an average of approximately $155 million per
year from 2004 through 2008 for similar costs. However, the precise timing and
amount of environmental costs, including those for site remediation and
disposal of hazardous materials, are currently unknown. Additionally, the
extent to which environmental costs will be included in and recovered through
rates is not certain.

Capital expenditures on environmental improvements at regulated facilities were
approximately:

•

$58.5 million in 2003;

•

$107.8 million in 2002; and

•

$135.7 million in 2001.

The regulated utilities expect to incur approximately $83.0 million in capital
expenditures for compliance with environmental regulations in 2004 and
approximately $1.1 billion for environmental improvements during the period
from 2004 through 2008. Approximately $43 million and $988 million of these
expenditures, respectively, are related to modifications to reduce the
emissions of NSP-Minnesota’s generating plants located in the Minneapolis-St.
Paul metropolitan area pursuant to the metropolitan emissions reduction project
(MERP), which are recoverable from customers through cost recovery mechanisms.
See Notes 17 and 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further
discussion of our environmental contingencies.

Impact of Nonregulated Investments

Xcel Energy’s investments in nonregulated operations have had a significant
impact on its results of operations. As a result of the divestiture of NRG,
Xcel Energy does not expect that its investments in nonregulated operations
will continue to have such a significant impact on its results. Xcel Energy
does not expect to make any material investments in nonregulated projects.
Xcel Energy’s remaining nonregulated businesses may carry a higher level of
risk than its traditional utility businesses.

Xcel Energy’s earnings from nonregulated subsidiaries include investments in
broadband communications systems through Seren. Management currently intends to
hold and operate the Seren broadband communications system investments. As of
Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy’s investment in Seren was approximately $265
million. Seren had capitalized $331 million for plant in service and had
incurred another $10 million for construction work in progress for these
systems at Dec. 31, 2003.

Xcel Energy has also invested in international projects, primarily in
Argentina, through Xcel Energy International, but has designated Xcel Energy
International as held for sale as of Dec. 31, 2003. An estimated after-tax
loss from disposal of Xcel Argentina assets of $59 million has been recorded,
but may change as the final impacts of the divestiture become known in 2004.

Inflation

Inflation at its current level is not expected to materially affect Xcel
Energy’s prices or returns to shareholders.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Preparation of the Consolidated Financial Statements and related disclosures in
compliance with GAAP requires the application of appropriate technical
accounting rules and guidance, as well as the use of estimates. The application
of these policies necessarily involves judgments regarding future events,
including the likelihood of success of particular projects, legal and
regulatory challenges and anticipated recovery of costs. These judgments, in
and of themselves, could materially impact the Consolidated Financial
Statements and disclosures based on varying assumptions, which may be
appropriate to use. In addition, the financial and operating environment also
may have a significant effect, not only on the operation of the business, but
on the results reported through the application of accounting measures used in
preparing the Consolidated



Financial Statements and related
disclosures, even if the nature of the accounting policies applied have not changed. The following is a
list of
accounting policies that are most significant to the portrayal of Xcel Energy’s
financial condition and results, and that require management’s most difficult,
subjective or complex judgments. Each of these has a higher potential
likelihood of resulting in materially different reported amounts under
different conditions or using different assumptions. Each critical accounting
policy has been discussed with the audit committee of the Xcel Energy board of
directors. Xcel Energy no longer considers NRG’s financial restructuring a
critical accounting policy due to the divestiture resulting from NRG’s
emergence from bankruptcy.

Accounting Policy

Judgments/Uncertainties Affecting Application

See Additional Discussion At

Regulatory Mechanisms

•

External regulatory decisions,

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

and Cost Recovery

requirements and regulatory environment

Factors Affecting Results of Continuing Operations

•

Anticipated future regulatory decisions

•

Utility Industry Changes

and their impact

•

Regulation

•

Impact of deregulation and competition

on ratemaking process and ability to

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

recover costs

•

Notes 1, 17 and 19

Nuclear Plant

•

Costs of future decommissioning

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

Decommissioning and

•

Availability of facilities for waste

•

Notes 1, 17 and 18

Cost Recovery

disposal

•

Approved methods for waste disposal

•

Useful lives of nuclear power plants

•

Future recovery of plant investment and

decommissioning costs

Income Tax Accruals

•

Application of tax statutes and

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

regulations to transactions

Factors Affecting Results of Continuing Operations

•

Anticipated future decisions of tax

•

Tax Matters

authorities

•

Ability of tax authority

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

decisions/positions to withstand legal

•

Notes 1, 10 and 17

challenges and appeals

•

Ability to realize tax benefits through

carrybacks to prior periods or carryovers

to future periods

Benefit Plan Accounting

•

Future rate of return on pension and other

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

plan assets, including impacts of any

Factors Affecting Results of Continuing Operations

changes to investment portfolio

•

Pension Plan Costs and Assumptions

composition

•

Discount rates used in valuing benefit

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

obligation

•

Notes 1 and 12

•

Actuarial period selected to recognize

deferred investment gains and losses

Asset Valuation

•

Regional economic conditions affecting

Management’s Discussion and Analysis:

asset operation, market prices and

Results of Operations

related cash flows

•

Statement of Operations Analysis — Discontinued

•

Foreign currency valuations changes

Operations

•

Regulatory and political environments and

Factors Affecting Results of Continuing Operations

requirements

•

Impact of Nonregulated Investments

•

Levels of future market penetration and

customer growth

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

•

Note 3



Xcel Energy continually makes informed judgments and estimates related to these
critical accounting policy areas, based on an evaluation of the varying
assumptions and uncertainties for each area. For example:

The information and assumptions underlying many of these judgments and
estimates will be affected by events beyond the control of Xcel Energy, or
otherwise change over time. This may require adjustments to recorded results
to better reflect the events and updated information that becomes available.
The accompanying financial statements reflect management’s best estimates and
judgments of the impacts of these factors as of Dec. 31, 2003.

Recently Implemented Accounting Changes

For a discussion of accounting changes implemented in 2003 and other
significant accounting policies, see Notes 1, 16 and 18 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements.

Pending Accounting Changes

FASB Interpretation
No. 46 (FIN No. 46)

—

In January 2003, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued FIN No. 46, requiring an enterprise’s
consolidated financial statements to include subsidiaries in which the
enterprise has a controlling financial interest. Historically, consolidation
has been required only for subsidiaries in which an enterprise has a majority
voting interest. Under FIN No. 46, an enterprise’s consolidated financial
statements will include the consolidation of variable interest entities, which
are entities in which the enterprise has a controlling financial interest. As a
result, Xcel Energy expects that it will be required to consolidate all or a
portion of its affordable housing investments made through Eloigne, which
currently are accounted for under the equity method. The Xcel Energy utility
subsidiaries are party to purchased power agreements, and based on the current
guidance, these contracts are not expected to be considered variable interest
arrangements under the provisions of FIN No. 46. However, Xcel Energy is still
evaluating the issue. Additionally, Xcel Energy is evaluating other
arrangements based on criteria in FIN No. 46, and it is likely that some
arrangements will require consolidation.

As of Dec. 31, 2003, the assets of the affordable housing investments were
approximately $142 million and long-term liabilities were approximately $78
million. Currently, investments of $56 million are reflected as a component of
investments in unconsolidated affiliates in the Dec. 31, 2003, Consolidated
Balance Sheet. FIN No. 46 requires that for entities to be consolidated, the
entities’ assets be initially recorded at their carrying amounts at the date
the new requirement first applies. If determining carrying amounts as required
is impractical, the assets are to be measured at fair value as of the first
date the new requirements apply. Any difference between the net consolidated
amounts added to Xcel Energy’s balance sheet and the amount of any previously
recognized interest in the newly consolidated entity should be recognized in
earnings as the cumulative-effect adjustment of an accounting change. Xcel
Energy plans to adopt FIN No. 46 in the first quarter of 2004. The impact of
consolidating these entities is not expected to have a material impact on net
income.

DERIVATIVES, RISK MANAGEMENT AND MARKET RISK

Business and
Operational Risk

—

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries, including
discontinued operations held for sale, are exposed to commodity price risk in
their generation, retail distribution and energy trading operations. In certain
jurisdictions, purchased energy expenses and natural gas costs are recovered on
a dollar-for-dollar basis. However, in other jurisdictions, Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries are exposed to market price risk for the purchase and
sale of electric energy and natural gas. In such jurisdictions, electric energy
and natural gas expenses are recovered based on fixed-price limits or under
established sharing mechanisms.



Xcel Energy manages commodity price risk by entering into purchase and sales
commitments for electric power and natural gas, long-term contracts for coal
supplies and fuel oil, and derivative instruments. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy allows the company to manage the market price risk within
each rate-regulated operation to the extent such exposure exists. Management is
limited under the policy to enter into only transactions that manage market
price risk where the rate regulation jurisdiction does not already provide for
dollar-for-dollar recovery. One exception to this policy exists in which Xcel
Energy uses various physical contracts and derivative instruments to reduce the
volatility in the cost of natural gas and electricity provided to retail
customers even though the regulatory jurisdiction may provide dollar-for-dollar
recovery of actual costs. In these instances, the use of derivative instruments
and physical contracts is done consistently with the local jurisdictional
cost-recovery mechanism.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have been exposed to market price risk for the
sale of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources, including coal,
natural gas and fuel oil used to generate the electric energy within its
nonregulated operations, primarily through NRG and Xcel Energy International.
With the divestiture of NRG and expected sale of Xcel Energy International, the
exposure to market price risk has greatly diminished. Xcel Energy managed this
market price risk by entering into firm power sales agreements for
approximately 55 percent to 75 percent of its electric capacity and energy from
each generation facility, using contracts with terms ranging from one to 25
years. In addition, Xcel Energy managed the market price risk covering the fuel
resource requirements to provide the electric energy by entering into purchase
commitments and derivative instruments for coal, natural gas and fuel oil as
needed to meet fixed-priced electric energy requirements. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy allows for the management of market price risks, and provides
guidelines for the level of price risk exposure that is acceptable within the
company’s operations.

Interest Rate Risk

—

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are subject to the risk
of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. Xcel Energy’s
policy allows interest rate risk to be managed through the use of fixed rate
debt, floating rate debt and interest rate derivatives such as swaps, caps,
collars and put or call options.

Xcel Energy engages in hedges of cash flow exposure and hedges of fair value
exposure. The fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges
are initially recorded in Other Comprehensive Income. Reclassification of
unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges of variable rate debt
instruments from Other Comprehensive Income into earnings occurs as interest
payments are accrued on the debt instrument and generally offsets the change in
the interest accrued on the underlying variable rate debt. Hedges of fair
value exposure are entered into to hedge the fair value of a recognized asset,
liability or firm commitment. Changes in the derivative fair values that are
designated as fair value hedges are recognized in earnings as offsets to the
changes in fair values of related hedged assets, liabilities or firm
commitments. In order to test the effectiveness of such swaps, a hypothetical
swap is used to mirror all the critical terms of the underlying debt and
regression analysis is utilized to assess the effectiveness of the actual swap
at inception and on an ongoing basis. The assessment is done periodically to
ensure the swaps continue to be effective. The fair value of interest rate
swaps is determined through counterparty valuations, internal valuations and
broker quotes. There have been no material changes in the techniques or models
used in the valuation of interest rate swaps during the periods presented.

At Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002, a 100-basis-point change in the benchmark rate on
Xcel Energy’s variable debt would impact net income by approximately $0.8
million and $12.6 million, respectively. See Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for a discussion of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries’
interest rate swaps.

Currency Exchange Risk

—

During 2003 and 2002, NRG and Xcel Energy
International, both of which are included in discontinued operations, held
certain investments in foreign countries, creating exposure to foreign currency
exchange risk. The foreign currency exchange risk included the risk relative to
the recovery of the net investment in a project, as well as the risk relative
to the earnings and cash flows generated from such operations. These
subsidiaries managed their exposure to changes in foreign currency by entering
into derivative instruments as determined by management. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy provides for this risk management activity.

Trading Risk

—

Xcel Energy’s subsidiaries conduct various trading operations
and power marketing activities, including the purchase and sale of electric
capacity and energy and, prior to December 2003, through e prime for natural
gas. The trading operations are conducted in the United States with primary
focus on specific market regions where trading knowledge and experience have
been obtained. Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows management to
conduct the trading activity within approved guidelines and limitations as
approved by the company’s risk management committee, which is made up of
management personnel not involved in the trading operations.



The fair value of the energy trading contracts of continuing operations as of
Dec. 31, 2003 was as follows:

(Millions of dollars)

Fair value of trading contracts outstanding at Jan. 1, 2003

$

(0.1

)

Contracts realized or settled during the year

(14.4

)

Fair value of trading contract additions and changes during the year

18.7

Fair value of contracts outstanding at Dec. 31, 2003

$

4.2

As of Dec. 31, 2003, the sources of fair value of the energy trading and
hedging net assets were as follows:

Trading Contracts

Futures/Forwards

Source of

Maturity Less

Maturity

Maturity

Maturity Greater

Total Futures/

(Thousands of dollars)

Fair Value

than 1 Year

1 to 3 Years

4 to 5 Years

than 5 Years

Forwards Fair Value

NSP-Minnesota


$

(143

)

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

(143

)


3,163


—

—

3,649

PSCo


(69

)

—

—

—

(69

)




—

—


Total futures/forwards
fair value

$

3,644

$


$

—

$

—

$

4,166

Discontinued operations trading contracts are not included in the above table.
The fair value of these contracts is approximately $(2.0) million, as of Dec. 31, 2003. All
of these contracts have maturities of less than one year.

Hedge Contracts

Futures/Forwards

Source of

Maturity Less

Maturity

Maturity

Maturity Greater

Total Futures/

(Thousands of dollars)

Fair Value

than 1 Year

1 to 3 Years

4 to 5 Years

than 5 Years

Forwards Fair Value

NSP-Minnesota
futures/forwards
fair value


$


$

—

$

—

$

—

$


Discontinued operations hedging contracts are not included in the above table.
As of Dec. 31, 2003, the fair value of these contracts
is approximately $1.5 million. All of these contracts have maturities of less
than one year.

Options

Source of

Maturity Less

Maturity

Maturity

Maturity Greater

(Thousands of dollars)

Fair Value

than 1 Year

1 to 3 Years

4 to 5 Years

than 5 Years

Total Options Fair Value

NSP-Minnesota


$

(1,287

)

$

—

$

—

$

—

$

(1,287

)

NSP-Wisconsin



—

—

—


PSCo


(11,466

)


—

—

(10,618

)

Total options
fair value

$

(12,585

)

$


$

—

$

—

$

(11,737

)

1 — Prices actively quoted or based on actively quoted prices.

2 — Prices based on models and other valuation methods. These represent the
fair value of positions calculated using internal models when directly and
indirectly quoted external prices or prices derived from external sources are
not available. Internal models incorporate the use of options pricing and
estimates of the present value of cash flows based upon underlying contractual
terms. The models reflect management’s estimates, taking into account
observable market prices, estimated market prices in the absence of quoted
market prices, the risk-free market discount rate, volatility factors,
estimated correlations of energy commodity prices and contractual volumes.
Market price uncertainty and other risks also are factored into the model.



In the above tables, only hedge transactions are included for NSP-Minnesota,
NSP-Wisconsin and PSCo. Normal purchases and sales transactions, as defined by
SFAS No. 133, have been excluded.

At Dec. 31, 2003, a 10-percent fluctuation in market prices over the next 12
months for trading contracts would impact pretax income from continuing
operations by approximately $1 million. Hedge contracts are accounted for as a
component of Other Comprehensive Income and would not directly impact earnings.

Xcel Energy’s trading operations and power marketing activities measure the
outstanding risk exposure to price changes on transactions, contracts and
obligations that have been entered into, but not closed, using an industry
standard methodology known as Value-at-Risk (VaR). VaR expresses the potential
change in fair value on the outstanding transactions, contracts and obligations
over a particular period of time, with a given confidence interval under normal
market conditions. Xcel Energy utilizes the variance/covariance approach in
calculating VaR. The VaR model employs a 95-percent confidence interval level
based on historical price movement, lognormal price distribution assumption,
delta half-gamma approach for non-linear instruments and various holding
periods varying from two to five days.

As of Dec. 31, 2003, the calculated VaRs were:

During 2003

Year ended

(Millions of dollars)

Dec. 31, 2003

Average

High

Low

Electric commodity trading (a)

$

0.92

$

0.70

$

1.51

$

0.29

Natural gas commodity trading (b)

$

0.00

$

0.06

$

0.89

$

0.00

Natural gas retail marketing (b)

$

0.08

$

0.32

$

1.00

$

0.02

Other

$

0.00

$

0.02

$

0.15

$

0.00

(a)

Comprises transactions for both NSP-Minnesota and PSCo.

(b)

Conducted by e prime, which is a discontinued operation held for sale.

As of Dec. 31, 2002, the calculated VaRs were:

During 2002

Year ended

(Millions of dollars)

Dec. 31, 2002

Average

High

Low

Electric commodity trading (a)

$

0.29

$

0.62

$

3.39

$

0.01

Natural gas commodity trading (c)

$

0.11

$

0.35

$

1.09

$

0.09

Natural gas retail marketing (c)

$

0.54

$

0.47

$

0.92

$

0.32

NRG power marketing (b)

$

118.60

$

76.20

$

124.40

$

42.00

(a)

Comprises transactions for both NSP-Minnesota and PSCo.

(b)

NRG VaR was an undiversified VaR. NRG is presented as discontinued operations.

(c)

Conducted by e prime, which is a discontinued operation held for sale.

Credit Risk

—

In addition to the risks discussed previously, Xcel Energy and
its subsidiaries are exposed to credit risk in the company’s risk management
activities. Credit risk relates to the risk of loss resulting from the
nonperformance by a counterparty of its contractual obligations. Xcel Energy
and its subsidiaries maintain credit policies intended to minimize overall
credit risk and actively monitor these policies to reflect changes and scope of
operations.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries conduct standard credit reviews for all
counterparties. Xcel Energy employs additional credit risk control mechanisms
when appropriate, such as letters of credit, parental guarantees, standardized
master netting agreements and termination provisions that allow for offsetting
of positive and negative exposures. The credit exposure is monitored and, when
necessary, the activity with a specific counterparty is limited until credit
enhancement is provided.



At Dec. 31, 2003, a 10 percent increase in prices would have resulted in a net
mark-to-market increase in credit risk exposure of $3.6 million, while a
decrease of 10 percent would have resulted in a decrease of $3.9 million.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Flows

(Millions of dollars)




Cash provided by operating activities

:

Continuing operations

$

1,135

$

1,300

$

1,388

Discontinued operations




Total

$

1,378

$

1,715

$

1,584

Cash provided by operating activities for continuing operations decreased
during 2003 compared with 2002 primarily due to decreases in recovery of
deferred fuel costs. Cash provided by operating activities for discontinued
operations decreased during 2003 compared with 2002 due to the deconsolidation
of NRG for 2003 reporting and the exclusion of any of its cash flows in that
year. The decrease was partially offset by tax benefits received in connection
with the divestiture of NRG in 2003.

Cash provided by operating activities for continuing operations decreased
during 2002 compared with 2001 due to lower 2002 utility receivables and
unbilled revenues, reflecting collections of higher year-end 2001 amounts. Cash
provided by operating activities for discontinued operations increased during
2002 compared with 2001 primarily due to NRG’s efforts to conserve cash by
deferring the payment of interest payments and managing its cash flows more
closely. NRG’s accrued interest costs rose by nearly $200 million in 2002
compared with year-end 2001 levels.

(Millions of dollars)




Cash used in investing activities

Continuing operations

$

(1,072

)

$

(1,056

)

$

(1,156

)

Discontinued operations


(1,655

)

(4,017

)

Total

$

(926

)

$

(2,711

)

$

(5,173

)

Cash used in investing activities for continuing operations was approximately
the same during 2003 compared with 2002 due to comparable utility construction
expenditures. Cash flows for investing activities related to discontinued
operations increased during 2003 compared with 2002 due to the deconsolidation
of NRG for 2003 reporting and the exclusion of any of its cash flows in that
year. NRG had significant construction expenditures during 2002 prior to its
financial difficulties.

Cash used in investing activities for continuing operations decreased slightly
during 2002 compared with 2001 primarily due to lower utility construction
expenditures in 2002. Cash used in investing activities for discontinued
operations decreased during 2002 compared with 2001 primarily due to lower
levels of nonregulated capital expenditures as a result of NRG terminating its
acquisition program due to its financial difficulties. Such nonregulated
expenditures decreased $2.8 billion in 2002 due mainly to NRG asset
acquisitions in 2001 that did not recur in 2002.

(Millions of dollars)




Cash (used in) provided by financing
activities

Continuing operations

$

(367

)

$


$

(435

)

Discontinued operations

—

1,465

4,148

Total

$

(367

)

$

1,580

$

3,713

Cash flows for financing activities related to continuing operations decreased
during 2003 compared with 2002 due to refinancing activities in 2003 to better
align Xcel Energy’s capital structure and manage the cost of capital given the
improving credit quality of Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries. During 2003,
Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries extinguished $1.3 billion of long-term debt
and issued approximately $1.7 billion of long-term debt, as shown in the
Consolidated Statement of Capitalization. Cash flows for financing activities
related to discontinued operations decreased during 2003 compared with 2002 due
to the deconsolidation of NRG for 2003 reporting and the exclusion of any of its cash flows in that year.
NRG obtained financing in 2002 for its construction expenditures prior to
experiencing its financial difficulties.



Cash flow for financing activities related to continuing operations increased
during 2002 compared with 2001 primarily due to refinancing
activities in 2002,
including the redemption of $867 million of short-term debt and
the issuance of $1.4
billion of new debt. Cash flow provided by
financing activities for discontinued operations decreased during 2002 compared
with 2001 primarily due to lower NRG capital requirements and constraints on
NRG’s ability to access the capital market due to its financial difficulties,
as discussed previously. NRG’s cash provided from financing activities declined
by $2.7 billion in 2002 compared with 2001.

See discussion of trends, commitments and uncertainties with the potential for
future impact on cash flow and liquidity under Capital Sources.

Capital Requirements

Utility Capital Expenditures, Nonregulated Investments and Long-Term Debt
Obligations —

The estimated cost of the capital expenditure programs of Xcel
Energy and its subsidiaries, excluding discontinued operations, and other
capital requirements for the years 2004, 2005 and 2006 are shown in the table
below.

(Millions of dollars)




Electric utility

$


$


$

1,064

Natural gas utility




Common utility




Total utility

1,191

1,220

1,281

Other nonregulated




Total capital expenditures

1,221

1,251

1,296

Sinking funds and debt maturities




Total capital requirements

$

1,374

$

1,475

$

2,133

The capital expenditure forecast includes new steam generators at the Prairie
Island nuclear plant, new combustion turbines in two NSP-Minnesota plants and
costs related to a proposed coal-fired plant in Colorado. The capital
expenditure forecast also includes the early stages of the costs related to the
MERP modifications to reduce the emissions of NSP-Minnesota’s generating plants
located in the Minneapolis-St. Paul metropolitan area. The MERP project is
expected to cost approximately $1 billion, with major construction starting in
2005 and finishing in 2009. Xcel Energy expects to recover the costs of the
emission-reduction project through customer rate increases beginning in 2006.

The capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy are subject to continuing
review and modification. Actual utility construction expenditures may vary from
the estimates due to changes in electric and natural gas projected load growth,
the desired reserve margin and the availability of purchased power, as well as
alternative plans for meeting Xcel Energy’s long-term energy needs. In
addition, Xcel Energy’s ongoing evaluation of restructuring requirements,
compliance with future requirements to install emission-control
equipment, and
merger, acquisition and divestiture opportunities to support corporate
strategies may impact actual capital requirements. For more information, see
Note 17 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy’s investment in exempt wholesale generators and foreign utility
companies is currently limited to 100 percent of consolidated retained earnings
as a result of the PUHCA restrictions. At this time, Xcel Energy has no
capacity to make additional investments in exempt wholesale generators and
foreign utility companies without authorization from the SEC.



Contractual Obligations and Other Commitments —

Xcel Energy has contractual
obligations and other commercial commitments that will need to be funded in the
future, in addition to its capital expenditure programs. The following is a
summarized table of contractual obligations and other commercial commitments at
Dec. 31, 2003. See additional discussion in the Consolidated Statements of
Capitalization and Notes 4, 5, 6, 8, 15 and 17 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Payments due by period

Less than 1

After

(Thousands of dollars)

Total

year

1 to 3 years

4 to 5 years

5 years

Long- term debt

$

6,635,158

$

158,024

$

1,058,169

$

991,058

$

4,427,907

Capital lease obligations

106,315

7,365

13,860

12,964

72,126

Operating leases (a)

272,211

48,567

95,826

81,772

46,046

NRG bankruptcy settlement

752,000

752,000

—

—

—

Unconditional purchase obligations (b)

10,861,257

1,669,769

2,521,209

1,937,336

4,732,943

Other long- term obligations

180,112

39,976

49,654

37,439

53,043

Payments to vendors in process

96,887

96,887

—

—

—

Short-term debt

58,563

58,563

—

—

—

Total contractual cash obligations (c)

$

18,962,503

$

2,831,151

$

3,738,718

$

3,060,569

$

9,332,065

(a) Under some leases, Xcel Energy would have to sell or purchase the property that it leases if it chose to terminate
before the scheduled lease expiration date. Most of Xcel Energy’s railcar, vehicle and equipment, and aircraft leases have
these terms. At Dec. 31, 2003, the amount that Xcel Energy would have to pay if it chose to terminate these leases was
approximately $142.9 million.

(b) Obligations to purchase fuel for electric generating plants, and electricity and natural gas for resale. Energy costs
are largely recoverable from customers in rates. In addition,
approximately $2 billion of the obligation is based on prices tied to a
commodity index; as such the obligation will change as the commodity index changes.

(c) Xcel Energy also has outstanding authority under contracts and blanket purchase orders to purchase up to $600 million of
goods and services through the year 2020, in addition to the amounts disclosed in this table and in the forecasted capital
expenditures.

In addition, Xcel Energy’s board of directors approved the repurchase of 2.5
million shares of common stock to fulfill the requirements of the restricted
stock unit exercise in 2004.

Common Stock Dividends

—

Future dividend levels will be dependent upon the
statutory limitations discussed below, as well as Xcel Energy’s results of
operations, financial position, cash flows and other factors, and will be
evaluated by the Xcel Energy board of directors. The ultimate
dividend policy will balance:

•

projected cash generation from utility operations;

•

projected capital investment in the utility businesses;

•

reasonable rate of return on shareholder investment; and

•

impact on Xcel Energy’s capital structure and credit ratings.

Under PUHCA, unless there is an order from the SEC, a holding company or any
subsidiary may only declare and pay dividends out of retained earnings. Xcel
Energy had $369 million of retained earnings at Dec. 31, 2003, and expects to
declare dividends as scheduled. The cash to pay dividends to Xcel Energy
shareholders is primarily derived from dividends received from the utility
subsidiaries. The utility subsidiaries are generally limited in the amount of
dividends allowed by state regulatory commissions to be paid to the holding
company. The limitation is imposed through equity ratio limitations that range
from 30 percent to 57 percent. All utility subsidiaries are required under
PUHCA to pay dividends only from retained earnings, and some must comply with
covenant restrictions under credit agreements for debt and interest coverage
ratios.

The Articles of Incorporation of Xcel Energy place restrictions on the amount
of common stock dividends it can pay when preferred stock is outstanding. Under
the provisions, dividend payments may be restricted if Xcel Energy’s
capitalization ratio (on a holding company basis only, i.e., not on a
consolidated basis) is less than 25 percent. For these purposes, the
capitalization ratio is equal to common stock plus surplus divided by the sum
of common stock plus surplus plus long-term debt. Based on this definition,
Xcel Energy’s capitalization ratio at Dec. 31, 2003, was 83 percent. Therefore,
the restrictions do not place any effective limit on Xcel Energy’s ability to pay dividends because the restrictions are only triggered
when the capitalization ratio is less than 25 percent or will be reduced to
less than 25 percent through dividends (other than dividends payable in common
stock), distributions or acquisitions of Xcel Energy common stock.



Capital Sources

Xcel Energy expects to meet future financing requirements by periodically
issuing long-term debt, short-term debt, common stock and preferred securities
to maintain desired capitalization ratios.

Registered holding companies and certain of their subsidiaries, including Xcel
Energy and its utility subsidiaries, are limited under PUHCA in their ability
to issue securities. Such registered holding companies and their subsidiaries
may not issue securities unless authorized by an exemptive rule or order of the
SEC. Because Xcel Energy does not qualify for any of the main exemptive rules,
it sought and received financing authority from the SEC under PUHCA for various
financing arrangements. Xcel Energy’s current financing authority permits it,
subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, to issue through June 30, 2005,
up to $2.5 billion of common stock and long-term debt and $1.5
billion of short-term debt at the holding-company level. Xcel Energy
has issued $2
billion of long-term debt and common stock, including the $400
million credit facility.

Xcel Energy’s ability to issue securities under the financing authority is
subject to a number of conditions. One of the conditions of the financing
authority is that Xcel Energy’s consolidated ratio of common equity to total
capitalization be at least 30 percent. As of Dec. 31, 2003, the common equity
ratio was approximately 43 percent. Additional conditions require that a
security to be issued that is rated, be rated investment grade by at least one
nationally recognized rating agency. Finally, all outstanding securities
(except preferred stock) that are rated must be rated investment grade by at
least one nationally recognized rating agency. On Feb. 20, 2004, Xcel Energy’s
senior unsecured debt was considered investment grade by Standard & Poor’s
Ratings Services (Standard & Poor’s) and Moody’s Investors Services, Inc.
(Moody’s).

Short-Term Funding Sources —

Historically, Xcel Energy has used a number of
sources to fulfill short-term funding needs, including operating cash flow,
notes payable, commercial paper and bank lines of credit. The amount and timing
of short-term funding needs depend in large part on financing needs for
construction expenditures. Another significant short-term funding need is the
dividend payment.

In 2003, Xcel Energy established a money pool arrangement with the utility
subsidiaries, subject to receipt of required state regulatory approvals. The
money pool allows for short-term loans between the utility subsidiaries and
from the holding company to the utility subsidiaries at market-based interest
rates. The money pool arrangement does not allow loans from the utility
subsidiaries to the holding company. State regulatory commission approval of
the arrangement is pending.

As of Feb. 20, 2004, Xcel Energy had the following credit facilities available
to meet its liquidity needs:

Company

Facility

Drawn*

Available

Cash

Liquidity

Maturity

(Millions of dollars)

NSP-Minnesota

$


$


$


$


$


May 2004

NSP-Wisconsin

—

—

—

—

—

PSCo






May 2004

SPS






February 2005**

Xcel Energy
— holding company***




—


November 2005

Total

$

1,150

$


$


$


$

1,299

*

Includes short-term borrowings and letters of credit.

**

The SPS $100 million facility expired in February 2004 and was
replaced with a $125 million unsecured, 364-day credit agreement.

***

Reflects the $400 million NRG payment made in February
2004.

Operating cash flow as a source of short-term funding is affected by such
operating factors as weather; regulatory requirements, including rate recovery
of costs; environmental regulation compliance and industry deregulation;
changes in the trends for energy prices; and supply and operational
uncertainties, which are difficult to predict. See further discussion of such
factors under Statement of Operations Analysis.



Short-term borrowing as a source of funding is affected by regulatory actions
and access to reasonably priced capital markets. For additional information on
Xcel Energy’s short-term borrowing arrangements, see Note 5 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements. Access to reasonably priced capital markets is dependent
in part on credit agency reviews and ratings. The following ratings reflect
the views of Moody’s and Standard & Poor’s. A security rating is not a
recommendation to buy, sell or hold securities and is subject to revision or
withdrawal at any time by the rating company. As of Feb. 20, 2004, the
following represents the credit ratings assigned to various Xcel Energy
companies:

Company

Credit Type

Moody's

Standard & Poor's

Xcel Energy

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa3

BBB-

Xcel Energy

Commercial Paper

NP

A2

NSP-Minnesota

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa1

BBB-

NSP-Minnesota

Senior Secured Debt

A3

BBB+

NSP-Minnesota

Commercial Paper

P2

A2

NSP-Wisconsin

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa1

BBB

NSP-Wisconsin

Senior Secured Debt

A3

BBB+

PSCo

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa2

BBB-

PSCo

Senior Secured Debt

Baa1

BBB+

PSCo

Commercial Paper

P2

A2

SPS

Senior Unsecured Debt

Baa1

BBB

SPS

Commercial Paper

P2

A2

Note: Moody’s highest credit rating for debt is Aaa1 and lowest investment
grade rating is Baa3. Standard & Poor’s highest credit rating for debt is AAA+
and lowest investment grade rating is BBB-. Moody’s prime ratings for
commercial paper range from P1 to P3. NP denotes a nonprime rating. Standard
& Poor’s ratings for commercial paper range from A1 to A3, B and C. As of Feb.
10, 2004, Moody’s had Xcel Energy and its operating utility subsidiaries “under
review for possible upgrade.” Standard & Poor’s had Xcel Energy and its
operating utility subsidiaries on “credit watch positive.”

In the event of a downgrade of its credit ratings below investment grade, Xcel
Energy may be required to provide credit enhancements in the form of cash
collateral, letters of credit or other security to satisfy all or a part of its
exposures under guarantees outstanding. See a list of guarantees at Note 15 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements. Xcel Energy has no explicit rating
triggers in its debt agreements.

Registration Statements —

Xcel Energy’s Articles of Incorporation authorize the
issuance of one billion shares of common stock. As of Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel
Energy had approximately 399 million shares of common stock outstanding. In
addition, Xcel Energy’s Articles of Incorporation authorize the issuance of 7
million shares of $100 par value preferred stock. On Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy
had approximately 1 million shares of preferred stock outstanding. Xcel Energy
and its subsidiaries have the following registration statements on file with
the SEC, pursuant to which they may sell, from time to time, securities:

•

In February 2002, Xcel Energy filed a $1 billion shelf
registration with the SEC. Xcel Energy may issue debt securities,
common stock and rights to purchase common stock under this shelf
registration. Xcel Energy has approximately $482.5 million remaining
under this registration.

•

In April 2001, NSP-Minnesota filed a $600 million, long-term
debt shelf registration with the SEC. NSP-Minnesota has
approximately $40 million remaining under this registration.

•

PSCo has an effective shelf registration statement with the
SEC under which $800 million of secured first collateral trust bonds
or unsecured senior debt securities were registered. PSCo has
approximately $225 million remaining under this registration.

Future Financing Plans

Xcel Energy generally expects to fund its operations and capital investments
through internally generated funds. Xcel Energy plans to renew its credit
facilities at NSP-Minnesota, PSCo and SPS during 2004 and may refinance
existing long-term debt with lower-rate debt, based on market conditions. See
discussion of funding for the NRG settlement payments in the following section.



Impact of Settlement Agreement with NRG

As discussed previously and in Note 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
NRG has completed its plan of reorganization through a bankruptcy proceeding,
and the terms of a settlement among NRG, Xcel Energy and members of NRG’s major
creditor constituencies was approved and put into effect.

As part of the reorganization, Xcel Energy completely divested its ownership
interest in NRG, which in turn issued new common equity to its creditors. The
financial terms of the settlement agreement included a provision that Xcel
Energy will pay $752 million to NRG to settle all claims of NRG against Xcel
Energy and claims of NRG creditors against Xcel Energy under the NRG plan of
reorganization as follows:

•

$400 million paid on Feb. 20, 2004, including
$112 million to NRG’s bank lenders.

•

$352 million will be paid on April 30, 2004, unless at such
time Xcel Energy has not received tax refunds equal to at least $352
million associated with the loss on its investment in NRG. To the
extent such refunds are less than the required payments, the
difference between the required payments and those refunds would be
due on May 30, 2004.

•

In return for such payments, Xcel Energy received, or was
granted, voluntary and involuntary releases from NRG and its
creditors.

Xcel Energy intends to fund the payments required by the settlement agreement
with cash received for tax benefits related to its investment in NRG, cash
on hand and available Xcel Energy credit facilities.

Based on current forecasts of taxable income and tax liabilities, Xcel Energy
expects to realize approximately $1.1 billion of cash savings from these tax
benefits through a refund of taxes paid in prior years and reduced taxes
payable in future years. Xcel Energy used $130 million of these tax benefits
in 2003 and expects to use $480 million in 2004. The remainder of the tax
benefit carry forward is expected to be used over subsequent years.

Off-Balance-Sheet Arrangements

Xcel Energy does not have any off-balance-sheet arrangements that have or are
reasonably likely to have a current or future effect on financial condition,
changes in financial condition, revenues or expenses, results of operations,
liquidity, capital expenditures or capital resources that is material to
investors.

Earnings Guidance

Xcel Energy’s 2004 earnings per share from continuing operations guidance and
key assumptions are detailed in the following table.

2004 Diluted EPS Range

Utility operations

$

1.25  -  $1.33

Holding company financing costs

(0.08

)

Seren

(0.03

)

Eloigne

0.01

Other nonregulated subsidiaries

0.00 - 0.02

Xcel Energy Continuing Operations — EPS

$

1.15   -   $1. 25

Key Assumptions for 2004

:

Item
7A.

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

See Management’s
Discussion and Analysis under Item 7, incorporated by reference.

Item 8.

Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

See Item 15(a)-1 in
Part IV for index of financial statements included herein.

See Note 21 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements for summarized quarterly financial
data.



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS’ REPORT

To Xcel Energy Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and consolidated
statements of capitalization of Xcel Energy Inc. (a Minnesota corporation) and
subsidiaries (the Company) as of December 31, 2003 and 2002, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, common stockholders’ equity and other
comprehensive income and cash flows for the three years ended December 31,
2003. Our audit also included the financial statement schedules listed
in the Index at Item 15.

These consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedules are the responsibility of the
Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement
schedules based on our audits. We did not audit the consolidated
balance sheet of NRG Energy, Inc. (a wholly owned subsidiary of Xcel Energy
Inc.) for the year ended December 31, 2002, or the consolidated statements of
operations, stockholder’s (deficit)/equity and cash flows for the two years
ended December 31, 2002 included in the consolidated financial statements of
the Company, which statements reflect total assets of $10.9 billion as of
December 31, 2002 and losses from discontinued operations net of tax of $3.5
billion for the year ended December 31, 2002,and income from discontinued
operations net of tax of $265 million for the year ended December 31, 2001.
Those statements were audited by other auditors whose report has been furnished
to us (which as to 2002 expresses an unqualified opinion and includes an
explanatory paragraph describing conditions that raise substantial doubt about
NRG Energy, Inc.’s ability to continue as a going concern and an emphasis of a
matter paragraph related to the adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 142, “Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets” and SFAS No.
144, “Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets” on
January 1, 2002), and our opinion, insofar as it relates to the amounts
included for NRG Energy, Inc. for the periods described above, is based solely
on the report of the other auditors.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, based on our audits and the report of other auditors, the
consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Xcel Energy Inc. and subsidiaries
as of December 31, 2003 and 2002 and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for each of the three years ended December 31, 2003, in conformity
with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2002, Xcel Energy Inc. and subsidiaries adopted SFAS No. 142,
“Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets,” and SFAS No. 144, “Accounting for the
Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets.”

As discussed in Note 18 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
January 1, 2003, Xcel Energy Inc. and subsidiaries adopted SFAS No. 143,
“Accounting for Asset Retirement Obligations” and as discussed in Note 16,
effective October 1, 2003, Derivatives Implementation Group Issue No. C20
“Scope Exceptions: Interpretation of the Meaning of Not Clearly and Closely
Related in Paragraph 10(b) Regarding Contracts with a Price Adjustment
Feature.”

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE
LLP

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 27, 2004



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholder

of NRG Energy, Inc.:

In our opinion, the consolidated balance sheets and the related
consolidated statements of operations, cash flows and stockholder’s
(deficit)/equity (not presented separately herein) present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of NRG Energy, Inc. and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 2002, and the results of their operations and
their cash flows for each of the two years in the period ended December 31,
2002 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United
States of America. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company’s management; our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States of America, which require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared assuming that the
Company will continue as a going concern. As discussed in Note 1 and Note 29 to
the consolidated financial statements, the Company is experiencing credit and
liquidity constraints and has various credit arrangements that are in default.
As a direct consequence, during 2002 the Company entered into discussions with
its creditors to develop a comprehensive restructuring plan. In connection with
its restructuring efforts, the Company and certain of its subsidiaries filed
for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection. These conditions raise substantial doubt
about the Company’s ability to continue as a going concern. Management’s plans
in regard to these matters are also described in Note 1. The consolidated
financial statements do not include any adjustments that might result from the
outcome of this uncertainty.

As discussed in Note 19 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, “Goodwill and
Other Intangible Assets,” for the year ended December 31, 2002. As discussed in Notes
3 and 5 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company adopted Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 144, “Accounting for the Impairment or
Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” on January 1, 2002.

/S/ PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

March 28, 2003, except as to Notes 29 and 30, which are as of December 3, 2003.



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

(Thousands of dollars, except per share data)

Year ended Dec. 31




Operating revenues

Electric utility

$

5,952,191

$

5,435,377

$

6,394,737

Natural gas utility

1,710,272

1,363,360

2,022,803

Electric trading margin

17,165

1,642

69,641

Nonregulated and other

257,888

234,749

236,846

Total operating revenues

7,937,516

7,035,128

8,724,027

Operating expenses

Electric fuel and purchased power — utility

2,710,455

2,199,099

3,171,404

Cost of natural gas sold and transported — utility

1,208,274

852,813

1,521,236

Cost of sales — nonregulated and other

156,626

132,628

127,557

Other operating and maintenance expenses — utility

1,580,630

1,490,027

1,493,015

Other operating and maintenance expenses — nonregulated

101,723

110,172

89,726

Depreciation and amortization

756,000

771,265

726,795

Taxes (other than income taxes)

319,522

318,822

312,840

Special charges (see Note 2)

19,039

19,265

62,230

Total operating expenses

6,852,269

5,894,091

7,504,803

Operating income

1,085,247

1,141,037

1,219,224

Interest and other income, net of nonoperating expenses (see Note 13)

35,717

44,677

30,754

Interest charges and financing costs

Interest charges — net of amounts capitalized (includes other
financing costs of $32,184, $34,884 and $11,211, respectively)

429,571

384,063

327,636

Distributions on redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts

22,731

38,344

38,800

Total interest charges and financing costs

452,302

422,407

366,436

Income from continuing operations before income taxes

668,662

763,307

883,542

Income taxes

158,642

235,614

304,342

Income from continuing operations

510,020

527,693

579,200

Income (loss) from discontinued operations — net of tax (see Note 3)

112,372

(2,745,684

)

203,945

Income (loss) before extraordinary items

622,392

(2,217,991

)

783,145

Extraordinary items — net of tax of $5,747

—

—

11,821

Net income (loss)

622,392

(2,217,991

)

794,966

Dividend requirements on preferred stock

4,241

4,241

4,241

Earnings (loss) available to common shareholders

$

618,151

$

(2,222,232

)

$

790,725

Weighted average common shares outstanding (in thousands)

Basic

398,765

382,051

342,952

Diluted

418,912

384,646

343,742

Earnings (loss) per share — basic

Income from continuing operations

$

1.27

$

1.37

$

1.69

Discontinued operations (see Note 3)

0.28

(7.19

)

0.59

Extraordinary items (see Note 14)

—

—

0.03

Earnings (loss) per share

$

1.55

$

(5.82

)

$

2.31

Earnings (loss) per share — diluted

Income from continuing operations

$

1.23

$

1.37

$

1.68

Discontinued operations (see Note 3)

0.27

(7.14

)

0.59

Extraordinary items (see Note 14)

—

—

0.03

Earnings (loss) per share

$

1.50

$

(5.77

)

$

2.30

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

(Thousands of dollars)

Year ended Dec. 31




Operating activities

Net (loss) income

$

622,392

$

(2,217,991

)

$

794,966

Remove (income) loss from discontinued operations

(112,372

)

2,745,684

(203,945

)

Adjustments to reconcile net income to cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization

786,532

792,954

767,445

Nuclear fuel amortization

43,401

48,675

41,928

Deferred income taxes

113,985

148,765

(9,653

)

Amortization of investment tax credits

(12,499

)

(13,272

)

(12,867

)

Allowance for equity funds used during construction

(25,338

)

(7,793

)

(6,739

)

Undistributed equity in earnings of unconsolidated affiliates

(5,628

)

5,774

(5,275

)

Gain on sale of property

—

(6,785

)

—

Write-downs and losses from investments

8,856

15,866

—

Unrealized gain on derivative financial instruments

(1,954

)

17,779

(6,237

)

Extraordinary items — net of tax (see Note 14)

—

—

(11,821

)

Change in accounts receivable

(129,971

)

28,155

126,110

Change in inventories

3,230

(21,313

)

(47,972

)

Change in other current assets

(172,100

)

116,632

402,543

Change in accounts payable

102,734

(137,050

)

(346,352

)

Change in other current liabilities

(4,070

)

(139,917

)

78,524

Change in other noncurrent assets

(133,364

)

(215,836

)

(299,162

)

Change in other noncurrent liabilities

50,798

139,885

126,735

Operating cash flows provided by discontinued operations

243,354

414,899

195,784

Net cash provided by operating activities

1,377,986

1,715,111

1,584,012

Investing activities

Utility capital/construction expenditures

(950,940

)

(908,878

)

(1,103,685

)

Allowance for equity funds used during construction

25,338

7,793

6,739

Investments in external decommissioning fund

(80,581

)

(57,830

)

(54,996

)

Nonregulated capital expenditures and asset acquisitions

(42,287

)

(64,117

)

(53,852

)

Equity investments, loans, deposits and sales of nonregulated projects

13,300

(17,253

)

3,316

Restricted cash

(38,488

)

(23,000

)

—

Other investments — net

1,069

7,001

46,584

Investing cash flows provided by (used in) discontinued operations

146,493

(1,655,042

)

(4,016,631

)

Net cash used in investing activities

(926,096

)

(2,711,326

)

(5,172,525

)

Financing activities

Short-term borrowings — net

(445,080

)

(867,466

)

85,921

Proceeds from issuance of long-term debt

1,689,317

1,442,172

307,058

Repayment of long-term debt, including reacquisition premiums

(1,311,012

)

(32,802

)

(437,692

)

Proceeds from issuance of common stock

3,219

69,488

129,011

Dividends paid

(303,316

)

(496,375

)

(518,894

)

Financing cash flows provided by discontinued operations

—

1,465,070

4,147,928

Net cash (used in) provided by financing activities

(366,872

)

1,580,087

3,713,332

Net increase in cash and cash equivalents

85,018

583,872

124,819

Net increase (decrease) in cash and cash equivalents — discontinued operations

3,521

(241,453

)

(98,092

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

484,700

142,281

115,554

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$

573,239

$

484,700

$

142,281

Supplemental disclosure of cash flow information

Cash paid for interest (net of amounts capitalized)

$

402,506

$

640,628

$

708,560

Cash paid for income taxes (net of refunds received)

$

(6,379

)

$

24,935

$

327,018

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

(Thousands of dollars)

Dec. 31



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$

573,239

$

484,700

Restricted cash

37,363

23,000

Accounts receivable — net of allowance for bad debts: $31,106 and $23,970, respectively

658,936

536,476

Accrued unbilled revenues

368,374

390,984

Materials and supplies inventories — at average cost

168,204

191,041

Fuel inventory — at average cost

59,706

67,875

Natural gas inventories — replacement cost in excess of LIFO: $73,197 and $20,502, respectively

141,315

114,981

Recoverable purchased natural gas and electric energy costs

234,859

63,975

Derivative instruments valuation — at market

62,537

6,565

Prepayments and other

142,596

118,768

Current assets held for sale and related to discontinued operations

684,110

1,738,803

Total current assets

3,131,239

3,737,168

Property, plant and equipment, at cost:

Electric utility plant

17,320,268

16,516,790

Natural gas utility plant

2,484,874

2,384,051

Nonregulated property and other

1,553,391

1,534,449

Construction work in progress: utility amounts of $908,256 and $855,842, respectively

932,082

889,902

Total property, plant and equipment

22,290,615

21,325,192

Less accumulated depreciation

(8,703,788

)

(8,084,987

)

Nuclear fuel — net of accumulated amortization: $1,101,932 and $1,058,531, respectively

80,289

74,139

Net property, plant and equipment

13,667,116

13,314,344

Other assets:

Investments in unconsolidated affiliates

124,462

116,094

Nuclear decommissioning fund and other investments

843,083

699,077

Regulatory assets

879,840

576,876

Derivative instruments valuation — at market

429,531

1,494

Prepaid pension asset

567,227

448,749

Other

209,256

211,738

Noncurrent assets held for sale and related to discontinued operations

353,626

10,330,897

Total other assets

3,407,025

12,384,925

Total assets

$

20,205,380

$

29,436,437

LIABILITIES AND EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Current portion of long-term debt

$

159,955

$

558,263

Short-term debt

58,563

503,643

Accounts payable

791,316

698,170

Taxes accrued

188,973

243,183

Dividends payable

75,866

75,814

Derivative instruments valuation — at market

153,467

11,520

Other

422,420

332,618

Current liabilities held for sale and related to discontinued operations

820,506

9,925,625

Total current liabilities

2,671,066

12,348,836

Deferred credits and other liabilities:

Deferred income taxes

2,014,414

1,894,153

Deferred investment tax credits

156,555

169,587

Regulatory liabilities

1,570,548

1,328,611

Derivative instruments valuation — at market

388,743

10,863

Asset retirement obligations

1,024,529

662,411

Customer advances

212,766

161,283

Minimum pension liability

55,528

106,897

Benefit obligations and other

313,206

334,151

Noncurrent liabilities held for sale and related to discontinued operations

7,471

1,836,088

Total deferred credits and other liabilities

5,743,760

6,504,044

Minority interest in subsidiaries



Commitments and contingencies (see Note 17)

Capitalization (see Statements of Capitalization):

Long-term debt

6,518,853

5,318,957

Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts (see Note 8)

—

494,000

Preferred stockholders’ equity

104,980

105,320

Common stockholders’ equity

5,166,440

4,664,984

Total liabilities and equity

$

20,205,380

$

29,436,437

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY AND OTHER

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

(Thousands)

Common Stock Issued

Accumulated

Other

Retained

Comprehensive

Total

Capital in Excess

Earnings

Shares Held

Income

Stockholders'

Shares

Par Value

of Par Value

(Deficit)

by ESOP

(Loss)

Equity

Balance at Dec. 31, 2000

340,834

$

852,085

$

2,607,025

$

2,284,220

$

(24,617

)

$

(156,929

)

$

5,561,784

Net income

794,966

794,966

Currency translation adjustments

(56,693

)

(56,693

)

Cumulative effect of accounting change — net
unrealized transition loss upon adoption of
SFAS No. 133 (see Note 16)

(28,780

)

(28,780

)

After-tax net unrealized gains related to
derivatives (see Note 16)

63,023

63,023

Unrealized loss — marketable securities

(75

)

(75

)

Comprehensive income for 2001

772,441

Dividends declared:

Cumulative preferred stock

(4,241

)

(4,241

)

Common stock

(516,515

)

(516,515

)

Issuances of common stock — net proceeds

4,967

12,418

120,673

133,091

Other

(27

)

(27

)

Gain from NRG stock offering

241,891

241,891

Repayment of ESOP loan

6,053

6,053

Balance at Dec. 31, 2001

345,801

864,503

2,969,589

2,558,403

(18,564

)

(179,454

)

6,194,477

Net loss

(2,217,991

)

(2,217,991

)

Currency translation adjustments

30,008

30,008

Minimum pension liability

(107,782

)

(107,782

)

After-tax net unrealized losses related to
derivatives (see Note 16)

(39,475

)

(39,475

)

Unrealized loss — marketable securities

(457

)

(457

)

Comprehensive loss for 2002

(2,335,697

)

Dividends declared:

Cumulative preferred stock

(4,241

)

(4,241

)

Common stock

(437,113

)

(437,113

)

Issuances of common stock — net proceeds

27,148

67,870

513,342

581,212

Acquisition of NRG minority common shares

25,765

64,412

555,220

28,150

647,782

Repayment of ESOP loan

18,564

18,564

Balance at Dec. 31, 2002

398,714

996,785

4,038,151

(100,942

)

—

(269,010

)

4,664,984

Net income

622,392

622,392

Currency translation adjustments

182,829

182,829

Minimum pension liability

9,710

9,710

After-tax net unrealized losses related to
derivatives (see Note 16)

(14,005

)

(14,005

)

Unrealized gain — marketable securities



Comprehensive income for 2003

801,266

Dividends declared:

Cumulative preferred stock

(720

)

(3,181

)

(3,901

)

Common stock

(149,521

)

(149,606

)

(299,127

)

Issuances of common stock — net proceeds



2,591

3,218

Balance at Dec. 31, 2003

398,965

$

997,412

$

3,890,501

$

368,663

$

—

$

(90,136

)

$

5,166,440

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



XCEL ENERGY INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CAPITALIZATION

(Thousands of Dollars)

Dec. 31

Long-Term Debt



NSP-Minnesota Debt

First Mortgage Bonds, Series due:

Dec. 1, 2004-2006, 3.9% - 4.1%

$

6,990

(a)

$

9,145

(a)

March 1, 2003, 5.875%

—

100,000

April 1, 2003, 6.375%

—

80,000

Dec. 1, 2005, 6.125%

70,000

70,000

Aug. 1, 2006, 2.875%

200,000

—

Aug. 1, 2010, 4.75%

175,000

—

Aug. 28, 2012, 8%

450,000

450,000

March 1, 2011, variable rate, 6.265% at Dec. 31, 2002

—

13,700

(b)

March 1, 2019, 8.5%

27,900

(b)

27,900

(b)

Sept. 1, 2019, 8.5%

100,000

(b)

100,000

(b)

July 1, 2025, 7.125%

250,000

250,000

March 1, 2028, 6.5%

150,000

150,000

April 1, 2030, 8.5%

69,000

(b)

69,000

(b)

Dec. 1, 2004 - 2008, 4.35% - 5%

11,990

(a)

14,090

(a)

Guaranty Agreements, Series due Feb. 1, 2003 - May 1, 2003, 5.375% - 7.4%

—

28,450

(b)

Senior Notes due Aug. 1, 2009, 6.875%

250,000

250,000

Retail Notes due July 1, 2042, 8%

185,000

185,000

Other



Unamortized discount-net

(8,721

)

(8,931

)

Total

1,937,558

1,788,781

Less redeemable bonds classified as current (see Note 6)

—

13,700

Less current maturities

4,502

212,762

Total NSP-Minnesota long-term debt

$

1,933,056

$

1,562,319

PSCo Debt

First Mortgage Bonds, Series due:

April 15, 2003, 6%

$

—

$

250,000

March 1, 2004, 8.125%

100,000

100,000

Nov. 1, 2005, 6.375%

134,500

134,500

June 1, 2006, 7.125%

125,000

125,000

April 1, 2008, 5.625%

18,000

(b)

18,000

(b)

Oct. 1, 2008, 4.375%

300,000

—

June 1, 2012, 5.5%

50,000

(b)

50,000

(b)

Oct. 1, 2012, 7.875%

600,000

600,000

March 1, 2013, 4.875%

250,000

—

April 1, 2014, 5.5%

275,000

—

April 1, 2014, 5.875%

61,500

(b)

61,500

(b)

Jan. 1, 2019, 5.1%

48,750

(b)

48,750

(b)

March 1, 2022, 8.75%

—

146,340

Jan. 1, 2024, 7.25%

110,000

110,000

Unsecured Senior A Notes, due July 15, 2009, 6.875%

200,000

200,000

Secured Medium-Term Notes, due Feb. 2, 2004 - March 5, 2007, 6.9% - 7.11%

145,000

175,000

Unamortized discount

(6,835

)

(4,612

)

Capital lease obligations, 11.2% due in installments through May 31, 2025

47,650

49,747

Total

2,458,565

2,064,225

Less current maturities

147,131

282,097

Total PSCo long-term debt

$

2,311,434

$

1,782,128

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



Dec. 31

Long-Term Debt - continued (Thousands of dollars)



SPS Debt

Unsecured Senior A Notes, due March 1, 2009, 6.2%

$

100,000

$

100,000

Unsecured Senior B Notes, due Nov. 1, 2006, 5.125%

500,000

500,000

Unsecured Senior C Notes, due Oct. 1, 2033, 6%

100,000

—

Pollution control obligations, securing pollution control revenue bonds due:

July 1, 2011, 5.2%

44,500

44,500

July 1, 2016, 1.25% at Dec. 31, 2003, and 1.6% at Dec. 31, 2002

25,000

25,000

Sept. 1, 2016, 5.75% series

57,300

57,300

Unamortized discount

(1,653

)

(1,138

)

Total SPS long-term debt

$

825,147

$

725,662

NSP-Wisconsin Debt

First Mortgage Bonds Series due:

Oct. 1, 2003, 5.75%

$

—

$

40,000

Oct. 1, 2018, 5.25%

150,000

—

March 1, 2023, 7.25%

—

110,000

Dec. 1, 2026, 7.375%

65,000

65,000

City of La Crosse Resource Recovery Bond, Series due Nov. 1, 2021, 6%

18,600

(a)

18,600

(a)

Fort McCoy System Acquisition, due Oct. 31, 2030, 7%



Senior Notes — due, Oct. 1, 2008, 7.64%

80,000

80,000

Unamortized discount

(1,051

)

(1,388

)

Total

313,444

313,142

Less current maturities


40,034

Total NSP-Wisconsin long-term debt

$

313,410

$

273,108

Other Subsidiaries’ Debt

First Mortgage Bonds — Cheyenne:

Series due April 1, 2003 - Jan. 1, 2024, 7.5% - 7.875%

$

8,000

$

12,000

Industrial Development Revenue Bonds, due Sept. 1, 2021 - March 1, 2027, variable rate, 1.3%
and 1.7% at Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002

17,000

17,000

Various
Eloigne Co. Affordable Housing Project Notes, due 2004 - 2026, 0.3% - 9.91%

39,139

41,353

Other

12,140

94,894

Total

76,279

165,247

Less current maturities

8,288

9,670

Total other subsidiaries long-term debt

$

67,991

$

155,577

Xcel Energy Inc. Debt

Unsecured senior notes, Series due:

July 1, 2008, 3.4%

$

195,000

$

—

Dec. 1, 2010, 7%

600,000

600,000

Convertible notes, Series due:

Nov. 21, 2007, 7.5%

230,000

230,000

Nov. 21, 2008, 7.5%

57,500

—

Fair value hedge, carrying value adjustment

(6,298

)

—

Unamortized discount

(8,387

)

(9,837

)

Total Xcel Energy Inc. debt

$

1,067,815

$

820,163

Total long-term debt from continuing operations

$

6,518,853

$

5,318,957

Long-Term Debt from Discontinued Operations

Viking Gas Transmission Co. Senior Notes, Series due:

Oct. 31, 2008 - Sept. 30, 2014, 6.65% - 8.04%

$

—

$

40,421

Black Mountain Gas notes, due June 1, 2004 - May 1, 2005, 6%

—

3,000

NRG long-term debt:

Remarketable or Redeemable Securities, due March 15, 2005, 7.97%

—

257,552

NRG Energy, Inc. Senior Notes, Series due:

Feb. 1, 2006, 7.625%

—

125,000

June 15, 2007, 7.5%

—

250,000

June 1, 2009, 7.5%

—

300,000

Nov. 1, 2013, 8%

—

240,000

Sept. 15, 2010, 8.25%

—

350,000

July 15, 2006, 6.75%

—

340,000

April 1, 2011, 7.75%

—

350,000

April 1, 2031, 8.625%

—

500,000

May 16, 2006, 6.5%

—

285,728

NRG Finance Co. LLC, due May 9, 2006, various rates

—

1,081,000



Dec. 31

Long-Term Debt - continued (Thousands of dollars)



NRG debt secured solely by project assets:

NRG Northeast Generating Senior Bonds, Series due:

Dec. 15, 2004, 8.065%

—

126,500

June 15, 2015, 8.842%

—

130,000

Dec. 15, 2024, 9.292%

—

300,000

South Central Generating Senior Bonds, Series due:

May 15, 2016, 8.962%

—

450,750

Sept. 15, 2024, 9.479%

—

300,000

MidAtlantic — various, due Oct. 1, 2005, 4.625%

—

409,201

Flinders Power Finance Pty, due September 2012, various rates of 6.14%-6.49% at Dec. 31, 2002

—

99,175

Brazos Valley, due June 30, 2008, 6.75%

—

194,362

Camas Power Boiler, due June 30, 2007, and Aug. 1, 2007, 3.65% and 3.38%

—

17,861

Sterling Luxembourg #3 Loan, due June 30, 2019, variable rate

—

360,122

Hsin Yu Energy Development, due November 2006-April 2012, 4%-6.475%

—

85,607

LSP Batesville, due Jan. 15, 2014, 7.164% and July 15, 2025, 8.16%

—

314,300

LSP Kendall Energy, due Sept. 1, 2005, 2.65%

—

495,754

McClain, due Dec. 31, 2005, 6.75%

—

157,288

NEO, due 2005-2008, 9.35%

—

7,658

NRG Energy Center, Inc. Senior Secured Notes, Series due June 15, 2013, 7.31%

—

133,099

NRG Peaking Finance LLC, due 2019, 6.67%

—

319,362

NRG Pike Energy LLC, due 2010, 4.92%

—

155,477

PERC, due 2017-2018, 5.2%

—

28,695

Audrain Capital Lease Obligation, due Dec. 31, 2023, 10%

—

239,930

Saale Energie GmbH Schkopau Capital Lease, due May 2021, various rates

—

333,926

Various debt, due 2003-2007, 0.0%-20.8%

—

92,573

Other

—


Total

—

8,875,018

Less current maturities

—

7,643,654

Total long-term debt from discontinued operations

$

—

$

1,231,364

Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts

holding as their sole asset
the junior subordinated deferrable debentures of the following (see Note 8):

NSP-Minnesota, due 2037, 7.875%

$

—

$

200,000

PSCo, due 2038, 7.6%

—

194,000

SPS, due 2036, 7.85%

—

100,000

Total mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts

$

—

$

494,000

Cumulative Preferred Stock

— authorized 7,000,000 shares of $100 par value; outstanding
shares: 2003: 1,049,800; 2002: 1,049,800
$3.60 series, 275,000 shares

$

27,500

$

27,500

$4.08 series, 150,000 shares

15,000

15,000

$4.10 series, 175,000 shares

17,500

17,500

$4.11 series, 200,000 shares

20,000

20,000

$4.16 series, 99,800 shares

9,980

9,980

$4.56 series, 150,000 shares

15,000

15,000

Total

104,980

104,980

Capital in excess of par value on preferred stock

—


Total preferred stockholders’ equity

$

104,980

$

105,320

Common Stockholders’ Equity

Common stock — authorized 1,000,000,000 shares of $2.50 par value; outstanding shares: 2003:

398,964,724; 2002: 398,714,039

$

997,412

$

996,785

Capital in excess of par value on common stock

3,890,501

4,038,151

Retained earnings (deficit)

368,663

(100,942

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)

(90,136

)

(269,010

)

Total common stockholders’ equity

$

5,166,440

$

4,664,984

(a)

Resource recovery financing

(b)

Pollution control financing

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Business and System of
Accounts —

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries are
engaged principally in the generation, purchase, transmission, distribution and
sale of electricity and in the purchase, transportation, distribution and sale
of natural gas. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are subject to the regulatory
provisions of the PUHCA. The utility subsidiaries are subject to regulation by
the FERC and state utility commissions. All of the utility companies’
accounting records conform to the FERC uniform system of accounts or to systems
required by various state regulatory commissions, which are the same in all
material respects.

Principles of
Consolidation —

Xcel Energy directly owns five utility
subsidiaries that serve electric and natural gas customers in 11 states. These
utility subsidiaries are Northern States Power Co., a Minnesota corporation
(NSP-Minnesota), Northern States Power Co., a Wisconsin corporation
(NSP-Wisconsin), Public Service Company of Colorado (PSCo), Southwestern Public
Service Co. (SPS) and Cheyenne Light, Fuel and Power Co. (Cheyenne). Their
service territories include portions of Colorado, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
New Mexico, North Dakota, Oklahoma, South Dakota, Texas, Wisconsin and Wyoming.
Xcel Energy’s regulated subsidiaries also included WestGas Interstate Inc.
(WGI), an interstate natural gas pipeline company. Also, until 2003, Xcel
Energy’s regulated businesses included Viking Gas Transmission Co. (Viking),
which was sold in January 2003, and Black Mountain Gas Co. (BMG), which was
sold in October 2003. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for
more information on the discontinued operations of Viking and BMG. In January
2004, Xcel Energy reached an agreement to sell Cheyenne, pending regulatory
approval.

Xcel Energy’s nonregulated businesses in continuing operations include Utility
Engineering Corp. (engineering, construction and design), Seren Innovations,
Inc. (broadband telecommunications services), Planergy International, Inc.
(energy management solutions) and Eloigne Co. (investments in rental housing
projects that qualify for low-income housing tax credits). In December 2003,
Xcel Energy’s board of directors approved management’s plan to exit the
businesses conducted by the nonregulated subsidiaries Xcel Energy International
Inc. (an international independent power producer) and e prime inc. (a natural
gas marketing and trading company). Both of these businesses are presented as
a component of discontinued operations, as discussed in Note 3 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy also divested its ownership interest in NRG Energy, Inc. (NRG), an
independent power producer, in 2003. Xcel Energy owned 82 percent of NRG at the
beginning of 2001. In March 2001, 8 percent of NRG was sold to the public,
leaving Xcel Energy with an interest of about 74 percent at Dec. 31, 2001. On
June 3, 2002, Xcel Energy acquired the 26 percent of NRG held by the public,
resulting in 100-percent ownership interest at Dec. 31, 2002. On May 14, 2003,
NRG and certain of its affiliates filed voluntary petitions in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York for reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to restructure their debt. On Dec. 5,
2003, NRG completed its reorganization and emerged from bankruptcy. As a
result, Xcel Energy divested its ownership interest in NRG. At Dec. 31, 2003,
Xcel Energy reports NRG’s financial activity as a component of discontinued
operations. See Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy owns the following additional direct subsidiaries, some of which
are intermediate holding companies with additional subsidiaries: Xcel Energy
Wholesale Energy Group Inc., Xcel Energy Markets Holdings Inc., Xcel Energy
Ventures Inc., Xcel Energy Retail Holdings Inc., Xcel Energy Communications
Group Inc., Xcel Energy WYCO Inc. and Xcel Energy O&M Services Inc. Xcel Energy
and its subsidiaries collectively are referred to as Xcel Energy.

Xcel Energy uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in
partnerships, joint ventures and certain projects. Under this method, a
proportionate share of pre-tax income is recorded as equity earnings from
investments in affiliates. The portion of earnings from international
investments is recorded after subtracting foreign income taxes, if applicable.
In the consolidation process, all significant intercompany transactions and
balances are eliminated. Xcel Energy has investments in several plants and
transmission facilities jointly owned with other utilities. These projects are
accounted for on a proportionate consolidation basis, consistent with industry
practice. See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Revenue Recognition —

Revenues related to the sale of energy are generally
recorded when service is rendered or energy is delivered to customers. However,
the determination of the energy sales to individual customers is based on the
reading of their meter, which occurs on a systematic basis throughout the
month. At the end of each month, amounts of energy delivered to customers since
the date of the last meter reading are estimated and the corresponding unbilled
revenue is determined.



Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries have various rate-adjustment mechanisms in
place that currently provide for the recovery of certain purchased natural gas
and electric energy costs. These cost adjustment tariffs may increase or
decrease the level of costs recovered through base rates and are revised periodically, as prescribed by the
appropriate regulatory agencies, for any difference between the total amount
collected under the clauses and the recoverable costs incurred. In addition,
Xcel Energy presents its revenue net of any excise or other fiduciary-type
taxes or fees. A summary of significant rate-adjustment mechanisms follows:

•

PSCo’s electric rates in Colorado permitted recovery of 100 percent
of prudently incurred 2003 electric fuel and purchased energy expense.
In 2002 and 2001, PSCo’s electric rates in Colorado were adjusted under
an incentive cost-adjustment mechanism, which resulted in the sharing
of cost increases and decreases with customers and sharing of trading
margins, as discussed later.

•

NSP-Minnesota’s rates include a cost-of-fuel-and-energy and a
cost-of-gas recovery mechanism allowing dollar-for-dollar recovery of
the respective costs, which are trued-up on a two-month and annual
basis, respectively.

•

NSP-Wisconsin’s rates include a cost-of-gas adjustment clause for
purchased natural gas, but not for purchased electric energy or
electric fuel. In Wisconsin, requests can be made for recovery of those
electric costs prospectively through the rate review process, which
normally occurs every two years, and an interim fuel-cost hearing
process.

•

In Colorado, PSCo operates under an electric performance-based
regulatory plan, which provides for an annual earnings test.
NSP-Minnesota and PSCo operate under various service standards, which
could require customer refunds if certain criteria are not met.
NSP-Minnesota and PSCo’s rates include monthly adjustments for the
recovery of conservation and energy-management program costs, which are
reviewed annually.

•

SPS’ rates in Texas provide electric fuel and purchased energy cost
recovery. In New Mexico, SPS also has a monthly fuel and purchased
power cost-recovery factor.

•

NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS sell firm power and
energy in wholesale markets, which are regulated by the FERC. These
rates include monthly wholesale fuel cost-recovery mechanisms.

Trading Operations —

All applicable gains and losses related to energy trading
activities, whether or not settled physically, are shown net in the statement
of operations. Electric trading costs, including such gains and losses, are
reported as an offset to Electric Trading Revenues to present Electric Trading
Margin on a net basis.

Xcel Energy’s electric trading operations are conducted by NSP-Minnesota and
PSCo. Pursuant to a joint operating agreement (JOA), approved by the FERC,
some of the electric trading activity is apportioned to the other operating
utilities of Xcel Energy. Trading revenue and costs do not include the revenue
and production costs associated with energy produced from Xcel Energy’s
generation assets or energy and capacity purchased to serve native load.
Trading results are recorded using mark-to-market accounting. In addition,
trading results include the impacts of any margin-sharing mechanisms. In 2003,
Xcel Energy’s board of directors designated e prime as held for sale. e prime
had conducted natural gas commodity trading activities. Consequently, e prime
financial results are presented as discontinued operations. For more
information, see Notes 3, 15 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Derivative Financial Instruments —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries utilize a
variety of derivatives, including interest rate swaps and locks, foreign
currency hedges and energy contracts, to reduce exposure to corresponding
risks. The energy contracts are both financial- and commodity-based. These
contracts consist mainly of commodity futures and options, index or fixed price
swaps and basis swaps. For further discussion of Xcel Energy’s risk management
and derivative activities, see Notes 15 and 16 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements.

Property, Plant, Equipment and Depreciation —

Property, plant and equipment is
stated at original cost. The cost of plant includes direct labor and materials,
contracted work, overhead costs and applicable interest expense. The cost of
plant retired, plus net removal cost, is charged to accumulated depreciation
and amortization. Beginning in 2003, removal costs related to asset retirement
obligations that are not legal obligations are reflected in regulatory
liabilities. Significant additions or improvements extending asset lives are
capitalized, while repairs and maintenance are charged to expense as incurred.
Maintenance and replacement of items determined to be less than units of
property are charged to operating expenses. Property, plant and equipment also
includes costs associated with the engineering design of future generating
stations and other property held for future use.

Xcel Energy determines the depreciation of its plant by using the straight-line
method, which spreads the original cost equally over the plant’s useful life.
Depreciation expense, expressed as a percentage of average depreciable
property, was approximately 3.0, 3.4 and 3.1 for the years ended Dec. 31, 2003,
2002 and 2001, respectively.

Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFDC) and Capitalized Interest

—

AFDC, a noncash item, represents the cost of capital used to finance utility
construction activity. AFDC is computed by applying a composite pretax rate to
qualified construction work in progress. The amount of AFDC capitalized as a
utility construction cost is credited to other nonoperating income (for equity
capital) and interest charges



(for debt capital). AFDC amounts
capitalized are
included in Xcel Energy’s rate base for establishing utility service rates. In addition to construction-related amounts, AFDC
also
is recorded to reflect returns on capital used to finance conservation programs
in Minnesota. Interest capitalized for debt capital for all Xcel Energy
entities (as AFDC for utility companies) was approximately $20 million in 2003,
$18 million in 2002 and $29 million in 2001. AFDC recorded for equity capital
for all Xcel Energy entities was $25 million in 2003, $8 million in 2002 and $7
million in 2001.

Decommissioning —

Xcel Energy accounts for the future cost of decommissioning,
or retirement, of its nuclear generating plants through annual depreciation
accruals using an annuity approach designed to provide for full rate recovery
of the future decommissioning costs. The decommissioning calculation covers all
expenses, including decontamination and removal of radioactive material, and
extends over the estimated lives of the plants. The calculation assumes that
NSP-Minnesota and NSP-Wisconsin will recover those costs through rates. The
fair value of external nuclear decommissioning fund investments are estimated
based on quoted market prices for those or similar investments. Unrealized
gains or losses are deferred as regulatory assets or liabilities. In 2003,
NSP-Minnesota adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (SFAS) No.
143, which changed the accounting methodology for nuclear decommissioning
costs. For more information on nuclear decommissioning and the impacts of
adopting SFAS No. 143, see Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

PSCo also previously operated a nuclear generating plant, which has been
decommissioned and repowered using natural gas. PSCo’s costs associated with
decommissioning were deferred and are being amortized consistent with
regulatory recovery.

Nuclear Fuel Expense —

Nuclear fuel expense, which is recorded as our nuclear
generating plants use fuel, includes the cost of fuel used in the current
period, as well as future disposal costs of spent nuclear fuel. In addition,
nuclear fuel expense includes fees assessed by the U.S. Department of Energy
(DOE) for NSP-Minnesota’s portion of the cost of decommissioning the DOE’s
fuel-enrichment facility.

Environmental Costs —

Environmental costs are recorded when it is probable Xcel
Energy is liable for the costs and the liability can reasonably be estimated.
Costs may be deferred as a regulatory asset based on an expectation that the
costs will be recovered from customers in future rates. Otherwise, the costs
are expensed. If an environmental expense is related to facilities currently in
use, such as emission-control equipment, the cost is capitalized and
depreciated over the life of the plant, assuming the costs are recoverable in
future rates or future cash flow.

Estimated remediation costs, excluding inflationary increases and possible
reductions for insurance coverage and rate recovery, are recorded. The
estimates are based on experience, an assessment of the current situation and
the technology currently available for use in the remediation. The recorded
costs are regularly adjusted as estimates are revised and as remediation
proceeds. If several designated responsible parties exist, only Xcel Energy’s
expected share of the cost is estimated and recorded. Any future costs of
restoring sites where operation may extend indefinitely are treated as a
capitalized cost of plant retirement. The depreciation expense levels
recoverable in rates include a provision for these estimated removal costs.
However, as discussed further in Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements, removal costs recovered in rates were reclassified to
Regulatory Liabilities beginning in 2002.

Income Taxes —

Xcel Energy and its domestic subsidiaries file consolidated
federal income tax returns. NRG and its domestic subsidiaries were included in
Xcel Energy’s consolidated federal income tax returns prior to NRG’s March 2001
public equity offering. Xcel Energy and its domestic subsidiaries file
combined and separate state income tax returns. NRG and one or more of its
domestic subsidiaries were included in some, but not all, of these combined
returns in 2002 and will be included in these returns in 2003. NRG will not be
consolidated or combined in any of Xcel Energy’s income tax returns after 2003.

Federal income taxes paid by Xcel Energy, as parent of the Xcel Energy
consolidated group, are allocated to the Xcel Energy subsidiaries based on
separate company computations of tax. A similar allocation is made for state
income taxes paid by Xcel Energy in connection with combined state filings. In
accordance with PUHCA requirements, the holding company also allocates its own
net income tax benefits to its direct subsidiaries based on the positive tax
liability of each company.

Xcel Energy defers income taxes for all temporary differences between pretax
financial and taxable income, and between the book and tax bases of assets and
liabilities. Xcel Energy uses the tax rates that are scheduled to be in effect
when the temporary differences are expected to turn around, or reverse.

Due to the effects of past regulatory practices, when deferred taxes were not
required to be recorded, the reversal of some temporary differences are
accounted for as current income tax expense. Investment tax credits are
deferred and their benefits amortized over the estimated lives of the related
property. Utility rate regulation also has created certain regulatory assets
and liabilities related to income taxes, which are summarized in Note 19 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements. See a discussion of the income tax policy for international
operations in Note 10 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.



Foreign Currency Translation —

Xcel Energy’s foreign operations, which are
limited to Xcel Energy International and NRG before divestiture, generally use
the local currency as their functional currency in translating international
operating results and balances to U.S. currency. Foreign-currency-denominated
assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rates in effect at the
end of a reporting period. Revenue, expense and cash flows are translated at
weighted-average exchange rates for the period. Xcel Energy accumulates the
resulting currency translation adjustments and reports them as a component of
Other Comprehensive Income in Common Stockholders’ Equity.

Use of Estimates —

In recording transactions and balances resulting from
business operations, Xcel Energy uses estimates based on the best information
available. Estimates are used for such items as plant depreciable lives, tax
provisions, uncollectible amounts, environmental costs, unbilled revenues,
jurisdictional fuel and energy cost allocations and actuarially determined
benefit costs. The recorded estimates are revised when better information
becomes available or when actual amounts can be determined. Those revisions can
affect operating results. The depreciable lives of certain plant assets are
reviewed or revised annually, if appropriate.

Cash and Cash Equivalents —

Xcel Energy considers investments in certain debt
instruments with a remaining maturity of three months or less at the time of
purchase to be cash equivalents. Those debt instruments are primarily
commercial paper and money market funds.

Restricted cash in 2003 consists primarily of funds received from NRG to be
used to collateralize in full existing agreements of Xcel Energy to indemnify
NRG, which continued after the divestiture of NRG. Restricted cash in 2002
consists primarily of cash collateral for letters of credit and funds held in
trust accounts to satisfy the requirements of certain debt agreements.
Restricted cash is classified as a current asset as all restricted cash is
designated for interest and principal payments due within one year.

Inventory —

All inventory is recorded at average cost, with the exception of
natural gas in underground storage at PSCo and Cheyenne, which is recorded
using last-in-first-out pricing.

Regulatory Accounting —

Our regulated utility subsidiaries account for certain
income and expense items using SFAS No. 71 — “Accounting for the Effects of
Certain Types of Regulation.” Under SFAS No. 71:

•

certain costs, which would otherwise be charged to expense, are
deferred as regulatory assets based on the expected ability to recover
them in future rates; and

•

certain credits, which would otherwise be reflected as income, are
deferred as regulatory liabilities based on the expectation they will
be returned to customers in future rates.

Estimates of recovering deferred costs and returning deferred credits are based
on specific ratemaking decisions or precedent for each item. Regulatory assets
and liabilities are amortized consistent with the period of expected regulatory
treatment. See more discussion of regulatory assets and liabilities at Note 19
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Stock-Based Employee Compensation —

Xcel Energy has several stock-based
compensation plans. Those plans are accounted for using the intrinsic-value
method. Compensation expense is not recorded for stock options because there is
no difference between the market price and the purchase price at grant date.
Compensation expense is recorded for restricted stock and stock units awarded
to certain employees, which is held until the restriction lapses or the stock
is forfeited. For more information on stock compensation impacts, see Note 11
to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Intangible Assets —

During 2002, Xcel Energy adopted SFAS No. 142 — “Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets” regarding the accounting for intangible assets and
goodwill. Intangible assets with finite lives are amortized over their economic
useful lives and periodically reviewed for impairment. Beginning in 2002,
goodwill is no longer being amortized, but is tested for impairment annually
and on an interim basis if an event occurs or a circumstance changes between
annual tests that may reduce the fair value of a reporting unit below its
carrying value.

Xcel Energy’s goodwill consisted primarily of project-related goodwill at
Utility Engineering for 2003 and 2002. During 2003, impairment testing
resulted in a $4.8 million write-down in this goodwill.



Intangible assets with finite lives continue to be amortized, and the aggregate
amortization expense recognized in both years ended Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002,
were $0.3 million. The annual aggregate amortization expense for each of the
five succeeding years is expected to approximate $0.2 million. Intangible
assets consisted of the following:

Dec. 31, 2003

Dec. 31, 2002

Gross Carrying

Accumulated

Gross Carrying

Accumulated

(Millions of dollars)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amortization

Not amortized:

Goodwill

$

3.5

$

0.6

$

8.3

$

0.6

Amortized:

Service contracts

$

—

$

—

$

5.2

$

0.8

Trademarks

$

5.1

$

0.7

$

5.1

$

0.6

Prior service costs

$

5.8

$

—

$

6.9

$

—

Other (primarily franchises)

$

2.3

$

0.6

$

2.0

$

0.5

The pro forma impact of implementing SFAS No. 142 at Jan. 1, 2001, on the net
income and earnings per share for the year ended Dec. 31, 2001, was not
material in relation to the amounts previously reported.

Asset Valuation

—

On Jan. 1, 2002, Xcel Energy adopted SFAS No. 144 -
“Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets,” which
supercedes previous guidance for measurement of asset impairments. Xcel Energy
did not recognize any asset impairments as a result of the adoption. The method
used in determining fair value was based on a number of valuation techniques,
including present value of future cash flows. See Note 3 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements for discussion of impairment charges resulting from the
application of SFAS No. 144 to NRG’s and Xcel Energy International’s
discontinued operations.

Deferred Financing Costs

—

Other assets also included deferred financing costs,
net of amortization, of approximately $49 million at Dec. 31, 2003. Xcel
Energy is amortizing these financing costs over the remaining maturity periods
of the related debt.

2004 Changes in Consolidation Policy

—

In January 2003, the FASB issued FIN No.
46, requiring an enterprise’s consolidated financial statements to include
subsidiaries in which the enterprise has a controlling financial interest.
Historically, consolidation has been required only for subsidiaries in which an
enterprise has a majority voting interest. Under FIN No. 46, an enterprise’s
consolidated financial statements will include the consolidation of
variable-interest entities in which the enterprise has a controlling financial
interest. As a result, Xcel Energy expects that it will be required to
consolidate all or a portion of its affordable housing investments made through
Eloigne, which currently are accounted for under the equity method. The Xcel
Energy utility subsidiaries are party to purchased power agreements, and based
on the current guidance, these contracts are not expected to be considered
variable interest arrangements under the provisions of FIN No. 46. However,
Xcel Energy is still evaluating the issue. Additionally, Xcel Energy is
evaluating other arrangements based on criteria in FIN No. 46, and it is likely
that some arrangements will require consolidation.

As of Dec. 31, 2003, the assets of the affordable housing investments were
approximately $142 million and long-term liabilities were approximately $78
million. Currently, investments of $56 million are reflected as a component of
investments in unconsolidated affiliates in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for
Dec. 31, 2003. FIN No. 46 requires that for entities to be consolidated, the
entities’ assets be initially recorded at their carrying amounts at the date
the new requirement first applies. If determining carrying amounts as required
is impractical, then the assets are to be measured at fair value as of the
first date the new requirements apply. Any difference between the net
consolidated amounts added to Xcel Energy’s balance sheet and the amount of any
previously recognized interest in the newly consolidated entity should be
recognized in earnings as the cumulative-effect adjustment of an accounting
change. Xcel Energy plans to adopt FIN No. 46 in the first quarter of 2004. The
impact of consolidating these entities is not expected to have a material
impact on net income.

Reclassifications

—

Certain items in the statements of operations and the
balance sheets have been reclassified from prior period presentation to conform
to the 2003 presentation. These reclassifications had no effect on net income
or earnings per share. The reclassifications were primarily related to
organizational changes, such as the divestiture of NRG, and the
reclassification of asset retirement obligations from Accumulated Depreciation
to a liability account.



2. Special Charges

Special charges included in Operating Expenses for the years ended Dec. 31,
2003, 2002 and 2001, include the following:

(Millions of dollars)




Regulated utility special charges:

Regulatory recovery adjustment (SPS) (see Note 14)

$

—

$


$

—

Restaffing (utility and service companies)

—



Post-employment benefits (PSCo)

—

—


Total regulated utility special charges

—



Other nonregulated special charges:

Holding company NRG restructuring charges



—

TRANSLink Transmission Co.


—

—

Total nonregulated special charges



—

Total special charges

$


$


$


2003 TRANSLink
Transmission Co., LLC

—

In 2003, Xcel Energy recorded a $7
million pretax charge in connection with the suspension of the activities
related to the formation of TRANSLink Transmission Co., LLC (TRANSLink). The
charge was recorded as a reserve against loans made by Xcel Energy Transco
Inc., a subsidiary of Xcel Energy, to TRANSLink Development Company, LLC, an
interim start-up company. TRANSLink was a for-profit independent
transmission-only company proposed to be formed by Xcel Energy and several
other utilities to integrate the operations of their electric transmission
systems into a single system. The formation activity was suspended due to
continued market and regulatory uncertainty.

2003 and 2002 Holding
Company NRG Restructuring Charges

—

In 2003 and 2002,
the Xcel Energy holding company incurred approximately $12 million and $5
million, respectively, for charges related to NRG’s financial restructuring.
Costs in 2003 included approximately $32 million of financial advisor fees,
legal costs and consulting costs related to the NRG bankruptcy transaction.
These charges were partially offset by a $20 million pension curtailment gain
related to the termination of NRG employees from Xcel Energy’s pension plan, as
discussed in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

2002 Regulatory
Recovery Adjustment — SPS

—

In late 2001, SPS filed an
application requesting recovery of costs incurred to comply with transition to
retail-competition legislation in Texas and New Mexico. During 2002, SPS
entered into a settlement agreement with intervenors regarding the recovery of
industry restructuring costs in Texas, which was approved by the state
regulatory commission in May 2002. Based on the settlement agreement, SPS wrote
off pretax restructuring costs of approximately $5 million.

2002 and 2001 —
Utility Restaffing

—

During 2001, Xcel Energy expensed pretax
special charges of $39 million for expected staff consolidation costs for an
estimated 500 employees in several utility-operating and corporate-support
areas of Xcel Energy. In 2002, the identification of affected employees was
completed and additional pretax special charges of $9 million were expensed for
the final costs of staff consolidations. Approximately $6 million of these
restaffing costs were allocated to Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries. All 564
of accrued staff terminations have occurred. See the summary of costs below.

2001 —
Post-employment Benefits

—

PSCo adopted accrual accounting for
post-employment benefits under SFAS No. 112 — “Employers Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits” in 1994. The costs of these benefits had been recorded
on a pay-as-you-go basis and, accordingly, PSCo recorded a regulatory asset in
anticipation of obtaining future rate recovery of these transition costs. PSCo
recovered its FERC jurisdictional portion of these costs. PSCo requested
approval to recover its Colorado retail natural gas jurisdictional portion in a
1996 retail-rate case, and its retail electric jurisdictional portion in the
electric-earnings test filing for 1997. In the 1996 rate case, the CPUC allowed
recovery of post-employment benefit costs on an accrual basis, but denied
PSCo’s request to amortize the transition costs’ regulatory asset. Following
various appeals, which proved unsuccessful, PSCo wrote off $23 million pretax
of regulatory assets related to deferred post-employment benefit costs as of
June 30, 2001.



Accrued Special Charges —

The following table summarizes activity related to
accrued special charges in 2003, 2002 and 2001:

Utility

(Millions of dollars)

Severance *

Balance, Dec. 31, 2000

$


2001 accruals recorded — restaffing


Cash payments made in 2001

(50

)

Balance, Dec. 31, 2001


Adjustments/revisions to prior year accruals


Cash payments made in 2002

(33

)

Balance, Dec. 31, 2002


Cash payments made in 2003

(10

)

Balance, Dec. 31, 2003

$


*

Reported on the balance sheet in Other Current Liabilities.

3. Discontinued Operations

Pursuant to the requirements of SFAS No. 144, Xcel Energy classified and
accounted for certain nonregulated assets as held for sale at Dec. 31, 2003 and
2002. SFAS No. 144 requires that assets held for sale are valued on an
asset-by-asset basis at the lower of carrying amount or fair value less costs
to sell. In applying those provisions, management considered cash flow
analyses, bids and offers related to those assets and businesses. As a result,
Xcel Energy recorded estimated after-tax losses on disposal of nonregulated
assets held for sale, as discussed below, of $59 million for the year ended
Dec. 31, 2003. In accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 144, assets held
for sale will not be depreciated commencing with their classification as such.

Due to NRG’s emergence from bankruptcy in December 2003 and Xcel Energy’s
corresponding divestiture of its ownership interest in NRG, NRG is now
reflected as a discontinued operation at Dec. 31, 2003. Two regulated
businesses also were sold during 2003 and have no assets or liabilities
remaining at Dec. 31, 2003. Results of operations for these divested
businesses, and the results of businesses held for sale, are reported for all
periods presented on a net basis as discontinued operations. In addition, the
assets and liabilities of the businesses divested in 2003 have been
reclassified to corresponding Assets and Liabilities Held for Sale and Related
to Discontinued Operations at Dec. 31, 2002 in the accompanying Balance Sheet.
The remaining assets and liabilities of businesses still held for sale at Dec.
31, 2003, have been reclassified to the same corresponding amounts for
reporting at Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002.

Regulated Natural Gas Utility Segment

During 2003, Xcel Energy completed the sale of two subsidiaries in its
regulated natural gas utility segment: Viking, including its interest in
Guardian Pipeline, LLC; and BMG. After-tax disposal gains of $23.3 million, or
6 cents per share, were recorded for the natural gas utility segment, primarily
related to the sale of Viking.

NRG Segment

Change in Accounting for NRG in 2003

—

Prior to NRG’s bankruptcy filing in May
2003, Xcel Energy accounted for NRG as a consolidated subsidiary. However, as
a result of NRG’s bankruptcy filing, Xcel Energy no longer had the ability to
control the operations of NRG. Accordingly, effective as of the bankruptcy
filing date, Xcel Energy ceased the consolidation of NRG and began accounting
for its investment in NRG using the equity method in accordance with Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 18 — “The Equity Method of Accounting for
Investments in Common Stock.” After changing to the equity method, Xcel Energy
was limited in the amount of NRG’s losses subsequent to the bankruptcy date
that it was required to record. In accordance with these limitations under the
equity method, Xcel Energy stopped recognizing equity in the losses of NRG
subsequent to the quarter ended June 30, 2003. These limitations provide for
loss recognition by Xcel Energy until its investment in NRG is written off to
zero, with further loss recognition to continue if its financial commitments to
NRG exist beyond amounts already invested.

Prior to NRG entering bankruptcy, Xcel Energy recorded more losses than the
limitations provide for as of June 30, 2003. Upon Xcel Energy’s divestiture of
its interest in NRG in December 2003, the NRG losses recorded in excess of Xcel
Energy’s investment in and financial commitment to NRG were reversed. This
resulted in an adjustment of the total NRG losses recorded for the year 2003 to
$251 million. Xcel Energy’s share of NRG’s results for all 2003 periods is
reported in a single line item, Equity in Losses of NRG, as a component of
discontinued operations. NRG’s 2003 results do reflect some effects of asset
impairments and restructuring costs, as
discussed below. Xcel Energy’s share of NRG results for 2002 was a loss of
$3.4 billion, due primarily to asset impairments and other charges recorded in
the third and fourth quarters of 2002 related to NRG’s financial restructuring.



NRG Asset Impairments

—

In 2002, NRG experienced credit-rating downgrades,
defaults under numerous credit agreements, increased collateral requirements
and reduced liquidity. These events resulted in impairment reviews of a number
of NRG assets in 2002. NRG completed an analysis of the
recoverability of the asset-carrying values of its projects each period,
factoring in the probability weighting of different courses of action available
to NRG, given its financial position and liquidity constraints at the time of
each analysis. This approach was applied consistently to asset groups with
similar uncertainties and cash flow streams. As a result, NRG determined that
many of its construction projects and its operational projects became impaired
during 2002 and 2003 and should be written down to fair market value. In
applying those provisions, NRG management considered cash flow analyses, bids
and offers related to those projects.

NRG’s continuing
operations incurred $3.5 billion of asset impairments and
estimated disposal losses related to projects and equity investments,
respectively, with lower expected cash flows or fair values. These charges
recorded by NRG in the third and fourth quarters of 2002 included write-downs
of $2.3 billion and $983 million for projects in development and operating
projects, respectively, and $196 million for impairment charges and disposal
losses related to equity investments.

Approximately $2.5 billion of these NRG impairment charges in 2002 related to
NRG assets considered held for use under SFAS No. 144 as of Dec. 31, 2002. For
fair values determined by similar asset prices, the fair value represented
NRG’s estimate of recoverability at that time, if the project assets were to be
sold. For fair values determined by estimated market price, the fair value
represented a market bid or appraisal received by NRG that NRG believed was
best reflective of fair value at that time. For fair values determined by
projected cash flows, the fair value represents a discounted cash flow amount
over the remaining life of each project that reflected project-specific
assumptions for long-term power pool prices, escalated future project operating
costs and expected plant operation given assumed market conditions at that
time.

NRG continued to incur asset impairments and related charges in 2003. Prior to
its bankruptcy filing in May 2003, NRG recorded more than $500 million in
impairment and related charges resulting from planned disposals of an
international project and several projects in the United States, and to
regulatory developments and changing circumstances throughout the second
quarter that adversely affected NRG’s ability to recover the carrying value of
certain merchant generation units in the Northeastern United States.

Nonregulated Subsidiaries — All Other Segment

Xcel Energy International and e prime

—

In December 2003, the board of
directors of Xcel Energy approved management’s plan to exit the businesses
conducted by its nonregulated subsidiaries Xcel Energy International and e
prime. Xcel Energy is in the process of marketing the remaining assets and
operations of these businesses to prospective buyers and expects to exit the
businesses during 2004.

Results of discontinued nonregulated operations in 2003, other than NRG,
include an after-tax loss expected on the disposal of all Xcel Energy
International assets of $59 million, based on the estimated fair value of such
assets. The fair value represents a market bid or appraisal received that is
believed to best reflect the assets’ fair value at Dec. 31, 2003. Xcel Energy’s
remaining investment in Xcel Energy International at Dec. 31, 2003, was
approximately $39 million. Losses from discontinued nonregulated operations in
2003 also include a charge of $16 million for costs of settling a Commodity
Futures Trading Commission trading investigation of e prime.

Results of discontinued nonregulated operations in 2002 were reduced by
impairment losses recorded by Xcel Energy International for certain Argentina
assets. In 2002, Xcel Energy International decided it would no longer fund one
of its power projects in Argentina. This decision resulted in the shutdown of
the Argentina plant facility, pending financing of a necessary maintenance
outage. Updated cash flow projections for the plant were insufficient to
provide recovery of Xcel Energy International’s investment. The project was
written down to estimated fair value, based on an appraisal received that is
believed to best reflect the assets’ fair value at Dec. 31, 2002. The
write-down for this Argentina facility was approximately $13 million.

Results of discontinued nonregulated operations in 2002 also were reduced by a
loss on disposal of Xcel Energy International’s remaining investment in
Yorkshire Power Group Limited.

Tax Benefits Related to Investment in NRG —

With NRG’s emergence from
bankruptcy in December 2003, Xcel Energy has divested its ownership interest in
NRG and plans to take a tax deduction in 2003. These benefits are reported as
discontinued operations.



During 2002, Xcel Energy recognized tax benefits of $706 million. This benefit
was based on the estimated tax basis of Xcel Energy’s cash and stock
investments already made in NRG, and their deductibility for federal income tax
purposes.

Based on the results of a 2003 study, Xcel Energy recorded $105 million of
additional tax benefits in 2003, reflecting an updated estimate of the tax
basis of Xcel Energy’s investments in NRG and state tax deductibility. Upon
NRG’s emergence from bankruptcy in December 2003, an additional $288 million of
tax benefit was recorded to reflect the deductibility of the settlement payment
of $752 million, uncollectible receivables from NRG, other state tax benefits
and further adjustments to the estimated tax basis in NRG. Another $11 million
of state tax benefits were accrued earlier in 2003 based on projected impacts.

Summarized Financial Results of Discontinued Operations

Natural Gas

All Other

(Thousands of dollars)

Utility Segment

NRG Segment

Segment

Total


Operating revenue

$

9,292

$

—

$

174,224

$

183,516

Operating and other expenses

7,980

—

177,487

185,467

Special charges and impairments

—

(1,664

)

58,700

57,036

Equity in NRG losses

—

253,043

—

253,043

Pretax income (loss) from operations of discontinued components

1,312

(251,379

)

(61,963

)

(312,030

)

Income tax expense (benefit)


—

(401,464

)

(401,110

)

Income (loss) from operations of discontinued components


(251,379

)

339,501

89,080

Estimated pretax gain on disposal of discontinued components

40,072

—

—

40,072

Income tax expense

16,780

—

—

16,780

Gain on disposal of discontinued components

23,292

—

—

23,292

Net income (loss) from discontinued operations

$

24,250

$

(251,379

)

$

339,501

$

112,372


Operating revenue and equity in project income

$

36,266

$

3,010,557

$

169,994

$

3,216,817

Operating and other expenses

18,822

3,173,598

161,413

3,353,833

Special charges and impairments (including net disposal losses)

—

3,459,406

26,962

3,486,368

Pretax income (loss) from operations of discontinued components

17,444

(3,622,447

)

(18,381

)

(3,623,384

)

Income tax expense (benefit)

7,004

(172,517

)

(706,381

)

(871,894

)

Income (loss) from operations of discontinued components

10,440

(3,449,930

)

688,000

(2,751,490

)

Estimated pretax gain on disposal of discontinued components

—

2,814

—

2,814

Income tax benefit

—

(2,992

)

—

(2,992

)

Gain on disposal of discontinued components

—

5,806

—

5,806

Net income (loss) from discontinued operations

$

10,440

$

(3,444,124

)

$

688,000

$

(2,745,684

)


Operating revenue and equity in project income

$

31,889

$

3,013,545

$

154,113

$

3,199,547

Operating and other expenses

22,392

2,784,978

156,790

2,964,160

Pretax income (loss) from operations of discontinued
components

9,497

228,567

(2,677

)

235,387

Income tax expense (benefit)

3,490

33,477

(5,525

)

31,442

Net income from discontinued operations

$

6,007

$

195,090

$

2,848

$

203,945



The major classes of assets and liabilities held for sale and related to
discontinued operations as of Dec. 31 are as follows:

(Thousands of dollars)



Cash

$

35,039

$

440,484

Trade receivables — net

42,759

452,804

Derivative instruments valuation — at market

2,957

85,436

Deferred income tax benefits

580,626

—

Other current assets

22,729

760,079

Current assets held for sale

684,110

1,738,803

Property, plant and equipment — net

27,983

7,248,589

Derivative instruments valuation — at market


179,534

Deferred income tax benefits

314,670

706,000

Other noncurrent assets

10,871

2,196,774

Noncurrent assets held for sale

353,626

10,330,897

Current portion of long-term debt

—

7,643,654

Accounts payable — trade

51,076

756,732

NRG settlement payments

752,000

—

Derivative instruments valuation — at market

3,372

27,247

Other current liabilities

14,058

1,497,992

Current liabilities held for sale

820,506

9,925,625

Long-term debt

—

1,231,364

Deferred income tax


225,154

Derivative instruments valuation — at market


104,218

Minority interest

5,363

34,466

Other noncurrent liabilities

1,231

240,886

Noncurrent liabilities held for sale

$

7,471

$

1,836,088

4. NRG Restructuring, Bankruptcy and Reorganization

In December 2001, Moody’s placed NRG’s long-term senior unsecured debt rating
on review for possible downgrade. In February 2002, in response to this threat
to NRG’s investment grade rating, Xcel Energy announced a financial improvement
plan for NRG, which included an initial step of acquiring 100 percent of NRG
through a tender offer and merger involving a tax-free exchange of 0.50 shares
of Xcel Energy common stock for each outstanding share of NRG common stock. The
exchange transaction was completed on June 3, 2002. In addition, the initial
plan included: financial support to NRG from Xcel Energy; marketing certain NRG
generating assets for possible sale; canceling and deferring capital spending
for NRG projects; and combining certain of NRG’s functions with Xcel Energy’s
systems and organization. During 2002, Xcel Energy provided NRG with $500
million of cash infusions.

Xcel Energy’s reacquisition of all of the 26 percent of NRG shares not then
owned by Xcel Energy was accounted for as a purchase. The 25,764,852 shares of
Xcel Energy stock issued were valued at $25.14 per share, based on the average
market price of Xcel Energy shares for three days before and after April 4,
2002, when the revised terms of the exchange were announced and recommended by
the independent members of the NRG board of directors. Including other costs of
acquisition, this resulted in a total purchase price to acquire NRG’s shares of
approximately $656 million. The process to allocate the purchase price to
underlying interests in NRG assets, and to determine fair values for the
interests in assets acquired, resulted in approximately $62 million of amounts
being allocated to fixed assets related to projects where the fair values were
in excess of carrying values, to prepaid pension assets and to other assets.

The continued financial difficulties at NRG, resulting primarily from lower
prices for power and declining credit ratings, culminated in NRG and certain of
its affiliates filing, on May 14, 2003, voluntary petitions in the U.S.
Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York for reorganization under
Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code to restructure their debt. NRG’s filing
included its plan of reorganization and the terms of the overall settlement
among NRG, Xcel Energy and members of NRG’s major creditor constituencies that
provided for payments by



Xcel Energy to NRG and its creditors of
$752 million.
NRG’s creditors and the bankruptcy court approved the plan of reorganization, and on Dec. 5, 2003, NRG
completed reorganization and emerged from bankruptcy. As part of the
reorganization, Xcel Energy completely divested its ownership interest in NRG,
which in turn issued new common equity to its creditors. The other principal
terms of the overall settlement include the following:

•

Xcel Energy will pay $752 million to NRG to settle all claims of
NRG against Xcel Energy and claims of NRG creditors against Xcel Energy
under the NRG plan of reorganization:

—

$400 million paid on Feb. 20, 2004, including
$112 million to NRG’s bank lenders.

—

$352 million will be paid on April 30, 2004, unless at such
time Xcel Energy has not received tax refunds equal to at least $352
million associated with the loss on its investment in NRG. To the
extent such refunds are less than the required payments, the
difference between the required payments and those refunds would be
due on May 30, 2004.

—

In return for such payments, Xcel Energy received, or was
granted, voluntary and involuntary releases from NRG and its
creditors.

•

Xcel Energy’s exposure on any guarantees, indemnities or other
credit-support obligations incurred by Xcel Energy for the benefit of
NRG or any NRG subsidiary was terminated, or other arrangements
satisfactory to Xcel Energy and NRG were made, such that Xcel Energy
has no further exposure, and any cash collateral posted by Xcel Energy
has been returned.

•

As part of the settlement, any intercompany claims of Xcel Energy
against NRG or any subsidiary arising from the provision of goods or
services or the honoring of any guarantee were paid in full and in cash
in the ordinary course, except that the agreed amount of certain
intercompany claims arising or accrued as of Jan. 31, 2003
(approximately $50 million), were reduced to $10 million. The $10
million agreed amount has been satisfied with an unsecured promissory
note of NRG in the principal amount of $10 million with a maturity of
30 months and an annual interest rate of 3 percent.

•

NRG and its subsidiaries will not be reconsolidated with Xcel
Energy or any of its other affiliates for tax purposes at any time
after their March 2001 federal tax deconsolidation (except to the
extent required by state or local tax law) or treated as a party to or
otherwise entitled to the benefits of any existing tax-sharing
agreement with Xcel Energy. However, NRG and certain subsidiaries would
continue to be treated substantially as they were under the December
2000 tax allocation agreement to the extent they remain part of a
consolidated or combined state tax group that includes Xcel Energy, and
with respect to any adjustments to pre-March 2001 federal tax periods.
Under the settlement agreement, NRG will not be entitled to any tax
benefits associated with the tax loss Xcel Energy expects to recognize
as a result of the cancellation of its stock in NRG on the effective
date of the NRG plan of reorganization.

5. Short-Term Borrowings

Notes Payable

—

At Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002, Xcel Energy and its continuing
subsidiaries had approximately $59 million and $504 million, respectively, in
notes payable to banks. The weighted average interest rate at Dec. 31, 2003,
was 3.97 percent.

Credit Facilities

—

As of Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy had the following credit
facilities available:

Credit Line

Maturity

Term

Credit Line

Available

Xcel Energy

November 2005

5 years

$400 million

$381 million

NSP-Minnesota

May 2004

364 days

$275 million

$175 million

PSCo

May 2004

364 days

$350 million

$349 million

SPS

February 2004

364 days

$100 million

$97 million

Other subsidiaries

Various

Various

$65 million

$65 million

The lines of credit provide short-term financing in the form of notes payable
to banks, letters of credit, and, depending on credit ratings, support for
commercial paper borrowings. Of the notes payable to banks, $58 million was
drawn on the lines of credit at Dec. 31, 2003 and reduced the amounts available
under these credit lines. Also, $95.5 million of letters of credit were
outstanding at Dec. 31, 2003, as discussed in Note 15 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, of which approximately $65 million were outstanding under
the various credit facilities, which further reduced amounts available under
the lines. The credit facilities of NSP-Minnesota and PSCo are secured, while
all other facilities are unsecured.

The SPS $100 million facility expired in February 2004 and was replaced with a
$125 million unsecured, 364-day credit agreement.



The borrowing rates under these lines of credit are based on either the bank’s
published base rate or the applicable London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR)
plus a euro dollar rate margin.

6. Long-Term Debt

Except for SPS and other minor exclusions, all property of the utility
subsidiaries is subject to the liens of their first mortgage indentures, which
are contracts between the companies and their bondholders. In addition, certain
SPS payments under its pollution-control obligations are pledged to secure
obligations of the Red River Authority of Texas.

The utility subsidiaries’ first mortgage bond indentures provide for the
ability to have sinking-fund requirements. Annual sinking-fund requirements at
Cheyenne are $0.2 million and must be satisfied with cash payments.
NSP-Minnesota, NSP-Wisconsin, PSCo and SPS have no sinking-fund requirements
for current bonds outstanding.

NSP-Minnesota’s 2011 series bonds were redeemable upon seven-days notice at the
option of the bondholder. Because the terms allowed the holders to redeem
these bonds on short notice, the bonds were classified as a current portion of
long-term debt reported under current liabilities on the balance sheet for the
year ended Dec. 31, 2002. The bonds were redeemed in October 2003.

Xcel Energy’s 2007 and 2008 series convertible senior notes are convertible
into shares of Xcel Energy common stock at a conversion price of $12.33 per
share. Conversion is at the option of the holder at any time prior to
maturity.

Maturities of long-term debt are:


$160 million


$224 million


$838 million


$340 million


$655 million

7. Preferred Stock

At Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy had six series of preferred stock outstanding,
which were callable at its option at prices ranging from $102.00 to $103.75 per
share plus accrued dividends. Xcel Energy can only pay dividends on its
preferred stock from retained earnings absent approval of the SEC under PUHCA.
See Note 11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of such
restrictions.

The holders of the $3.60 series preferred stock are entitled to three votes for
each share held. The holders of the other preferred stocks are entitled to one
vote per share. In the event dividends payable on the preferred stock of any
series outstanding is in arrears in an amount equal to four quarterly
dividends, the holders of preferred stocks, voting as a class, are entitled to
elect the smallest number of directors necessary to constitute a majority of
the board of directors. The holders of common stock, voting as a class, are
entitled to elect the remaining directors.

The charters of some of Xcel Energy’s subsidiaries also authorize the issuance
of preferred shares. However, at Dec. 31, 2003, there are no such shares
outstanding. This chart shows data for first- and second-tier subsidiaries:

Preferred Shares

Preferred Shares

Authorized

Par Value

Outstanding

Cheyenne

1,000,000

$

100.00

None

SPS

10,000,000

$

1.00

None

PSCo

10,000,000

$

0.01

None

8. Mandatorily Redeemable Preferred Securities of Subsidiary Trusts

Southwestern Public Service Capital I, a wholly owned, special-purpose
subsidiary trust of SPS, had $100 million of 7.85-percent trust preferred
securities issued and outstanding that were originally scheduled to mature in
2036. Distributions paid by the subsidiary trust on the preferred securities
were financed through interest payments on debentures issued by SPS and held by
the subsidiary trust, which were eliminated in consolidation. Distributions and
redemption payments were guaranteed by SPS. The securities were redeemable at
the



option of SPS after October 2001, at 100 percent of the principal amount plus
accrued interest. On Oct. 15, 2003, SPS redeemed the $100 million of trust
preferred securities. A certificate of cancellation was filed to dissolve SPS
Capital I on Jan. 5, 2004.

NSP Financing I, a wholly owned, special-purpose subsidiary trust of
NSP-Minnesota, had $200 million of 7.875-percent trust preferred securities
issued and outstanding that were originally scheduled to mature in 2037.
Distributions paid by the subsidiary trust on the preferred securities were
financed through interest payments on debentures issued by NSP-Minnesota and
held by the subsidiary trust, which were eliminated in consolidation.
Distributions and redemption payments were guaranteed by NSP-Minnesota. The
preferred securities were redeemable at NSP Financing I’s option at $25 per
share, beginning in 2002. On July 31, 2003, NSP-Minnesota redeemed the $200
million of trust preferred securities. A certificate of cancellation was filed
to dissolve NSP Financing I on Sept. 15, 2003.

PSCo Capital Trust I, a wholly owned, special-purpose subsidiary trust of PSCo,
had $194 million of 7.60-percent trust preferred securities issued and
outstanding that were originally scheduled to mature in 2038. Distributions
paid by the subsidiary trust on the preferred securities were financed through
interest payments on debentures issued by PSCo and held by the subsidiary
trust, which were eliminated in consolidation. Distributions and redemption
payments were guaranteed by PSCo. The securities were redeemable at the option
of PSCo after May 2003, at 100 percent of the principal amount outstanding plus
accrued interest. On June 30, 2003, PSCo redeemed the $194 million of trust
preferred securities. A certificate of cancellation was filed to dissolve PSCo
Capital Trust I on Dec. 29, 2003.

The mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trusts were
consolidated in Xcel Energy’s Consolidated Balance Sheets. Distributions paid
to preferred security holders were reflected as a financing cost in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations, along with interest charges.

9. Joint Plant Ownership

Following are the investments by Xcel Energy’s subsidiaries in jointly owned
plants and the related ownership percentages as of Dec. 31, 2003:

Construction

Plant in

Accumulated

Work in

(Thousands of dollars)

Service

Depreciation

Progress

Ownership %

NSP-Minnesota

Sherco Unit 3

$

617,343

$

311,252

$


59.0

Transmission
facilities, including
substations

2,761


—

59.0

Total NSP-Minnesota

$

620,104

$

312,095

$


PSCo

Hayden Unit 1

$

85,828

$

40,764

$

—

75.5

Hayden Unit 2

79,818

43,834


37.4

Hayden Common Facilities

27,614

4,010

1,017

53.1

Craig Units 1 & 2

58,224

30,876


9.7

Craig Common Facilities
Units 1, 2 & 3

19,109

9,246

9,935

6.5-9.7

Transmission
facilities, including
substations

112,594

40,779

18,380

42.0-73.0

Total PSCo

$

383,187

$

169,509

$

29,488

NSP-Minnesota is part owner of Sherco 3, an 860-megawatt coal-fueled electric
generating unit. NSP-Minnesota is the operating agent under the joint ownership
agreement. NSP-Minnesota’s share of operating expenses and construction
expenditures are included in the applicable utility components of operating
expenses. PSCo’s assets include approximately 320 megawatts of jointly owned
generating capacity. PSCo’s share of operating expenses and construction
expenditures are included in the applicable utility components of operating
expenses. Each of the respective owners is responsible for the issuance of its
own securities to finance its portion of the construction costs.



10. Income Taxes

Xcel Energy’s share of NRG results for current and prior periods is now shown
as a component of discontinued operations, due to NRG’s emergence from
bankruptcy in December 2003 and Xcel Energy’s corresponding divestiture of its
ownership interest in NRG. Accordingly, Xcel Energy’s tax benefits related to
its investment in NRG are reported in discontinued operations.

Xcel Energy’s federal net operating loss and tax credit carry forwards are
estimated to be $742 million and $70 million, respectively, after considering a
two-year carry back of the loss. The carry forward periods expire in 2023.
Xcel Energy also has a net operating loss carry forward in some states. The
state carry forward periods expire between 2018 and 2023.

Total income tax expense from continuing operations differs from the amount
computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate to income before
income tax expense. Following is a table reconciling such differences:




Federal statutory rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

Increases (decreases) in tax from:

State income taxes, net of federal income
tax benefit

2.2

3.2

3.6

Life insurance policies

(3.9

)

(3.3

)

(2.4

)

Tax credits recognized

(4.2

)

(4.7

)

(2.9

)

Regulatory differences — utility plant items

0.8

1.5

2.3

Resolution
of income tax audits

(5.2

)

—

—

Other — net

(1.0

)

(0.8

)

(1.2

)

Total effective income tax rate

23.7

30.9

34.4

Extraordinary item

—

—

(0.6

)

Effective income tax rate from continuing
operations

23.7

%

30.9

%

33.8

%

Income taxes comprise the following expense (benefit) items:

(Thousands of dollars)




Current federal tax expense

$

107,770

$

104,658

$

305,709

Current state tax expense

(1,194

)

19,864

37,185

Current tax credits

(15,269

)

(19,079

)

(13,544

)

Deferred federal tax expense

77,730

129,556

(25,547

)

Deferred state tax expense

2,104

17,301

13,336

Deferred investment tax credits

(12,499

)

(16,686

)

(12,797

)

Income tax expense excluding extraordinary items

158,642

235,614

304,342

Tax expense on extraordinary items

—

—

5,747

Total income tax expense from continuing operations

$

158,642

$

235,614

$

310,089

As of Dec. 31, 2002, Xcel Energy management intended to indefinitely reinvest
the earnings of the Argentina operations of Xcel Energy International and,
therefore, had not provided deferred taxes for the effects of currency
devaluations. However, during 2003, the board of directors of Xcel Energy
approved management’s plan to exit the business conducted by Xcel Energy
International. Accordingly, any tax effects are recorded in discontinued
operations.



The components of Xcel Energy’s net deferred tax liability from continuing
operations (current and noncurrent portions) at Dec. 31 were:

(Thousands of dollars)



Deferred tax liabilities:

Differences between book and tax basis of property

$

1,845,091

$

1,784,754

Regulatory assets

243,671

171,292

Employee benefits and other accrued liabilities

82,186

63,079

Partnership income/loss

23,551

26,778

Service contracts

18,757

20,794

Tax benefit transfer leases

5,330

10,993

Other

35,352

32,086

Total deferred tax liabilities

$

2,253,938

$

2,109,776

Deferred tax assets:

Deferred investment tax credits

$

61,394

$

66,472

Other
comprehensive income

55,525

70,703

Regulatory liabilities

43,816

47,579

Net operating loss carry forward

35,890

—

Tax credit carry forward

11,668

—

Other

19,778

27,538

Total deferred tax assets

$

228,071

$

212,292

Net deferred tax liability

$

2,025,867

$

1,897,484

11. Common Stock and Incentive Stock Plans

Common Stock and
Equivalents

—

Xcel Energy has common stock equivalents
consisting of convertible senior notes and options, as discussed further.

The dilutive impacts of common stock equivalents affected earnings per share as
follows for the years ending Dec. 31:




(Shares and dollars in thousands, except

per share amounts)

Per Share

Per Share

Per Share

Income

Shares

Amount

Income

Shares

Amount

Income

Shares

Amount

Income from continuing operations

$

510,020

$

527,693

$

579,200

Less: Dividend requirements on
preferred stock

(4,241

)

(4,241

)

(4,241

)

Basic earnings per share

Income from continuing operations

505,779

398,765

$

1.27

523,452

382,051

$

1.37

574,959

342,952

$

1.69

Effect of dilutive securities:

$230 million convertible debt

11,213

18,654

1,246

2,027

—

—

$100 million convertible debt

—

—

—


—

—

$57.5 million convertible debt



—

—

—

—

Convertible debt option

—


—

—

—

—

Restricted stock

—


—

—

—

—

Options

—


—


—


Diluted earnings per share

Income from continuing
operations and assumed
conversions

$

517,303

418,912

$

1.23

$

524,698

384,646

$

1.37

$

574,959

343,742

$

1.68

Incentive Stock Plans —

Xcel Energy and some of its subsidiaries have incentive
compensation plans under which stock options and other performance incentives
are awarded to key employees. The weighted average number of common and
potentially dilutive shares outstanding used to calculate Xcel Energy’s
earnings per share include the dilutive effect of stock options and other stock
awards



based on the treasury stock method. The options normally have a term of 10
years and generally become exercisable from three to five years after grant
date or upon specified circumstances. The tables below include awards made by
Xcel Energy and some of its predecessor companies, adjusted for the merger
stock exchange ratio, and are presented on an Xcel Energy share basis.

Activity in stock options and performance awards was as follows for the years
ended Dec. 31:




Average

Average

Average

(Awards in thousands)

Awards

Price

Awards

Price

Awards

Price

Outstanding beginning of year

16,981

$

26.29

15,214

$

25.65

14,259

$

25.35

Granted

—

—

—

—

2,581

$

25.98

Options transferred from NRG
acquisition

—

—

3,328

$

29.97

—

—

Exercised

(190

)

$

12.21

(112

)

$

20.27

(1,472

)

$

23.00

Forfeited

(580

)

$

28.48

(1,349

)

$

28.43

(142

)

$

27.08

Expired

(597

)

$

23.41

(100

)

$

28.87

(12

)

$

24.07

Outstanding at end of year

15,614

$

26.49

16,981

$

26.29

15,214

$

25.65

Exercisable at end of year

9,358

$

25.59

8,993

$

24.78

7,154

$

24.78

Range of Exercise Prices

$11.50 to $25.50

$25.51 to $27.00

$27.01 to $51.25

Options outstanding:

Number outstanding

3,721,340

7,659,232

4,233,224

Weighted average remaining
contractual life (years)

4.2

6.3

6.3

Weighted average exercise price

$

20.49

$

26.29

$

32.13

Options exercisable:

Number exercisable

3,594,809

3,794,565

1,968,619

Weighted average exercise price

$

20.58

$

26.34

$

33.29

Certain employees also may be awarded other restricted stock under Xcel Energy
incentive plans. Xcel Energy holds restricted stock until restrictions lapse,
generally from two to three years from the date of grant. Xcel Energy reinvests
dividends on the shares it holds while restrictions are in place. Restrictions
also apply to the additional shares acquired through dividend reinvestment.
Restricted shares have a value equal to the market trading price of Xcel
Energy’s stock at the grant date. Xcel Energy did not grant any restricted
shares in 2003. Xcel Energy granted 50,083 restricted shares in 2002 when the
grant-date market price was $22.83 and 21,774 restricted shares in 2001 when
the grant-date market price was $26.06. Compensation expense related to these
awards was immaterial.

On March 28, 2003, the compensation and nominating committee of Xcel Energy’s
board of directors did grant restricted stock units and performance shares
under the Xcel Energy omnibus incentive plan approved by the shareholders in
2000. No stock options were granted in 2003. Restrictions on the restricted
stock units will lapse after one year from the date of grant, upon the
achievement of a 27 percent total shareholder return (TSR) for 10 consecutive
business days and other criteria relating to Xcel Energy’s common equity ratio.
TSR is measured using the market price per share of Xcel Energy common stock,
which at the grant date was $12.93, plus common dividends declared after grant
date. The TSR was met in the fourth quarter of 2003, and approximately $31
million of compensation expense was recorded at Dec. 31, 2003, based on the
expected vesting date (one year after award grant) of March 28, 2004. The
remaining costs related to 2003 restricted stock unit awards vesting in 2004 of
$10 million will be recorded in the first quarter of 2004. In January 2004,
Xcel Energy’s board of directors approved the repurchase of 2.5 million shares
of common stock to fulfill the requirements of the restricted stock unit
exercise in 2004.

Xcel Energy applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 — “Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees,” in accounting for stock-based compensation and,
accordingly, no compensation cost is recognized for the issuance of stock
options, as the exercise price of the options equals the fair-market value of
Xcel Energy’s common stock at the date of grant. In December 2002, the FASB
issued SFAS No. 148 — “Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition
and Disclosure,” amending SFAS No. 123 to provide alternative methods of
transition for a voluntary change to the fair-value-based method of accounting
for stock-based employee compensation, and requiring disclosure in both annual
and interim Consolidated Financial Statements about the method used and the
effect of the method used on results. The pro forma impact of applying SFAS
No. 148 is as follows at Dec. 31:



(Thousands of dollars)




Net income
(loss) — as reported

$

622,392

$

(2,217,991

)

$

794,966

Less: Total stock-based employee compensation
expense determined under fair value based method for
all awards, net of related tax effects

(6,223

)

(6,959

)

(3,455

)

Pro-forma net income

$

616,169

$

(2,224,950

)

$

791,511

Earnings
(loss) per share:

Basic — as reported

$

1.55

$

(5.82

)

$

2.31

Basic — pro-forma

$

1.54

$

(5.84

)

$

2.30

Diluted — as reported

$

1.50

$

(5.77

)

$

2.30

Diluted — pro forma

$

1.49

$

(5.79

)

$

2.29

The weighted-average fair value of options granted, and the assumptions used to
estimate such fair value on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes Option
Pricing Model were as follows:

2003*

2002*


Weighted-average
fair value per option
share at grant date

—

—

$

2.13

Expected option life

—

—

3-5 years

Stock volatility

—

—


%

Risk-free interest rate

—

—

3.8-4.8

%

Dividend yield

—

—

4.9-5.8

%

*

There were no options granted in 2003 or 2002.

Common Stock Dividends Per Share —

Historically, Xcel Energy has paid quarterly
dividends to its shareholders. For each of the four quarters of 2003, Xcel
Energy paid dividends to its shareholders of $0.1875 per share. For each of
the first two quarters of 2002, Xcel Energy paid dividends to its shareholders
of $0.375 per share. In each of the third and fourth quarters of 2002, Xcel
Energy paid dividends of $0.1875 per share. In making the decision to reduce
the dividend, the board of directors considered several factors, including the
goal of funding customer growth in the core business through internal cash flow
and reducing reliance on debt and equity financings. The board of directors
also compared the dividend to utility subsidiary earnings and to the dividend
payout of comparable utilities. Dividends on common stock are paid as declared
by the board of directors.

Dividend and Other Capital-Related Restrictions

—

Under the PUHCA, unless there
is an order from the SEC, a holding company or any subsidiary may declare and
pay dividends only out of retained earnings. In May 2003, Xcel Energy received
authorization from the SEC to pay an aggregate amount of $152 million of common
and preferred dividends out of capital and unearned surplus. Xcel Energy used
this authorization to declare and pay approximately $150 million for its first
and second quarter dividends in 2003. At Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy’s retained
earnings were approximately $369 million, after declaring the third and fourth
quarter dividends.

The Articles of Incorporation of Xcel Energy place restrictions on the amount
of common stock dividends it can pay when preferred stock is outstanding. Under
the provisions, dividend payments may be restricted if Xcel Energy’s
capitalization ratio (on a holding company basis only and not on a consolidated
basis) is less than 25 percent. For these purposes, the capitalization ratio is
equal to (i) common stock plus surplus divided by (ii) the sum of common stock
plus surplus plus long-term debt. Based on this definition, the capitalization
ratio at Dec. 31, 2003, was 83 percent. Therefore, the restrictions do not
place any effective limit on Xcel Energy’s ability to pay dividends because the
restrictions are only triggered when the capitalization ratio is less than 25
percent or will be reduced to less than 25 percent through dividends (other
than dividends payable in common stock), distributions or acquisitions of Xcel
Energy common stock.



In addition, NSP-Minnesota’s first mortgage indenture places certain
restrictions on the amount of cash dividends it can pay to Xcel Energy, the
holder of its common stock. Even with these restrictions, NSP-Minnesota could
have paid more than $815 million in additional cash dividends on common stock
at Dec. 31, 2003.

Registered holding companies and certain of their subsidiaries, including Xcel
Energy and its utility subsidiaries, are limited, under PUHCA, in their ability
to issue securities. Such registered holding companies and their subsidiaries
may not issue securities unless authorized by an exemptive rule or order of the
SEC. Because Xcel Energy does not qualify for any of the main exemptive rules,
it sought and received financing authority from the SEC under PUHCA for various
financing arrangements. Xcel Energy’s current financing authority permits it,
subject to satisfaction of certain conditions, to issue through June 30, 2005,
up to $2.5 billion of common stock and long-term debt and $1.5
billion of short-term debt at the holding company level. Xcel Energy has $2
billion of long-term debt outstanding and common stock, including the $400
million credit facility.

Xcel Energy’s ability to issue securities under the financing authority is
subject to a number of conditions. One of the conditions of the financing
authority is that Xcel Energy’s ratio of common equity to total capitalization,
on a consolidated basis, be at least 30 percent. As of Dec. 31, 2003, such
common equity ratio was approximately 43 percent. Additional conditions
require that a security to be issued that is rated, be rated investment grade
by at least one nationally recognized rating agency. Finally, all outstanding
securities (except preferred stock) that are rated must be rated investment
grade by at least one nationally recognized rating agency. As of Dec. 31,
2003, Xcel Energy’s senior unsecured debt was considered investment grade by at
least one nationally recognized rating agency.

Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement

—

In June 2001, Xcel Energy adopted a
Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement. Each share of Xcel Energy’s common
stock includes one shareholder protection right. Under the agreement’s
principal provision, if any person or group acquires 15 percent or more of Xcel
Energy’s outstanding common stock, all other shareholders of Xcel Energy would
be entitled to buy, for the exercise price of $95 per right, common stock of
Xcel Energy having a market value equal to twice the exercise price, thereby
substantially diluting the acquiring person’s or group’s investment. The rights
may cause substantial dilution to a person or group that acquires 15 percent or
more of Xcel Energy’s common stock. The rights should not interfere with a
transaction that is in the best interests of Xcel Energy and its shareholders
because the rights can be redeemed prior to a triggering event for $0.01 per
right.

12. Benefit Plans and Other Postretirement Benefits

Xcel Energy offers various benefit plans to its benefit employees.
Approximately 51 percent of benefiting employees are represented by several
local labor unions under several collective-bargaining agreements. At Dec. 31,
2003, NSP-Minnesota had 2,244 and NSP-Wisconsin had 427 bargaining employees
covered under a collective-bargaining agreement, which expires at the end of
2004 but has been tentatively settled to extend until Dec. 31, 2007. PSCo had
2,167 bargaining employees covered under a collective-bargaining agreement,
which expires in May 2006. SPS had 739 bargaining employees covered under a
collective-bargaining agreement, which expires in October 2005.

Pension Benefits

Xcel Energy has several noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans that
cover almost all employees. Benefits are based on a combination of years of
service, the employee’s average pay and Social Security benefits.

Xcel Energy’s policy is to fully fund into an external trust the actuarially
determined pension costs recognized for ratemaking and financial reporting
purposes, subject to the limitations of applicable employee benefit and tax
laws.

Pension Plan Assets

—

Plan assets principally consist of the common stock of
public companies, corporate bonds and U.S. government securities. The target
range for our pension asset allocation is 75 percent to 80 percent in equity
investments, 5 percent to 10 percent in fixed income investments, no cash
investments and 10 percent to 15 percent in nontraditional investments, such as
real estate, timber ventures, private equity and venture capital.



The actual composition of pension plan assets at Dec. 31 was:



Equity securities


%


%

Debt securities



Real estate


—

Cash

—


Nontraditional investments




%


%

During 2003, Xcel Energy entered into a number of hedging arrangements within
the pension trust designed to provide protection from a loss of asset value in
the event of a broad decline in equity prices. These arrangements are expected
to expire at the end of 2004. At Dec. 31, 2003, the mark-to-market value of
these arrangements was not material to the value of pension trust assets.

Xcel Energy bases its investment-return assumption on expected long-term
performance for each of the investment types included in its pension asset
portfolio. Xcel Energy considers the actual historical returns achieved by its
asset portfolio over the past 20-year or longer period, as well as the
long-term return levels projected and recommended by investment experts. The
historical weighted average annual return for the past 20 years for the Xcel
Energy portfolio of pension investments is 12.7 percent, which is in excess of
the current assumption level. The pension cost determinations assume the
continued current mix of investment types over the long-term. The Xcel Energy
portfolio is heavily weighted toward equity securities, includes nontraditional
investments that can provide a higher-than-average return, and in 2003 includes
derivative financial instruments intended to hedge the risk of potentially
volatile performance of other investments. As is the experience in recent
years, a higher weighting in equity investments can increase the volatility in
the return levels actually achieved by pension assets in any year. Investment
returns in 2001 and 2002 were below the assumed level of 9.5 percent, but in
2003 investment returns exceeded the assumed level of 9.25 percent. Xcel Energy
continually reviews its pension assumptions. In 2004, Xcel Energy has changed
the investment-return assumption to 9.0 percent to reflect the changing
expectations of investment experts in the marketplace.



Benefit Obligations

—

A comparison of the actuarially computed pension-benefit
obligation and plan assets, on a combined basis, is presented in the following
table:

(Thousands of dollars)



Accumulated Benefit Obligation at Dec. 31

$

2,512,138

$

2,381,214

Change in Projected Benefit Obligation

Obligation at Jan. 1

$

2,505,576

$

2,409,186

Service cost

67,449

65,649

Interest cost

170,731

172,377

Acquisitions

—

7,848

Plan amendments

85,937

3,903

Actuarial loss

82,197

65,763

Settlements

(9,546

)

(994

)

Special termination benefits

—

4,445

Curtailment gain

(26,407

)

—

Benefit payments

(243,446

)

(222,601

)

Obligation at Dec. 31

$

2,632,491

$

2,505,576

Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets

Fair value of plan assets at Jan. 1

$

2,639,963

$

3,267,586

Actual return on plan assets

605,978

(404,940

)

Employer contributions

31,712


Settlements

(9,546

)

(994

)

Benefit payments

(243,446

)

(222,601

)

Fair value of plan assets at Dec. 31

$

3,024,661

$

2,639,963

Funded
Status of Plans at Dec. 31

Net asset

$

392,170

$

134,387

Unrecognized transition asset

(7

)

(2,003

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

273,725

224,651

Unrecognized (gain) loss

9,710

182,927

Net pension amounts recognized on Consolidated Balance Sheets

$

675,598

$

539,962

Prepaid pension asset recorded (a)

$

567,227

$

466,229

Intangible asset recorded — prior service costs

5,816

6,943

Minimum pension liability recorded

(55,528

)

(106,897

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income recorded — pretax

158,083

173,687

Measurement Date

Dec. 31, 2003

Dec. 31, 2002

Significant Assumptions Used to Measure Benefit Obligations

Discount rate for year-end valuation

6.25

%

6.75

%

Expected average long-term increase in compensation level

3.50

%

4.00

%

(a)

$19.9 million of the 2003 prepaid pension asset relates to Xcel Energy’s remaining obligation for companies that are now
classified as discontinued operations, and $17.5 million of the 2002 prepaid pension asset relates to such discontinued operations.

During 2002, one of Xcel Energy’s pension plans became under-funded, and at
Dec. 31, 2003, had projected benefit obligations of $653.1 million, which
exceeds plan assets of $563.8 million. All other Xcel Energy plans in the
aggregate had plan assets of $2.5 billion and projected benefit obligations
of $2.0 billion on Dec. 31, 2003. A minimum pension liability of $55.5
million was recorded related to the under-funded plan as of that date. A
corresponding reduction in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income, a component
of Stockholders’ Equity, also was recorded, as previously recorded prepaid
pension assets were reduced to record the minimum liability.



Net of the related deferred income tax effects of the adjustments, total
Stockholders’ Equity was reduced by $98.1 million at Dec. 31, 2003, due to the
minimum pension liability for the under-funded plan.

A retirement spending account and Social Security supplement for former New
Century Energies, Inc. nonbargaining employees was added July 1, 2003, to align
it with the Xcel Energy plan formula. Also, the Normal Retirement Age for Xcel
Energy’s traditional, account balance, and “pension equity” programs was
changed to age 65 with one year of service.

Cash Flows

—

Cash funding requirements can be impacted by changes to actuarial
assumptions, actual asset levels and other pertinent calculations prescribed by
the funding requirements of income tax and other pension-related regulations.
These regulations did not require cash funding in the years 2001 through 2003
for Xcel Energy’s pension plans, and is not expected to require cash funding in
2004. PSCo elected to make a voluntary contribution of $30 million to its
pension plan for bargaining employees in 2003, and it plans to voluntarily
contribute another $10 million to the plan in 2004.

Benefit Costs —

The components of net periodic pension cost (credit) are:

(Thousands of dollars)




Service cost

$

67,449

$

65,649

$

57,521

Interest cost

170,731

172,377

172,159

Expected return on plan assets

(322,011

)

(339,932

)

(325,635

)

Curtailment (gain) loss

(17,363

)

—

1,121

Settlement (gain) loss

(1,135

)

—

—

Amortization of transition asset

(1,996

)

(7,314

)

(7,314

)

Amortization of prior service cost

28,230

22,663

20,835

Amortization of net gain

(44,825

)

(69,264

)

(72,413

)

Net periodic pension cost (credit) under SFAS No. 87 (a)

(120,920

)

(155,821

)

(153,726

)

Credits not recognized due to effects of regulation

51,311

71,928

76,509

Net benefit cost (credit) recognized for financial reporting

$

(69,609

)

$

(83,893

)

$

(77,217

)

Significant Assumptions Used to Measure Costs

Discount rate

6.75

%

7.25

%

7.75

%

Expected average long-term increase in compensation level

4.00

%

4.50

%

4.50

%

Expected average long-term rate of return on assets

9.25

%

9.50

%

9.50

%

(a)

Includes pension credits related to discontinued operations of $18.7 million for 2003, $9.6 million for 2002, and $8.2 million
for 2001. The 2003 credit is largely due to a $20.0 million curtailment gain related to termination of NRG employees as a result
of the divestiture of NRG in December 2003.

Pension costs include an expected return impact for the current year that may
differ from actual investment performance in the plan. The return assumption
used for 2004 pension cost calculations will be 9.0 percent. The cost
calculation uses a market-related valuation of pension assets, which reduces
year-to-year volatility by recognizing the differences between assumed and
actual investment returns over a five-year period.

Xcel Energy also maintains noncontributory, defined benefit supplemental
retirement income plans for certain qualifying executive personnel. Benefits
for these unfunded plans are paid out of Xcel Energy’s operating cash flows.

Defined Contribution Plans

Xcel Energy maintains 401(k) and other defined contribution plans that cover
substantially all employees. Total contributions to these plans were
approximately $15.9 million in 2003, $18.3 million in 2002, and $29.0 million
in 2001.

Until May 6, 2002, Xcel Energy had a leveraged employee stock ownership plan
(ESOP) that covered substantially all employees of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin. Xcel Energy made contributions to this noncontributory, defined
contribution plan to the extent it realized tax savings from dividends paid on
certain ESOP shares. ESOP contributions had no material effect on Xcel Energy
earnings because the contributions were essentially offset by the tax savings
provided by the dividends paid on ESOP shares. Xcel Energy allocated leveraged
ESOP shares to participants when it repaid ESOP loans with dividends on stock
held by the ESOP.



In May 2002, the ESOP was terminated and its assets were combined into the Xcel
Energy retirement savings 401(k) Plan. The ESOP component of the 401(k) plan
is no longer leveraged.

Xcel Energy’s leveraged ESOP held 10.7 million shares of Xcel Energy common
stock at May 6, 2002, and 10.5 million shares of Xcel Energy common stock at
the end of 2001. Xcel Energy excluded an average of 0.7 million in 2002 and
0.9 million in 2001 of uncommitted leveraged ESOP shares from
earnings-per-share calculations. On Nov. 19, 2002, Xcel Energy paid off all of
the ESOP loans. All uncommitted ESOP shares were released and were used by Xcel
Energy for the 2002 employer matching contribution to its 401(k) plan.

Postretirement Health Care Benefits

Xcel Energy has contributory health and welfare benefit plans that provide
health care and death benefits to most Xcel Energy retirees. The former NSP
discontinued contributing toward health care benefits for nonbargaining
employees retiring after 1998 and for bargaining employees of NSP-Minnesota and
NSP-Wisconsin who retired after 1999. Xcel Energy discontinued contributing
toward health care benefits for former NCE nonbargaining employees retiring
after June 30, 2003. Employees of the former NCE who retired in 2002 continue
to receive employer-subsidized health care benefits. Nonbargaining employees
of the former NSP who retired after 1998; bargaining employees of the former
NSP who retired after 1999; and nonbargaining employees of the former NCE who
retired after June 30, 2003, are eligible to participate in the Xcel Energy
health care program with no employer subsidy.

In conjunction with the 1993 adoption of SFAS No. 106 — “Employers’ Accounting
for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pension,” Xcel Energy elected to
amortize the unrecognized accumulated postretirement benefit obligation (APBO)
on a straight-line basis over 20 years.

Regulatory agencies for nearly all of Xcel Energy’s retail and wholesale
utility customers have allowed rate recovery of accrued benefit costs under
SFAS No. 106. PSCo transitioned to full accrual accounting for SFAS No. 106
costs between 1993 and 1997, consistent with the accounting requirements for
rate-regulated enterprises. The Colorado jurisdictional SFAS No. 106 costs
deferred during the transition period are being amortized to expense on a
straight-line basis over the 15-year period from 1998 to 2012. NSP-Minnesota
also transitioned to full accrual accounting for SFAS No. 106 costs, with
regulatory differences fully amortized prior to 1997.

Plan Assets

—

Certain state agencies that regulate Xcel Energy’s utility
subsidiaries also have issued guidelines related to the funding of SFAS No. 106
costs. SPS is required to fund SFAS No. 106 costs for Texas and New Mexico
jurisdictional amounts collected in rates, and PSCo is required to fund SFAS
No. 106 costs in irrevocable external trusts that are dedicated to the payment
of these postretirement benefits. Minnesota and Wisconsin retail regulators
required external funding of accrued SFAS No. 106 costs to the extent such
funding was tax advantaged. The investment strategy for the postretirement
health care fund assets is fairly conservative, with minimal exposure to equity
markets and a focus on fixed income and cash equivalents to preserve investment
capital while earning modest income.

The actual composition of postretirement benefit plan assets at Dec. 31 was:



Fixed income/debt securities.


%


%

Equity mutual fund securities



Cash equivalents



Other

—



%


%

Xcel Energy bases its investment-return assumption for the postretirement
health care fund assets on expected long-term performance for each of the
investment types included in its postretirement health care asset portfolio.
Given the fairly short time period in which funding has been required, Xcel
Energy does not consider the actual historical returns achieved by its
postretirement health care fund asset portfolio to be significant in
establishing long-term return assumptions. Instead, Xcel Energy considers the
long-term return levels projected and recommended by investment experts,
weighted for the target mix of asset categories in our portfolio.
Investment-return volatility is not considered to be a material factor in
postretirement health care costs.



Benefit Obligations

—

A comparison of the actuarially computed benefit
obligation and plan assets for Xcel Energy postretirement health care plans
that benefit employees of its utility subsidiaries is presented in the
following table:

(Thousands of dollars)



Change in Benefit Obligation

Obligation at Jan. 1

$

767,975

$

687,455

Service cost

5,893

7,173

Interest cost

52,426

50,135

Acquisitions/(divestitures)

(31,584

)


Plan amendments

(33,304

)

—

Plan participants’ contributions

16,577

5,755

Actuarial loss

122,864

61,276

Special termination benefits

—

(173

)

Curtailments

(249

)

—

Benefit payments

(60,754

)

(44,419

)

Impact of Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of 2003

(64,614

)

—

Obligation at Dec. 31

$

775,230

$

767,975

Change in Fair Value of Plan Assets

Fair value of plan assets at Jan. 1

$

250,983

$

242,803

Actual return on plan assets

11,045

(13,632

)

Plan participants’ contributions

16,577

5,755

Employer contributions

68,010

60,476

Benefit payments

(60,754

)

(44,419

)

Fair value of plan assets at Dec. 31

$

285,861

$

250,983

Funded Status at Dec. 31

Net obligation

$

489,369

$

516,992

Unrecognized transition asset (obligation)

(69,164

)

(169,328

)

Unrecognized prior service cost

20,093

10,904

Unrecognized gain (loss)

(319,788

)

(206,601

)

Accrued benefit liability recorded (a)

$

120,510

$

151,967

Measurement Date

Dec. 31, 2003

Dec. 31, 2002

Significant Assumptions Used to Measure Benefit Obligations

Discount rate for year-end valuation

6.25

%

6.75

%

(a)

($0.6) million of the 2003 accrued benefit liability relates to Xcel Energy’s remaining obligation for companies that are now
classified as discontinued operations, and $28.3 million of the 2002 accrued benefit liability relates to such discontinued operations.

The assumed health care cost trend rate for 2003 for most Xcel Energy plans is
approximately 7.5 percent, decreasing gradually to 5.5 percent in 2007 and
remaining level thereafter. A 1-percent change in the assumed health care cost
trend rate would have the following effects:

(Thousands of dollars)

1-percent increase in APBO components at Dec. 31, 2003

$

95.8

1-percent decrease in APBO components at Dec. 31, 2003

(79.4

)

1-percent increase in service and interest components of the net periodic cost

7.3

1-percent decrease in service and interest components of the net periodic cost

(6.0

)

The employer subsidy for retiree medical coverage was eliminated for former New
Century Energies, Inc. non-bargaining employees who retire after July 1, 2003.

Xcel Energy’s subsidiary Viking Gas Transmission Co. was sold on Jan. 17, 2003.
The sale created a one-time curtailment gain of $0.8 million. NRG
participants withdrew from the retiree life plan, resulting in a $1.3 million
one-time curtailment gain in 2003.



NRG employees’ participation in the Xcel Energy postretirement health care plan
ended when NRG emerged from bankruptcy on Dec. 5, 2003. A settlement gain of
$0.9 million was recognized.

Cash Flows

—

The postretirement health care plans have no funding requirements
under income tax and other retirement-related regulations other than fulfilling
benefit payment obligations, when claims are presented and approved under the
plans. Additional cash funding requirements are prescribed by certain state
and federal rate regulatory authorities, as discussed previously. Xcel Energy
expects to contribute approximately $51.4 million during 2004.

Benefit Costs

—

The components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost are:

(Thousands of dollars)




Service cost

$

5,893

$

7,173

$

6,160

Interest cost

52,426

50,135

46,579

Expected return on plan assets

(22,185

)

(21,030

)

(18,920

)

Curtailment (gain) loss

(2,128

)

—

—

Settlement (gain) loss

(916

)

—

—

Amortization of transition obligation

15,426

16,771

16,771

Amortization of prior service cost (credit)

(1,533

)

(1,130

)

(1,235

)

Amortization of net loss (gain)

15,409

5,380

1,457

Net periodic postretirement benefit cost (credit) under SFAS No. 106 (a)

62,392

57,299

50,812

Additional cost recognized due to effects of regulation

3,883

4,043

3,738

Net cost recognized for financial reporting

$

66,275

$

61,342

$

54,550

Significant assumptions used to measure costs (income)

Discount rate

6.75

%

7.25

%

7.75

%

Expected average long-term rate of return on assets (pretax)

8.0%-9.0

%

9.0

%

8.0%-9.5

%

(a)

Includes amounts related to discontinued operations of ($3.0) million of credit in 2003, $2.7 million of cost in 2002, and $2.0 million of
cost in 2001.

Impact of 2003 Medicare Legislation

—

On Dec. 8, 2003, President Bush signed
into law the Medicare Prescription Drug, Improvement and Modernization Act of
2003 (the Act). The Act expanded Medicare to include, for the first time,
coverage for prescription drugs. This new coverage is generally effective Jan.
1, 2006. Many of Xcel Energy’s retiree medical programs provide prescription
drug coverage for retirees over age 65 with coverage at least equivalent to the
benefit to be provided under Medicare. While retirees remain in Xcel Energy’s
postretirement health care plan without participating in the new Medicare
prescription drug coverage, Medicare will share the cost of Xcel Energy’s plan.
This legislation has therefore reduced Xcel Energy’s share of the obligation
for future retiree medical benefits.

The postretirement health
care benefit obligation shown in the chart previously is
the actuarial present value, as of Dec. 31, 2003, of Xcel Energy’s share of
future retiree medical benefits attributable to service through the current
year. This obligation has been reduced to reflect the effects of this
legislation. The FASB has not yet issued authoritative guidance on the method
it prefers to reflect the Act in these calculations. In addition, regulations
implementing this legislation have not yet been issued by Medicare agencies. As
a result, when guidance and regulations are issued, the estimates of future
costs and obligations could change and previously estimated information may
require revision.

As of Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy had reduced the postretirement health care
benefit obligation by $64.6 million due to the expected sharing of the cost of
the program by Medicare under the new legislation. Also, beginning in 2004, it
is expected that the annual net periodic postretirement benefit cost will be
reduced by approximately $10 million as a result of the expected sharing of the
cost of the program by Medicare, with similar savings in subsequent years.
This reduction includes both the decrease in the cost of future benefits being
earned during this year, and an amortization of the benefit obligation
reduction, previously noted, over approximately nine years. These estimated
reductions do not reflect any changes that may result in future levels of
participation in the plan or the associated per capita claims cost due to the
availability of prescription drug coverage for Medicare-eligible retirees.
Also, in reflecting this legislation, Medicare cost sharing for a plan has been
assumed only if Xcel Energy’s projected contribution to the plan is expected to
be at least equal to the Medicare Part D basic benefit.



13. Detail of Interest and Other Income, Net of Nonoperating Expenses

Interest and other income, net of nonoperating expenses, for the years ended
Dec. 31, comprises the following:

(Thousands of dollars)




Interest income

$

16,589

$

29,559

$

21,589

Equity income in unconsolidated affiliates

5,628

1,835

7,029

Gain on disposal of assets

9,365

10,076

14,696

Allowance for funds used during construction

25,338

7,793

6,739

Other nonoperating income

3,169

13,937


Interest expense on corporate-owned life insurance

(24,372

)

(18,523

)

(20,116

)

Total interest and other income, net of nonoperating expenses

$

35,717

$

44,677

$

30,754

14. Extraordinary Items

SPS

—

In April 2003, New Mexico enacted legislation that repealed its Electric
Utility Restructuring Act of 1999, as amended. The implementation of
restructuring had been delayed in 2001. The legislation provides that a public
utility be entitled to an opportunity to recover its transition costs.
Utilities, including SPS, may retain the transition costs as a regulatory asset
on their books pending recovery, which shall be completed by January 2010.

In June 2001, the governor of Texas signed legislation postponing the retail
competition and restructuring for SPS until at least 2007. This legislation
amended the 1999 legislation, Senate Bill No. 7 (SB-7), which provided for
retail electric competition beginning in Texas in January 2002. Under the
amended legislation, prior PUCT orders issued in connection with the
restructuring of SPS are considered null and void. In addition, under the new
legislation, SPS is entitled to recover all reasonable and necessary
expenditures made or incurred before Sept. 1, 2001, to comply with SB-7.

As a result of these legislative developments, SPS reapplied the provisions of
SFAS No. 71 for its generation business during the second quarter of 2001. More
than 95 percent of SPS’ retail electric revenues are from operations in Texas
and New Mexico. Because of the delays to electric restructuring in Texas and
New Mexico, SPS’ previous plans to implement restructuring, including the
divestiture of generation assets, have been abandoned. Accordingly, SPS will
continue to be subject to rate regulation under traditional cost-of-service
regulation, consistent with its past accounting and ratemaking practices for
the foreseeable future (at least until 2007).

During the fourth quarter of 2001, SPS completed a $500 million, medium-term
debt financing. The proceeds were used to reduce short-term borrowings that
had resulted from the 2000 defeasance of first mortgage bonds. In its
regulatory filings and communications, SPS proposed to amortize its defeasance
costs over the five-year life of the refinancing, consistent with historical
ratemaking, and has requested incremental rate recovery of $25 million of other
restructuring costs in Texas and New Mexico. These nonfinancing restructuring
costs have been deferred and are being amortized consistent with rate recovery.
Based on these 2001 events, management’s expectation of rate recovery of
prudently incurred costs and the corresponding reduced uncertainty surrounding
the financial impacts of the delay in restructuring, SPS restored certain
regulatory assets totaling $17.6 million as of Dec. 31, 2001, and reported
related after-tax extraordinary income of $11.8 million, or 3 cents per share.
Regulatory assets previously written off in 2000 were restored only for items
currently being recovered in rates and items where future rate recovery is
considered probable.



15. Financial Instruments

Fair Values

The estimated Dec. 31 fair values of Xcel Energy’s recorded financial
instruments, separately identifying amounts that are within continuing
operations and amounts included related to discontinued operations, are as
follows:



Carrying

Carrying

(Thousands of dollars)

Amount

Fair Value

Amount

Fair Value

Continuing Operations:

Mandatorily redeemable preferred securities of subsidiary trust

$

—

$

—

$

494,000

$

463,348

Long-term investments

$

828,802

$

827,375

$

649,160

$

647,395

Notes receivable, including current portion

$

12,643

$

12,643

$

5,352

$

5,352

Long-term debt, including current portion

$

6,678,808

$

7,363,457

$

5,877,220

$

6,123,173

Discontinued Operations

:

Long-term investments

$

—

$

—

$

4,048

$

4,048

Notes receivable, including current portion

$


$


$

990,815

$

990,815

Long-term debt, including current portion

$

—

$

—

$

8,875,018

$

6,048,886

The carrying amount of cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments
approximates fair value because of the short maturity of those instruments. The
fair values of Xcel Energy’s long-term investments, mainly debt securities in
an external nuclear decommissioning fund, are estimated based on quoted market
prices for those or similar investments. The fair value of notes receivable is
based on expected future cash flows discounted at market interest rates. The
balance in notes receivable is primarily a $10 million unsecured note from NRG
to Xcel Energy that was part of the NRG bankruptcy settlement for intercompany
claims Xcel Energy had against NRG. The term of the note is 30 months and the
interest rate is 3 percent. The fair values of Xcel Energy’s long-term debt and
mandatorily redeemable preferred securities are estimated based on the quoted
market prices for the same or similar issues, or the current rates for debt of
the same remaining maturities and credit quality.

The fair value estimates presented are based on information available to
management as of Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002. These fair value estimates have not
been comprehensively revalued for purposes of these Consolidated Financial
Statements since that date, and current estimates of fair values may differ
significantly.

Guarantees

Xcel Energy provides guarantees and bond indemnities supporting certain of its
subsidiaries. The guarantees issued by Xcel Energy guarantee payment or
performance by its subsidiaries under specified agreements or transactions. As
a result, Xcel Energy’s exposure under the guarantees is based upon the net
liability of the relevant subsidiary under the specified agreements or
transactions. Most of the guarantees issued by Xcel Energy limit the exposure
of Xcel Energy to a maximum amount stated in the guarantee. Unless otherwise
indicated below, the guarantees require no liability to be recorded, contain no
recourse provisions and require no collateral. On Dec. 31, 2003, Xcel Energy
had the following amount of guarantees and exposure under these
guarantees, including those related to e prime, which is a component
of discontinued operations:



(Millions of dollars)

Triggering

Term or

Event

Guarantee

Current

Expiration

Requiring

Assets Held as

Nature of Guarantee

Guarantor

Amount

Exposure

Date

Performance

Collateral

2004, 2005,

Guarantee performance and payment of surety bonds for itself and its

2007, 2012, 2014, 2015,

subsidiaries (d) (f) (i)

Xcel Energy

$

32.3

$

4.1

and 2022

(e

)

N/A

Guarantee performance and payment of surety bonds for those subsidiaries

Various subsidiaries (a)(i)

$

550.8

$

47.3

2004 and 2005

(e

)

$

20.0

Guarantees made to facilitate e prime’s natural gas acquisition,
marketing and trading operations

Xcel Energy

$

47.0

$

5.0

Continuing

(b

)

N/A

Two guarantees benefiting Cheyenne to guarantee the payment obligations
under gas and power purchase agreements

Xcel Energy

$

26.5

$

—

2011 and 2013

(b

)

N/A

Guarantee the indemnification obligations of Xcel Energy Markets
Holdings Inc. under a purchase agreement with Border Viking Co.

Xcel Energy

$

30.7

$

—

Continuing

(c

)

N/A

Guarantees for e prime Energy Marketing Inc. and e prime Florida Inc.’s
guaranteeing payments of energy, capacity and financial transactions

Xcel Energy

$

13.0

$

0.1

Continuing

(b

)

N/A

Guarantee for payments related to energy or financial transactions for
XERS Inc., a nonregulated subsidiary of Xcel Energy

Xcel Energy

$

10.0

$

0.5

Continuing

(b

)

N/A

Guarantee of customer loans to encourage business growth and expansion

NSP-Wisconsin

$

0.7

$

0.2

Latest expiration in 2006

(g

)

N/A

Guarantee of collection of receivables sold to a third party

NSP-Minnesota

$

2.1

$

2.1

Latest expiration in 2007

(b

)

(h

)

Combination of guarantees benefiting various Xcel Energy subsidiaries

Xcel Energy

$

5.9

$

—

Continuing

(b

)

N/A

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The following discussion briefly describes the derivatives of Xcel Energy and
its subsidiaries and discloses the respective fair values at Dec. 31, 2003 and
2002. For more detailed information regarding derivative financial instruments
and the related risks, see Note 16 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

Interest Rate Swaps

—

Subsidiaries of Xcel Energy had interest rate swaps
outstanding with a notional amount of approximately $256 million, and a fair
value that was a liability of approximately $18 million, at Dec. 31, 2003. On
Dec. 31, 2002, subsidiaries of Xcel Energy had interest rate swaps outstanding
with a notional amount of approximately $100 million, and a fair value that was
a liability of approximately $12 million.

Electric Trading Operations —

Xcel Energy participates in the trading of
electricity as a commodity. This trading includes forward contracts, futures
and options. Xcel Energy makes purchases and sales at existing market points or
combines purchases with available transmission to make sales at other market points.
Options and hedges are used to either minimize the risks associated with market
prices, or to profit from price volatility related to our purchase and sale commitments.



Beginning with the third quarter of 2002, Xcel Energy has presented the results
of its electric trading activity using the net accounting method. The
Consolidated Statement of Operations for 2001 has been reclassified to be
consistent. In earlier presentations, the gross accounting method was used. All
financial derivative contracts are recorded at the amount of the gain or loss
received from the contract. The mark-to-market adjustments for these
transactions are reported in the Consolidated Statements of Operations in
Electric and Gas Trading Margin.

Regulated Operations —

Xcel Energy’s regulated utility energy marketing
operations use a combination of electricity and natural gas purchase for resale
futures and forward contracts, along with physical supply, to hedge market
risks in the energy market. At Dec. 31, 2003, the notional amount of these
contracts was approximately 56 million MMBtu of natural gas and 62,400
megawatt-hours of electricity. The fair value of these contracts as of Dec. 31,
2003, was approximately $(11.2) million.

Nonregulated Operations —

Xcel Energy’s nonregulated operations use a
combination of energy futures and forward contracts, along with physical
supply, to hedge market risks in the energy market. At Dec. 31, 2003, the
notional amount of these contracts was approximately 6.6 million MMBtu of
natural gas. The fair value of these contracts as of Dec. 31, 2003, was
approximately $1.5 million. The value
of hedges related to nonregulated operations is included in discontinued
operations.

Foreign Currency —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have no foreign currency
swaps to hedge or protect foreign currency denominated cash flows at Dec. 31,
2003.

Letters of Credit

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries use letters of credit, generally with terms of
one year, to provide financial guarantees for certain operating obligations. At
Dec. 31, 2003, there was $95.5 million of letters of credit outstanding. The
contract amounts of these letters of credit approximate their fair value and
are subject to fees determined in the marketplace.

16.

Derivative Valuation and Financial Impacts

Use of Derivatives to Manage Risk

Business and Operational Risk —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries, including
discontinued operations held for sale, are exposed to commodity price risk in
their generation, retail distribution and energy trading operations. In certain
jurisdictions, purchased power expenses and natural gas costs are recovered on
a dollar-for-dollar basis. However, in other jurisdictions, Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries are exposed to market price risk for the purchase and sale of
electric energy and natural gas. In such jurisdictions, Xcel Energy recovers
purchased power expenses and natural gas costs based on fixed price limits or
under established sharing mechanisms.

Commodity price risk is managed by entering into purchase and sales commitments
for electric power and natural gas, long-term contracts for coal supplies and
fuel oil, and derivative financial instruments. Xcel Energy’s risk management
policy allows it to manage the market price risk within each rate-regulated
operation to the extent such exposure exists. Management is limited under the
policy to enter into only transactions that manage market price risk where the
rate regulation jurisdiction does not already provide for dollar-for-dollar
recovery. One exception to this policy exists in which Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries use various physical contracts and derivative instruments to
reduce the volatility in the cost of natural gas and electricity provided to
retail customers even though the regulatory jurisdiction provides
dollar-for-dollar recovery of actual costs. In these instances, the use of
derivative instruments and physical contracts is done consistently with the
local jurisdictional cost recovery mechanism.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have been exposed to market price risk for the
sale of electric energy and the purchase of fuel resources, including coal,
natural gas and fuel oil used to generate the electric energy within its
nonregulated operations, primarily through NRG and Xcel Energy International.
With the divestiture of NRG and the expected sale of Xcel Energy International,
the exposure to market price risk has greatly decreased. Xcel Energy managed
this market price risk by entering into firm power sales agreements for
approximately 55 percent to



75 percent of its electric
capacity and energy from
each generation facility, using contracts with terms ranging from one to 25 years. In addition, Xcel Energy
managed the
market price risk covering the fuel resource requirements to provide the
electric energy by entering into purchase commitments and derivative
instruments for coal, natural gas and fuel oil as needed to meet fixed-priced
electric energy requirements. Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows the
management of market price risks, and provides guidelines for the level of
price risk exposure that is acceptable within the company’s operations.

Interest Rate Risk

—

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries are subject to the risk
of fluctuating interest rates in the normal course of business. Xcel Energy’s
policy allows interest rate risk to be managed through the use of fixed rate debt,
floating rate debt and interest rate derivatives such as swaps, caps, collars
and put or call options.

Xcel Energy engages in hedges of cash flow exposure and hedges of fair value
exposure. The fair value of interest rate swaps designated as cash flow hedges
are initially recorded in Other Comprehensive Income. Reclassification of
unrealized gains or losses on cash flow hedges of variable rate debt
instruments from Other Comprehensive Income into earnings occurs as interest
payments are accrued on the debt instrument and generally offsets the change in
the interest accrued on the underlying variable rate debt. Hedges of fair
value exposure are entered into to hedge the fair value of a recognized asset,
liability or firm commitment. Changes in the derivative fair values that are
designated as fair value hedges are recognized in earnings as offsets to the
changes in fair values of related hedged assets, liabilities or firm
commitments. In order to test the effectiveness of such swaps, a hypothetical
swap is used to mirror all the critical terms of the underlying debt and
regression analysis is utilized to assess the effectiveness of the actual swap
at inception and on an ongoing basis. The assessment is done periodically to
ensure the swaps continue to be effective. The fair value of interest rate
swaps is determined through counterparty valuations, internal valuations and
broker quotes. There have been no material changes in the techniques or models
used in the valuation of interest rate swaps during the periods presented.

Currency Exchange Risk

—

During 2003 and 2002, NRG and Xcel Energy
International, both of which are included in discontinued operations, held
certain investments in foreign countries, exposing them to foreign currency
exchange risk. The foreign currency exchange risk included the risk relative to
the recovery of net investment in a project, as well as the risk relative to
the earnings and cash flows generated from such operations. These subsidiaries
managed their exposure to changes in foreign currency by entering into
derivative instruments as determined by management. Xcel Energy’s risk
management policy provided for this risk management activity.

Trading Risk

—

Xcel Energy’s subsidiaries conduct various trading operations
and power marketing activities, including the purchase and sale of electric
capacity and energy and, prior to December 2003 through e prime for natural
gas. The trading operations are conducted in the United States with primary
focus on specific market regions where trading knowledge and experience have
been obtained. Xcel Energy’s risk management policy allows management to
conduct the trading activity within approved guidelines and limitations as
approved by our risk management committee comprising management personnel not
involved in the trading operations.

Derivatives as Hedges

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries record all derivative instruments on the
balance sheet at fair value unless exempted, as a normal purchase or sale.
Changes in non-exempt derivative instrument’s fair value are recognized
currently in earnings unless the derivative has been designated in a qualifying
hedging relationship. The application of hedge accounting allows a derivative
instrument’s gains and losses to offset related results of the hedged item in
the statement of operations, to the extent effective. SFAS No. 133, as amended,
requires that the hedging relationship be highly effective and that a company
formally designate a hedging relationship to apply hedge accounting.

A fair value hedge requires that the effective portion of the change in the
fair value of a derivative instrument be offset against the change in the fair
value of the underlying asset, liability or firm commitment being hedged. That
is, fair value hedge accounting allows the offsetting gain or loss on the
hedged item to be reported in an earlier period to offset the gain or loss on
the derivative instrument. A cash flow hedge requires that the effective
portion of the change in the fair value of a derivative instrument be
recognized in Other Comprehensive Income, and reclassified into earnings in the
same period or periods during which the hedged transaction affects earnings.
The ineffective portion of a derivative instrument’s change in fair value is
currently recognized in earnings.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries formally document hedge relationships,
including, among other things, the identification of the hedging instrument and
the hedged transaction, as well as the risk management objectives and
strategies for undertaking the hedged transaction. Derivatives are recorded in
the balance sheet at fair value. Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries also formally
assess, both at inception and at least quarterly thereafter, whether the
derivative instruments being used are highly effective in offsetting changes in
either the fair value or cash flows of the hedged items.



Financial Impacts of Derivatives

The impact of the components of hedges, on Xcel Energy’s Other Comprehensive
Income, included in the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity, are
detailed in the following table:

(Millions of dollars)

Net unrealized transition loss at adoption, Jan. 1, 2001

$

(28.8

)

After-tax net unrealized gains related to derivatives accounted for as hedges

43.6

After-tax net realized losses on derivative transactions reclassified into earnings

19.4

Accumulated other comprehensive income related to hedges at Dec. 31, 2001

$

34.2

After-tax net unrealized losses related to derivatives accounted for as hedges

(68.3

)

After-tax net realized losses on derivative transactions reclassified into earnings

28.8

Acquisition of NRG minority interest

27.4

Accumulated other comprehensive income related to hedges at Dec. 31, 2002

$

22.1

After-tax net unrealized gains related to derivatives accounted for as hedges

24.1

After-tax net realized gains on derivative transactions reclassified into earnings

(38.1

)

Accumulated other comprehensive income related to hedges at Dec. 31, 2003

$

8.1

Xcel Energy records the fair value of its derivative instruments in its
Consolidated Balance Sheet as a separate line item identified as Derivative
Instruments Valuation for assets and liabilities, as well as current and
noncurrent.

Cash Flow Hedges —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into derivative
instruments to manage variability of future cash flows from changes in
commodity prices. These derivative instruments are designated as cash flow
hedges for accounting purposes, and the changes in the fair value of these
instruments are recorded as a component of Other Comprehensive Income. At Dec.
31, 2003, Xcel Energy had various commodity-related contracts deemed as cash
flow hedges extending through 2009. Amounts deferred are recorded in earnings
as the hedged purchase or sales transaction is settled. This could include the
physical purchase or sale of electric energy, the use of natural gas to
generate electric energy or gas purchased for resale. As of Dec. 31, 2003,
Xcel Energy had net losses of $0.7 million accumulated in Other Comprehensive
Income that are expected to be recognized in earnings or deferred as a
regulatory liability during the next 12 months as the hedged transactions
settle. However, due to the volatility of commodities markets, the value in
Other Comprehensive Income will likely change prior to its recognition in
earnings or deferral as a regulatory liability.

Xcel Energy recorded gains of $0 and $0.4 million related to ineffectiveness on
commodity cash flow hedges during the years ended Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into interest rate swap instruments that
effectively fix the interest payments on certain floating rate debt
obligations. These derivative instruments are designated as cash flow hedges
for accounting purposes, and the change in the fair value of these instruments
is recorded as a component of Other Comprehensive Income. Xcel Energy expects
to reclassify into earnings during the next 12 months net losses from Other
Comprehensive Income of approximately $1.6 million.

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries also enter into interest rate lock agreements
that effectively fix the yield or price on a specified treasury security for a
specific period. These derivative instruments are designated as cash flow
hedges for accounting purposes, and the change in the fair value of these
instruments is recorded as a component of Other Comprehensive Income. Xcel
Energy expects to reclassify into earnings during the next 12 months net gains
from Other Comprehensive Income of approximately $1.4 million.

Hedge effectiveness is recorded based on the nature of the item being hedged.
Hedging transactions for the sales of electric energy are recorded as a
component of revenue; hedging transactions for fuel used in energy generation
are recorded as a component of fuel costs; hedging transactions for gas
purchased for resale are recorded as a component of gas costs; and hedging
transactions for interest rate swaps and interest rate lock agreements are
recorded as a component of interest expense. Certain Xcel Energy utility
subsidiaries are allowed to recover in electric or gas rates the costs of
certain financial instruments purchased to reduce commodity cost volatility.

Fair Value Hedges —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries enter into interest rate
swap instruments that effectively hedge the fair value of fixed rate debt. In
June 2003, Xcel Energy entered into two five-year swaps, with a $97.5 million
notional value each, against Xcel Energy’s $195 million 3.40 percent senior
notes due 2008. Xcel Energy entered into the swaps to obtain greater access to
the lower borrowing costs normally available on floating-rate debt. These swap
agreements involve the exchange of amounts based on a variable rate of
six-month London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR) plus an adder rate over the
life of the agreement. The difference
to be paid or received as interest rates change is accrued and recognized as an
adjustment of interest expense related to the debt. The fair market value of
Xcel Energy’s interest rate swaps at Dec. 31, 2003, was $(6.3) million.



Hedges of Foreign
Currency Exposure of a Net Investment in Foreign Operations —

Due to the discontinuance of NRG and Xcel Energy International’s operations in
2003, as discussed in Notes 3 and 4 to the Consolidated Financial Statements,
Xcel Energy no longer has foreign currency exposure.

During 2002, to preserve the U.S. dollar value of projected foreign currency
cash flows, Xcel Energy, through NRG, hedged those cash flows if appropriate
foreign hedging instruments were available. Xcel Energy recorded unrealized
losses of $0.8 million associated with changes in the fair value of non-hedge,
foreign currency derivative instruments for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002. In
addition, Xcel Energy recorded losses of $2.3 million related to the
discontinuance of hedge accounting for the year ended Dec. 31, 2002.

Derivatives Not Qualifying for Hedge Accounting —

Xcel Energy and its
subsidiaries have trading operations that enter into derivative instruments.
These derivative instruments are accounted for on a mark-to-market basis in the
Consolidated Statements of Operations. The results of these transactions are
recorded within Operating Revenues on the Consolidated Statements of
Operations.

Normal Purchases or Normal Sales Contracts —

Xcel Energy’s utility subsidiaries
enter into contracts for the purchase and sale of various commodities for use
in their business operations. SFAS No. 133 requires a company to evaluate
these contracts to determine whether the contracts are derivatives. Certain
contracts that literally meet the definition of a derivative may be exempted
from SFAS No. 133, as amended, as normal purchases or normal sales. Normal
purchases and normal sales are contracts that provide for the purchase or sale
of something other than a financial instrument or derivative instrument that
will be delivered in quantities expected to be used or sold over a reasonable
period in the normal course of business. In addition, normal purchase and
normal sales contracts must have a price based on an underlying that is clearly
and closely related to the asset being sold or purchased. An underlying is a
specified interest rate, security price, commodity price, foreign exchange
rate, index of prices or rates, or other variable, including the occurrence or
nonoccurrence of a specified event such as a scheduled payment under a
contract. Contracts that meet the requirements of normal are documented and
exempted from the accounting and reporting requirements of SFAS No. 133. In
June 2003, the Derivatives Implementation Group of FASB issued Implementation
Issue No. C20 (C20) to clarify the circumstances when an underlying is not
clearly and closely related to the asset being sold or purchased. Xcel
Energy’s implementation of C20 in 2003 had no impact on earnings. However,
certain contracts did require a one-time fair value adjustment as of Oct. 1,
2003. The result of this adjustment was the creation of a derivative liability
with an offsetting regulatory asset to reflect expected recovery of the amounts
from customers. The derivative asset and related regulatory liability will be
amortized over the respective lives of the contracts. See Note 19 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

Xcel Energy evaluates all of its contracts within the regulated and
nonregulated operations when such contracts are entered to determine if they
are derivatives and, if so, if they qualify and meet the normal designation
requirements under SFAS No. 133. None of the contracts entered into within the
trading operations qualify for a normal designation.

Normal purchases and normal sales contracts are accounted for as executory
contracts as required under other generally accepted accounting principles.

17.

Commitments and Contingencies

Commitments

Legislative Resource Commitments —

In 1994 and 2003, NSP-Minnesota received
Minnesota legislative approval for additional on-site temporary spent-fuel
storage facilities at its Prairie Island nuclear power plant, provided
NSP-Minnesota satisfies certain requirements. The use of 29 dry cask containers
has been approved. As of Dec. 31, 2003, NSP-Minnesota had loaded 17 of the
containers.

In 1994, as a condition of approving 17 dry cask storage containers, the
Minnesota Legislature established several energy resource and other commitments
for NSP-Minnesota to obtain the Prairie Island temporary nuclear-fuel storage
facility approval. These commitments can be met by building, purchasing or, in
the case of biomass, converting generation resources. Other commitments
established by the Legislature included a discount for low-income electric
customers, required conservation improvement expenditures and various study and
reporting requirements to a legislative electric energy task force.
NSP-Minnesota has implemented programs to meet the legislative commitments.
NSP-Minnesota’s capital commitments include the known effects of the Prairie
Island legislation.



On May 29, 2003, the Minnesota Legislature enacted additional legislation,
which will enable NSP-Minnesota to store at least 12 more casks of spent fuel
outside the Prairie Island nuclear generating plant. This will allow
NSP-Minnesota to continue to operate the facility and store spent fuel there
until its licenses with the Nuclear Regulatory Commission (NRC) expire in 2013
and 2014. The legislation transfers the primary authority concerning future
spent-fuel storage issues from the state Legislature to the MPUC. It also
allows for additional storage without the requirement of an affirmative vote
from the state Legislature, if the NRC extends the licenses of the Prairie
Island and Monticello plants and the MPUC grants a certificate of need for such
additional storage. The legislation requires NSP-Minnesota to add at least 300
megawatts of additional wind power by 2010 with an option to own 100 megawatts
of this power.

The legislation also requires payments during the remaining operating life of
the Prairie Island plant. These payments include: $2.25 million per year to the
Prairie Island Tribal Community beginning in 2004; 5 percent of NSP-Minnesota’s
conservation program expenditures (estimated at $2 million per year) to the
University of Minnesota for renewable energy research; and an increase in
funding commitments to the previously established Renewable Development Fund
from $8.5 million in 2002 to $16 million per year beginning in 2003. The
legislation also designated $10 million in one-time grants to the University of
Minnesota for additional renewable energy research, which is to be funded from
commitments already made to the Renewable Development Fund. All of the cost
increases to NSP-Minnesota from these required payments and funding commitments
are expected to be recoverable in Minnesota retail customer rates, mainly
through existing cost recovery mechanisms. Funding commitments to the Renewable
Development Fund would terminate after the Prairie Island plant discontinues
operation unless the MPUC determines that NSP-Minnesota failed to make a good
faith effort to move the waste, in which case NSP-Minnesota would have to make
payments in the amount of $7.5 million per year.

Reliability Commitments

—

In 2002, the MPUC directed the Office of the
Attorney General and the Minnesota Department of Commerce (state agencies) to
investigate the accuracy of NSP-Minnesota’s electric reliability records, which
are summarized and reported to the MPUC on a monthly and annual basis, subject
to penalty for not meeting threshold requirements, under the terms of the
merger settlement agreements.

In 2003, NSP-Minnesota and the state agencies announced that they had reached a
settlement agreement, which was approved with modifications by the MPUC in
January 2004. Initially, the settlement requires NSP-Minnesota to refund $1
million to customers in Minnesota, which has been accrued. In addition, it
requires NSP-Minnesota to incur at least $15 million of costs for actions to
improve system reliability above amounts being currently recovered in rates by
Jan. 1, 2005. The MPUC modified the settlement to include an additional
under-performance payment for any future finding of inaccurate reliability
data. The final order has not yet been issued by the MPUC, and all parties to
the settlement have the option to void the settlement in the event of a
significant modification to the settlement.

Capital Commitments —

As discussed in Liquidity and Capital Resources under
Management’s Discussion and Analysis, the estimated cost, as of Dec. 31, 2003,
of the capital expenditure programs and other capital requirements of Xcel
Energy and its subsidiaries is approximately $1.4 billion in 2004, $1.5 billion
in 2005 and $2.1 billion in 2006.

The capital expenditure programs of Xcel Energy are subject to continuing
review and modification. Actual utility construction expenditures may vary from
the estimates due to changes in electric and natural gas projected load growth,
the desired reserve margin and the availability of purchased power, as well as
alternative plans for meeting Xcel Energy’s long-term energy needs. In
addition, Xcel Energy’s ongoing evaluation of restructuring requirements,
compliance with future requirements to install emission-control
equipment, and
merger, acquisition and divestiture opportunities to support corporate
strategies may impact actual capital requirements.

Leases —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries lease a variety of equipment and
facilities used in the normal course of business. Some of these leases qualify
as capital leases and are accounted for accordingly. The capital leases expire
in 2024 and 2025. The net book value of property under capital leases was
approximately $48 million and $50 million at Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002,
respectively. Assets acquired under capital leases are recorded as property at
the lower of fair market value or the present value of future lease payments,
and are amortized over their actual contract term in accordance with practices
allowed by regulators. The related obligation is classified as long-term debt.
Executory costs are excluded from the minimum lease payments.

The remainder of the leases, primarily real estate leases and leases of
coal-hauling railcars, trucks, cars and power-operated equipment are accounted
for as operating leases. Rental expense under operating lease obligations for
continuing operations was approximately $66 million, $69 million and $49
million for 2003, 2002 and 2001, respectively.



Future commitments under operating and capital leases for continuing operations
are:

(Millions of dollars)

Operating Leases

Capital Leases


$


$














Thereafter



Total minimum obligation

$


Interest

(58

)

Present value of
minimum obligation

$


Technology Agreement —

Xcel Energy has a contract that extends through 2011
with International Business Machines Corp. (IBM) for information technology
services. The contract is cancelable at our option, although there are
financial penalties for early termination. In 2003, Xcel Energy paid IBM $114.2
million under the contract and $19.4 million for other project business. The
contract also has a committed minimum payment each year from 2004 through 2011.

Fuel Contracts —

Xcel Energy and its subsidiaries have contracts providing for
the purchase and delivery of a significant portion of its current coal, nuclear
fuel and natural gas requirements. These contracts expire in various years
between 2004 and 2025. In total, Xcel Energy is committed to the minimum
purchase of approximately $2.7 billion of coal, $93.3 million of nuclear fuel
and $1.9 billion of natural gas, including $790.8 million of natural gas
storage and transportation, or to make payments in lieu thereof, under these
contracts. Of these minimum purchase commitments, approximately $2 billion are
based on indexed prices. In addition, Xcel Energy is required to pay
additional amounts depending on actual quantities shipped under these
agreements. Xcel Energy’s risk of loss, in the form of increased costs, from
market price changes in fuel is mitigated through the use of natural gas and
energy cost adjustment mechanisms of the ratemaking process, which provide for
pass through of most fuel costs to customers.

Purchased Power Agreements —

The utility and nonregulated subsidiaries of Xcel
Energy have entered into agreements with utilities and other energy suppliers
for purchased power to meet system load and energy requirements, replace
generation from company-owned units under maintenance and during outages, and
meet operating reserve obligations. NSP-Minnesota, PSCo, SPS and certain
nonregulated subsidiaries have various pay-for-performance contracts with
expiration dates through the year 2033. In general, these contracts provide for
capacity payments, subject to meeting certain contract obligations, and energy
payments based on actual power taken under the contracts. Most of the capacity
and energy costs are recovered through base rates and other cost-recovery
mechanisms.

At Dec. 31, 2003, the estimated future payments for capacity that the utility
and nonregulated subsidiaries of Xcel Energy are obligated to purchase, subject
to availability, are as follows:

(Thousands of dollars)


$

552,651


554,603


547,987


562,917

2008 and thereafter

3,958,416

Total

$

6,176,574

Environmental Contingencies

Xcel Energy is subject to regulations covering air and water quality, land use,
the storage of natural gas and the storage and disposal of hazardous or toxic
wastes. Compliance is continually assessed. Regulations, interpretations and
enforcement policies can change, which may impact the cost of building and
operating facilities.

Site Remediation

—

Xcel Energy must pay all or a portion of the cost to
remediate sites where past activities of our subsidiaries and some other
parties have caused environmental contamination. At Dec. 31, 2003, there were
three categories of sites:

•

third-party sites, such as landfills, to which Xcel Energy is alleged
to be a potentially responsible party (PRP) that sent hazardous
materials and wastes;

•

the site of a former federal uranium enrichment facility; and

•

sites of former manufactured gas plants (MGPs) operated by our subsidiaries or predecessors.



Xcel Energy records a liability when enough information is obtained to develop
an estimate of the cost of environmental remediation and revise the estimate as
information is received. The estimated remediation cost may vary materially.

To estimate the cost to remediate these sites, assumptions are made when facts
are not fully known. For instance, assumptions may be made about the nature
and extent of site contamination, the extent of required cleanup efforts, costs
of alternative cleanup methods and pollution-control technologies, the period
over which remediation will be performed and paid for, changes in environmental
remediation and pollution-control requirements, the potential effect of
technological improvements, the number and financial strength of other PRPs and
the identification of new environmental cleanup sites.

Estimates are revised as facts become known. At Dec. 31, 2003, the liability
for the cost of remediating these sites was estimated to be $43.2 million, of
which $12.5 million was considered to be a current liability. Some of the cost
of remediation may be recovered from:

•

insurance coverage;

•

other parties that have contributed to the contamination; and

•

customers.

Neither the total remediation cost nor the final method of cost allocation
among all PRPs of the unremediated sites has been determined. Estimates have
been recorded for Xcel Energy’s share of future costs for these sites.
Management is not aware of any other parties’ inability to pay, or
responsibility for any of the sites that is in dispute.

Approximately $10.1 million of the long-term liability and $4.5 million of the
current liability relate to a U.S. Department of Energy assessment to
NSP-Minnesota and PSCo for decommissioning a federal uranium enrichment
facility. These environmental liabilities do not include accruals recorded and
collected from customers in rates for future nuclear fuel disposal costs or
decommissioning costs related to NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear generating plants. See
Note 18 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion of
nuclear obligations.

Ashland MGP Site

—

NSP-Wisconsin was named as one of three PRPs for creosote
and coal tar contamination at a site in Ashland, Wis. The Ashland site includes
property owned by NSP-Wisconsin, which was previously an MGP facility, and two
other properties: an adjacent city lakeshore park area, on which an
unaffiliated third party previously operated a sawmill, and a small area of
Lake Superior’s Chequemegon Bay adjoining the park.

The Wisconsin Department of Natural Resources (WDNR) and NSP-Wisconsin have
each developed several estimates of the ultimate cost to remediate the Ashland
site. The estimates vary significantly, between $4.0 million and $93.0
million, because different methods of remediation and different results are
assumed in each. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and WDNR have not
yet selected the method of remediation to use at the site. Until the EPA and
the WDNR select a remediation strategy for all operable units at the site and
determine the level of responsibility of each PRP, NSP-Wisconsin’s share of the
ultimate cost of remediating the Ashland site is not determinable.

In the interim, NSP-Wisconsin has recorded a liability of $18.5 million for its
estimate of its share of the cost of remediating the Ashland site, using
information available to date and reasonably effective remedial methods.
NSP-Wisconsin has deferred, as a regulatory asset, the remediation costs
accrued for the Ashland site based on an expectation that the Public Service
Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW) will continue to allow NSP-Wisconsin to recover
payments for environmental remediation from its customers. The PSCW has
consistently authorized recovery in NSP-Wisconsin rates of all remediation
costs incurred at the Ashland site, and has authorized recovery of similar
remediation costs for other Wisconsin utilities. External MGP remediation
costs are subject to deferral in the Wisconsin retail jurisdiction and are
reviewed as part of the Wisconsin biennial retail rate case process for
prudence. Once approved by the PSCW, deferred MGP remediation costs, less
carrying costs, are historically amortized over four or six years. In
addition, the Wisconsin Supreme Court rendered a ruling that reopens the
possibility that NSP-Wisconsin may be able to recover a portion of the
remediation costs from its insurance carriers.

As an interim action, Xcel Energy proposed, and the EPA and WDNR have approved,
a coal tar removal and groundwater treatment system for one area of concern at
the site for which NSP-Wisconsin has accepted responsibility. The groundwater
treatment system began operating in the fall of 2000. In 2002, NSP-Wisconsin
installed additional monitoring wells in the deep aquifer to better
characterize the extent and degree of contaminants in that aquifer while the
coal tar removal system is operational. In 2002, a second interim response
action was also implemented. As approved by the WDNR, this interim response
action involved the removal and capping of a seep area in a city park. Surface
soils in the area of the seep were contaminated with tar residues. The interim
action also included the diversion and ongoing treatment of groundwater that
contributed to the formation of the seep.



On Sept. 5, 2002, the Ashland site was placed on the National Priorities List
(NPL). The NPL is intended primarily to guide the EPA in determining which
sites require further investigation. On Nov. 14, 2003, the EPA and
NSP-Wisconsin signed an administrative
order on consent requiring NSP-Wisconsin to complete the remedial investigation
and feasibility study for the site. Resolution of Ashland remediation issues
is not expected until 2006 or 2007. NSP-Wisconsin continues to work with the
WDNR to access state and federal funds to apply to the ultimate remediation
cost of the entire site.

Fort Collins
Manufactured Gas Plant Site

—

Prior to 1926, Poudre Valley Gas
Co., a predecessor of PSCo, operated a manufactured gas plant in Fort Collins,
Colo. not far from the Cache la Poudre River. In 1926, after acquiring the
Poudre Valley Gas Co., PSCo shut down the gas site and, years later, sold most
of the property. In the mid-1990s, contamination associated with MGP
operations was discovered on the gas plant site, and PSCo paid for a portion
of a partial cleanup. Recently, an oily substance similar to MGP by-products
has been discovered in the Cache la Poudre River. The source of this substance
has not yet been identified. PSCo is working with the EPA, the Colorado
Department of Public Health and Environment, the current site owner and the
City of Fort Collins (owner of a former landfill property between the river and
the plant site) to address the substance found in the river as well as other
environmental issues found on the property. The scope of the investigation has
expanded as a result of negotiations with the EPA, and PSCo estimates that the
cost of initial removal and investigation activities will be approximately $1.6
million, although the actual cost will vary depending on site conditions.
While PSCo has recorded this cost estimate at Dec. 31, 2003, it lacks
sufficient information at this time to estimate its ultimate liability, if
different, for this site. PSCo has deferred the costs recorded to date as a
regulatory asset and believes that they will be recovered through future rates.
Any costs that are not recoverable from customers will be expensed.

Other MGP Sites

—

NSP-Minnesota has investigated and remediated MGP sites in
Minnesota and North Dakota. The MPUC allowed NSP-Minnesota to defer, rather
than immediately expense, certain remediation costs of four active remediation
sites in 1994. This deferral accounting treatment may be used to accumulate
costs that regulators are expected to allow to be recovered from customers.
The costs are deferred as a regulatory asset until recovery is approved, and
then the regulatory asset is expensed over the same period as the regulators
have allowed the related revenue to be collected from customers. In September
1998, the MPUC allowed the recovery of a portion of these MGP site remediation
costs in natural gas rates. Accordingly, NSP-Minnesota has been amortizing the
related deferred remediation costs to expense. In 2001, the North Dakota
Public Service Commission allowed the recovery of a portion of the cost of
remediating another former MGP site in Grand Forks, N.D. The $2.9 million of
deferred cost of remediating that site was accumulated in a regulatory asset
that is now being expensed evenly over eight years commensurate with cost
recovery. NSP-Minnesota may request recovery of costs to remediate other sites
following the completion of preliminary investigations. NSP-Wisconsin has
investigated and remediated MGP sites in Wisconsin. As discussed above,
external MGP costs are subject to deferral in the Wisconsin retail jurisdiction
and are reviewed as part of the Wisconsin biennial retail rate case process for
prudence. Once approved by the PSCW, deferred MGP amounts, less carrying
costs, are historically amortized over four or six years.

Asbestos Removal

—

Some of our facilities contain asbestos. Most asbestos
will remain undisturbed until the facilities that contain it are demolished or
renovated. Since the intent is to operate most of these facilities
indefinitely, Xcel Energy cannot estimate the amount or timing of payments for
final removal of the asbestos. It may be necessary to remove some asbestos to
perform maintenance or make improvements to other equipment. The cost of
removing asbestos as part of other work is immaterial and is recorded as
incurred as operating expenses for maintenance projects; capital expenditures
for construction projects; or removal costs for demolition projects.

Leyden Gas Storage
Facility

—

In February 2001, the CPUC approved PSCo’s plan
to abandon the Leyden natural gas storage facility (Leyden) after 40 years of
operation. In July 2001, the CPUC decided that the recovery of all Leyden
costs would be addressed in a future rate proceeding when all costs were known.
In 2003, PSCo began flooding the facility with water, as part of an overall
plan to convert Leyden into a municipal water storage facility owned and
operated by the city of Arvada, Colo. In August 2003, the Colorado Oil and Gas
Conservation Commission approved the closure plan, the last formal regulatory
approval necessary before conversion. Leyden is expected to close by Dec. 31,
2005, and the city of Arvada will take over the site. PSCo is obligated to
monitor the site for two years after closure. As of Dec. 31, 2003, PSCo has
incurred approximately $4.7 million of costs associated with engineering buffer
studies, damage claims paid to landowners and other initial closure costs.
PSCo has accrued an additional $4.7 million of costs expected to be incurred
through 2006 to complete the decommissioning and closure of the facility. PSCo
has deferred these costs as a regulatory asset and believes that these costs
will be recovered through future rates. Any costs that are not recoverable
from customers will be expensed.

PSCo Notice of
Violation

—

On Nov. 3, 1999, the U.S. Department of Justice
filed suit against a number of electric utilities for alleged violations of the
Clean Air Act’s New Source Review (NSR) requirements. The suit is related to
alleged modifications of electric generating stations located in the South and
Midwest. Subsequently, the EPA also issued requests for information pursuant
to the Clean Air Act to numerous electric utilities, including Xcel Energy,
seeking to determine whether these utilities engaged in activities that may
have been in violation of the NSR requirements. In 2001, Xcel Energy responded
to EPA’s initial information requests related to PSCo plants in Colorado.

On July 1, 2002, PSCo received a Notice of Violation (NOV) from the EPA
alleging violations of the NSR requirements of the Clean Air Act at the
Comanche and Pawnee stations in Colorado. The NOV specifically alleges that
various maintenance, repair and replacement projects



undertaken at the plants
in the mid- to late-1990s should have required a permit under the NSR process.
PSCo believes it acted in full compliance with the Clean Air Act and NSR process.
It believes that the projects identified in the NOV fit within the routine
maintenance, repair and replacement exemption contained within the NSR
regulations, or are otherwise not subject to the NSR requirements. PSCo also
believes that the projects would be expressly authorized under the EPA’s NSR
equipment-replacement rulemaking promulgated in October 2003. On Dec. 24, 2003,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit stayed this rule
while it considers challenges to it. PSCo disagrees with the assertions
contained in the NOV and intends to vigorously defend its position. As required
by the Clean Air Act, the EPA met with PSCo in September 2002 to discuss the
NOV.

If the EPA is successful in any subsequent litigation regarding the issues set
forth in the NOV or any matter arising as a result of its information requests,
it could require PSCo to install additional emission-control equipment at the
facilities and pay civil penalties. Civil penalties are limited to not more
than $25,000 to $27,500 per day for each violation, commencing from the date
the violation began. The ultimate financial impact to PSCo is not determinable
at this time.

NSP-Minnesota NSR
Information Request

—

On Nov. 3, 1999,
the U. S. Department of Justice filed suit, related to alleged modifications of
electric generating stations located in the South and Midwest, against a number
of electric utilities for alleged violations of the Clean Air Act’s NSR
requirements. Subsequently, the EPA also issued requests for information
pursuant to the Clean Air Act to numerous other electric utilities, including
Xcel Energy, seeking to determine whether these utilities engaged in activities
that may have been in violation of the NSR requirements. In 2001, Xcel Energy
responded to the EPA’s initial information requests related to NSP-Minnesota
plants in Minnesota. On May 22, 2002, the EPA issued a follow-up information
request to Xcel Energy seeking additional information regarding NSR compliance
at its plants in Minnesota. Xcel Energy completed its response to the
follow-up information request during the fall of 2002.

NSP-Minnesota Notice of
Violation

—

On Dec. 10, 2001, the Minnesota Pollution
Control Agency issued a notice of violation to NSP-Minnesota alleging air
quality violations related to the replacement of a coal conveyor and violations
of an opacity limitation at the A.S. King generating plant. NSP-Minnesota has
responded to the notice of violation and is working to resolve the allegations.

Nuclear Insurance —

NSP-Minnesota’s public liability for claims resulting from
any nuclear incident is limited to $10.9 billion under the 1988 Price-Anderson
amendment to the Atomic Energy Act of 1954. NSP-Minnesota has secured $300
million of coverage for its public liability exposure with a pool of insurance
companies. The remaining $10.6 billion of exposure is funded by the Secondary
Financial Protection Program, available from assessments by the federal
government in case of a nuclear accident. NSP-Minnesota is subject to
assessments of up to $100.6 million for each of its three licensed reactors, to
be applied for public liability arising from a nuclear incident at any licensed
nuclear facility in the United States. The maximum funding requirement is $10
million per reactor during any one year.

NSP-Minnesota purchases insurance for property damage and site decontamination
cleanup costs from Nuclear Electric Insurance Ltd. (NEIL). The coverage limits
are $2.0 billion for each of NSP-Minnesota’s two nuclear plant sites. NEIL also
provides business interruption insurance coverage, including the cost of
replacement power obtained during certain prolonged accidental outages of
nuclear generating units. Premiums are expensed over the policy term. All
companies insured with NEIL are subject to retroactive premium adjustments if
losses exceed accumulated reserve funds. Capital has been accumulated in the
reserve funds of NEIL to the extent that NSP-Minnesota would have no exposure
for retroactive premium assessments in case of a single incident under the
business interruption and the property damage insurance coverage. However, in
each calendar year, NSP-Minnesota could be subject to maximum assessments of
approximately $7.5 million for business interruption insurance and $25.6
million for property damage insurance if losses exceed accumulated reserve
funds.

Legal Contingencies

In the normal course of business, Xcel Energy is subject to claims and
litigation arising from prior and current operations. Xcel Energy is actively
defending these matters and has recorded an estimate of the probable cost of
settlement or other disposition.

The ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be determined.
Accordingly, the ultimate resolution of these matters could have a material
adverse effect on Xcel Energy’s financial position and results of operations.

Department of Labor Audit —

In 2001, Xcel Energy received notice from the
Department of Labor (DOL) Employee Benefit Security Administration that it
intended to audit the Xcel Energy pension plan. After multiple on-site meetings
and interviews with Xcel Energy personnel, the DOL indicated on Sept. 18, 2003,
that it is prepared to take the position that Xcel Energy, as plan sponsor and
through its delegate, the Pension Trust Administration Committee, breached its
fiduciary duties under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974
(ERISA) with respect to certain investments made in limited partnerships and
hedge funds in 1997 and 1998.



All discussions related to potential ERISA fiduciary violations have been
preliminary and unofficial. The DOL has offered to conclude the audit at this
time if Xcel Energy is willing to contribute to the plan the full amount of
losses from each of these questioned investments, or approximately $13 million.
Xcel Energy has responded with a letter to the DOL asserting that no fiduciary
violations have occurred, and extended an offer to meet to discuss the matter
further. In December 2003, the DOL requested, and Xcel Energy agreed, to toll
the statute of limitations under ERISA with respect to this claim. The DOL now
has until Dec. 5, 2004, to assert a claim. If the DOL offer is put into
effect, the requested contribution would affect cash flows only and
not the net income of Xcel Energy.

Xcel Energy Inc. Securities Litigation —

On July 31, 2002, a lawsuit purporting
to be a class action on behalf of purchasers of Xcel Energy’s common stock
between Jan. 31, 2001 and July 26, 2002, was filed in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Minnesota. The complaint named Xcel Energy; Wayne H.
Brunetti, chairman and chief executive officer; Edward J. McIntyre, former vice
president and chief financial officer; and former chairman James J. Howard as
defendants. Among other things, the complaint alleged violations of Section
10(b) of the Securities Exchange Act and Rule 10(b-5) related to allegedly
false and misleading disclosures concerning various issues including but not
limited to “round trip” energy trades; the nature, extent and seriousness of
liquidity and credit difficulties at NRG; and the existence of cross-default
provisions (with NRG credit agreements) in certain of Xcel Energy’s credit
agreements. After filing the lawsuit, several additional lawsuits were filed
with similar allegations, one of which added claims on behalf of a purported
class of purchasers of two series of Senior Notes issued by NRG in January
2001. The cases have all been consolidated, and a consolidated amended
complaint has been filed. The amended complaint charges false and misleading
disclosures concerning “round trip” energy trades and the existence of
provisions in Xcel Energy’s credit agreements for cross-defaults in the event
of a default by NRG in one or more of NRG’s credit agreements; it adds as
additional defendants Gary R. Johnson, general counsel; Richard C. Kelly, then
president of Xcel Energy Enterprises; two former executive officers and one
current executive officer of NRG, David H. Peterson, Leonard A. Bluhm, and
William T. Pieper; and a former independent director of NRG, Luella G.
Goldberg; and it adds claims of false and misleading disclosures, also
regarding “round trip” trades and the cross-default provisions, as well as the
extent to which the “fortunes” of NRG were tied to Xcel Energy, especially in
the event of a buyback of NRG’s publicly owned shares under Section 11 of the
Securities Act, with respect to issuance of the senior notes by NRG. The
amended complaint seeks compensatory and rescissionary damages, interest and an
award of fees and expenses. On Sept. 30, 2003, in response to the defendants’
motion to dismiss, the court issued an order dismissing the claims brought by
purchasers of the NRG senior notes against defendants James Howard, Gary R.
Johnson, Richard C. Kelly, David H. Peterson, Leonard A. Bluhm, William T.
Pieper and Luella Goldberg. The court, however, denied the motion related to
claims brought by Xcel Energy shareholders against Xcel Energy, James Howard,
Wayne Brunetti and Edward McIntyre. Subsequently, following a pre-trial
conference in December 2003, this matter was ordered to be ready for trial by
Feb. 1, 2006. Presently the parties are in the preliminary stages of
discovery.

Xcel Energy Inc. Shareholder Derivative Action; Essmacher vs. Brunetti; McLain
vs. Brunetti —

On Aug. 15, 2002, a shareholder derivative action was filed in
the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota, purportedly on behalf of
Xcel Energy, against the directors and certain present and former officers,
citing essentially the same circumstances as the securities class actions
described immediately preceding and asserting breach of fiduciary duty. This
action has been consolidated for pre-trial purposes with the securities class
actions and an amended complaint was filed. After the filing of this action,
two additional derivative actions were filed in the state trial court for
Hennepin County, Minn., against essentially the same defendants, focusing on
allegedly wrongful energy trading activities and asserting breach of fiduciary
duty for failure to establish adequate accounting controls, abuse of control
and gross mismanagement. Considered collectively, the complaints seek
compensatory damages, a return of compensation received, and awards of fees and
expenses. In each of the cases, the defendants filed motions to dismiss the
complaint or amended complaint for failure to make a proper pre-suit demand, or
in the federal court case, to make any pre-suit demand at all, upon Xcel
Energy’s board of directors. The motions in federal court have not been ruled
upon. In an order dated Jan. 6, 2004, the Minnesota district court judge
granted the defendants’ motion to dismiss both of the state court actions.
Discovery is proceeding in conjunction with the securities litigation,
previously described.

Newcome vs. Xcel Energy Inc.; Barday vs. Xcel Energy Inc. —

On Sept. 23, 2002,
and Oct. 9, 2002, two essentially identical actions were filed in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Colorado, purportedly on behalf of classes
of employee participants in Xcel Energy’s and its predecessors’ 401(k) or ESOP
plans, from as early as Sept. 23, 1999, forward. The complaints in the actions
name as defendants Xcel Energy, its directors, certain former directors, James
J. Howard and Giannantonio Ferrari, and certain present and former officers,
Edward J. McIntyre and David E. Ripka. The complaints allege violations of the
ERISA in the form of breach of fiduciary duty in allowing or encouraging
purchase, contribution and/or retention of Xcel Energy’s common stock in the
plans and making misleading statements and omissions in that regard. The
complaints seek injunctive relief, restitution, disgorgement and other remedial
relief, interest and an award of fees and expenses. The defendants have filed
motions to dismiss the complaints upon which no rulings have yet been made. The
plaintiffs have made certain voluntary disclosure of information, and discovery
is proceeding in conjunction with the securities litigation previously
described. Upon motion of defendants, the cases have been transferred to the
District of Minnesota for purposes of coordination with the securities class
actions and shareholders derivative action pending there.



SchlumbergerSema, Inc.
vs. Xcel Energy Inc.

—

Under a 1996 data services
agreement, SchlumbergerSema, Inc. (SLB) provides automated meter reading,
distribution automation, and other data services to NSP-Minnesota. In September
2002, NSP-Minnesota issued written notice that SLB committed events of default
under the agreement, including SLB’s nonpayment of approximately $7.4 million
for distribution automation assets. In November 2002, SLB demanded arbitration
and asserted various claims against NSP-Minnesota totaling $24 million for
alleged breach of an expansion contract and a meter purchasing contract. In the
arbitration, NSP-Minnesota asserts counterclaims against SLB
including those related to SLB’s failure
to meet performance criteria, improper billing, failure to pay for use of
NSP-Minnesota owned property and failure to pay $7.4 million for NSP-Minnesota
distribution automation assets, for total claims of approximately $41 million.
NSP-Minnesota also seeks a declaratory judgment from the arbitrators that would
terminate SLB’s rights under the data services agreement. The
arbitration panel is scheduled to hear dispositive motions in March
2004. In the event the matter is not disposed of on the motions, a
hearing to arbitrate the dispute will likely occur in second quarter
2004.

Cornerstone Propane
Partners, L.P., et al., vs. e prime, inc., et al.

—

In
February 2004, a purported class action complaint was filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York against e prime and three
other defendants, by Cornerstone Propane Partners, L.P., Robert Calle Gracey
and Dominick Viola on behalf of a class who purchased or sold one or more New
York Mercantile Exchange natural gas futures and/or options contracts during
the period from Jan. 1, 2000 to Dec. 31, 2002. The complaint alleges that
defendants manipulated the price of natural gas futures and options and/or the
price of natural gas underlying those contracts in violation of the Commodities
Exchange Act. On Feb. 2, 2004, the plaintiff requested that this action be
consolidated with a similar suit involving Reliant Energy Services. Xcel
Energy is in the process of reviewing this recently filed complaint and intends
to vigorously defend itself in the lawsuit.

Texas-Ohio Energy, Inc. vs. Centerpoint Energy et al.

—

On Nov. 19, 2003, a
class action complaint filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern
District of California by Texas-Ohio Energy, Inc. was served on the Xcel Energy
naming e prime as a defendant. The lawsuit, filed on behalf of a purported
class of large wholesale natural gas purchasers, alleges that e prime falsely
reported natural gas trades to market trade publications in an effort to
artificially raise natural gas prices in California. The case has been
conditionally transferred to U.S. District Judge Pro in Nevada who is
supervising western areas wholesale natural gas marketing litigation. A motion
is currently pending to transfer the case back to the Eastern District of
California. e prime has not yet responded to the complaint. The case is in the
early stages, there has been no discovery, and Xcel Energy intends to
vigorously defend against these claims.

Other Contingencies

Tax Matters —

PSCo’s wholly owned subsidiary PSR Investments, Inc. (PSRI) owns
and manages permanent life insurance policies on PSCo employees, known as
corporate-owned life insurance (COLI). At various times, borrowings have been
made against the cash values of these COLI policies and the interest
expense on these borrowings has been deducted. The IRS had issued a Notice of Proposed Adjustment
proposing to disallow interest expense deductions taken in tax years 1993
through 1997 related to COLI policy loans. A request for technical advice from
the IRS National Office with respect to the proposed adjustment had been
pending. Late in 2001, Xcel Energy received a technical advice memorandum from
the IRS National Office, which communicated a position adverse to PSRI.
Consequently, the IRS examination division has disallowed interest expense deductions for the tax years 1993 through
1997.

After consultation with tax counsel, it is Xcel Energy’s position that the IRS
determination is not supported by the tax law. Based upon this assessment,
management continues to believe that the tax deduction of interest expense on
the COLI policy loans is in full compliance with the tax law. Therefore, Xcel
Energy intends to challenge the IRS determination, which could require several
years to reach final resolution. Although the ultimate resolution of this
matter is uncertain, management continues to believe the resolution of this
matter will not have a material adverse impact on Xcel Energy’s financial
position, results of operations or cash flows. For these reasons, PSRI has not
recorded any provision for income tax or interest expense related to this
matter, and has continued to take deductions for interest expense related to
policy loans on its income tax returns for subsequent years. However, defense
of Xcel Energy’s position may require significant cash outlays on a temporary
basis, if refund litigation is pursued in U.S. District Court.

The total disallowance of interest expense deductions for the period of 1993
through 1997, as proposed by the IRS, is approximately $175 million. Additional
interest expense deductions for the period 1998 through 2003 are estimated to
total approximately $404 million. Should the IRS ultimately prevail on this
issue, tax and interest payable through Dec. 31, 2003, would reduce earnings by
an estimated $254 million after tax.



18.      Nuclear Obligations

Fuel Disposal —

NSP-Minnesota is responsible for temporarily storing used or
spent nuclear fuel from its nuclear plants. The DOE is responsible for
permanently storing spent fuel from NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear plants as well as
from other U.S. nuclear plants. NSP-Minnesota has funded its portion of the
DOE’s permanent disposal program since 1981. The fuel disposal fees are based
on a charge of 0.1 cent per kilowatt-hour sold to customers from nuclear
generation. Fuel expense includes DOE fuel disposal assessments of
approximately $13 million in 2003, $13 million in 2002 and $11 million in 2001.
In total, NSP-Minnesota had paid approximately $321 million to the DOE through
Dec. 31, 2003. However, it is not determinable whether the amount and method of
the DOE’s assessments to all utilities will be sufficient to fully fund the
DOE’s permanent storage or disposal facility.

The Nuclear Waste Policy Act required the DOE to begin accepting spent nuclear
fuel no later than Jan. 31, 1998. In 1996, the DOE notified commercial
spent-fuel owners of an anticipated delay in accepting spent nuclear fuel by
the required date and conceded that a permanent storage or disposal facility
will not be available until at least 2010. NSP-Minnesota and other utilities
have commenced lawsuits against the DOE to recover damages caused by the DOE’s
failure to meet its statutory and contractual obligations.

NSP-Minnesota has its own temporary, on-site storage facilities for spent fuel
at its Monticello and Prairie Island nuclear plants, which consist of storage
pools and a dry cask facility. With the dry cask storage facility licensed by
the NRC approved in 1994 and again in 2003, management believes it has adequate
storage capacity to continue operation of its Prairie Island nuclear plant
until at least the end of its license terms in 2013 and 2014. The Monticello
nuclear plant has storage capacity in the pool to continue operations until
2010. Storage availability to permit operation beyond these dates is not known
at this time. All of the alternatives for spent-fuel storage are being
investigated until a DOE facility is available, including pursuing the
establishment of a private facility for interim storage of spent nuclear fuel
as part of a consortium of electric utilities.

Nuclear fuel expense includes payments to the DOE for the decommissioning and
decontamination of the DOE’s uranium-enrichment facilities. In 1993,
NSP-Minnesota recorded the DOE’s initial assessment of $46 million, which is
payable in annual installments from 1993 to 2008. NSP-Minnesota is amortizing
each installment to expense on a monthly basis. The most recent installment
paid in 2003 was $4.5 million; future installments are subject to inflation
adjustments under DOE rules. NSP-Minnesota is obtaining rate recovery of these
DOE assessments through the cost-of-energy adjustment clause as the assessments
are amortized. Accordingly, the unamortized assessment of $16.8 million at Dec.
31, 2003, is deferred as a regulatory asset.

Plant Decommissioning —

Decommissioning of NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear facilities
is planned for the years 2010 through 2048, using the prompt dismantlement
method. NSP-Minnesota is currently following industry practice by accruing the
costs for decommissioning over the approved cost-recovery period and including
the accruals in Accumulated Depreciation. Upon implementation of SFAS No. 143,
the decommissioning costs in Accumulated Depreciation and ongoing accruals are
reclassified to a regulatory liability account. The total decommissioning cost
obligation is recorded as an asset retirement obligation in accordance with
SFAS No. 143. See Accounting Change — SFAS No. 143 for additional
information.

Monticello began operation in 1971 and is licensed to operate until 2010.
Prairie Island units 1 and 2 began operation in 1973 and 1974, respectively,
and are licensed to operate until 2013 and 2014, respectively. In 2003, the
Minnesota Legislature changed a law that had limited expansion of on-site
storage. NSP-Minnesota will make a decision on whether to pursue license
renewal for the Monticello and Prairie Island plants. Applications for license
renewal must be submitted to the NRC at least five years prior to license
expiration. Preliminary scoping efforts for license renewal of the Monticello
plant have begun, including data collection and review. The Prairie Island
license renewal process has not yet begun. NSP-Minnesota’s decision whether to
apply for license renewal approval could be contingent on incremental plant
maintenance or capital expenditures, recovery of which would be expected from
customers through the respective rate-recovery mechanisms. Management cannot
predict the specific impact of such future requirements, if any, on its results
of operations.

Consistent with cost recovery in utility customer rates, NSP-Minnesota records
annual decommissioning accruals based on periodic site-specific cost studies
and a presumed level of dedicated funding. Cost studies quantify
decommissioning costs in current dollars. Funding presumes that current costs
will escalate in the future at a rate of 4.19 percent per year. The total
estimated decommissioning costs that will ultimately be paid, net of income
earned by external trust funds, is currently being accrued using an annuity
approach over the approved plant-recovery period. This annuity approach uses an
assumed rate of return on funding, which is currently 5.5 percent, net of tax,
for external funding and approximately 8 percent, net of tax, for internal
funding. Unrealized gains on nuclear decommissioning investments are deferred
as Regulatory Liabilities based on the assumed offsetting against
decommissioning costs in current ratemaking treatment.



The MPUC last approved NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear decommissioning study request in
December 2003, using 2002 cost data. An original filing was submitted to the
MPUC in October 2002 and updated in August 2003; final approval was received in
December 2003. The most recent cost estimate represents an annual increase in
external fund accruals, along with the extension of Prairie Island cost
recovery to the end of license life in 2014. The MPUC also approved the
Department of Commerce recommendation to accelerate the internal fund transfer
to the external funds effective July 1, 2003, ending on Dec. 31, 2005. These
approvals increased the fund cash contribution by approximately $29 million in
2003, but may not have a statement of operations impact. Expecting to operate
Prairie Island through the end of each unit’s licensed life, the approved
capital recovery will allow for the plant to be fully depreciated, including
the accrual and recovery of decommissioning costs, in 2014. Xcel Energy
believes future decommissioning cost accruals will continue to be recovered in
customer rates.

The total obligation for decommissioning currently is expected to be funded 100
percent by external funds, as approved by the MPUC. Contributions to the
external fund started in 1990 and are expected to continue until plant
decommissioning begins. The assets held in trusts as of Dec. 31, 2003,
primarily consisted of investments in fixed income securities, such as
tax-exempt municipal bonds and U.S. government securities that mature in one to
20 years, and common stock of public companies. NSP-Minnesota plans to reinvest
matured securities until decommissioning begins.

At Dec. 31, 2003, NSP-Minnesota had recorded and recovered in rates cumulative
decommissioning accruals of $722 million. The following table summarizes the
funded status of NSP-Minnesota’s decommissioning obligation at Dec. 31, 2003:

(Thousands of dollars)


Estimated decommissioning cost obligation from most recently approved study (2002 dollars)

$

1,716,618

Effect of escalating costs to 2003 dollars (at 4.19 percent per year)

71,926

Estimated decommissioning cost obligation in current dollars

1,788,544

Effect of escalating costs to payment date (at 4.19 percent per year)

2,004,821

Estimated future decommissioning costs (undiscounted)

3,793,365

Effect of discounting obligation (using risk-free interest rate)

(2,274,469

)

Discounted decommissioning cost obligation

1,518,896

Assets held in external decommissioning trust

779,382

Discounted decommissioning obligation in excess of assets currently held in external trust

$

739,514

Decommissioning expenses recognized include the following components:

(Thousands of dollars)




Annual decommissioning cost accrual reported as depreciation expense:

Externally funded

$

80,582

$

51,433

$

51,433

Internally funded (including interest costs)

(35,906

)

(18,797

)

(17,396

)

Interest cost on externally funded decommissioning obligation

(14,952

)

(32

)

4,535

Earnings (losses) from external trust funds

14,952


(4,535

)

Net decommissioning accruals recorded

$

44,676

$

32,636

$

34,037

Decommissioning and interest accruals are included with Regulatory Liabilities
on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Interest costs and trust earnings associated
with externally funded obligations are reported in Other Nonoperating Income on
the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

Negative accruals for internally funded portions in 2001, 2002 and 2003 reflect
the impacts of the 1999 and 2002 decommissioning studies, which have approved
an assumption of 100-percent external funding of future costs. Previous studies
assumed a portion was funded internally; beginning in 2000, accruals are
reversing the previously accrued internal portion and increasing the external
portion prospectively.

Accounting Change — SFAS No. 143 —

Xcel Energy adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard (SFAS) No. 143 — “Accounting for Asset Retirement
Obligations” effective Jan. 1, 2003. As required by SFAS No. 143, future plant
decommissioning obligations were recorded as a liability at fair value as of
Jan. 1, 2003, with a corresponding increase to the carrying values of the
related long-lived assets. This liability will be increased over time by
applying the interest method of accretion to the liability, and the capitalized
costs will be depreciated over the useful life of the related long-lived
assets.



The impact of the adoption of SFAS No. 143 for Xcel Energy’s utility
subsidiaries is described below. The adoption had no income statement impact
due to the deferral of the cumulative effect adjustments required under SFAS
No. 143, through the establishment of a regulatory asset pursuant to SFAS No.
71.

Asset retirement obligations were recorded for the decommissioning of two
NSP-Minnesota nuclear generating plants, the Monticello plant and the Prairie
Island plant. A liability was also recorded for the decommissioning of an
NSP-Minnesota steam production plant, the Pathfinder plant. Monticello began
operation in 1971 and is licensed to operate until 2010. Prairie Island units 1
and 2 began operation in 1973 and 1974, respectively, and are licensed to
operate until 2013 and 2014, respectively. Pathfinder operated as a steam
production peaking facility from 1969 until its retirement.

A summary of the accounting for the initial adoption of SFAS No. 143, as of
Jan. 1, 2003, is as follows:

Increase (decrease) in:

Plant

Regulatory

Long-Term

(Thousands of dollars)

Assets

Assets

Liabilities

Reflect retirement obligation when liability incurred

$

130,659

$

—

$

130,659

Record accretion of liability to adoption date

—

731,709

731,709

Record depreciation of plant to adoption date

(110,573

)

110,573

—

Recharacterize
previously recorded decommissioning accruals

—

(662,411

)

(662,411

)

Net impact of SFAS No. 143 on balance sheet

$

20,086

$

179,871

$

199,957

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending aggregate carrying amounts of
NSP-Minnesota’s asset retirement obligations recorded under SFAS No. 143 are
shown in the table below for the twelve months ended Dec. 31, 2003:

Beginning

Revisions

Ending

Balance

Liabilities

Liabilities

To Prior

Balance

(Thousands of dollars)

Jan. 1, 2003

Incurred

Settled

Accretion

Estimates

Dec. 31, 2003

Steam plant retirement

$

2,725

$

—

$

—

$


$

—

$

2,860

Nuclear plant decommissioning

859,643

—

—

58,341

103,685

1,021,669

Total liability

$

862,368

$

—

$

—

$

58,476

$

103,685

$

1,024,529

The adoption of SFAS No. 143 resulted in the recording of a capitalized plant
asset of $131 million for the discounted cost of asset retirement as of the
date the liability was incurred. Accumulated depreciation on this additional
capitalized cost through the date of adoption of SFAS No. 143 was $111 million.
A regulatory asset of $842 million was recognized for the accumulated SFAS No.
143 costs for accretion of the initial liability and depreciation of the
additional capitalized cost through adoption date. This regulatory asset was
partially offset by $662 million for the reversal of the decommissioning costs
previously accrued for these plants prior to the
implementation of SFAS No. 143. The net regulatory asset of $180 million at
Jan. 1, 2003, reflects the excess of costs that would have been recorded in
expense under SFAS No. 143 over the amount of costs recorded consistent with
ratemaking cost recovery for NSP-Minnesota. This regulatory asset is expected
to reverse over time since the costs to be accrued under SFAS
No. 143 are expected to be the
same as the costs to be recovered through current NSP-Minnesota ratemaking.
Consequently, no cumulative effect adjustment to earnings or shareholders’
equity has been recorded for the adoption of SFAS No. 143 in 2003, as all such
effects have been deferred as a regulatory asset.

In August 2003, prior estimates for the nuclear plant decommissioning
obligations were revised to incorporate the assumptions made in NSP-Minnesota’s
updated 2002 nuclear decommissioning filing with the MPUC. The revised
estimates resulted in an increase of $104 million to both the regulatory asset
and the long-term liability, as discussed previously. The revised estimates
reflected changes in cost estimates due to changes in the escalation factor,
changes in the estimated start date for decommissioning and changes in
assumptions for storage of spent nuclear fuel. The changes in assumptions for
the estimated start date for decommissioning and changes in the assumptions for
storage of spent nuclear fuel are a result of recent Minnesota legislation that
authorized additional spent nuclear fuel storage.

The pro forma liability to reflect amounts as if SFAS No. 143 had been applied
as of Dec. 31, 2002, was $862 million, the same as the Jan. 1, 2003, amounts
discussed previously. The pro forma liability to reflect adoption of SFAS No.
143 as of Jan. 1, 2002, the beginning of the earliest period presented, was
$810 million.



Pro forma net income and earnings per share have not been presented for the
year ended Dec. 31, 2002, because the pro forma application of SFAS No. 143 to
prior periods would not have changed net income or earnings per share of Xcel
Energy or NSP-Minnesota due to the regulatory deferral of any differences of
past cost recognition and SFAS No. 143 methodology, as discussed previously.

The fair value of NSP-Minnesota assets legally restricted for purposes of
settling the nuclear asset retirement obligations is $900 million as of Dec.
31, 2003, including external nuclear decommissioning investment funds and
internally funded amounts.

Removal Costs

—

The adoption of SFAS No. 143 in 2003 also affects Xcel Energy’s
accrued plant removal costs for other generation, transmission and distribution
facilities for its utility subsidiaries. Although SFAS No. 143 does not
recognize the future accrual of removal costs as a liability, long-standing
ratemaking practices approved by applicable state and federal regulatory
commissions have allowed provisions for such costs in historical depreciation
rates. These removal costs have accumulated over a number of years based on
varying rates as authorized by the appropriate regulatory entities. Given the
long periods over which the amounts were accrued and the changing of rates
through time, the utility subsidiaries have estimated the amount of removal
costs accumulated through historic depreciation expense based on current
factors used in the existing depreciation rates.

Accordingly, the recorded
amounts of estimated future removal costs, which are
considered
Regulatory
Liabilities under SFAS No. 71. Removal costs by entity are as follows at Dec. 31:

(Millions of dollars)



NSP-Minnesota

$


$


NSP-Wisconsin



PSCo



SPS



Cheyenne Light, Fuel & Power Co.



Total Xcel Energy

$


$




19.

Regulatory Assets and Liabilities

Xcel Energy's regulated businesses prepare their Consolidated Financial Statements in accordance with the provisions of SFAS No. 71, as discussed
in Note 1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Under SFAS No. 71, regulatory assets and liabilities can be created for amounts
that regulators may allow to be collected, or may require to be paid back to customers in future electric and natural gas rates.
Any portion of Xcel Energy's business that is not regulated cannot use SFAS No. 71 accounting. The components of unamortized regulatory assets
and liabilities of continuing operations shown on the balance sheet at Dec. 31 were:

Remaining

(Thousands of dollars)

See Note

Amortization Period



Regulatory Assets

Net nuclear asset retirement obligations

1, 18

End of licensed life

$

186,989

$

—

Power purchase contract valuation adjustments


Term of related contract

154,260

—

AFDC recorded in plant (a)

Plant lives

153,491

154,158

Losses on reacquired debt


Term of related debt

101,616

85,888

Conservation programs (a)

Five to 10 years

76,087

53,860

Nuclear decommissioning costs (b)

Up to four years

37,654

53,567

Employees’ postretirement benefits other than pension


Nine years

35,015

38,899

Renewable resource costs

To be determined

25,972

26,000

Environmental costs

17, 18

To be determined

29,195

30,974

State commission accounting adjustments (a)

Plant lives

17,301

19,157

Plant asset recovery (Pawnee II and Metro Ash)

Four years

17,162

—

Unrecovered natural gas costs (c)


One to two years

16,008

12,296

Unrecovered electric production costs (d)


15 months

13,779

67,709

Other

Various

15,311

15,630

Deferred income tax adjustments


Mainly plant lives

—

18,738

Total regulatory assets

$

879,840

$

576,876

Regulatory Liabilities

Plant removal costs

1, 18

$

862,406

$

810,184

Pension costs — regulatory differences


338,926

287,615

Power purchase contract valuation adjustments


126,884

—

Unrealized gains from decommissioning investments


105,518

112,145

Investment tax credit deferrals

101,073

109,571

Deferred income tax adjustments


25,906

—

Interest on income tax refunds

7,369

6,569

Fuel costs, refunds and other

2,466

2,527

Total regulatory liabilities

$

1,570,548

$

1,328,611

(a)

Earns a return on investment in the ratemaking process. These amounts are amortized consistent with recovery in rates.

(b)

These costs do not relate to NSP-Minnesota’s nuclear plants. They relate to DOE assessments, as discussed previously, and unamortized costs for PSCo’s Fort St. Vrain nuclear
plant decommissioning.

(c)

Excludes current portion expected to be returned to customers within 12 months of $3.1 million for 2003, and the 2002 current portion expected to be recovered from customers
of $12.1 million.

(d)

Excludes current portion expected to be recovered within the next 12 months of $55.8 and $54.2 million for 2003 and 2002, respectively.



20.

Segments and Related Information

Xcel Energy has the following reportable segments: Regulated Electric Utility,
Regulated Natural Gas Utility and All Other.

•

Xcel Energy’s Regulated Electric Utility segment generates, transmits
and distributes electricity in Minnesota, Wisconsin, Michigan, North
Dakota, South Dakota, Colorado, Texas, New Mexico, Wyoming, Kansas and
Oklahoma. It also makes sales for resale and provides wholesale
transmission service to various entities in the United States.
Regulated Electric Utility also includes electric trading.

•

Xcel Energy’s Regulated Natural Gas Utility segment transports, stores
and distributes natural gas and propane primarily in portions of
Minnesota, Wisconsin, North Dakota, Michigan, Colorado and Wyoming.

To report income from continuing operations for Regulated Electric and
Regulated Natural Gas Utility segments, Xcel Energy must assign or allocate all
costs and certain other income. In general, costs are:

•

directly assigned wherever applicable;

•

allocated based on cost causation allocators wherever applicable; and

•

allocated based on a general allocator for all other costs not assigned by the above two methods.

The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in Note
1 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. Xcel Energy evaluates performance
by each legal entity based on profit or loss generated from the product or
service provided.

Regulated

Regulated

Electric

Natural Gas

All

Reconciling

Consolidated

(Thousands of dollars)

Utility

Utility

Other

Eliminations

Total


Operating revenues from
external customers

$

5,969,356

$

1,710,272

$

257,888

$

—

$

7,937,516

Intersegment revenues

1,123

10,868

53,866

(65,857

)

—

Total revenues

$

5,970,479

$

1,721,140

$

311,754

$

(65,857

)

$

7,937,516

Depreciation and amortization

$

628,108

$

81,794

$

46,098

$

—

$

756,000

Financing costs, mainly
interest expense

313,456

58,259

104,022

(23,435

)

452,302

Income tax expense (benefit)

240,186

31,928

(113,472

)

—

158,642

Income (loss) from
continuing operations

$

462,528

$

94,873

$

(10,142

)

$

(37,239

)

$

510,020


Operating revenues from
external customers

$

5,437,017

$

1,363,359

$

234,749

$

—

$

7,035,125

Intersegment revenues


5,396

94,304

(100,684

)


Total revenues

$

5,438,004

$

1,368,755

$

329,053

$

(100,684

)

$

7,035,128

Depreciation and amortization

$

649,020

$

87,259

$

34,986

$

—

$

771,265

Financing costs, mainly
interest expense

286,872

49,075

125,667

(39,207

)

422,407

Income tax expense (benefit)

297,420

44,789

(106,595

)

—

235,614

Income (loss) from
continuing operations

$

486,811

$

89,026

$

(2,067

)

$

(46,077

)

$

527,693


Operating revenues from
external customers

$

6,463,411

$

2,020,530

$

236,846

$

—

$

8,720,787

Intersegment revenues

1,189

9,932

85,891

(93,772

)

3,240

Total revenues

$

6,464,600

$

2,030,462

$

322,737

$

(93,772

)

$

8,724,027

Depreciation and amortization

$

616,283

$

87,906

$

22,606

$

—

$

726,795

Financing costs, mainly
interest expense

265,999

45,723

101,318

(46,604

)

366,436

Income tax expense (benefit)

343,488

39,509

(78,655

)

—

304,342

Income (loss) from
continuing operations

$

555,976

$

63,051

$

4,813

$

(44,640

)

$

579,200

In 2003, the process to allocate common costs of the Regulated Electric and
Natural Gas Utility segments was revised. Segment results for 2002 and 2001
have been restated to reflect the revised cost allocation process.



Prior to its divestiture in 2003, NRG was previously considered a reportable
segment of Xcel Energy. NRG is now reported as a discontinued operation, as
discussed in Note 3 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. See Note 3 for
summarized financial information regarding NRG.

21.

Summarized Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

Summarized quarterly unaudited financial data is as follows:

Quarter ended

March 31, 2003

June 30, 2003

Sept. 30, 2003

Dec. 31, 2003

(Thousands of dollars, except per share amounts)

(a)

(a)

(a)

(a)

Revenue

$

2,086,107

$

1,721,754

$

2,019,853

$

2,109,802

Operating income (loss)

304,022

162,624

358,658

259,943

Income (loss) from continuing operations

126,778

54,982

180,039

148,221

Discontinued operations — income (loss)

13,234

(337,544

)

107,456

329,226

Net income (loss)

140,012

(282,562

)

287,495

477,447

Earnings (loss) available for common shareholders

138,952

(283,622

)

286,435

476,386

Earnings (loss) per share from continuing
operations — basic

$

0.32

$

0.14

$

0.45

$

0.37

Earnings (loss) per share from continuing
operations — diluted

$

0.31

$

0.14

$

0.43

$

0.36

Earnings (loss) per share from discontinued
operations — basic

$

0.03

$

(0.85

)

$

0.27

$

0.83

Earnings (loss) per share from discontinued
operations — diluted

$

0.03

$

(0.85

)

$

0.26

$

0.78

Earnings (loss) per share total — basic

$

0.35

$

(0.71

)

$

0.72

$

1.20

Earnings (loss) per share total — diluted

$

0.34

$

(0.71

)

$

0.69

$

1.14



Quarter Ended

March 31, 2002

June 30, 2002

Sept. 30, 2002

Dec. 31, 2002

(Thousands of dollars, except per share amounts)

(b)

(b)

(b)

(b)

Revenue

$

1,834,811

$

1,598,832

$

1,726,436

$

1,875,049

Operating income (loss)

253,498

262,513

373,188

251,838

Income (loss) from continuing operations

121,578

117,242

178,002

110,871

Discontinued operations — income (loss)

(18,074

)

(29,940

)

(2,382,042

)

(315,628

)

Net income (loss)

103,504

87,302

(2,204,040

)

(204,757

)

Earnings (loss) available for common shareholders

102,444

86,242

(2,205,100

)

(205,818

)

Earnings (loss) per share from continuing
operations — basic

$

0.34

$

0.31

$

0.44

$

0.27

Earnings (loss) per share from continuing
operations — diluted

$

0.34

$

0.31

$

0.44

$

0.27

Earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations
— basic

$

(0.05

)

$

(0.08

)

$

(5.99

)

$

(0.79

)

Earnings (loss) per share from discontinued operations
— diluted

$

(0.05

)

$

(0.08

)

$

(5.99

)

$

(0.77

)

Earnings (loss) per share total — basic

$

0.29

$

0.23

$

(5.55

)

$

(0.52

)

Earnings (loss) per share total — diluted

$

0.29

$

0.23

$

(5.55

)

$

(0.50

)

(a)

2003 results include special charges in certain quarters, as discussed in
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and unusual items as
follows:



(b)

2002 results include special charges in certain quarters, as discussed in
Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements, and unusual items as
follows:

•

First-quarter results from continuing operations were decreased by $9
million, or 1 cent per share, for a special charge related to
utility/service company employee restaffing costs, and by $5 million, or
1 cent per share, for regulatory recovery adjustments at SPS included in
special charges.

•

Results from continuing operations were decreased in the amount of
$1.2 million in the third quarter and $3.6 million in the fourth quarter
for NRG-related restructuring costs incurred by the holding company.

•

Fourth-quarter results from discontinued operations were decreased by
$95 million, or 23 cents per share, for NRG charges related to asset
impairments and financial restructuring costs, and increased by $30
million, or 7 cents per share, due to revisions to the estimated tax
benefits related to Xcel Energy’s investment in NRG.



Item 9 — Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

During 2002 and 2003, and through the date of this report, there were no
disagreements with the independent public accountants on accounting principles
or practices, financial statement disclosures, or auditing scope or procedures.

Item 9A — Controls and Procedures

Xcel Energy maintains a set of disclosure controls and procedures designed to
ensure that information required to be disclosed in reports that it files or
submits under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is recorded, processed,
summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in Securities and
Exchange Commission rules and forms. As of the end of the period covered by
this report, based on an evaluation carried out under the supervision and with
the participation of Xcel Energy’s management, including the chief executive
officer (CEO) and chief financial officer (CFO), of the effectiveness of Xcel
Energy’s disclosure controls and procedures, the CEO and CFO have concluded
that Xcel Energy’s disclosure controls and procedures are effective.

No changes in Xcel Energy’s internal control over financial reporting have
occurred during the most recent fiscal quarter that materially affected, or are
reasonably likely to materially affect, Xcel Energy’s internal control over
financial reporting.

PART III

Item 10 — Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information required under this Item with respect to directors is set forth in
the Registrant’s Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders’
under the caption “Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,”
“Code of Ethics” and “Election of Directors,” which is incorporated by
reference. Information with respect to Executive Officers is included in Item 1
to this report.

Item 11 — Executive Compensation

Information required under this Item is set forth in the
Registrants Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders under the caption “Executive Compensation,”
which is incorporated by reference.

Item 12 — Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters

Information concerning the security ownership of the directors and officers of
Xcel Energy is contained under the caption “Common Stock Ownership of Directors
and Executive Officers” in the Xcel Energy Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders which is incorporated by reference. Information
concerning securities authorized for issuance under equity compensation plans
is contained under the caption “Securities Authorized for Issuance under Equity
Compensation Plans” in Xcel Energy’s Proxy Statement for its 2004 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference.

Item 13 — Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information concerning relationships and related transactions of the directors
and officers of Xcel Energy is contained in the Xcel Energy Proxy Statement for
its 2004 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference.



Item 14 — Principal Accountant Fees and Services

Information concerning fees paid to the principal accountant for each of the
last two years is contained in the Xcel Energy Proxy Statement for its 2004
Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference.

Item 15 — Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a) 1.

Consolidated Financial Statements and Schedules

Reports of Independent Auditors for the years ended Dec. 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001.

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the three years ended Dec. 31, 2003.

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years ended Dec. 31, 2003.

Consolidated Balance Sheets, Dec. 31, 2003 and 2002.

Schedule I — Condensed
Financial Information of Registrant

Schedule II — Valuation
and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for the years ended Dec. 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

2.

Exhibits

* Indicates incorporation by reference

+ Executive Compensation Arrangements and Benefit Plans Covering Executive Officers and Directors

Xcel Energy

2.01*

Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated as of March 24, 1999, by and between Northern States Power Co. and New Century Energies, Inc. (Exhibit 2.1
to New Century Energies, Inc. Form 8-K (file no. 001-12907) dated March 24, 1999).

2.02*

Order confirming NRG plan of reorganization dated Nov. 24, 2003 (Exhibit 99.b.10 to Form POS AMC (file no. 070-10152) dated Dec. 1, 2003).

2.03

Release-Based Amount Agreement dated Dec. 5, 2003 between Xcel Energy Inc. and NRG Energy, Inc.

2.04

Settlement Agreement dated Dec. 5, 2003 between Xcel Energy Inc. and NRG Energy, Inc.

2.05

Employee Matters Agreement dated Dec. 5, 2003 between Xcel Energy Inc. and NRG Energy, Inc.

2.06

Tax Matters Agreement dated Dec. 5, 2003 between Xcel Energy Inc. and NRG Energy, Inc.

Xcel Energy

3.01*

Restated Articles of Incorporation of Xcel Energy (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) filed Aug. 21, 2000).

3.02*

By-Laws of Xcel Energy (Exhibit 4.3 to Form S-8 (file no. 333-48590) filed Oct. 25, 2000).

Xcel Energy

4.01*

Trust Indenture dated Dec. 1, 2000, between Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.01 to
Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Dec. 18, 2000).

4.02*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated Dec. 15, 2000, between Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee,
creating $600 million principal amount of 7 percent Senior Notes, Series due 2010. (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Dec.
18, 2000).

4.03*

Stockholder Protection Rights Agreement dated Dec. 13, 2000, between Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, N.A., as Rights Agent.
(Exhibit 1 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Jan. 4, 2001).

4.04*

$400 million Five-Year Credit Agreement. (Exhibit 99.02 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Aug. 6, 2002).

4.05*

Registration Rights Agreement dated Nov. 21, 2002 by and among Xcel Energy Inc. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Inc. and Lazard
Freres & Co. LLC. (Exhibit 4.125 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03034) dated March 31, 2003).

4.06*

Redemption Agreement dated Nov. 25, 2002 by and among Xcel Energy Inc. and the Buyers listed on Exhibit A thereto. (Exhibit 4.136 to Form 10-K
(file no. 001-03034) dated March 31, 2003).

4.07*

Indenture dated Nov. 21, 2002 between Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank NA, 7.5 percent convertible senior notes due 2007 (Exhibit 4.137 to
Form 10-K (file no. 001-03034) dated March 31, 2003).



4.08*

Supplemental Trust Indenture No. 2 dated June 15, 2003 between Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank NA, supplementing trust indenture dated
Dec. 1, 2000 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 10-Q (file no. 001-03034) dated Aug. 15, 2003).

4.09*

Credit Agreement dated Jan. 22, 2003 between Xcel Energy Inc. and various lenders, creating a $100 million senior unsecured term loan facility
(Exhibit 99.02 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Jan 23, 2003).

4.10

Indenture dated Nov. 15, 2003 between Xcel Energy Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota NA, 7.5 percent convertible senior notes due 2008.

4.11*

Registration Rights Agreement dated June 24, 2003 among Xcel Energy Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC, McDonald Investments Inc. and UBS
Securities LLC (Exhibit 4.10 to Form S-4 (file no. 001-03034) dated Oct. 9, 2003).

4.12

Registration Rights Agreement dated Nov. 21, 2003 among Xcel Energy Inc., Citadel Equity Fund Ltd., Citadel Credit Trading Ltd., and Citadel
Jackson Investment Fund Ltd.

NSP-Minnesota

4.13*

Trust Indenture, dated Feb. 1, 1937, from Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) to Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Trustee.
(Exhibit B-7 to file no. 2-5290).

4.14*

Supplemental and Restated Trust Indenture, dated May 1, 1988, from Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) to Harris Trust and
Savings Bank, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.02 to Form 10-K of NSP-Minnesota for the year 1988, file no. 001-03034).

Supplemental Indentures between NSP-Minnesota and said Trustee, supplemental to Exhibit 4.13, dated as follows:

4.15*

June 1, 1942 (Exhibit B-8 to file no. 2-97667).

4.16*

Feb. 1, 1944 (Exhibit B-9 to file no. 2-5290).

4.17*

Oct. 1, 1945 (Exhibit 7.09 to file no. 2-5924).

4.18*

July 1, 1948 (Exhibit 7.05 to file no. 2-7549).

4.19*

Aug. 1, 1949 (Exhibit 7.06 to file no. 2-8047).

4.20*

June 1, 1952 (Exhibit 4.08 to file no. 2-9631).

4.21*

Oct. 1, 1954 (Exhibit 4.10 to file no. 2-12216).

4.22*

Sept. 1, 1956 (Exhibit 2.09 to file no. 2-13463).

4.23*

Aug. 1, 1957 (Exhibit 2.10 to file no. 2-14156).

4.24*

July 1, 1958 (Exhibit 4.12 to file no. 2-15220).

4.25*

Dec. 1, 1960 (Exhibit 2.12 to file no. 2-18355).

4.26*

Aug. 1, 1961 (Exhibit 2.13 to file no. 2-20282).

4.27*

June 1, 1962 (Exhibit 2.14 to file no. 2-21601).

4.28*

Sept. 1, 1963 (Exhibit 4.16 to file no. 2-22476).

4.29*

Aug. 1, 1966 (Exhibit 2.16 to file no. 2-26338).

4.30*

June 1, 1967 (Exhibit 2.17 to file no. 2-27117).

4.31*

Oct. 1, 1967 (Exhibit 2.01R to file no. 2-28447).

4.32*

May 1, 1968 (Exhibit 2.01S to file no. 2-34250).

4.33*

Oct. 1, 1969 (Exhibit 2.01T to file no. 2-36693).

4.34*

Feb. 1, 1971 (Exhibit 2.01U to file no. 2-39144).

4.35*

May 1, 1971 (Exhibit 2.01V to file no. 2-39815).

4.36*

Feb. 1, 1972 (Exhibit 2.01W to file no. 2-42598).

4.37*

Jan. 1, 1973 (Exhibit 2.01X to file no. 2-46434).

4.38*

Jan. 1, 1974 (Exhibit 2.01Y to file no. 2-53235).

4.39*

Sept. 1, 1974 (Exhibit 2.01Z to file no. 2-53235).

4.40*

April 1, 1975 (Exhibit 4.01AA to file no. 2-71259).



4.41*

May 1, 1975 (Exhibit 4.01BB to file no. 2-71259).

4.42*

March 1, 1976 (Exhibit 4.01CC to file no. 2-71259).

4.43*

June 1, 1981 (Exhibit 4.01DD to file no. 2-71259).

4.44*

Dec. 1, 1981 (Exhibit 4.01EE to file no. 2-83364).

4.45*

May 1, 1983 (Exhibit 4.01FF to file no. 2-97667).

4.46*

Dec. 1, 1983 (Exhibit 4.01GG to file no. 2-97667).

4.47*

Sept. 1, 1984 (Exhibit 4.01HH to file no. 2-97667).

4.48*

Dec. 1, 1984 (Exhibit 4.01II to file no. 2-97667).

4.49*

May 1, 1985 (Exhibit 4.36 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03034) for the year 1985).

4.50*

Sept. 1, 1985 (Exhibit 4.37 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03034) for the year 1985).

4.51*

July 1, 1989 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated July 7, 1989).

4.52*

June 1, 1990 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated June 1, 1990).

4.53*

Oct. 1, 1992 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Oct. 13, 1992).

4.54*

April 1, 1993 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated March 30, 1993).

4.55*

Dec. 1, 1993 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Dec. 7, 1993).

4.56*

Feb. 1, 1994 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Feb. 10, 1994).

4.57*

Oct. 1, 1994 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated Oct. 5, 1994).

4.58*

June 1, 1995 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated June 28, 1995).

4.59*

April 1, 1997 (Exhibit 4.47 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03034) for the year 1997).

4.60*

March 1, 1998 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated March 11, 1998).

4.61*

May 1, 1999 (Exhibit 4.49 to NSP-Minnesota Form 10-12G (file no. 000-31709) dated Oct. 5, 2000).

4.62*

June 1, 2000 (Exhibit 4.50 to NSP-Minnesota Form 10-12G (file no. 000-31709) dated Oct. 5, 2000).

4.63*

Aug. 1, 2000 (Assignment and Assumption of Trust Indenture) (Exhibit 4.51 to NSP-Minnesota Form 10-12G (file no. 000-31709) dated Oct. 5, 2000).

4.64*

Trust Indenture, dated July 1, 1999, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and Norwest Bank Minnesota, National
Association, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.01 to NSP-Minnesota Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated July 21, 1999).

4.65*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated July 15, 1999, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and Norwest Bank Minnesota,
National Association, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.02 to NSP-Minnesota Form 8-K (file no. 001-03034) dated July 21, 1999).

4.66*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Aug. 18, 2000, supplemental to the Indenture dated July 1, 1999, among Xcel Energy, Northern States Power
Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as Trustee. (Exhibit 4.63 to NSP-Minnesota Form 10-12G
(file no. 000-31709) dated Oct. 5, 2000).

4.67*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated June 1, 2002, supplemental to the Indentures dated Feb. 1, 1937 and May 1, 1988, between Northern States
Power Co. (a Minnesota Corporation) and BNY Midwest Trust Co., as successor trustee (Exhibit 4.05 to Form 10-Q (file no. 000-31709) dated Sept.
30, 2002).

4.68*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated July 1, 2002, supplemental to the Indentures dated Feb. 1, 1937 and May 1, 1988, between Northern States
Power Co. (a Minnesota Corporation) and BNY Midwest Trust Co., as successor trustee (Exhibit 4.06 to Form 10-Q (file no. 000-31709) dated Sept.
30, 2002).

4.69*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated July 1, 2002, supplemental to the Indenture dated July 1, 1999, between Northern States Power Co. (a
Minnesota Corporation) and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota, National Association, as trustee (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 000-31709) dated
July 8, 2002).

4.70*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated Aug. 1, 2002, supplemental to the Indentures dated Feb. 1, 1937 and May 1, 1988, between Northern States
Power Co. (a Minnesota Corporation) and BNY Midwest Trust Co., as successor trustee (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-31387) dated Aug.
22, 2002).

4.71*

Credit Agreement between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation), Bank One NA and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota NA and other
financial institutions party thereto dated May 16, 2003 (Exhibit 4.01 to NSP-Minnesota Form 10-Q (file no. 001-031387) dated Aug. 14, 2003).



4.72*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated Aug. 1, 2003 between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and BNY Midwest Trust Co.,
supplementing indentures dated Feb. 1, 1937 and May 1, 1988 (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-31387) dated Aug. 6, 2003).

4.73

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated May 1, 2003 between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and BNY Midwest Trust Co.,
supplementing indentures dated Feb. 1, 1937 and May 1, 1988.

NSP-Wisconsin

4.74*

Trust Indenture, dated April 1, 1947, From Northern States Power Co. (a Wisconsin corporation) to Firstar Trust Co. (formerly First Wisconsin
Trust Co.). (Exhibit 7.01 to Registration Statement 2-6982).

4.75*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1949. (Exhibit 7.02 to Registration Statement 2-7825).

4.76*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated June 1, 1957. (Exhibit 2.13 to Registration Statement 2-13463).

4.77*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Aug. 1, 1964. (Exhibit 4.20 to Registration Statement 2-23726).

4.78*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Dec. 1, 1969. (Exhibit 2.03E to Registration Statement 2-36693).

4.79*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Sept. 1, 1973. (Exhibit 2.03F to Registration Statement 2-49757).

4.80*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Feb. 1, 1982. (Exhibit 4.01G to Registration Statement 2-76146).

4.81*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1982. (Exhibit 4.08 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03140) for the year 1982).

4.82*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated June 1, 1986. (Exhibit 4.09 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03140) for the year 1986).

4.83*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1988. (Exhibit 4.10 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03140) for the year 1988).

4.84*

Supplemental and Restated Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1991. (Exhibit 4.01K to Registration Statement 33-39831).

4.85*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated April 1, 1991. (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 10-Q (file no. 001-03140) for the quarter ended March 31, 1991).

4.86*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated March 1, 1993. (Exhibit to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03140) dated March 3, 1993).

4.87*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Oct. 1, 1993. (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03140) dated Sept. 21, 1993).

4.88*

Supplemental Trust Indenture, dated Dec. 1, 1996. (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03140) dated Dec. 12, 1996).

4.89*

Trust Indenture dated Sept. 1, 2000, between Northern States Power Co. (a Wisconsin corporation) and Firstar Bank, N.A. as Trustee. (Exhibit
4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03140) dated Sept. 25, 2000).

4.90*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated Sept. 15, 2000, between Northern States Power Co. (a Wisconsin corporation) and Firstar Bank, N.A. as
Trustee, creating $80 million principal amount of 7.64 percent Senior Notes, Series due 2008. (Exhibit 4.02 to Form 8-K (file no 001-03140)
dated Sept. 25, 2000).

4.91*

Supplemental Trust Indenture dated Sept. 1, 2003 between Northern States Power Co. (a Wisconsin corporation) and US Bank NA, supplementing
indentures dated April 1, 1947 and March 1, 1991 (Exhibit 4.05 to Xcel Energy Form 10-Q (file no. 001-03034) dated Nov. 13, 2003).

4.92

Exchange and Registration Rights Agreement dated Oct. 2, 2003 among Northern States Power Co. (a Wisconsin corporation) and Goldman, Sachs &
Co. and BNY Capital Markets, Inc.

PSCo

4.93*

Indenture, dated as of Dec. 1, 1939, providing for the issuance of First Mortgage Bonds (Form 10 for 1946- Exhibit (B-1)).

4.94*

Indentures supplemental to Indenture dated as of Dec. 1, 1939:



Previous Filing:

Previous Filing:

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Dated as of

file no.

No.

Dated as of

file no.

No.

March 14, 1941

10, 1946

B-2

March 1, 1974

8-K, April 1974


May 14, 1941

10, 1946

B-3

Dec. 1, 1974

8-K, December 1974


April 28, 1942

10, 1946

B-4

Oct. 1, 1975

S-7, (2-60082)

2(b)(3)

April 14, 1943

10, 1946

B-5

April 28, 1976

S-7, (2-60082)

2(b)(4)

April 27, 1944

10, 1946

B-6

April 28, 1977

S-7, (2-60082)

2(b)(5)

April 18, 1945

10, 1946

B-7

Nov. 1, 1977

S-7, (2-62415)

2(b)(3)

April 23, 1946

10-K, 1946

B-8

April 28, 1978

S-7, (2-62415)

2(b)(4)

April 9, 1947

10-K, 1946

B-9

Oct. 1, 1978

10-K, 1978

D(1)

June 1, 1947

S-1, (2-7075)

7(b)

Oct. 1, 1979

S-7, (2-66484)

2(b)(3)

April 1, 1948

S-1, (2-7671)

7(b)(1)

March 1, 1980

10-K, 1980

4(c)

May 20, 1948

S-1, (2-7671)

7(b)(2)

April 28, 1981

S-16, (2-74923)

4(c)

Oct. 1, 1948

10-K, 1948


Nov. 1, 1981

S-16, (2-74923)

4(c)

April 20, 1949

10-K, 1949


Dec. 1, 1981

10-K, 1981

4(c)

April 24, 1950

8-K, April 1950


April 29, 1982

10-K, 1982

4(c)

April 18, 1951

8-K, April 1951


May 1, 1983

10-K, 1983

4(c)

Oct. 1, 1951

8-K, November 1951


April 30, 1984

S-3, (2-95814)

4(c)

April 21, 1952

8-K, April 1952


March 1, 1985

10-K, 1985

4(c)

Dec. 1, 1952

S-9, (2-11120)

2(b)(9)

Nov. 1, 1986

10-K, 1986

4(c)

April 15, 1953

8-K, April 1953


May 1, 1987

10-K, 1987

4(c)

April 19, 1954

8-K, April 1954


July 1, 1990

S-3, (33-37431)

4(c)

Oct. 1, 1954

8-K, October 1954


Dec. 1, 1990

10-K, 1990

4(c)

April 18, 1955

8-K, April 1955


March 1, 1992

10-K, 1992

4(d)

April 24, 1956

10-K, 1956


April 1, 1993

10-Q, June 30, 1993

4(a)

May 1, 1957

S-9, (2-13260)

2(b)(15)

June 1, 1993

10-Q, June 30, 1993

4(b)

April 10, 1958

8-K, April 1958


Nov. 1, 1993

S-3, (33-51167)

4(a)(3)

May 1, 1959

8-K, May 1959


Jan. 1, 1994

10-K, 1993

4(a)(3)

April 18, 1960

8-K, April 1960


Sept. 2, 1994

8-K, September 1994

4(a)

April 19, 1961

8-K, April 1961


May 1, 1996

10-Q, June 30, 1996

4(a)

Oct. 1, 1961

8-K, October 1961


Nov. 1, 1996

10-K, 1996

4(a)(3)

March 1, 1962

8-K, March 1962

3(a)

Feb. 1, 1997

10-Q, March 31, 1997

4(a)

June 1, 1964

8-K, June 1964


April 1, 1998

10-Q, March 31, 1998

4(a)

May 1, 1966

8-K, May 1966


Aug. 15, 2002

10-Q, Sept. 30, 2002

4.01

July 1, 1967

8-K, July 1967


Sept. 15, 2002

10-Q, Sept. 30, 2002

4.02

July 1, 1968

8-K, July 1968


Sept. 1, 2002

8-K, Sept. 18, 2002

4.02

April 25, 1969

8-K, April 1969


March 1, 2003

S-3, April 14, 2003 (333-104504)

4(a)(3)

April 21, 1970

8-K, April 1970


April 1, 2003

10-Q, May 15, 2003 (001-03280)

4.01

Sept. 1, 1970

8-K, September 1970


May 1, 2003

S-4, June 11, 2003 (333-106011)

4.4

Feb. 1, 1971

8-K, February 1971


Sept. 1, 2003

8-K, Sept. 2, 2003 (001-03280)

4.01

Aug. 1, 1972

8-K, August 1972


June 1, 1973

8-K, June 1973


4.95*

Indenture, dated as of Oct. 1, 1993, providing for the issuance of First Collateral Trust Bonds (Form 10-Q, Sept. 30, 1993 — Exhibit 4(a)).

4.96*

Indentures supplemental to Indenture dated as of Oct. 1, 1993:

Previous Filing:

Previous Filing:

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Form; Date or

Exhibit

Dated as of

file no.

No.

Dated as of

file no.

No.

Nov. 1, 1993

S-3, (33-51167)

4(b)(2)

Aug. 15, 2002

10-Q, Sept. 30, 2002

4.03

Jan. 1, 1994

10-K, 1993

4(b)(3)

Sept. 1, 2002

8-K, Sept. 18, 2002

4.01

Sept. 2, 1994

8-K, September 1994

4(b)

Sept. 15, 2002

10-Q, Sept. 30, 2002

4.04

May 1, 1996

10-Q, June 30, 1996

4(b)

March 1, 2003

S-3, April 14, 2003 (333-104504)

4(b)(3)

Nov. 1, 1996

10-K, 1996

4(b)(3)

April 1, 2003

10-Q May 15, 2003 (001-03280)

4.02

Feb. 1, 1997

10-Q, March 31, 1997

4(b)

May 1, 2003

S-4, June 11, 2003 (333-106011)

4.9

April 1, 1998

10-Q, March 31, 1998

4(b)

Sept. 1, 2003

8-K, Sept. 2, 2003 (001-02380)

4.02

4.97*

Indenture dated July 1, 1999, between PSCo and The Bank of New York, providing for the issuance of Senior Debt Securities and Supplemental Indenture dated July 15, 1999, between PSCo and The
Bank of New York (Exhibits 4.1 and 4.2 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03280) dated July 13, 1999).

4.98*

Credit Agreement between Public Service Co. of Colorado, Bank One NA and Wells Fargo Bank Minnesota NA and other financial institutions party thereto dated May 16, 2003 (Exhibit 4.02 to PSCo Form 10-Q (file
no. 001-03280) dated Aug. 14, 2003).



4.99

Supplemental Indenture dated Sept. 15, 2003 between Public Service Co. of Colorado and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, supplementing the indenture dated Dec. 1, 1939, creating $250
million principal amount of First Mortgage Bonds, Collateral Series L due 2013.

4.100

Supplemental Indenture dated Sept. 15, 2003 between Public Service Co. of Colorado and U.S. Bank Trust National Association, supplementing the indenture dated Oct. 1, 1993, creating $250
million principal amount of First Collateral Trust Bonds, Series 12 due 2013.

4.101*

Registration Rights Agreement dated March 14, 2003 among Public Service Co. of Colorado , Bank One Capital Markets, Inc. and UBS Warburg LLC (Exhibit 4.1 to Form S-4 (file no. 333-106011)
dated June 11, 2003).

SPS

4.102*

Indenture dated Feb. 1, 1999 between Southwestern Public Service Co. and The Chase Manhattan Bank (Exhibit B to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03789) dated Feb. 25, 1999).

4.103*

First Supplemental Indenture dated March 1, 1999, between Southwestern Public Service Co. and The Chase Manhattan Bank (Exhibit C to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03789) dated Feb. 25, 1999).

4.104*

Second Supplemental Indenture dated Oct. 1, 2001, between Southwestern Public Service Co. and The Chase Manhattan Bank (Exhibit 4.01 to Form 8-K (file no. 001-03789) dated Oct. 23, 2001).

4.105*

Third Supplemental Indenture dated Oct 1, 2003 to the indenture dated Feb. 1, 1999 between Southwestern Public Service Co. and JPMorgan Chase Bank (Exhibit 4.04 to Xcel Energy Form 10-Q (file no. 001-03034)
dated Nov. 13, 2003).

4.106*

Red River Authority for Texas Indenture of Trust dated July 1, 1991 (Form 10-K, Aug. 31, 1991 -Exhibit 4(b)).

4.107

Credit Agreement between Southwestern Public Service Co., Bank One NA, Wells Fargo Bank NA, Bank of Montreal and The Bank of New York dated Feb. 17, 2004.

4.108

Registration Rights Agreement dated Oct. 6, 2003 among Southwestern Public Service Co., Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and Credit Suisse First Boston LLC.

Xcel Energy

10.01*+

Xcel Energy Omnibus Incentive Plan (Exhibit A to Form DEF-14A (file no. 001-03034) filed Aug. 29, 2000).

10.02*+

Xcel Energy Executive Annual Incentive Award Plan (Exhibit B to Form DEF-14A (file no. 001-03034) filed Aug. 29, 2000).

10.03*+

Employment Agreement, effective Dec. 15, 1997, between company and Mr. Paul J. Bonavia (Exhibit 10(a) to New Century Energies, Inc. Form 10-Q, (file no. 001-12927) dated Sept. 30, 1998).

10.04*+

Employment Agreement, dated March 24, 1999, among Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation), New Century Energies, Inc. and Wayne H. Brunetti (Exhibit 10(b) to New Century Energies, Inc. Form
10-Q, (file no. 001-12927) dated Sept. 30, 1998).

10.05*+

Amended and Restated Executive Long-Term Incentive Award Stock Plan. (Exhibit 10.02 to NSP-Minnesota Form 10-Q (file no. 001-03034) for the quarter ended March 31, 1998).

10.06*+

Stock Equivalent Plan for Non-Employee Directors of Xcel Energy As Amended and Restated Effective Oct. 1, 1997. (Exhibit 10.15 to NSP-Minnesota Form 10-K (file no. 001-03034) for the year 1997).

10.07*+

Senior Executive Severance Policy, effective March 24, 1999, between New Century Energies, Inc. and Senior Executives (Exhibit 10(a)(2) to New Century Energies, Inc. Form 10-Q, (file no. 001-12927) dated
March 31, 1999).

10.08*+

New Century Energies Omnibus Incentive Plan, effective Aug. 1, 1997 (Exhibit A to New Century Energies, Inc. Form DEF 14A (file no. 001-12927) dated Dec. 31, 1997).

10.09*+

Directors’ Voluntary Deferral Plan (Exhibit 10(d) (1) to New Century Energies, Inc. Form 10-K (file no. 001-12927) dated Dec. 31, 1998).

10.10*+

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan (Exhibit 10(e) (1) to New Century Energies, Inc. Form 10-K (file no. 001-12927) dated Dec. 31, 1998).

10.11*+

Salary Deferral and Supplemental Savings Plan for Executive Officers (Exhibit 10(f) (1) to New Century Energies, Inc. Form 10-K (file no. 001-12927) dated Dec. 31, 1998).

10.12*+

Salary Deferral and Supplemental Savings Plan for Key Managers (Exhibit 10(g) (1) to New Century Energies, Inc. Form 10-K (file no. 001-12927) dated Dec. 31, 1998).

10.13*+

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan for Key Management Employees, as amended and restated March 26, 1991 (Exhibit 10(e)(2) to PSCo Form 10-K (file no. 001-3280) dated Dec. 31, 1991).

10.14*+

Form of Key Executive Severance Agreement, as amended on Aug. 22, and Nov. 27, 1995. (Exhibit 10(3)(4) to PSCo Form 10-K (file no. 001-3280) dated Dec. 31, 1995).

10.15*+

Southwestern Public Service Co. 1989 Stock Incentive Plan as amended April 23, 1996 (Exhibit 10(b) to SPS Form



10-K (file no. 001-03789) dated Aug. 31, 1996).

10.16*+

Director’s Deferred Compensation Plan as amended Jan. 10, 1990 (Exhibit 10(c) to SPS Form 10-K (file no. 001-03789) dated Aug. 31, 1996).

10.17*+

Supplemental Retirement Income Plan as amended July 23, 1991 (Exhibit 10(e) to SPS Form 10-K, (file no. 001-03789) dated Aug. 31, 1996).

10.18*+

EPS Performance Unit Plan dated Oct. 27, 1992 (Exhibit 10(a) to SPS Form 10-K, (file no. 001-03789) dated Aug. 31, 1996).

10.19*+

Xcel Energy Senior Executive Severance and Change-in-Control Policy dated Oct. 22, 2003 (Exhibit 10.10 to SPS Form S-4, (file no. 333-112032) dated Jan. 21, 2004)

10.20*+

Separation Agreement and Release of All Claims between James T. Petillo and Xcel Energy dated Aug. 21, 2003 (Exhibit 10.52 to Form S-4 (file no. 333-109601) dated Oct. 9, 2003).

10.21*+

Stock Equivalent Plan for Non-employee Directors of Xcel Energy as amended and restated Jan. 1, 2001 (Exhibit 10.01 to Form 10-Q (file no. 001-03034) dated Aug. 15, 2003).

10.22*+

Separation agreement between Benjamin G.S. Fowke, III and Xcel Energy dated Oct. 26, 2001 (Exhibit 10.02 to Form 10-Q (file no. 001-03034) dated Aug. 15, 2003).

10.23+

Xcel Energy Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan (2002 restatement).

10.24+

Northern States Power Co. Non-employee Directors’ Deferred Compensation Plan.

10.25*+

Xcel Energy 401(k) Savings Plan , amended and restated as of Jan. 1, 2002 (Exhibit 10.19 to SPS Form S-4 (file no. 333-112032) dated Jan. 21, 2004).

10.26*+

New Century Energies, Inc. Employee Investment Plan for Bargaining Unit Employees and Former Non-bargaining Unit Employees, as amended and restated effective Jan. 1, 2002 but with certain retroactive
amendments (Exhibit 10.20 to SPS Form S-4 (file no. 333-112032) dated Jan. 21, 2004).

10.27*

Form of Services Agreement between Xcel Energy Services Inc. and utility companies (Exhibit H-1 to Form U5B (file no. 001-03034) dated Nov. 16, 2000).

NSP-Minnesota

10.28*

Facilities Agreement, dated July 21, 1976, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and the Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board relating to the interconnection of the 500 kilovolt (kv) line.
(Exhibit 5.06I to file no. 2-54310).

10.29*

Transactions Agreement, dated July 21, 1976, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and the Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board relating to the interconnection of the 500 kv line. (Exhibit
5.06J to file no. 2-54310).

10.30*

Coordinating Agreement, dated July 21, 1976, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and the Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board relating to the interconnection of the 500 kv line. (Exhibit
5.06K to file no. 2-54310).

10.31*

Ownership and Operating Agreement, dated March 11, 1982, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation), Southern Minnesota Municipal Power Agency and United Minnesota Municipal Power Agency
concerning Sherburne County Generating Unit No. 3. (Exhibit 10.01 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 1994, file no. 001-03034).

10.32*

Power Agreement, dated June 14, 1984, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and the Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board, extending the agreement scheduled to terminate on April 30, 1993, to
April 30, 2005. (Exhibit 10.03 to Form 10-Q for the quarter ended Sept. 30, 1994, file no. 001-03034).

10.33*

Power Agreement, dated August 1988, between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and Minnkota Power Co. (Exhibit 10.08 to Form 10-K for the year 1988, file no. 001-03034).

10.34*

Assignment and Assumption Agreement, dated Aug. 18, 2000 between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and Xcel Energy Inc. (Exhibit 10.08 to Form 10 of NSP-Minnesota, file no. 000-31709).

10.35*

Amended agreement for the sale of thermal energy dated Jan. 1, 1983 between NRG Energy (formerly known as Norenco Corp.) and Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and Norenco Corp.
(Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, file no. 333-35096).

10.36*

Operations and maintenance agreement dated Nov. 1, 1996 between NRG Energy and Northern States Power Co.



(a Minnesota corporation) . (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s Registration on Form S-1, file no. 333-35096).

10.37*

Amended Agreement for the sale of thermal energy and wood byproduct dated Dec. 1, 1986 between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and Norenco Corp. (Incorporated by reference to NRG’s
Registration on Form S-1, file no. 333-35096).

10.38*

Restated Interchange Agreement dated Jan. 16, 2001 between Northern States Power Co. (a Wisconsin corporation) and Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) (Exhibit 10.01 to NSP-Wisconsin Form S-4 (file no.
333-112033) dated Jan. 21, 2004).

10.39*

500 megawatt System Participation Power Sale Agreement dated July 30, 2002 between Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) and the Manitoba Hydro-Electric Board (Exhibit 99.01 to NSP-Minnesota Form 8-K
(file no. 001-31387) dated March 25, 2003).

NSP-Wisconsin

10.40*

Restated Interchange Agreement dated Jan. 16, 2001 between Northern States Power Co. (a Wisconsin corporation) and Northern States Power Co. (a Minnesota corporation) (Exhibit 10.01 to Form S-4 (file no. 333-112033)
dated Jan. 21, 2004.

PSCo

10.41*

Amended and Restated Coal Supply Agreement entered into Oct. 1, 1984 but made effective as of Jan. 1, 1976 between Public Service Co. of Colorado and Amax Inc. on behalf of its division, Amax Coal Co. (Form
10-K, (file no. 001-03280) Dec. 31, 1984 — Exhibit 10(c)(1)).

10.42*

First Amendment to Amended and Restated Coal Supply Agreement entered into May 27, 1988 but made effective Jan. 1, 1988 between Public Service Co. of Colorado and Amax Coal Co. (Form 10-K, (file no.
001-03280) Dec. 31, 1988-Exhibit 10(c)(2).

SPS

10.43*

Coal Supply Agreement (Harrington Station) between Southwestern Public Service Co. and TUCO, dated May 1, 1979 (Form 8-K (file no. 001-03789), May 14, 1979 — Exhibit 3).

10.44*

Master Coal Service Agreement between Swindell-Dressler Energy Supply Co. and TUCO, dated July 1, 1978 (Form 8-K, (file no. 001-03789) May 14, 1979 — Exhibit 5(A)).

10.45*

Guaranty of Master Coal Service Agreement between Swindell-Dressler Energy Supply Co. and TUCO (Form 8-K, (file no. 3789) May 14, 1979 — Exhibit 5(B)).

10.46*

Coal Supply Agreement (Tolk Station) between Southwestern Public Service Co. and TUCO dated April 30, 1979, as amended Nov. 1, 1979 and Dec. 30, 1981 (Form 10-Q, (file no. 3789) Feb. 28, 1982 — Exhibit
10(b)).

10.47*

Master Coal Service Agreement between Wheelabrator Coal Services Co. and TUCO dated Dec. 30, 1981, as amended Nov. 1, 1979 and Dec. 30, 1981 (Form 10-Q, (file no. 3789) Feb. 28, 1982 — Exhibit 10(c)).

10.48

Power Purchase Agreement dated May 23, 1997 between Borger Energy Associates, L.P, and Southwestern Public Service Co.

Xcel Energy

12.01

Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

16.01*

Letter Regarding Change in Accountant. (Exhibit 16.01 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03034) for the year 2001).

21.01

Subsidiaries of Xcel Energy Inc.

23.01

Consent of Independent Auditors.

23.02

Consent of Independent Accountants.

24.01

Written Consent Resolution of the
Board of Directors of Xcel Energy Inc., adopting Power of Attorney.

31.01

Principal Executive Officer’s certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.02

Principal Financial Officer’s certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.01

Certification pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

99.01

Statement pursuant to Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.

99.02*

Exhibit regarding the use of Arthur Andersen Audit Firm. (Exhibit 99.03 to Form 10-K (file no. 001-03034) for the year 2001).

(b)

Reports on Form 8-K — The following reports on Form 8-K were filed
either during the three months ended Dec. 31, 2003, or between Dec. 31,
2003, and the date of this report.



March 1, 2004 (filed
March 1, 2004) — Item 5 and 7, Other Events and Financial
Statements and Exhibits — Audited financial statements of Xcel
Energy Inc. and its subsidiaries for the year ended Dec. 31,
2003 and the management’s discussion and analysis.

Feb. 11, 2004 (filed Feb. 11, 2004) — Item 7 and 12, Financial Statements and
Exhibits and Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Feb. 16, 2004
presentation to Edison Electric Institute International Financial Conference.

Jan. 28, 2004 (filed Jan. 28, 2004) — Item 7 and 12, Financial Statements and
Exhibits and Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Earnings release
for fourth quarter 2003.

Jan. 28, 2004 (filed Jan. 28, 2004) — Item 5 and 7, Other Events and Financial
Statements and Exhibits — Commodity Futures Trading Commission settlement
regarding e prime.

Jan. 13, 2004 (filed Jan. 14, 2004) — Item 5 and 7, Other Events and Financial
Statements and Exhibits — Xcel Energy enters into an agreement for the sale of
Cheyenne Light Fuel and Power Co.

Dec. 5, 2003 (filed Dec. 13, 2003) — Item 2 and 7, Acquisition or Disposition
of Assets and Financial Statements and Exhibits — NRG disposition disclosure
and related pro-forma financial information.

Nov. 14, 2003 (filed Nov. 17, 2003) — Item 7 and 12, Financial Statements and
Exhibits and Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Nov. 17, 2004
financial presentation to Banc of America.

Oct. 24, 2003 (filed Oct. 24, 2003) — Item 7 and 12, Financial Statements and
Exhibits and Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Xcel Energy
presentation to the Edison Electric Institute Financial Conference on Oct. 28,
2003.

Oct. 23, 2003 (filed Oct. 23, 2003) — Item 7 and 12, Financial Statements and
Exhibits and Results of Operations and Financial Condition — Earnings release
for third quarter 2003.

Oct. 22, 2003 (filed Oct. 22, 2003) — Item 5 and 7, Other Events and Financial
Statements and Exhibits — R. Kelly promoted to president and chief operating
officer, and B. Fowke promoted to chief financial officer.



SCHEDULE I

CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF XCEL ENERGY INC.

STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Year ended Dec. 31,




(Thousands of dollars)

Income:

Equity in income of subsidiaries

$

547,258

$

573,770

$

625,145

Total income

547,258

573,770

625,145

Expenses and
other deductions:

Operating expenses

22,004

30,715

10,629

Other
(income) expense

(8,292

)

(10,706

)

(10,741

)

Interest charges and financing costs

73,444

77,786

51,970

Total
expenses and other deductions

87,156

97,795

51,858

Income from continuing operations before taxes

460,102

475,975

573,287

Income taxes (benefit)

(49,918

)

(51,718

)

(17,734

)

Income from continuing operations

510,020

527,693

591,021

Income from discontinued operations, net of tax

112,372

(2,745,684

)

203,945

Net income (loss)

622,392

(2,217,991

)

794,966

Preferred
dividend requirements

4,241

4,241

4,241

Earnings available to common

$

618,151

$

(2,222,232

)

$

790,725

See Xcel Energy Inc. Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8.



SCHEDULE I

CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF XCEL ENERGY INC.

STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

See Xcel Energy Inc. Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II,
Item 8.


SCHEDULE I

CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF XCEL ENERGY INC.

BALANCE SHEETS

See Xcel Energy Inc. Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II,
Item 8.


SCHEDULE I

CONDENSED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS OF XCEL ENERGY INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

AND OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Incorporated by reference is Xcel Energy Inc. and Subsidiaries Consolidated
Statements of Common Stockholders’ Equity and Other Comprehensive Income in
Part II, Item 8.

See Xcel Energy Inc. Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements in Part II, Item 8.



SCHEDULE II

XCEL ENERGY INC.

AND SUBSIDIARIES

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

Years Ended Dec. 31, 2003, 2002 and 2001

Additions

Balance at

Charged to

Charged to

Deductions

Balance at

beginning of

costs &

other

from

end of

period

expenses

accounts

reserves(1)

period

(Thousands of dollars)

Xcel Energy

Reserve deducted from related assets:

Provision for uncollectible accounts:


$

23,970

$

35,746

$

14,550

$

43,160

$

31,106


$

23,006

$

24,770

$

9,690

$

33,496

$

23,970


$

18,877

$

24,582

$

6,215

$

26,668

$

23,006

(1)

Uncollectible accounts written off or transferred to other parties.



Signatures

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this annual report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Xcel Energy Inc.

March 15, 2004

/s/ Benjamin G.S. Fowke III

Benjamin G.S. Fowke III

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in
the capacities and on the date indicated.

/s/ Wayne H. Brunetti

/s/ Richard C. Kelly

Wayne H. Brunetti

Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board

(Principal Executive Officer)

Richard C. Kelly

President and Chief Operating Officer

(Principal Operating Officer)

/s/ Benjamin G.S. Fowke III

/s/ Teresa S. Madden

Benjamin G.S. Fowke III

Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer

(Chief Financial Officer)

Teresa S. Madden

Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

*

*

David A. Christensen

Director

C. Coney Burgess

Director

*

*

A. Barry Hirschfeld

Director

Roger R. Hemminghaus

Director

*

*

Albert F. Moreno

Director

Douglas W. Leatherdale

Director

*

*

A. Patricia Sampson

Director

Margaret R. Preska

Director

*

*

Rodney E. Slifer

Director

Allan L. Schuman

Director

*/s/ Teresa S. Madden

*

Teresa S. Madden

Attorney-in-Fact

W. Thomas Stephens

Director

139