
10-K
CINTAS CORPORATION                   FORM 10-K




                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

            ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
[X]         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934  For the Fiscal Year Ended May 31, 1999

[ ]         TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File No. 0-11399
                               CINTAS CORPORATION

             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
Incorporated under                                           IRS Employer ID
the Laws of Washington                                        No. 31-1188630
(State or other juris-
diction of incorporation
or organization)
                              6800 Cintas Boulevard
                              P.O. Box 625737
                              Cincinnati, Ohio 45262-5737
                              Phone: (513) 459-1200
                              (Address of principal executive offices)

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                      None

           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                           Common Stock, No Par Value
                                (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.

                              YES                   NO
                              ---                   --

                               X
                               --                   --

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the best
of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to the
Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of Common Stock held by nonaffiliates is
$6,198,306,303 based on a closing price of $55.8125 on August 20, 1999. As of
August 20, 1999, 111,055,880 shares of no par value Common Stock were issued and
outstanding.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for 1999 furnished to
the Commission pursuant to Rule 14a-3(b) and portions of the Registrant's Proxy
Statement to be filed with the Commission for its 1999 annual meeting are
incorporated by reference in Parts II and III as specified.

                                      -1-




                               CINTAS CORPORATION
                             INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT
                                  ON FORM 10-K




                                      -2-


                                     PART I
                                     ITEM 1.
                                    BUSINESS
                                    --------

Cintas Corporation is a publicly held company in the uniform rental and sales
business. The Company was founded in 1968 by Richard T. Farmer, Chairman of the
Board when he left his family's industrial laundry business in order to develop
uniform programs using an exclusive new fabric. In the early 1970's, Cintas
acquired the family industrial laundry business.

Cintas provides a highly specialized service to businesses of all types - from
small service and manufacturing companies to major corporations that employ
thousands of people. The Company classifies its businesses into two operating
segments: Rentals and Other Services. The Rental operating segment designs and
manufactures corporate identity uniforms which it rents, along with other items,
to its customers. The Other Services operating segment involves the design,
manufacture and direct sale of uniforms to its customers as well as the sale of
ancillary services including sanitation supplies, first aid products and
services and cleanroom supplies.

The rental markets served by the Company are highly fragmented and competition
for this business varies at each of the Company's locations. There are other
companies in the uniform rental business which have financial resources
comparable to those of the Company, although much of the competition consists of
smaller local and regional firms. In certain instances, local competitors may
also have financial resources comparable to those of the Company in a particular
market. The Company believes that the primary competitive factors that affect
its operations are quality, service, design and price, in that order.

The service provided to the rental markets served by the Company principally
consists of the rental and cleaning of uniforms as well as providing on-going
uniform upgrades to each customer. The Company also offers ancillary products
which includes the rental or sale of entrance mats, fender covers, towels, mops,
linen products and first aid products and services.

Due to its diverse customer base and average account size, the loss of one
account would not have a significant financial impact on the Company.

In its sale of customized uniforms, Cintas and its subsidiary Uniforms To You,
compete on a national basis with other uniform suppliers and manufacturers.

The Company operates thirteen wholly owned manufacturing facilities which
provide for a substantial amount of its standard uniform needs. Additional
products are purchased from several outside suppliers. Because of the Company's
ability to manufacture much of its own uniform needs, the loss of one vendor
would not have a significant effect on the Company. The Company purchases
fabric, used in its manufacturing process, from several suppliers. The Company
is not aware of any circumstances which would hinder its ability to obtain these
materials.

In March 1999, the Company acquired Unitog Company (Unitog), a rental and direct
sale uniform provider. The Company exchanged 5,072,124 shares of its common
stock for all the outstanding stock of Unitog. Unitog had annual revenues of
$280 million for their fiscal year ended, January 31, 1999, and uniform rental
operations in 20 states and the province of Ontario, Canada.

The Company does not anticipate any material capital expenditures for
environmental controls that would have a material effect on its financial
condition. The Company is not aware of any material non-compliance with
environmental laws.

At May 31, 1999, the Company employed approximately 22,000 employees of which
approximately 2,000 were represented by labor unions. The Company considers its
relationship with its employees to be satisfactory.


                                      -3-


The table sets forth the revenues derived from each service provided by Cintas.




                                     ITEM 2.

                                   PROPERTIES
                                   ----------

The Company occupies 265 facilities located in 199 cities. The corporate offices
provide centrally located administrative functions including accounting,
finance, marketing and data processing. The Company operates processing plants
that house administrative, sales and service personnel and the necessary
equipment involved in the cleaning of uniforms and bulk items. Branch operations
provide administrative, sales and service functions. Cintas operates eight
distribution facilities and has thirteen manufacturing plants. The Company also
operates facilities which distribute first aid products. The Company considers
the facilities it operates to be adequate for their intended use. The Company
owns or leases 5,928 vehicles.

The following chart provides additional information concerning Cintas'
facilities:

     Location                                     Type of Facility
     --------                                     ----------------
     Cincinnati, Ohio                             Corporate Offices, National
                                                  Account Division, Distribution
                                                  Center, Manufacturing Facility
     Abbotsford, Vancouver (Canada)               Processing Plant
     Akron, Ohio                                  Processing Plant
     Albuquerque, New Mexico                      First Aid Facility
     Alexandria, Louisiana                        Branch*
     Allentown, Pennsylvania                      Branch*
     Amarillo, Texas                              Branch*
     Angola, Indiana                              Branch
     Asheville, North Carolina                    Branch*
     Ashland, Kentucky                            Processing Plant
     Aston, Pennsylvania                          Processing Plant
     Atlanta, Georgia                             Processing Plant
     Atlanta, Georgia                             First Aid Facility
     Atlanta, Georgia                             Processing Plant
     Augusta, Georgia                             Processing Plant
     Austin, Texas                                Processing Plant
     Baltimore, Maryland                          Processing Plant
     Baltimore, Maryland                          First Aid Facility
     Barrie, Ontario (Canada)                     Processing Plant
     Baton Rouge (North), Louisiana               Processing Plant
     Baton Rouge (South), Louisiana               Processing Plant
     Baton Rouge, Louisiana                       First Aid Facility
     Battle Creek, Michigan                       Processing Plant
     Battle Creek, Michigan                       Branch
     Bay City, Michigan                           Branch*
     Beaumont, Texas                              Processing Plant
     Bethlehem, Pennsylvania                      Processing Plant
     Birmingham, Alabama                          Branch*
     Birmingham, Alabama                          First Aid Facility
     Birmingham, Alabama                          Processing Plant


                                      -4-


     Bloomington, Indiana                         Branch*
     Boston, Massachusetts                        Processing Plant
     Branford, Connecticut                        Processing Plant
     Bristol, Pennsylvania                        Processing Plant
     Buffalo, New York                            Processing Plant
     Burton, Michigan                             Branch*
     Cedar Rapids, Iowa                           Branch*
     Charles City, Iowa                           Branch*
     Charleston, South Carolina                   Branch*
     Charlotte, North Carolina                    First Aid Facility*
     Charlotte, North Carolina                    Processing Plant
     Chattanooga, Tennessee                       Branch*
     Chicago (North), Illinois                    Processing Plant
     Chicago (South), Illinois                    Processing Plant
     Chicago (West), Illinois                     Processing Plant
     Chicago, Illinois                            First Aid Facility
     Chicago, Illinois                            Distribution Center
     Chicago, Illinois                            Manufacturing Facility
     Cincinnati, Ohio                             Processing Plant
     Cincinnati, Ohio                             Processing Plant
     Cincinnati, Ohio                             First Aid Facility
     Clay City, Kentucky                          Manufacturing Facility*
     Cleveland (East), Ohio                       Processing Plant
     Cleveland (West), Ohio                       Processing Plant
     Cleveland, Ohio                              First Aid Facility*
     Colorado Springs, Colorado                   Branch*
     Columbia, South Carolina                     Processing Plant*
     Columbus, Ohio                               Processing Plant
     Columbus, Ohio                               Processing Plant
     Corpus Christi, Texas                        Processing Plant
     Dallas, Texas                                Processing Plant*
     Dallas, Texas                                First Aid Facility*
     Dallas, Texas                                First Aid Facility
     Dallas, Texas                                Processing Plant
     Davenport, Iowa                              Branch*
     Dayton, Ohio                                 Processing Plant
     Decatur, Alabama                             Processing Plant*
     Decatur, Georgia                             Processing Plant
     Denver, Colorado                             Processing Plant
     Denver, Colorado                             First Aid Facility*
     Denver, Colorado                             First Aid Facility
     Des Moines, Iowa                             Branch*
     Detroit, Michigan                            First Aid Facility*
     Detroit, Michigan                            Processing Plant
     Detroit, Michigan                            Processing Plant
     Eagan, Minnesota                             Processing Plant
     Etobicoke, Ontario (Canada)                  Processing Plant
     Eugene, Oregon                               Branch*
     Evansville, Indiana                          Processing Plant*
     Evansville, Indiana                          Branch*
     Exton, Pennsylvania                          Processing Plant
     Flint, Michigan                              Branch*
     Flint, Michigan                              Branch
     Fort Meyers, Florida                         Branch*
     Fort Smith, Arkansas                         Processing Plant*
     Fort Smith, Arkansas                         Manufacturing Facility
     Fort Wayne, Indiana                          Processing Plant
     Fort Wayne, Indiana                          Branch
     Forth Worth, Texas                           Processing Plant
     Freeport, Illinois                           Branch*


                                      -5-


     Gadsen, Alabama                              Branch*
     Gaylord, Michigan                            Processing Plant
     Glenwood, Iowa                               Processing Plant
     Goshen, Indiana                              Processing Plant*
     Grand Rapids, Michigan                       Processing Plant
     Grand Rapids, Michigan                       First Aid Facility
     Grand Rapids, Michigan                       Processing Plant*
     Greeley, Colorado                            Processing Plant
     Greenville, South Carolina                   Processing Plant
     Greenville, South Carolina                   Processing Plant
     Greenwood, Mississippi                       Branch*
     Griffith, Indiana                            Branch*
     Gulfport, Mississippi                        Branch*
     Hammond, Louisiana                           Branch
     Harligen, Texas                              Branch*
     Harrisburg, Pennsylvania                     Branch*
     Harrison, Arkansas                           Branch*
     Hartford, Connecticut                        First Aid Facility
     Hazard, Kentucky                             Manufacturing Facility*
     Hazelton, Pennsylvania                       Branch*
     Hoisington, Kansas                           Processing Plant*
     Houston, Texas                               First Aid Facility*
     Houston, Texas                               Processing Plant
     Houston, Texas                               Processing Plant
     Huntsville, Alabama                          Branch*
     Irapuato, Mexico                             Manufacturing Facility
     Indianapolis, Indiana                        Processing Plant
     Indianapolis, Indiana                        Processing Plant
     Indianapolis, Indiana                        Processing Plant
     Indianapolis, Indiana                        Branch*
     Jackson, Mississippi                         Branch*
     Jacksonville, Florida                        Branch*
     Jacksonville, Florida                        First Aid Facility
     Joplin, Missouri                             Branch*
     Kansas City, Kansas                          Processing Plant
     Kansas City, Kansas                          First Aid Facility
     Kansas City, Kansas                          First Aid Facility
     Kansas City, Missouri                        Processing Plant
     Kansas City, Missouri                        Direct Sales Office
     Kelowna, British Columbia (Canada)           Processing Plant
     Knoxville, Tennessee                         Branch*
     Knoxville, Tennessee                         First Aid Facility*
     Kokomo, Indiana                              Processing Plant
     La Cieba, Honduras                           Manufacturing Facility
     Lafayette, Indiana                           Processing Plant
     Lafayette, Louisiana                         Branch
     Lake Charles, Louisiana                      Processing Plant
     Lansing, Michigan                            Branch*
     Laredo, Texas                                Branch*
     Las Vegas, Nevada                            Processing Plant
     Las Vegas, Nevada                            Processing Plant
     Lexington, Kentucky                          Processing Plant
     Lima, Ohio                                   Branch*
     Lindsay, Ontario (Canada)                    Processing Plant
     Little Rock, Arkansas                        Processing Plant
     London, Ontario (Canada)                     Branch*
     Long Beach, California                       Processing Plant
     Long Island, New York                        Processing Plant
     Los Angeles, California                      Processing Plant
     Louisville, Kentucky                         Processing Plant

                                      -6-


     Louisville, Kentucky                         Processing Plant
     Louisville, Kentucky                         First Aid Facility*
     Lufkin, Texas                                Branch
     Madison, Wisconsin                           Processing Plant
     Memphis, Tennessee                           Processing Plant*
     Meridian, Mississippi                        First Aid Facility
     Mexico City, Mexico                          Manufacturing Facility*
     Miami, Florida                               Processing Plant
     Midland, Michigan                            Processing Plant
     Milwaukee, Wisconsin                         Branch*
     Milwaukee, Wisconsin                         First Aid Facility*
     Minneapolis, Minnesota                       First Aid Facility*
     Minneapolis, Minnesota                       Processing Plant*
     Minneapolis, Minnesota                       Processing Plant
     Mississauga, Ontario (Canada)                Processing Plant
     Mobile, Alabama                              Branch*
     Montgomery, Alabama                          Distribution Center*
     Montgomery, Alabama                          Branch*
     Mt. Vernon, Kentucky                         Manufacturing Facility*
     Munice, Indiana                              Processing Plant
     N. Hollywood, California                     Branch
     Napanee, Ontario (Canada)                    Processing Plant
     Nashville, Tennessee                         Processing Plant
     Natchez, Mississippi                         Branch*
     New Orleans, Louisiana                       Processing Plant
     Newark, New Jersey                           Processing Plant*
     Newburgh, New York                           Processing Plant
     Oakland, California                          Processing Plant*
     Oklahoma City, Oklahoma                      Processing Plant
     Ontario, California                          Processing Plant
     Ontario, California                          Branch, Distribution Center
     Orange, California                           Branch*
     Orange, California                           First Aid Facility
     Orlando, Florida                             Processing Plant
     Owingsville, Kentucky                        Manufacturing Facility
     Pensacola, Florida                           Branch*
     Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                   Processing Plant
     Philadelphia, Pennsylvania                   First Aid Facility
     Phoenix, Arizona                             Processing Plant
     Phoenix, Arizona                             First Aid Facility*
     Piscataway, New Jersey                       Processing Plant
     Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania                     Processing Plant
     Port Huron, Michigan                         Branch*
     Portal, Georgia                              Manufacturing Facility
     Portland, Maine                              Branch
     Portland, Oregon                             Processing Plant
     Portland, Oregon                             First Aid Facility*
     Queens, New York                             Branch*
     Raleigh-Durham, North Carolina               Branch*
     Rancho Santa Margarita, California           Direct Sales Office
     Reno, Nevada                                 Distribution Center*
     Richmond, Indiana                            Processing Plant*
     Richmond, Virginia                           Processing Plant
     Rochester, New York                          Branch*
     Rockford, Illinois                           Branch*
     Sacramento, California                       Processing Plant
     Sacramento, California                       First Aid Facility
     Salt Lake City, Utah                         Processing Plant*
     San Antonio, Texas                           Processing Plant
     San Buenaventura, Mexico                     Manufacturing Facility

                                      -7-


     San Diego, California                        Processing Plant
     San Diego, California                        Processing Plant
     San Fernando, California                     Branch*
     San Francisco, California                    Branch*
     San Jose, California                         Processing Plant
     San Jose, California                         Processing Plant
     San Jose, Costa Rica                         Manufacturing Facility
     San Leandro, California                      First Aid Facility*
     Sandusky, Ohio                               Branch*
     Savannah, Georgia                            Branch*
     Scranton, Pennsylvania                       First Aid Facility*
     Scranton, Pennsylvania                       Distribution Center
     Seattle, Washington                          Processing Plant
     Shreveport, Louisiana                        Processing Plant
     South Bend, Indiana                          Processing Plant
     Springdale, Arkansas                         Processing Plant
     Springfield, Missouri                        Processing Plant
     Springfield, Ohio                            Branch*
     St. Louis, Missouri                          First Aid Facility*
     St. Louis, Missouri                          Processing Plant*
     St. Louis, Missouri                          Processing Plant
     Stevenson, Alabama                           Distribution Center
     Stratham, New Hampshire                      First Aid Facility
     Sunrise, Florida                             First Aid Facility
     Tacoma, Washington                           Branch*
     Tampa, Florida                               Processing Plant
     Taunton, Massachusetts                       Branch*
     Tempe, Arizona                               Processing Plant
     Terrre Haute, Indiana                        Processing Plant
     Thibodaux, Louisiana                         Processing Plant
     Toledo, Ohio                                 Branch*
     Toledo, Ohio                                 Branch*
     Toronto, Ontario (Canada)                    Processing Plant
     Toronto, Ontario (Canada)                    Distribution Center
     Traverse City, Michigan                      Branch*
     Tulsa, Oklahoma                              Processing Plant
     Tuscaloosa, Alabama                          Processing Plant
     Tyler, Texas                                 Branch*
     Union City, California                       Processing Plant*
     Victoria, Texas                              Processing Plant
     Victoria, Texas                              First Aid Facility
     Vidalia, Georgia                             Processing Plant
     Villa Park, Illinois                         Branch
     Virginia Beach, Virginia                     Branch*
     Warsaw, Indiana                              Branch*
     Washington, D.C.                             Processing Plant
     West Chester, New York                       Branch*
     West Palm Beach, Florida                     Processing Plant
     West Valley City, Utah                       First Aid Facility*
     Westland, Michigan                           Processing Plant
     Whittier, California                         Processing Plant
     Wichita, Kansas                              Branch*
     Willmar, Minnesota                           Branch*
     Winston-Salem, North Carolina                Processing Plant
     Youngstown, Ohio                             Branch*

*Leased for various terms ranging from monthly to 2009. The Company expects that
it will be able to renew its leases on satisfactory terms. All other properties
are owned.


                                      -8-



                                     ITEM 3.
                                LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
                                -----------------

In December 1992, the Company was served with an "Imminent and Substantial
Endangerment and Remedial Action Order" (the "Order") by the California
Department of Toxic Substances Control relating to the facility leased by the
Company in San Leandro, California. The Order requires Cintas and three other
allegedly responsible parties to respond to alleged soil and groundwater
contamination at and around the San Leandro facility. It is not possible at this
time to estimate the loss or range of loss associated with the claim. Based on
information that has been made available to the Company, however, it is not
believed that the matter will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial condition or results of its operations.

In acquiring Unitog in March 1999, the Company became a potentially responsible
party, and thus faces the possibility of joint and several liability under the
Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act (CERCLA) in
connection with alleged environmental contamination in an area near a rental
facility in Tempe, Arizona. This facility, located near the South Indian Bend
Wash Federal Superfund (SIBW) site, has been tested for soil and groundwater
contamination. The soil testing at the Company's facility detected volatile
organic compounds, and the Company immediately took action to remediate such
contamination. The United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) in March
1999 issued a Record of Decision to the effect that groundwater contamination in
the vicinity of the Company's plant does not warrant remediation at this time.
Instead, the low levels of groundwater contamination near the Company's facility
will be monitored and allowed to attenuate naturally. The Record of Decision
requires active groundwater remediation in other parts of the SIBW site, which
are believed to be unrelated to the Company. According to the Record of
Decision, the EPA estimates that the 30 year net present value of costs to be
incurred to remediate and monitor groundwater contamination at the SIBW site is
$22 million. It is possible that the EPA will attempt to recover from the
potentially responsible parties the costs it has incurred to date with respect
to the SIBW site as well as the costs it expects to incur going forward.

As part of the Agreement and Plan of Merger between Unitog Company and the
Company, the Company performed environmental testing at nine previously untested
Unitog laundry facilities. The testing resulted in the discovery of soil and
groundwater contamination at certain of these sites.

As a result of all of the environmental matters noted above, the Company
recorded a charge to operating expense of $5 million during the third quarter of
fiscal 1999 to reflect its current estimate of the additional costs to be
incurred relative to these sites. At May 31, 1999, the Company has an
undiscounted liability of $5.6 million for environmental matters.

The Company is also a party to incidental litigation brought in the ordinary
course of business, none of which individually or in the aggregate, is
considered to be material to its operations or financial condition. Cintas
maintains insurance coverage against certain liabilities that it may incur in
its operations from time to time.


                                     ITEM 4
               SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
               ---------------------------------------------------

None in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999.


                                      -9-



                                     PART II
                                     ITEM 5.
                      MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY
                         AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
                         -------------------------------

"Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Security Holder Information" on page
45 of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for 1999 is incorporated
herein by reference. Dividend information is incorporated by reference to the
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity on page 25. Dividends on the
outstanding Common Stock are paid annually and amounted to $.22 and $.18 per
share in fiscal 1999 and 1998, respectively.

During the quarterly period ended May 31, 1999, the Registrant issued 124,876
shares of Common Stock for companies being acquired in 6 separate transactions
to the 11 owners of those companies. These issuances were exempt from the
registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 as private offerings
pursuant to Section 4(2) of the Act.


                                     ITEM 6.
                             SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                             -----------------------

The "Eleven Year Financial Summary" on page 22 of the Registrant's Annual Report
to Shareholders for 1999 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                     ITEM 7.
                     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                  FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                  ---------------------------------------------

"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" commencing on page 41 of the Registrant's Annual Report to
Shareholders for 1999 is incorporated herein by reference.

                                    ITEM 7A.
                     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE
                                ABOUT MARKET RISK
                                -----------------

"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure About Market Risk" on page 43 of the
Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for 1999 is incorporated herein by
reference.

                                     ITEM 8.
                   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
                   -------------------------------------------

The following Financial Statements of the Registrant shown on pages 23 through
40 of its Annual Report to Shareholders for 1999 are incorporated herein by
reference:

Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended May 31, 1999, 1998 and
Consolidated Balance Sheets as of May 31, 1999 and 1998
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended May 31,
 1999, 1998 and 1997
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended May 31, 1999, 1998 and
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
Report of Independent Auditors


                                     ITEM 9.
                  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS
                     ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                     --------------------------------------

None.


                                      -10-


                                    PART III

Items 10., 11., 12., and 13. of Part III are incorporated by reference to the
Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 1999 Annual Shareholders' Meeting to be
filed with the Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A.

                                     PART IV
                                     ITEM 14
         EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORT ON FORM 8-K
         --------------------------------------------------------------

(a) (1) Financial Statements. All financial statements required to be filed by
Item 8 of this Form and included in this report are listed in Item 8. No
additional financial statements are filed because the requirements for paragraph
(d) under Item 14 are not applicable to the Company.


(a) (2) Financial Statement Schedule:

For each of the three years in the period ended May 31, 1999.

Schedule II: Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves.


All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable, or not
required, or because the required information is included in the Consolidated
Financial Statements or Notes thereto.

     (a) (3) Exhibits.

          Exhibit
          Number         Description of Exhibit Status                    Filing
          ------         -----------------------------                    ------

          3.1  Restated Articles of Incorporation                          (1)

          3.2  By-laws                                                     (1)
          Management Compensatory Contracts (Exhibits 10.1-10.12)

          10.1 Incentive Stock Option Plan                                 (2)

          10.2 Partners' Plan, as Amended                                  (3)

          10.3 1990 Directors' Stock Option Plan                           (4)

          10.4 1992 Employee Stock Option Plan, as Amended                 (5)

          10.5 1994 Directors' Stock Option Plan                           (6)

          10.6 Agreement and Plan of Merger and Reorganization dated       (7)
               January 12, 1998 by and among Uniforms To You and Company,
               Cintas Merger Sub, Inc. - Illinois, other acquired
               companies, certain shareholders and Cintas Corporation

          10.7 Agreement and Plan of Merger dated January 9,1999 by and    (8)
               among Unitog Company, Cintas Image Acquisition Company
               and Cintas Corporation


                                      -11-


          10.8 Amendment No. 1 to Agreement and Plan of Merger dated       (9)
               March 23, 1999 by and among Unitog Company, Cintas Image
               Acquisition Company and Cintas Corporation

          10.9 Unitog Company 1992 Stock Option Plan                       (10)

          10.10 Amendment No. 1 to Unitog Company 1992 Stock Option Plan   (11)

          10.11 Unitog Company 1997 Stock Option Plan                      (12)

          10.12 Amendments to the Articles of Incorporation of Cintas
                Corporation                                                (13)

          13    1999 Annual Report to Shareholders (a)            filed herewith

          21    Subsidiaries of the Registrant                    filed herewith

          23    Consent of Independent Auditors                   filed herewith

          27    Financial Data Schedule - Twelve Months Ended     filed herewith
                May 1999

(a)  Only portions of the 1999 Annual Report to Shareholders specifically
     incorporated by reference are filed herewith. A supplemental paper copy of
     this report will be provided to the SEC for informational purposes.

(1)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
     the year ended May 31, 1989.

(2)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement No.
     33-23228 on Form S-8 filed under the Securities Act of 1933.

(3)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement No.
     33-56623 on Form S-8 filed under the Securities Act
     of 1933.

(4)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement No.
     33-71124 on Form S-8 filed under the Securities Act of 1933.

(5)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement for its 1995
     Annual Shareholders Meeting.

(6)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Proxy Statement for its 1994
     Annual Shareholders Meeting.

(7)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K dated April 8, 1998.

(8)  Incorporated by reference to the Unitog Company's Form 8-K dated January 9,
     1999.

(9)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's Form 8-K dated March 24, 1999.

(10) Incorporated by reference to the Unitog Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal
     year ended January 26, 1992.

                                      -12-



(11) Incorporated by reference to the Unitog Company's Form 10-K for the fiscal
     year ended January 30, 1994.

(12) Incorporated by reference to the Unitog Company's 1997 Proxy Statement.

(13) Incorporated by reference to the Company's 1994 Proxy Statement.


                                      -13-


                                   SIGNATURES
                                   ----------

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

CINTAS CORPORATION

DATE SIGNED:  August 26, 1999                 /s/ Robert J. Kohlhepp
By:    Robert J. Kohlhepp                         ------------------
Chief Executive Officer

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the
capacities and on the dates indicated.

Signature                       Capacity                          Date
- ---------                       --------                          ----


/s/   Richard T. Farmer         Chairman of the Board
     -------------------        of Directors                     August 26, 1999
Richard T. Farmer


/s/  Robert J. Kohlhepp        Chief Executive
     -------------------       Officer and Director              August 26, 1999
Robert J. Kohlhepp


/s/  Scott D. Farmer           President, Chief Operating
     -------------------       Officer and Director              August 26, 1999
Scott D. Farmer


/s/  James J. Gardner          Director                          August 26, 1999
     -------------------
James J. Gardner


/s/  Donald P. Klekamp         Director                          August 26, 1999
     -------------------
Donald P. Klekamp


/s/  William C. Gale           Vice President and Chief
     -------------------       Financial Officer (Principal
William C. Gale                Financial and Accounting
                               Officer)                          August 26, 1999




                                      -14-


                               CINTAS CORPORATION


          Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves
                                 (In Thousands)



(A)   Uncollectible Accounts Charged-off, Net of Recoveries.


                                      -15-



