
10-K405
FORM 10-K405




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                             ----------------------

                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

[X]  Annual Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities  
Exchange Act of 1934 For the fiscal year ended: July 31, 1998

                                       OR

[ ]  Transition Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 For the transition period from _______ to _________

                         Commission File Number 0-23255

                                  COPART, INC.

             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                      CALIFORNIA                            94-2867490
            (State or other jurisdiction of              (I.R.S. Employer
            incorporation or organization)            Identification Number)

                   5500 E. SECOND STREET                      94510
                    BENICIA, CALIFORNIA                    (Zip code)
       (Address of principal executive offices)

        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (707) 748-5000

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: None

      SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: Common Stock
                                (TITLE OF CLASS)
                              -------------------

         Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all 
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that 
the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes _X_  No ___

         Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, 
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information 
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any 
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

         The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of 
the registrant as of October 9, 1998 was $172,557,000 based upon the last 
sales price reported for such date on the Nasdaq National Market. For purposes 
of this disclosure, shares of Common Stock held by persons who hold more than 
5% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock and shares held by officers and 
directors of the registrant, have been excluded in that such persons may be 
deemed to be affiliates. This determination is not necessarily conclusive for 
other purposes.

         At October 9, 1998 registrant had outstanding 13,303,160 shares of 
Common Stock.

                             ----------------------

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

         Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the 
registrant's definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders 
to be held on December 8, 1998 (the "Proxy Statement").




                                





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

         THIS REPORT CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WITHIN THE MEANING 
OF SECTION 27A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 21E OF THE 
SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934. ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM 
THOSE PROJECTED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF THE RISK 
FACTORS SET FORTH BELOW OR INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE INTO THIS REPORT. THE 
COMPANY HAS ATTEMPTED TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS BY PLACING AN 
ASTERISK IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE SENTENCE OR PHRASE THAT CONTAINS THE 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT.

GENERAL

         Copart, Inc. ("Copart" or the "Company") provides vehicle suppliers, 
primarily insurance companies, with a full range of services to process and 
sell salvage vehicles through auctions, principally to licensed dismantlers, 
rebuilders and used vehicle dealers. Salvage vehicles are either damaged 
vehicles deemed a total loss for insurance or business purposes or are 
recovered stolen vehicles for which an insurance settlement with the vehicle 
owner has already been made. The Company offers vehicle suppliers a full 
range of services which expedite each stage of the salvage vehicle auction 
process and minimize administrative and processing costs. The Company 
generates revenues primarily from auction fees paid by vehicle suppliers and 
vehicle buyers as well as related fees for services such as towing and 
storage.

         During fiscal year ending July 31, 1998, Copart has acquired six 
additional salvage vehicle auction facilities and opened three new 
facilities. Acquisitions include facilities in Avon, Minnesota; Columbia, 
South Carolina; Mobile, Alabama; San Diego, California; Des Moines, Iowa and 
Detroit, Michigan. New salvage vehicle auction sites have been opened in 
Orlando, Florida; Raleigh, North Carolina and Las Vegas, Nevada. In addition, 
Copart has expanded its operations at six existing facilities with the 
acquisition of over 30 acres of adjacent land.

         Copart was organized as a California corporation in 1982. The 
Company's principal executive offices are located at 5500 E. Second Street, 
Benicia, California 94510, and its telephone number at that address is (707) 
748-5000.

THE SALVAGE VEHICLE AUCTION INDUSTRY

         Although there are other suppliers of salvage vehicles, such as 
financial institutions, vehicle leasing companies, automobile rental 
companies and automobile dealers, the primary source of salvage vehicles to 
the salvage vehicle auction industry historically has been insurance 
companies. Of the total number of vehicles processed by the Company in fiscal 
1998, approximately 89% were obtained from insurance company suppliers. While 
there has been substantial consolidation of the salvage vehicle auction 
industry, the Company believes opportunities continue to exist either to open 
or acquire facilities. *

INDUSTRY PARTICIPANTS

         The primary businesses and/or individuals involved in the salvage 
vehicle auction industry include:

SALVAGE VEHICLE AUCTION COMPANIES. Salvage vehicle auction companies such as 
the Company generally either (i) auction salvage vehicles on consignment, for 
a fixed fee or for a percentage of the sales price of the vehicle or (ii) 
purchase vehicles from vehicle suppliers at a formula price, based on a 
percentage of the vehicles' estimated pre-loss value, or "actual cash value" 
("ACV"), and auction the vehicles for their own account.

- -------------------------
*    This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance. 





VEHICLE SUPPLIERS. The primary suppliers of salvage vehicles are insurance 
companies. Additional suppliers include automobile dealers, automobile rental 
companies, financial institutions and vehicle leasing companies.

VEHICLE BUYERS. Vehicle dismantlers, rebuilders, repair licensees and used 
car dealers are the primary buyers of salvage vehicles. Vehicle dismantlers, 
which the Company believes are the largest group of salvage vehicle buyers, 
either dismantle a vehicle and sell parts individually or sell the entire 
vehicle to rebuilders, used automobile dealers or the public. Vehicle 
rebuilders and vehicle repair licensees repair salvage vehicles for sale to 
used car dealers and noncommercial buyers. Used automobile dealers will 
generally purchase directly from a salvage vehicle auction facility, 
recovered stolen or slightly damaged vehicles.

THE INSURANCE ADJUSTMENT AND VEHICLE AUCTION PROCESS

         Following an accident involving an insured vehicle, the damaged 
vehicle is generally towed to a towing company or a vehicle repair facility 
for temporary storage pending insurance company examination. The vehicle is 
inspected by the insurance company's adjuster, who estimates the costs of 
repairing the vehicle and gathers information regarding the damaged vehicle's 
mileage, options and condition in order to estimate its ACV. The insurance 
company's adjuster determines whether to pay for repairs or to classify the 
vehicle as a total loss, based upon the adjuster's estimate of repair costs 
and the vehicle's salvage value, as well as customer service considerations. 
If the cost of repair is greater than the ACV less the estimated salvage 
value, the insurance company generally will classify the vehicle as a total 
loss. The insurance company will thereafter assign the vehicle to a salvage 
auction company, such as the Company, settle with the insured vehicle owner 
and receive title to the vehicle.

         Factors that vehicle suppliers consider when selecting a salvage 
vehicle auction company include (i) the anticipated percentage return on 
salvage (e.g., gross salvage proceeds, minus vehicle handling and selling 
expenses, divided by the ACV); (ii) the services provided by the salvage 
vehicle auction company and the degree to which such services reduce 
administrative costs and expenses; (iii) the ability to provide service 
across a broad geographic area; (iv) the timing of payment; and (v) the 
financial and operating history of the salvage vehicle auction company.

         In disposing of a salvage vehicle, a vehicle supplier assigns the 
vehicle to a salvage vehicle auction company with which it has a contractual 
or other relationship. Upon receipt of the pick-up order, which is conveyed 
by facsimile, telephone or computer, the salvage vehicle auction company 
dispatches one of its transporters or a contract towing company to transport 
the vehicle to the salvage vehicle auction company's facility. As a service 
to the vehicle supplier, the salvage vehicle auction company customarily pays 
advance charges (reimbursable charges paid by the Company on behalf of 
vehicle suppliers) to obtain the subject vehicle's release from a towing 
company or vehicle repair facility. Typically, advance charges are paid on 
behalf of the vehicle supplier and are recovered by the salvage vehicle 
auction company upon sale of the salvage vehicle.

         After being received and evaluated at the salvage vehicle auction 
facility, the vehicle remains in storage and cannot be sold at an auction 
until ownership documents are transferred from the insured vehicle owner and 
title to the vehicle is cleared through the appropriate state's motor vehicle 
regulatory agency (or "DMV"). If a vehicle is a total loss (as determined by 
the insurance company), it can be sold in most states upon settlement with 
and receipt of title documents from the insured. Total loss vehicles may be 
sold in most states only after obtaining a salvage certificate from the DMV; 
however, in some states only a bill of sale from the insured is required. 
Upon receipt of the appropriate documentation from the state DMV or the 
insured, which is generally received within 45 to 60 days of vehicle pick-up, 
the salvage vehicle auction company auctions the vehicle. Vehicles are sold 
primarily through live auctions, which are typically held weekly or biweekly 
at each facility, and occasionally by sealed bid auctions.





         At the Company's facilities, the vehicles to be auctioned are moved 
from storage areas to a sales area for the convenience of the buyers. At the 
Company and many other facilities, the auctioneer works from a bus that 
proceeds through the sales area from vehicle to vehicle. Certain vehicles 
that are driveable are driven through an auction display area. Minimum bids 
are occasionally set by vehicle suppliers on high-value and specialty cars, 
and often facilities have standing guaranteed bids of between $25 to $50 per 
vehicle from local dismantlers for "junk" vehicles.

         Once a vehicle is sold at auction, the buyer typically must pay by 
cashier's check, money order or approved company check and take possession of 
the sold vehicle within two to five days. After payment for the vehicle, the 
buyer receives the appropriate title documentation. In addition to the 
awarded bid price, the buyer pays any fees or other charges assessed by the 
salvage vehicle auction company, such as post-sale processing, towing and 
storage fees. The salvage vehicle auction company thereafter remits to the 
insurance company the vehicle sales proceeds, less advance charges and any 
fees for its towing, storage and selling of the vehicle pursuant to the 
arrangement between the insurance company and the salvage vehicle auction 
company. The insurance proceeds check will typically be accompanied by copies 
of invoices for deducted fees and advance charges, and copies of title and 
related DMV documents. The insurance company may then close its claims file 
with copies of all records of the transaction.

OPERATING STRATEGY

         The Company's operating strategy is to increase salvage vehicle 
volume from new and existing vehicle suppliers by (i) designing sales 
programs tailored to a vehicle supplier's particular needs, (ii) offering a 
full range of services that reduce the administrative time and costs of the 
salvage vehicle auction process, such as computerized monitoring and tracking 
of salvage vehicles, (iii) developing a growing base of buyers, (iv) 
providing salvage vehicle auction facilities throughout broad geographic 
regions, and (v) offering insurance companies the ability to contract for 
vehicle salvage services on a regional or national basis. The Company 
believes its flexible, service-oriented approach promotes the establishment 
and maintenance of strong relationships with vehicle suppliers, which are an 
integral factor in competing effectively in the salvage vehicle auction 
industry.

FLEXIBLE VEHICLE PROCESSING PROGRAMS

         At the election of the vehicle supplier, the Company auctions 
vehicles (i) pursuant to its Percentage Incentive Program, (ii) on a fixed 
fee consignment basis, (iii) on a purchase basis or (iv) on a basis which 
combines the consignment and purchase bases in order to meet a vehicle 
supplier's particular needs. Based upon the Company's database of historical 
returns on salvage vehicles and information provided by vehicle suppliers, 
the Company works with the vehicle supplier to design a program that 
maximizes the net returns on salvage vehicles. Due to, among other factors, 
including the timing and size of new acquisitions, market conditions, and 
acceptance of a particular program by vehicle suppliers, the percentage of 
vehicles processed under each of its programs may vary in future periods.* 
The three primary sales programs are as follows:

PERCENTAGE FEE CONSIGNMENT. Copart introduced its Percentage Incentive 
Program, (the "PIP",) as an innovative processing program to better serve the 
needs of certain vehicle suppliers. Under the PIP, Copart agrees to sell at 
auction all of the salvage vehicles of a vehicle supplier in a specified 
market for predetermined percentages of vehicle sales prices. Because 
Copart's revenues under the PIP are directly linked to the vehicle's auction 
price, Copart has an incentive to actively merchandise the vehicles in order 
to maximize the net return on salvage vehicles. Under the PIP, Copart 
provides the vehicle supplier, at Copart's expense, with transport of the 
vehicle to the nearest Company facility, storage at its facilities for 


- -----------------------
*  This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





up to 90 days, and DMV processing. In addition, Copart provides merchandising 
services such as covering/taping openings to protect vehicle interiors from 
weather, adding tires if needed, washing vehicle exteriors, vacuuming 
vehicle interiors, cleaning and polishing dashboards and tires, making keys 
for driveable vehicles and operating "drive-through" sales auctions of 
driveable vehicles. The Company believes its merchandising increases the 
sales prices of salvage vehicles, thereby increasing the return on salvage 
vehicles to both vehicle suppliers and the Company. In fiscal 1998, 
approximately 46% of all salvage vehicles processed by Copart were processed 
under the PIP.

FIXED FEE CONSIGNMENT. Under the fixed fee consignment program, the Company 
sells vehicles for a fixed consignment fee, generally $50 to $150 per 
vehicle. In addition to the consignment fees, the Company usually charges 
for, or includes in its fee to the vehicle supplier, the cost of transporting 
the vehicle to the Company's facility, storage of the vehicle, and other 
incidental costs. Approximately 53% of all salvage vehicles processed by 
Copart in fiscal 1998 were processed under the fixed fee consignment program.

PURCHASE CONTRACT. Under a purchase contract arrangement, the Company agrees 
to buy salvage vehicles of a vehicle supplier in a specific market. The 
vehicles generally are purchased for a pre-determined percentage of the 
vehicle's ACV and then resold by the Company for its own account. Under a 
purchase contract, the Company usually provides vehicle suppliers with free 
towing to its premises and storage at its facilities for up to 90 days. 
Approximately 1% of all salvage vehicles processed by the Company during 
fiscal 1998 were processed under purchase contracts.

BROAD ARRAY OF SERVICES

         The Company offers vehicle suppliers a full range of services which 
expedite each stage of the salvage vehicle auction process and minimize 
administrative and processing costs:

SALVAGE LYNK-TM-. Copart's proprietary software program, Salvage Lynk, provides 
a vehicle supplier with on-line access to retrieve information on any of its 
salvage vehicles being processed at Copart throughout the claims adjustment 
and auction process. Copart furnishes each user of Salvage Lynk with software 
and a computer terminal, if necessary, which enables the user to monitor each 
stage of the salvage vehicle auction process, from pickup to payment and the 
eventual auction of the vehicle, from each user's own office.

COPART ACCESS. In August of 1998, the Company introduced Copart Access - an 
Internet based service for vehicle suppliers. On the Access web pages at 
Copart.com, suppliers can enter assignments, check auction calendars, view 
photos and details of their vehicles in storage, view and reprint invoices 
and body-shop receipts, run a Pro Quote salvage estimate and see graphs of 
the historic performance of their vehicles at Copart auctions.

MONTHLY REPORTING. Upon request, the Company provides vehicle suppliers with 
monthly reports that summarize all of their salvage vehicles processed by the 
Company. These reports are able to track the vehicle suppliers' gross and net 
return on each vehicle, service charges, and other data that enable the 
vehicle suppliers to more easily administer and monitor the salvage vehicle 
disposition process. In addition, when the suppliers receive payment, they 
also receive a detailed closing invoice, noting any advance charges paid by 
the Company on their behalf. Copart's vehicle suppliers can obtain all of 
their payment and invoice information on-line through Salvage Lynk.

DMV PROCESSING. The Company offers employees of vehicle suppliers training on 
DMV document processing and has prepared a manual that provides step-by-step 
instructions to expedite title document processing. In addition, the 
Company's computers provide a direct link to the California, Texas and New 
York DMV computer systems. This training on DMV procedures and, in 
California, Texas and New York, the direct link to the DMV computer system, 
allow vehicle suppliers to expedite title searches and the processing of 
paperwork, thereby facilitating title acquisition from the insured vehicle 
owner and consequently shortening the time period in which vehicle suppliers 
can receive their salvage vehicle 





proceeds. Under California's license registration fee rebate program, the 
Company, for a fee, assists participating vehicle suppliers in calculating, 
applying for and obtaining rebates of unused owner registration and license 
fees. The net rebates are delivered and paid to the vehicle supplier.

VEHICLE INSPECTION STATION. The Company offers certain of its major insurance 
company suppliers office and yard space to house a Vehicle Inspection Station 
("VIS") on-site at its auction facilities. At July 31, 1998, there were 29 
VIS's at 23 of the Company's facilities. An on-site VIS provides an insurance 
company a central location to inspect potential total loss vehicles and 
reduces storage charges that otherwise may be incurred at the initial storage 
and repair facility. The Company believes that providing an on-site VIS 
enables the Company to improve the level of service it provides to such 
insurance companies.

VEHICLE PREPARATION AND MERCHANDISING. The Company has developed 
merchandising techniques designed to increase the volume and sale price of 
salvage vehicles. Under the PIP, Copart provides vehicle weather protection, 
including shrink-wrapping vehicles to protect them from inclement weather, 
cleaning and drive-through sales of driveable vehicles, which the Company 
believes enhance salvage vehicle presentation and increase vehicle sales 
prices. Direct mailings are also made to select vehicle buyers, identified 
through the Company's database of buyers, to alert them to the availability 
of salvage vehicles in which they might be interested.

SALVAGE BROKERAGE NETWORK. In response to requests of vehicle suppliers to 
coordinate disposal of their vehicles outside of Copart's current areas of 
operation, Copart has developed a national network of third party salvage 
vehicle auction facilities that process vehicles under the direction of 
Copart. Copart's customers benefit from being able to monitor and obtain 
information on virtually all of their salvage vehicles at any place in the 
United States through Salvage Lynk, as opposed to dealing with numerous 
salvage auction facilities across the country. Copart receives revenues from 
the sale of vehicles processed by members of these networks, net of 
applicable fees of the facility which processed the vehicle and without 
buyer's fees.

TRANSPORTATION SERVICES. The Company maintains a fleet of multi-vehicle 
transport trucks at most of its yards as well as contracts for vehicle 
transports at most facilities.

BUYER NETWORK. The Company maintains a database of thousands of registered 
buyers of salvage vehicles in the vehicle dismantling, rebuilding, repair, 
and/or resale business. Copart's database of buyers also includes vehicle 
preference and purchasing history by buyer. This data enables a local 
facility manager to notify key prospective buyers throughout the region or 
country of the sale of salvage vehicles that may match their preferences. 
Sales notices listing the salvage vehicles to be auctioned on a particular 
day and location are made available at each auction and on the internet. Each 
notice details for each vehicle, among other things, the year and make of the 
vehicle, the description of the damage, the status of title and the order of 
the vehicle in the auction.

         The Company seeks to establish a loyal and growing customer base of 
salvage vehicle buyers by providing a variety of value-added programs and 
services. Copart has initiated its Buyers Plus Program, which includes a 
Copart Silver and Gold Card frequent buyer program designed to attract 
high-volume commercial customers by providing them with frequent buyer 
credits to acquire promotional merchandise, and extra services such as 
express check-in procedures and streamlined paperwork processing services. 
Copart also periodically provides free prizes and giveaways to promote 
auction attendance.

MULTIPLE LOCATIONS. The Company had a total of 60 facilities in 31 states at 
July 31, 1998. The Company's multiple locations provide vehicle suppliers 
certain advantages, including (i) a reduction in administrative time and 
effort, (ii) a reduction in overall towing costs, (iii) the ability for 
adjusters to make inspections of vehicles in their area, as opposed to 
traveling long distances, (iv) the convenience to the insurance company's 
customers of inspecting their vehicles and retrieving any personal belongings 
left in the vehicle and (v) access to buyers in a broad geographic area. 





GROWTH STRATEGY

         The Company's growth strategy is to (i) open or acquire new 
facilities, (ii) increase salvage vehicle volume from new and existing 
suppliers, (iii) increase revenues and profitability at its existing 
facilities, and (iv) pursue regional and national supply agreements with 
vehicle suppliers.* While there has been substantial consolidation of the 
salvage vehicle auction industry, the Company believes opportunities exist to 
either open or acquire new facilities.*

EXISTING MARKETS. The Company attempts to increase vehicle volume from 
existing and new suppliers by promoting its ability to increase a supplier's 
net returns and to provide a broad selection of services to suppliers. The 
Company also believes that a portion of its sales growth in existing markets 
has been attributable to recommendations from branch offices of insurance 
company suppliers to other branch offices of the same insurance company. 
Because a number of the Company's current insurance company suppliers are 
large national companies with branch offices throughout the country, the 
Company believes that such referrals provide the potential for future growth 
in sales in existing, as well as new, geographic markets.*

NEW FACILITIES. Since its formation in 1982, Copart has expanded, primarily 
through acquisitions, from a single facility in Vallejo, California, to an 
integrated network of 60 facilities located in California, Texas, Arkansas, 
Oklahoma, Kansas, Washington, Oregon, Georgia, Missouri, New York, 
Connecticut, Florida, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Maryland, 
Ohio, Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Mississippi, North Carolina, Indiana, 
Arizona, Louisiana, Utah, Nevada, Alabama, South Carolina, Iowa and Michigan.

         The Company's strategy is to offer integrated service to vehicle 
suppliers on a regional or national basis by acquiring or opening salvage 
facilities in new markets as well as in regions currently served by the 
Company. The Company believes that by either opening or acquiring new 
operations in such markets, it can capitalize on certain operating 
efficiencies resulting from, among other things, the reduction of duplicative 
overhead and the implementation of the Company's operating procedures.* 
During fiscal 1996, the Company acquired two facilities in or near Jackson, 
Mississippi and El Paso, Texas, and opened five new facilities in or near 
Charlotte, North Carolina; Jacksonville, Florida; Van Nuys, California; 
Indianapolis, Indiana and Phoenix, Arizona. During fiscal 1997, the Company 
acquired two facilities in or near Baton Rouge, Louisiana and Salt Lake City, 
Utah and opened two new facilities in or near Hammond, Indiana and 
Woodinville, Washington. During fiscal 1998, the Company acquired six 
facilities in or near Avon, Minnesota; Columbia, South Carolina; Mobile, 
Alabama; San Diego, California; Des Moines, Iowa and Detroit, Michigan and 
opened three new facilities in or near Orlando, Florida; Raleigh, North 
Carolina and Las Vegas, Nevada. Copart has expanded its operations at six 
existing facilities with the acquisition of over 30 acres of adjacent land. 
In addition, the Company believes that the establishment of a national 
presence both enhances the ability of a salvage vehicle auction company to 
enter into state, regional or national supply agreements with vehicle 
suppliers and to develop name recognition with vehicle suppliers and buyers.* 
The Company, in the normal course of its business, maintains an active 
dialogue with acquisition candidates of various sizes.

         The Company seeks to increase revenues and profitability at acquired 
facilities by, among other things, (i) implementing its buyer fee structure, 
(ii) introducing and converting certain vehicle suppliers to the PIP, which 
typically results in higher net returns to vehicle suppliers and higher fees 
to the Company than standard fixed fee consignment programs and (iii) 
initiating the Company's value-enhancing merchandising procedures. * In 
addition, the Company attempts to effect cost efficiencies at each of its 


- ------------------
*  This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





acquired facilities through, among other things, implementing the Company's 
operating procedures, integrating the Company's management information 
systems and, when necessary, redeploying personnel.

         Before entering a new market, the Company seeks to establish vehicle 
supply arrangements with one or more of the major insurers in the targeted 
market. Often this is accomplished by targeting an insurance company in that 
market with whom the Company does business in other geographic areas. 
Additional factors which the Company considers when acquiring or opening a 
new vehicle auction facility include relationships with vehicle suppliers, 
market size, supply of salvaged vehicles, quality and location of facility, 
growth potential and the region's potential for additional markets.

         The Company strives to integrate its new facilities with minimum 
disruption to the facility's existing suppliers. Consistent with industry 
practice, most salvage vehicle auction companies, including those acquired by 
the Company, operate exclusively on a fixed fee consignment basis. The 
Company works with suppliers to tailor a vehicle disposition method to fit 
their needs. Copart's fee structures and service programs for buyers are 
implemented at a new facility gradually, providing Copart the opportunity to 
gain knowledge of, and respond to, the existing market. The Company typically 
attempts to retain all or most of the management at acquired facilities and 
trains management at acquired facilities by rotating one or two managers from 
other Company facilities through the new facility for short assignments. If a 
new facility is opened or if management of an acquired facility needs 
assistance in converting to the Copart system, the Company will assign an 
integration team to the new facility, and, where necessary, transfer an 
experienced facility manager.

         The following chart sets forth facilities acquired or opened by 
Copart since the beginning of fiscal 1996, through July 31, 1998.







SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS AND SUPPLIER MARKETING

         The Company currently obtains salvage vehicles from thousands of 
vehicle suppliers, including local and regional offices of such suppliers. In 
fiscal 1998, vehicles supplied by its single largest supplier accounted for 
approximately 16% of the Company's revenues. The Company's agreements with 
this and other vehicle suppliers are either oral or written agreements that 
generally are subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days' 
notice.

         The Company typically contracts with the regional or branch office 
of an insurance company or other vehicle supplier. The agreements are 
customized to each vehicle supplier's particular needs, often providing for 
disposition of different types of salvage vehicles by differing methods. 
Although the Company does not have written agreements with all of its vehicle 
suppliers, the Company has arrangements to process the vehicles generated by 
such suppliers. Such contracts or arrangements generally provide that the 
Company will sell virtually all total loss and recovered stolen vehicles 
generated by the vehicle supplier in a designated geographic area. The 
Company's written agreements with vehicle suppliers are typically subject to 
cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days' notice. There can be no 
assurance that existing agreements will not be canceled or that the terms of 
any new agreements will be comparable to those of existing agreements.

         The Company markets its services to vehicle suppliers through an 
in-house sales force which utilizes mailing of Company sales literature, 
telemarketing and follow-up personal sales calls, and participation in trade 
shows and vehicle and insurance industry conventions. The Company's marketing 
personnel meet with vehicle suppliers and, based upon the Company's 
historical data on salvage vehicles and upon vehicle information supplied by 
the vehicle suppliers, provide vehicle suppliers with detailed analysis of 
the net return on salvage vehicles and a proposal setting forth ways in which 
the Company can improve net returns on salvage vehicles and reduce 
administrative costs and expenses.

         See "Factors Affecting Future Results" below.

BUYERS

         The buyers of salvage vehicles at salvage vehicle auctions are 
primarily dismantlers, rebuilders, vehicle repair licensees and used 
automobile dealers. Dismantlers either dismantle the vehicles and sell the 
parts, or sell the entire vehicle to rebuilders, used car dealers or the 
public. Rebuilders and vehicle repair licensees are generally wholesale used 
car dealers and body shops that repair salvage vehicles for sale to used car 
dealers. Used car dealers typically purchase late model, slightly damaged or 
intact, recovered stolen vehicles for repair and sale.

         The Company maintains a database of thousands of registered buyers 
of salvage vehicles in the vehicle dismantling, rebuilding, repair, and/or 
resale businesses. The Company believes that it has established a broad buyer 
base by providing buyers of salvage vehicles with a variety of programs and 
services. In order to gain admission to a Company auction and become a 
registered buyer, prospective buyers must pay an initial registration fee and 
an annual fee, have a vehicle dismantler's, dealer's or repair license, have 
an active resale license, and provide requested personal and business 
information. Registration entitles a buyer to transact business at any 
Company auction subject to local licensing and permitting. A buyer may also 
bring guests to an auction for a fee. Strict admission procedures are 
intended to prevent frivolous bids that would invalidate an auction. The 
Company markets to buyers through customer incentive programs, sales notices, 
telemarketing and participation in trade show events. In addition, Copart has 
initiated programs specifically designed to address the needs of its 
wholesale and high volume buyers, including providing streamlined paperwork 
processing, simplified payment procedures and personalized customer services. 
No single buyer accounted for more than 1% of the Company's net revenues in 
fiscal 1998.





COMPETITION

         The salvage vehicle auction industry is highly fragmented. As a 
result, the Company faces intense competition for the supply of salvage 
vehicles from vehicle suppliers, as well as competition for buyers of vehicles 
from other salvage vehicle auction companies. The Company believes its 
principal competitor is Insurance Auto Auctions, Inc. ("IAA"). Over the last 
several years, IAA acquired and opened a number of salvage vehicle auction 
facilities. IAA is a significant competitor in certain regions in which the 
Company operates or may expand in the future. In other regions of the United 
States, the Company faces substantial competition from salvage vehicle auction 
facilities with established relationships with vehicle suppliers and buyers 
and financial resources which may be greater than the Company's. Due to the 
limited number of vehicle suppliers and the absence of long-term contractual 
commitments between the Company and such salvage vehicle suppliers, 
competition for salvage vehicles from such suppliers is intense. The Company 
may also encounter significant competition for state, regional and national 
supply agreements with vehicle suppliers. * Vehicle suppliers may enter into 
state, regional or national supply agreements with competitors of the Company.

         The Company has a number of regional and national contracts with 
various suppliers. There can be no assurance that the existence of other 
state, regional or national contracts entered into by the Company's 
competitors will not have a material adverse effect on the Company or the 
Company's expansion plans. Furthermore, the Company is likely to face 
competition from major competitors in the acquisition of salvage vehicle 
auction facilities, which could significantly increase the cost of such 
acquisitions and thereby materially impede the Company's expansion objectives 
or have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. * 
Potential competitors could include vehicle suppliers, some of which presently 
supply salvage vehicles to the Company and used car auction companies. While 
most vehicle suppliers have abandoned or reduced efforts to sell salvage 
vehicles without the use of service providers such as the Company, there can 
be no assurance that they may not in the future decide to dispose of their 
salvage vehicles directly to buyers. Existing or new competitors may be 
significantly larger and have greater financial and marketing resources than 
the Company. There can be no assurance that the Company will be able to 
compete successfully in the future.

         See "Factors Affecting Future Results" below.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

         The Company's operations are subject to federal, state and local laws 
and regulations regarding the protection of the environment. In the salvage 
vehicle auction industry, large numbers of wrecked vehicles are stored at 
auction facilities for short periods of time. Minor spills of gasoline, motor 
oils and other fluids may occur from time to time at the Company's facilities 
which may result in localized soil, surface water or groundwater 
contamination. Petroleum products and other hazardous materials are contained 
in approved aboveground containment tanks located at certain of the Company's 
facilities. Waste materials such as waste solvents or used oils are generated 
at some of the Company's facilities which are disposed of as nonhazardous or 
hazardous wastes. The Company has put into place procedures to reduce the 
amounts of soil contamination that may occur at its facilities, and has 
initiated safety programs and training of personnel on safe storage and 
handling of hazardous materials. The Company believes that it is in compliance 
in all material respects with applicable environmental regulations and does 
not anticipate any material capital expenditures for environmental compliance 
or remediation except with regard to the Dallas Operation (as defined below).* 
Environmental laws and regulations, however, could become more stringent 

- ----------------------
*  This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could affect 
future performance. 




over time and there can be no assurance that the Company or its operations 
will not be subject to significant compliance costs in the future. To date, 
the Company has not incurred expenditures for preventive or remedial action 
with respect to soil contamination or the use of hazardous materials which 
have had a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or 
results of operations. Contamination which may occur at the Company's 
facilities and the potential contamination by previous users of certain 
acquired facilities create the risk, however, that the Company could incur 
substantial expenditures for preventive or remedial action, as well as 
potential liability arising as a consequence of hazardous material 
contamination, which could have a material adverse effect on the Company.

         In connection with its acquisition of a facility in the Dallas 
metropolitan area (the "Dallas Operation") in March 1994, the Company will pay 
$3.0 million for environmental corrective action and consulting expenses 
associated with an approximately six-acre portion of the Dallas Operation's 
real property which contains elevated levels of lead due to the prior 
activities of the former operators. If total costs of corrective action at the 
Dallas Operation do not exceed $3.0 million, then the remaining funds after 
payment of all costs of corrective action, up to $3.0 million, will be paid as 
consulting fees to the former principal shareholder of the Dallas Operation. 
If the total costs of corrective action exceed $3.0 million, then the former 
principal shareholder of the Dallas Operation will pay the next $1.2 million 
of costs of corrective action. The Company and such former principal 
shareholder are each obligated to pay up to $1.5 million of the costs for 
corrective action, if incurred, between $4.2 million and $7.2 million. If the 
total costs of corrective action exceed $7.2 million, then such former 
principal shareholder will either pay up to the next $1.0 million, or notify 
the Company to pay up to the next $1.0 million in exchange for a 
dollar-for-dollar credit toward the purchase price of the Dallas Operation's 
real property, calculated as the greater of $1.0 million or the then fair 
market value. Such former principal shareholder's obligations under this 
arrangement are secured by a pledge of 225,000 shares of the Company's Common 
Stock. However, there can be no assurance that such former principal 
shareholder will be able to meet his obligations or that the pledged stock 
will be sufficient to cover such obligations. In March 1995, the Texas Natural 
Resource Conservation Commission ("TNRCC") authorized the Company to perform a 
Corrective Measure Study ("CMS") to determine if the proposed on-site soil 
stabilization remedy would be effective. In August 1995, the Company's 
environmental consultant submitted a Baseline Risk Assessment ("BRA") to the 
TNRCC, which concluded that neither human health nor the environment are 
placed at risk by the lead battery casing chips at the site. In April 1996, 
the TNRCC approved the BRA, and in October 1996 approved a modified CMS. 
Following such approval, the Company contracted to complete the on-site 
stabilization and asphalt cap for a contract price of $687,000. During the 
course of the project to stabilize and asphalt cap the contaminated soil, a 
dispute arose among the Company, the environmental engineer, and the general 
contractor hired to perform the remediation work. The asphalt cap began to 
fail almost immediately after the Company began to resume its operations on 
the cap. Ultimately, the Company dismissed both the contractor and the 
engineer, and has filed suit against both for the defects in the construction 
and/or design. The Company hired a new engineer to design a concrete cap to 
cover the remediated area. The concrete cap in lieu of an asphalt cap is 
estimated to add $650,000 toward the cost to complete the in-site remediation. 
Said concrete cap is approximately 80% complete to date. The Company has also 
retained the services of another environmental engineer to coordinate 
completion of the corrective action approved by the TNRCC. The Company 
anticipates that the concrete capping of the site will be completed prior to 
the end of calendar year 1998. Upon completion of the on-site soil 
stabilization to the satisfaction of the TNRCC, the TNRCC has indicated that 
it will issue a no-further-action letter, at which time the remaining funds 
shall be paid as consulting fees as set forth above. There can be no assurance 
that the ultimate cost of corrective action, or any other liabilities with 
respect to the site, including costs and liability resulting from the 
litigation with the former environmental engineer and general contractor, will 
not exceed the $3.0 million which the Company is obligated to pay for 
remediation costs and consulting fees to the former principal shareholder of 
the Dallas Operation, or that such actual costs will not have a material 
adverse effect on the Company.

         Metals and hydrocarbon soil contamination was detected at one of 
Copart's California facilities, which was determined to be associated with 
uses of the property by persons prior to the time that the prior owner became 
the occupant of the facility. In addition, metals were detected in samples 
collected from 




groundwater monitoring wells located at this property. Copart obtained 
specific indemnification from the landowner of such facility for any liability 
for pre-existing environmental contamination. In addition, a small quantity of 
tetrachlorethane ("PCE") and toluene was detected in a temporary ground water 
monitoring well at the Dallas Operation. The Company's environmental 
consultants concluded that both PCE and toluene were from an off-site source 
upgradient of the facility, and no further action was recommended.

         In 1991, Copart removed an underground storage tank from one of its 
California facilities after monitoring devices indicated that the tank was 
leaking. Subsequent testing revealed localized low level contamination of the 
soil and ground water where the tank was removed, but no migration of the 
contamination. The Company has retained the services of an environmental 
consultant to represent the Company before the local county environmental 
management department. The Company has been informed by the consultant that 
the county agreed to a plan involving periodic monitoring of soil and ground 
water to assure that the contamination is not spreading. In fiscal 1997, the 
county issued a remedial action completion certification indicating that no 
further action related to the underground storage tank release is required.

         In connection with the acquisition of NER Auction Systems ("NER"), 
environmental consultants were engaged to perform a limited environmental 
assessment of the properties on which NER conducted its business. Prior to the 
acquisition, the site assessment for the Company's leased facility located in 
Bellingham, Massachusetts, reported concentrations of Benzene and MTBE in the 
groundwater, which slightly exceed the reportable concentrations under the 
Massachusetts environmental laws. The former principal shareholder of NER has 
undertaken a remedial plan to remediate the groundwater contamination. To the 
best knowledge of the Company, that remedial plan is on-going. It remains 
unclear if any of the contamination has migrated off-site and additional 
remediation costs may be necessary if any groundwater beyond the site has been 
contaminated. Pursuant to the terms of the NER acquisition, Copart is 
indemnified as to any environmental liabilities relating to sites being leased 
from NER, including the Bellingham site by the former shareholders of NER. 
There can be no assurance that this indemnification will be adequate.

         The Company does not believe that the metals and hydrocarbon soil 
contamination, PCE, storage tank removal or Bellingham Remediation will, 
either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on the 
Company.*

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATIONS

         The Company's operations are subject to regulation, supervision and 
licensing under various federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and 
regulations. The acquisition and sale of damaged and recovered stolen vehicles 
is regulated by state motor vehicle departments. In addition to the regulation 
of sales and acquisitions of vehicles, the Company is also subject to various 
local zoning requirements with regard to the location of its auction and 
storage facilities. These zoning requirements vary from location to location. 
The Company is also subject to environmental regulations. The Company believes 
that it is in compliance in all-material respects with applicable regulatory 
requirements. The Company may be subject to similar types of regulations by 
federal, state, and local governmental agencies in new markets. Although the 
Company believes that it has all permits necessary to conduct its business and 
is in material compliance with applicable regulatory requirements, failure to 
comply with present or future regulations or changes in interpretations of 
existing regulations could result in impairment of the Company's operations 
and the imposition of penalties and other liabilities.

- ----------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could affect 
future performance.





MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM

         The Company's management information system ("MIS") consists of an 
expandable, integrated IBM AS/400 computer located in Benicia, California, 
integrated computer interfaces (Internet and Salvage Lynk) and proprietary 
software which enables salvage vehicles to be tracked by the Company and 
vehicle suppliers throughout the salvage vehicle auction process. By providing 
this accessibility, the Company provides a marketing benefit to its customers 
in streamlining their internal salvage tracking process. The Company's MIS is 
an essential part of its strategy to provide superior service to its clients 
and buyers, as well as to effectively support internal operations. In February 
1997, Copart finished the development of a new proprietary operating system, 
the Copart Auction System ("CAS"). During fiscal 1998, the Company fully 
implemented CAS at all locations. The new system is written for the millenium 
change and is designed to be more efficient in processing and billing 
vehicles. The Company continues to research new computer technologies to 
enhance its MIS development. Other functions provided by MIS include 
accounting, inventory and salvage vehicle supplier and buyer information. The 
Company believes that, with planned upgrades and integration of new 
acquisitions, the Company's MIS will serve its information management needs 
for the foreseeable future. *

EMPLOYEES

         As of July 31, 1998, the Company had approximately 1,181 full-time 
employees, of whom approximately 118 were engaged in general and 
administrative functions and approximately 1,063 were engaged in yard and 
fleet operations. The Company is not subject to any collective bargaining 
agreements and believes that its relationships with its employees are good.

                        FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE RESULTS

         Historically, a limited number of vehicle suppliers have accounted 
for a substantial portion of the Company's revenues. In fiscal 1998, vehicles 
supplied by Copart's single largest supplier accounted for approximately 16% 
of Copart's revenues. The Company's agreements with this and other vehicle 
suppliers are either oral or written agreements that typically are subject to 
cancellation by either party upon 30 days notice. There can be no assurance 
that existing agreements will not be canceled or that the terms of any new 
agreements will be comparable to those of existing agreements. While the 
Company believes that, as the salvage vehicle auction industry becomes more 
consolidated, the likelihood of large vehicle suppliers entering into 
agreements with single companies to dispose of all of their salvage vehicles 
on a statewide, regional or national basis increases, there can be no 
assurance that the Company will be able to enter into such agreements or that 
it will be able to retain its existing supply of salvage vehicles in the event 
vehicle suppliers begin disposing of their salvage vehicles pursuant to state, 
regional or national agreements with other operators of salvage vehicle 
auction facilities. * A loss or reduction in the number of vehicles from a 
significant vehicle supplier or material changes in the terms of an 
arrangement with a substantial vehicle supplier could have a material adverse 
effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.

         The Company's operating results have in the past and may in the 
future fluctuate significantly depending on a number of factors. These factors 
include changes in the market value of salvage vehicles, buyer attendance at 
salvage auctions, delays or changes in state title processing and/or changes 
in state or federal laws or regulations affecting salvage vehicles, 
fluctuations in ACV's of salvage vehicles, the availability of vehicles and 
weather conditions. As a result, the Company believes that period-to-period 
comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and 
should not be relied upon as any

- ---------------------
*  This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could affect 
future performance.





indication of future performance. There can be no assurance, therefore, that 
the Company's operating results in some future quarter will not be below the 
expectations of public market analysts and/or investors.

         The market price of the Company's Common Stock could be subject to 
significant fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including 
variations in the Company's operating results, the timing and size of 
acquisitions and facility openings, the loss of vehicle suppliers or buyers, 
the announcement of new vehicle supply agreements by the Company or its 
competitors, changes in regulations governing the Company's operations or its 
vehicle suppliers, environmental problems or litigation. In addition, the 
stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume 
fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of 
companies.

         The Company seeks to increase sales and profitability primarily 
through the opening of new facilities, the acquisition of other salvage 
vehicle auction facilities, and the increase of salvage vehicle volume and 
revenue at existing facilities. There can be no assurance that the Company 
will be able to continue to acquire additional facilities on terms economical 
to the Company or that the Company will be able to increase revenues at newly 
acquired facilities above levels realized at such facilities prior to their 
acquisition by the Company. In particular, the Company's rate of growth could 
be materially adversely affected if the Company is not able to open or acquire 
new facilities at the same rate as it has in the past. Additionally, as the 
Company continues to grow, its openings and acquisitions will have to be more 
numerous or of a larger size in order to have a material impact on the 
Company's operations. The ability of the Company to achieve its expansion 
objectives and to manage its growth is also dependent on other factors, 
including the integration of new facilities into existing operations, the 
establishment of new relationships or expansion of existing relationships with 
vehicle suppliers, the identification and lease of suitable premises on 
competitive terms and the availability of capital. The size and timing of such 
acquisitions and openings may vary. Management believes that facilities opened 
by the Company require more time to reach revenue and profitability levels 
comparable to its existing facilities and may have greater working capital 
requirements than those facilities acquired by the Company. Therefore, to the 
extent that the Company opens a greater number of facilities in the future 
than it has historically, the Company's growth rate in revenues and 
profitability may be adversely affected.

         Currently, Willis J. Johnson, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, 
together with two other existing shareholders, beneficially owns approximately 
41% of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock. This interest in the 
Company may also have the effect of making certain transactions, such as 
mergers or tender offers involving the Company, more difficult, absent the 
support of Mr. Johnson and such other existing shareholders.

         While the Company believes that the proceeds from its financing and 
public offerings, cash generated from operations, borrowing availability under 
its line of credit and existing equipment leasing lines of credit will be 
sufficient to satisfy the Company's working capital requirements for the next 
12 months, there can be no assurance that additional funding will not be 
required sooner, depending on a number of factors including the rate at which 
the Company acquires or opens new facilities, the size and timing of capital 
expenditures for existing facilities, the extent of future environmental 
remediation costs, if any, and other factors. There can be no assurance that 
any such funding would be available if, and when, required by the Company, on 
acceptable terms to the Company or at all.





                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

         The executive officers of the Company and their ages as of July 31, 
1998 are as follows:



         WILLIS J. JOHNSON, co-founder of the Company, has served as Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company since 1986, and has been a Board member since 
1982. Mr. Johnson was also President of the Company from 1986 through May 
1995. Mr. Johnson has over 26 years of experience in owning and operating auto 
dismantling and vehicle salvage companies.

         A. JAYSON ADAIR has served as President of the Company since October 
1996 and as a director since September 1992. From April 1995 to October 1996, 
Mr. Adair served as Executive Vice President, from August 1990 until April 
1995, Mr. Adair served as Vice President of Sales and Operations and from June 
1989 to August 1990, Mr. Adair served as the Company's Manager of Operations.

         JAMES E. MEEKS has served as Vice President and Chief Operating 
Officer of the Company since September 1992 when he joined the Company 
concurrent with the Company's purchase of South Bay Salvage Pool (the "San 
Martin Operation"). Mr. Meeks has served as Executive Vice President and 
Director since October 1996 and as Senior Vice President since April 1995. 
From April 1986 to September 1992, Mr. Meeks, together with his family, owned 
and operated the San Martin Operation. Mr. Meeks is also an officer, director 
and part owner of Cas & Meeks, Inc., a towing and subhauling service company, 
which he has operated since 1991. Mr. Meeks has also been an officer and 
director of E & H Dismantlers, a self-service auto dismantler, since 1967. Mr. 
Meeks has over 31 years of experience in the vehicle dismantling business.

         WAYNE R. HILTY has served as Senior Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer of the Company since January 1998. Mr. Hilty has been the 
Company's Vice-President and Controller since 1997, and previously was an 
independent consultant to the Company. Mr. Hilty received a B.S. from San 
Francisco State University in 1980 and became a certified public accountant in 
1983 with Arthur Young and Company.

         PAUL A. STYER has served as General Counsel of the Company since 
September 1992, served as Senior Vice President since April 1995 and as Vice 
President from September 1992 until April 1995. Mr. Styer served as a Director 
of the Company from September 1992 until October 1993. Mr. Styer has served as 
Secretary since October 1993. From August 1990 to September 1992, Mr. Styer 
conducted an independent law practice. Mr. Styer received a B.A. from the 
University of California, Davis and a J.D. from the University of the Pacific. 
Mr. Styer is a member of the California State Bar Association.

         Officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve at the 
discretion of the Board. There are no family relationships among any of the 
directors or executive officers of the Company, except that A. Jayson Adair is 
the son-in-law of Willis J. Johnson.





ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

FACILITIES INFORMATION

         The following table sets forth certain information regarding the 
facilities currently used by the Company.










(1)  Copart's initial facility.

(2)  In connection with the acquisition of the Dallas Operation, Copart 
obtained an option, exercisable from March 2004 through March 2014, to 
acquire the Dallas Operation's real property for the purchase price of $2.5 
million, consisting of $500,000 in cash and a $2.0 million promissory note 
bearing interest at the then prime rate payable in equal monthly installments 
over 10 years. Such purchase price may be subject to adjustment in the event 
that the total cost of corrective action at the Dallas Operation exceeds $7.2 
million.

(3)  Right of first refusal for these properties is held by the NER Auction 
Group entities which are leasing such properties from third party landowners 
and as to which Copart is the sublessee.

(4)  Corporate headquarters.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         None.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         Not applicable.





                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

MARKET PRICE AND DISTRIBUTIONS

         The following table summarizes the high and low sales prices per 
share for each quarter during the last two fiscal years. As of July 31, 1998, 
there were 13,275,060 shares outstanding. The Company's Common Stock has been 
quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol CPRT since March 17, 
1994. As of July 31, 1998, the Company had 294 shareholders of record.



         The Company has not paid a cash dividend since 1984 and does not 
anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.





ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

         The tables below summarize the Selected Consolidated Financial Data 
of the Company as of and for each of the last five fiscal years. This selected 
financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and "Management's 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" 
included elsewhere in this Report. The selected financial data presented below 
have been derived from the Company's consolidated financial statements that 
have been audited by KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent public accountants, 
whose report is included herein covering the consolidated financial statements 
as of July 31, 1998 and 1997 and for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended July 31, 1998. The selected operating data for the years ended 
July 31, 1995 and 1994 and the balance sheet data as of July 31, 1996, 1995 
and 1994 are derived from audited consolidated financial statements not 
included herein:







ITEM 7.        MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                        CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

         The Company processes salvage vehicles principally on a consignment 
method, on either the Percentage Incentive Program or on a fixed fee 
consignment basis. Using either consignment method, only the fees associated 
with vehicle processing are recorded in revenue. The Company also processes a 
percentage of its salvage vehicles pursuant to purchase contracts (the 
"Purchase Program") under which the Company records the gross proceeds of the 
vehicle sale in purchased vehicle revenues and cost of the vehicle in yard and 
fleet expenses.

         For the fiscal years ended July 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
approximately 46%, 33%, and 25% of the vehicles sold by Copart, respectively, 
were processed under the PIP. The increase in the percentage of vehicles sold 
under the PIP in fiscal 1998 is due to the Company's successful marketing 
efforts. The Company attempts to convert acquired operations to the PIP, which 
typically results in higher net returns to vehicle suppliers and higher fees 
to the Company than standard fixed fee consignment programs.

         For the fiscal years ended July 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
approximately 53%, 61% and 69%, of the vehicles sold by Copart, respectively, 
were processed under fixed fee agreements. The decline in the percentage of 
vehicles under fixed contracts is the direct result of the Company's marketing 
efforts to convert contracts from fixed fee to PIP.

         For the fiscal years ended July 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
approximately 1%, 6% and 6% of the vehicles sold by Copart, respectively, were 
processed pursuant to the Purchase Program. The decrease in vehicles sold 
under the Purchase between fiscal 1998 and 1997 is attributable to the 
termination, or renegotiation to consignment contracts, of certain vehicle 
purchase contracts.

         Due to a number of factors, including the timing and size of new 
acquisitions, market conditions, and acceptance of the PIP Program by vehicle 
suppliers, the percentage of vehicles processed under this program in future 
periods may vary. *

         Costs attributable to yard and fleet expenses consist primarily of 
operating personnel (which includes yard management, clerical and yard 
employees), rent, contract vehicle towing, insurance, fuel, fleet maintenance 
and repair, and acquisition costs of salvage vehicles under the Purchase 
Program. Costs associated with general and administrative expenses consist 
primarily of executive, accounting and data processing, sales personnel, 
professional fees and marketing expenses.

         The period-to-period comparability of Copart's operating results and 
financial condition is substantially affected by business acquisitions and new 
openings made by Copart during such periods.

ACQUISITIONS AND NEW OPERATIONS

         Copart has experienced significant growth as it acquired ten salvage 
vehicle auction facilities and established ten new facilities since the 
beginning of fiscal 1996. All of the acquisitions have been accounted for 
using the purchase method. Accordingly, the excess of the purchase price over 
the fair value of net tangible assets acquired (consisting principally of 
goodwill) is being amortized over periods not exceeding 40 years.

- -------------------------
*  This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could affect 
future performance.





         As part of the Company's overall expansion strategy of offering 
integrated service to vehicle suppliers, the Company anticipates further 
attempts to open or acquire new salvage facilities in new regions, as well as 
the regions currently served by Company facilities.* As part of this strategy, 
during fiscal 1998, Copart acquired facilities in or near Avon, Minnesota; 
Columbia, South Carolina; Mobile, Alabama; San Diego, California; Des Moines, 
Iowa and Detroit, Michigan and opened new facilities in Orlando, Florida; 
Raleigh, North Carolina and Las Vegas, Nevada. In fiscal 1997, Copart acquired 
facilities near Baton Rouge, Louisiana and Salt Lake City, Utah and opened new 
facilities in Woodinville, Washington and Hammond, Indiana. In fiscal 1996, 
Copart acquired two facilities in or near Jackson, Mississippi and El Paso, 
Texas and opened five new facilities in or near Charlotte, North Carolina; 
Jacksonville, Florida; Indianapolis, Indiana; Van Nuys, California; and 
Phoenix, Arizona. The Company believes that these acquisitions and openings 
help to solidify the Company's coverage of the United States. The Company 
expects to incur future amortization charges in connection with anticipated 
acquisitions attributable to goodwill, covenants not to compete and other 
purchase-related adjustments. *

         The Company seeks to increase revenues and profitability at acquired 
facilities by, among other things, (i) implementing its buyer fee structure, 
(ii) introducing and converting certain vehicle suppliers to the PIP, which 
typically results in higher net returns to vehicle suppliers and higher fees 
to the Company than standard fixed fee consignment programs, (iii) making 
available vehicle purchase programs which are designed to reduce vehicle 
suppliers' administrative expenses and (iv) initiating the Company's 
merchandising procedures. In addition, the Company attempts to effect cost 
efficiencies at each of its acquired facilities through, among other things, 
implementing the Company's operational procedures, integrating the Company's 
management information systems and, when necessary, redeploying personnel. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

         The following table sets forth for the periods indicated information 
derived from the consolidated statements of income of Copart expressed as a 
percentage of revenues. There can be no assurance that any trend in operating 
results will continue in the future.



- ---------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could affect 
future performance.


FISCAL 1998 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1997

         Revenues were approximately $114.2 million during fiscal 1998, a 
decrease of approximately $12.1 million, or 9.6%, over fiscal 1997. The change 
in revenues is due primarily to a $7.9 million increase in salvage fees plus a 
$2.9 million increase in transportation revenue, offset by a $22.9 million 
decrease in purchase vehicle revenues, due to terminated contracts. Under the 
Purchase Program, the Company records the gross proceeds of the vehicle sale 
as revenue.

         New facilities in Avon, Raleigh, Orlando, Columbia, Mobile, Des 
Moines and San Diego contributed $2.0 million of new salvage fees and 
transportation revenues during fiscal 1998. Existing yard salvage fees and 
transportation revenues increased by $8.8 million, or 9.0%, and existing yard 
purchased vehicle revenues decreased by $23.1 million, or 81.6% during fiscal 
1998, as compared to a drop of 16.6% during 1997.

         Yard and fleet expenses were approximately $71.5 million during 
fiscal 1998, a decrease of approximately $17.8 million, or 20%, over fiscal 
1997. Approximately $1.8 million of the change was the result of the 
acquisition of the Avon, Columbia, Mobile, Des Moines and San Diego operations 
and the opening of Copart's Raleigh and Orlando facilities. The remainder of 
the decrease in yard and fleet expenses was primarily attributable to the 
decrease in the cost of Purchase Program vehicles. Yard and fleet expense 
decreased to 62.6% of revenues during fiscal 1998, as compared to 70.8% of 
revenues during fiscal 1997.

         General and administrative expenses were approximately $11.3 million 
during fiscal 1998, an increase of approximately $0.7 million, or 7.1%, over 
fiscal 1997, due primarily to increased personnel expense. General and 
administrative expenses increased to 9.9% of revenues during fiscal 1998, as 
compared to 8.4% of revenues during fiscal 1997 primarily as a result of the 
accounting impact of the Purchase Program.

         Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $7.8 million 
during fiscal 1998, an increase of approximately $0.4 million, or 5.1%, over 
fiscal 1997. This increase was due primarily to the amortization of goodwill 
and covenants not to compete and depreciation of acquired assets resulting 
from the acquisition of new salvage auction facilities.

         Interest expense was approximately $651,000 during fiscal 1998, a 
decrease of $175,500 over fiscal 1997. This decrease was attributable to the 
decrease in total debt.

         The effective income tax rate of 39% applicable to fiscal 1998 is 
comparable to the fiscal 1997 effective income tax rate of 38%.

         Due to the foregoing factors, Copart realized net income of $15.2 
million for fiscal 1998, compared to net income of $12.0 million for fiscal 
1997.

FISCAL 1997 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1996

         Revenues were approximately $126.3 million during fiscal 1997, an 
increase of approximately $8.0 million, or 7%, over fiscal 1996. Approximately 
$4.2 million of the increase in revenues was the result of the acquisition of 
the El Paso, Baton Rouge, and Salt Lake City operations and the opening of 
Copart's Charlotte, Jacksonville, Indianapolis, and Phoenix facilities. 
Existing yard revenues increased overall by approximately $3.8 million, or 3%, 
over fiscal 1996, despite decreased revenues from Purchase Program vehicles of 
approximately $5.8 million. Under the Purchase Program the Company records the 
gross proceeds of the vehicle sale in revenue. After eliminating the 
accounting impact of the Purchase Program, the remainder of the increase in 
revenues at existing operations was primarily attributable to increased per 
unit revenues of approximately 10%.





         Yard and fleet expenses were approximately $89.4 million during 
fiscal 1997, an increase of approximately $5.9 million, or 7%, over fiscal 
1996. Approximately $0.8 million of the increase was the result of the 
acquisition of the El Paso, Baton Rouge, and Salt Lake City operations and the 
opening of Copart's Charlotte, Jacksonville, Indianapolis, and Phoenix 
facilities. The remainder of the increase in yard and fleet expenses was 
attributable to increased yard and fleet expenses from existing operations, 
including the cost of Purchase Program vehicles. Yard and fleet expense 
increased to 70.8% of revenues during fiscal 1997, as compared to 70.6% of 
revenues during fiscal 1996.

         General and administrative expenses were approximately $10.6 million 
during fiscal 1997, a decrease of approximately $0.3 million, or 3%, over 
fiscal 1996, due primarily to decreased personnel expense. General and 
administrative expenses decreased to 8.4% of revenues during fiscal 1997, as 
compared to 9.2% of revenues during fiscal 1996 due to costs being spread over 
a greater revenue base.

         Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $7.5 million 
during fiscal 1997, an increase of approximately $1.5 million, or 24%, over 
fiscal 1996. This increase was due primarily to the amortization of goodwill 
and covenants not to compete and depreciation of acquired assets resulting 
from the acquisition of new salvage auction facilities.

         Interest expense was approximately $826,000 during fiscal 1997, an 
increase of $375,000 over fiscal 1996. This increase was attributable to the 
increase in debt associated with the land acquisition in Van Nuys in May 1996.

         The effective income tax rate of 38% applicable to fiscal 1997 is 
comparable to the fiscal 1996 effective income tax rate of 39%.

         Due to the foregoing factors, Copart realized net income of $12.0 
million for fiscal 1997, compared to net income of $11.2 million for fiscal 
1996.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

         Copart has financed its growth through cash generated from 
operations, debt financing, public offerings of Common Stock, and the equity 
issued in conjunction with certain acquisitions.

         At July 31, 1998, Copart had working capital of approximately $54.8 
million, including cash, cash equivalents and short-term investments of 
approximately $28.8 million. The Company is able to process, market, sell and 
receive payment for processed vehicles quickly. Therefore, the Company does 
not require substantial amounts of working capital, as it receives payment for 
vehicles at approximately the same time as it remits payments to vehicle 
suppliers. The Company's primary source of cash is from the collection of 
sellers' fees and reimbursable advances from the proceeds of auctioned salvage 
vehicles and from buyers' fees.

         The Company has a bank credit facility provided by Wells Fargo Bank, 
N.A., U.S. Bank of California and Fleet National Bank (the "Bank Credit 
Facility"). The Bank Credit Facility consists of an unsecured revolving 
reducing line of credit of $50 million, which matures in February 2002. The 
amount available under the facility reduces by $10 million in February 2000 
and 2001, leaving the principal balance available as follows: March 1, 2000, 
$40 million available; March 1, 2001, $30 million available; February 28, 
2002, the line of credit matures. Amounts outstanding under the Bank Credit 
Facility accrue interest at either the prime rate most recently announced by 
Wells Fargo or at a rate based on LIBOR plus a spread of 0.50%, subject to 
increases to a maximum spread of 1.25% based on certain credit ratios. As of 
July 31, 1998, there are no outstanding borrowings under this facility. The 
Company is subject to customary covenants, including restrictions on payment 
of dividends, with which it is in compliance.





         The Company has entered into various operating lease lines for the 
purpose of leasing up to $10.1 million of yard and fleet equipment, of which 
approximately $6.3 million was available as of July 31, 1998.

         Copart generated cash from operations of approximately $21.9 million, 
$24.6 million and $11.3 million in fiscal years 1998, 1997 and 1996, 
respectively.

         During the fiscal year ended July 31, 1998, Copart used cash for the 
acquisition of the Avon, Columbia, Mobile, San Diego, Des Moines and Detroit 
operations, which had an aggregate cash cost of approximately $9.8 million. 
During the fiscal year ended July 31, 1997, Copart used cash for the 
acquisition of the Baton Rouge and the Salt Lake City operations, which had an 
aggregate cash cost of approximately $3.4 million. During the fiscal year 
ended July 31, 1996, Copart used cash for the acquisition of the Jackson, 
Mississippi and El Paso, Texas facilities, which had an aggregate cash cost of 
approximately $2.8 million.

         Capital expenditures (excluding those associated with fixed assets 
attributable to acquisitions) were approximately $11.4 million, $8.8 million 
and $9.1 million for fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. During the 
fiscal year ended July 31, 1996, Copart acquired approximately 40 acres of 
land at the Van Nuys facility for the purchase price of $10.5 million, for 
which the Company paid $3.0 million in cash and issued the seller a promissory 
note secured by the real property in the principal amount of $7.5 million, 
payable interest only at the rate of 7.2% per annum, with the principal 
payable in 5 years. Copart's capital expenditures have related primarily to 
opening and operating facilities and acquiring software, yard and computer 
equipment. Historically, while Copart has sub-contracted for a significant 
portion of its vehicle transport services, the Company has implemented a 
program for converting long haul transports to its own fleet of vehicle 
carriers at each facility. Based upon the potential for increased revenues 
from Company-owned vehicle towing services, the Company has entered into 
agreements to acquire approximately $1.0 million of additional multi-vehicle 
transport trucks and forklifts and is disposing of certain older equipment.

         During fiscal 1998, the Company acquired approximately $13.1 million 
of short-term investments. In fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company 
generated approximately $1.8, $2.4 and $0.6 million through the exercise of 
stock options and warrants, respectively.

         Cash and cash equivalents decreased by approximately $12.0 million 
and increased by $14.7 million in fiscal 1998 and 1997, respectively. The 
Company's liquidity and capital resources have not been materially affected by 
inflation and are not subject to significant seasonal fluctuations.

         The Company believes that its currently available cash, cash 
generated from operations and borrowing availability under the Bank Credit 
Facility and existing equipment leasing lines of credit will be sufficient to 
satisfy the Company's working capital requirements and fund openings and 
acquisitions of new facilities for the next 12 months.* However, there can be 
no assurance that the Company will not be required to seek additional debt or 
equity financing prior to such time, depending upon certain factors, including 
the rate at which the Company opens or acquires new facilities.


- -------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations. Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations. The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could affect 
future performance.





YEAR 2000 COMPLIANCE

         The Company's critical business systems including CAS and general 
ledger applications are Year 2000 compliant. Copart has relationships with 
vendors, customers and other third parties that rely on software and systems 
that may not be Year 2000 compliant. With respect to such third parties, Year 
2000 compliance matters will not be within Copart's direct control. There can 
be no assurance that Year 2000 compliance failures by such third parties will 
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's results of operations. 

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

         In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued 
Statement of Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive 
Income", which establishes standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive 
income and its components. The statement is effective for fiscal years 
beginning after December 15, 1997 and will be adopted by Copart, in fiscal 
year 1999. This statement is not expected to have a material impact on 
Copart's disclosures within the consolidated financial statements.

         In 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of 
an Enterprise and Related Information", which establishes standards for the way 
that public business enterprises are to report information about operating 
segments in the annual financial statements and requires those enterprises to 
report selected information about operating segments in interim financial 
reports issued to shareholders. The statement is effective for periods 
beginning after December 15, 1997, and will be adopted by Copart, in fiscal 
year 1999. This statement is not expected to have a material impact on 
Copart's disclosures within the consolidated financial statements.

         In 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative 
Instruments and Hedging Activities." The SFAS establishes accounting and 
reporting standards requiring that every derivative instrument be recorded in 
the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. 
The SFAS requires that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized 
currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. 
Accounting for qualifying hedges allows a derivative's gains and losses to 
offset related results on the hedged item in the income statement, and 
requires a company to formally document, designate, and assess the 
effectiveness of transactions that receive hedge accounting. SFAS No. 133 is 
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999 and early adoption is 
permitted. This statement is not expected to have a material impact on 
Copart's results of operations.

         In 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants 
("AICPA") issued Statement of Position ("SOP") No. 98-1, "Accounting for the 
Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use." This SOP 
is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998 and earlier 
adoption is permitted. The adoption of SOP No. 98-1 is not expected to have a 
material impact on Copart's results of operations.

         In 1998, the AICPA issued SOP No. 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of 
Start-Up Activities." This SOP is effective for financial statements for 
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1998 and earlier adoption is 
permitted. The adoption of SOP No. 98-5 is not expected to have a material 
impact on Copart's results of operations.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

          Not applicable.





ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

          See Part IV, Item 14 (a) for an index to the financial statements 
and supplementary financial information which are attached thereto.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

          Not applicable.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

          The information concerning the Company's directors required by this 
Item is incorporated herein by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement 
under the heading "Election of Directors."

          Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I 
hereof under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" and is 
incorporated by reference herein.

          The information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the 
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended is incorporated herein by 
reference from the Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Election of 
Directors - Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

          The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by 
reference from the Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Election of 
Directors-Executive Compensation."

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

          The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by 
reference from the Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Election of 
Directors-Security Ownership."

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

          The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by 
reference from the Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Certain 
Transactions."





                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K      
                                                                               


     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the 
required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements 
or notes thereto.


     3.   EXHIBITS

      *3.1  Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the Registrant
    ***3.2  Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended
   ***10.1+ Copart, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended
     *10.2+ 1994 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, with form of Subscription 
            Agreement
     *10.3+ 1994 Director Option Plan, with form of Subscription Agreement
     *10.4  Indemnification Agreement, dated December 1, 1992, among the
            Registrant and Willis J. Johnson, Reba J. Johnson, A. Jayson Adair,
            Michael A. Seebode, Steven D. Cohan and Paul A. Styer
     *10.5  Indemnification Agreement, dated July 1, 1993, between the 
            Registrant and Willis J. Johnson, Marvin L. Schmidt, James E. 
            Meeks and Steven D. Cohan
     *10.6  Indemnification Agreement, dated November 9, 1993, between the
            Registrant and James Grosfeld
     *10.7  Form of Indemnification Agreement to be entered into by the 
            Registrant and each of Harold Blumentstein and Patrick Foley
     *10.8+ Employment Contract for Chief Executive, dated February 17, 1993,
            between Willis J. Johnson and the Registrant
     *10.9+ Employment Contract, dated August 1, 1992, between A. Jayson Adair 
            and the Registrant





    *10.10+  Employment for Senior Executive, dated September 1, 1992, between 
             Paul A. Styer and the Registrant
    *10.11   Employment Contract for Senior Executive, dated September 1, 1992,
             between James E. Meeks and the Registrant
    *10.12   Common Stock Warrant, dated November 9, 1993, issued to James 
             Grosfeld
  ***10.13   Credit Agreement among Copart, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National
             Association, U.S. Bank of California and Wells Fargo Bank, National
             Association, as Agent, dated May 1, 1995
 ****10.14   Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Assets of NER Auction Systems, 
             dated January 13, 1995, among Registrant, the list of Sellers as 
             set forth therein, Richard A. Polidori, Gordon VanValkenberg, and 
             Stephen Powers
 *****10.15  Contract of Sale by and between the Stroh Companies, Inc. as Seller
             and Copart, Inc. as Purchaser, dated April 4, 1996
******10.16  Amended and Restated Credit Agreement among Copart, Inc. and Wells
             Fargo Bank, National Association, U.S. Bank of California and Fleet
             National Bank and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Agent,
             dated March 7, 1997
      23.1   Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
      24.1   Power of Attorney (See page 30 of this Form 10-K)
      27.1   Financial Data Schedule

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     None

(c)  See response to Item 14(a)(3) above.
(d)  See response to Item 14(a)(2) above.


- -------------------------
*      Incorporated by reference from exhibit to registrant's Registration 
       Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 33- 74250).
+      Denotes a compensation plan in which an executive officer participates.
***    Incorporated by reference from exhibit to registrant's Form 10-K for 
       its fiscal year ended July 31, 1995, filed with the Securities and 
       Exchange Commission.
****   Incorporated by reference from exhibit to registrant's Registration 
       Statement on Form S-3, as amended (File No. 33- 91110) filed with the 
       Securities and Exchange Commission.
*****  Incorporated by reference from exhibit to registrant's Form 10-K for 
       its fiscal year ended July 31, 1996, filed with the Securities and 
       Exchange Commission.
****** Incorporated by reference from exhibit to registrant's Form 10-K for 
       its fiscal year ended July 31, 1997, filed with the Securities and 
       Exchange Commission.





                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                           Registrant

                                           COPART, INC.



October 1, 1998                   BY:      /s/ Willis J. Johnson
                                           ---------------------------
                                           Willis J. Johnson
                                           Chief Executive Officer


                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

                  KNOWN ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose
signature appears below constitutes and appoints Willis J. Johnson, as his true
and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution and
resubstitution, for him and in his name, place and stead, in any and all
capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to
file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection
therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto said
attorney-in-fact and agent, full power and authority to do and perform each and
every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith,
as fully to all intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby
ratifying and confirming all that said attorney-in-fact and agent, or his
substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.








         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.







                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Copart, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Copart, Inc. and
subsidiaries as listed in Item 14(a). In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement
schedule as listed in Item 14(a). These consolidated financial statements and
financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits. 


We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion. 


In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Copart, 
Inc. and subsidiaries as of July 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their 
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended July 31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, 
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements 
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information 
set forth therein.

                                                     KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

San Francisco, California
September 18, 1998




                        COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                                                            



                          COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



       See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                          COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY


           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                          COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



                             CONTINUED ON NEXT PAGE



                          COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                          COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                          JULY 31, 1998, 1997 AND 1996

(1)       SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES


CORPORATION ACTIVITIES

         Copart, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") provide vehicle
suppliers with a full range of services to process and sell salvage vehicles.
The Company auctions salvage vehicles, which are either damaged vehicles deemed
a total loss for insurance or business purposes or are recovered stolen vehicles
for which an insurance settlement with the vehicle owner has already been made.

         Gross proceeds generated from auctioned vehicles were approximately
$534,818,000, $537,657,000, and $506,916,000, for the years ended July 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

         The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the
Company's wholly owned subsidiaries. Significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated in consolidation.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

         Revenues are recorded at the date the vehicles are sold at auction.

CASH, CASH EQUIVALENTS AND SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS

         The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with
original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

         Short-term investments at July 31, 1998 consist of corporate debt and
municipal bonds. The Company has classified its short-term investments as
available for sale. Available for sale securities are stated at market value and
unrealized holding gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, are excluded
from earnings and are reported as a separate component of shareholders' equity
until realized. Since the market value of short-term investments approximates
cost at July 31, 1998, net unrealized gains and losses on available for sale
securities for 1998 were not material.

VEHICLE POOLING COSTS

         Vehicle pooling costs consist of labor, towing, outside services and
other costs directly attributable to the gathering and processing of vehicles
prior to their sale. Vehicle pooling costs are recognized as expenses in the
period the vehicle is sold at auction. The Company continually evaluates and
adjusts the components of vehicle pooling costs as necessary.

DEFERRED PREOPENING COSTS

         Costs related to the opening of new auction facilities, such as
preopening payroll and various training expenses, are deferred until the auction
facilities open and are amortized over the subsequent 12 months. These costs are
included in prepaid expenses and other assets.



PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

         Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation
and amortization. Depreciation expense is provided on the straight-line method
over the estimated useful lives of the related assets, generally five to
nineteen years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis
over the shorter of the lease terms or the useful lives of the respective
assets.

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

         Intangible assets consist primarily of covenants not to compete,
goodwill and options to purchase leased property. Amortization, except for the
options to purchase leased property, is provided on the straight-line method
over the estimated lives, which range from five to forty years.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

         The amounts recorded for financial instruments in the Company's
consolidated financial statements approximate fair value.

INCOME TAXES

         Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and
liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be
recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a
change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

NET INCOME PER SHARE

         The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
("SFAS") No. 128, "Earnings Per Share," during 1998. Accordingly, all prior
period net income per share amounts have been restated in accordance with this
standard.

         Basic net income per share amounts were computed by dividing net income
by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted net income
per share amounts were computed by dividing net income, adjusted for the effect
of assumed conversions, by the weighted average number of common shares
outstanding plus dilutive potential common shares calculated for stock options
and warrants outstanding using the treasury stock method. The adoption of this
accounting standard did not have a material effect on the Company's reported net
income per share amounts.




ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK OPTIONS

         The Company accounts for its stock option plans in accordance with the
provisions of Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25, Accounting for
Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations. As such, compensation
expense would be recorded only if the current market price of the underlying
stock exceeded the exercise price on the date of grant. The Company has adopted
SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, which permits entities to
recognize as expense over the vesting period the fair value of all stock-based
awards on the date of grant. Alternatively, SFAS No. 123 allows entities to
continue to apply provisions of APB Opinion No. 25 and provide pro forma net
income and pro forma net income per share disclosures for employee stock option
grants made in fiscal 1996 and future years as if the fair-value-based method
defined in SFAS No. 123 had been applied. The Company has elected to continue to
apply the provisions of APB No. 25 and provide pro forma disclosure provision
required by SFAS No. 123.

USE OF ESTIMATES

         Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and
assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities to prepare these financial
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

         The Company continually evaluates the recoverability of its long-lived
assets by assessing whether the book value of the asset can be recovered through
expected and undiscounted cashflows.

(2)       ACQUISITIONS

FISCAL 1998 TRANSACTIONS

         During fiscal 1998 the Company had the following acquisitions: Central
Minnesota Salvage Center, of Avon, Minnesota; O'Neal's Equipment Sales, Inc., of
Columbia, South Carolina; Southern Salvage, Inc., of Mobile, Alabama; Auto
Storage Auction Pool, of San Diego, California; Mid Iowa Salvage Pool, Inc., of
Des Moines, Iowa and Auto Salvage Pools, Inc. and Auto Pool Auction, Inc., of
Detroit, Michigan. The consideration paid for these acquisitions consisted of
$9,820,500 in cash. The acquired net assets consisted of land, accounts and
advances receivable, inventory, fixed assets, goodwill and covenants not to
compete. The acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of
accounting, and the operating results subsequent to the acquisition dates are
included in the Company's consolidated statements of income. The excess of the
purchase price over fair market value of the net identifiable assets acquired of
$5,551,500 has been recorded as goodwill and is being amortized on a
straight-line basis over 40 years. In conjunction with the Avon, Minnesota;
Mobile, Alabama; San Diego, California; Des Moines, Iowa and Detroit, Michigan
acquisitions, the Company entered into leases for the use of these facilities.




FISCAL 1997 TRANSACTIONS

         During fiscal 1997 the Company had the following acquisitions: SALA 
Insurance Salvage, Inc., of Baton Rouge, Louisiana and Western Affiliated 
Salvage Pool and Auction of Salt Lake City, Utah. The consideration paid for 
these acquisitions consisted of $3,437,200 in cash. The acquired net assets 
consisted of accounts and advances receivable, inventory, fixed assets, 
goodwill and covenants not to compete. The acquisitions were accounted for 
using the purchase method of accounting, and the operating results subsequent 
to the acquisition dates are included in the Company's consolidated 
statements of income. The excess of the purchase price over fair market value 
of the net identifiable assets acquired of $2,130,700 has been recorded as 
goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years. In 
conjunction with the Salt Lake City acquisition, the Company entered into a 
lease for the use of the facility. 

FISCAL 1996 TRANSACTIONS

         During fiscal 1996 the Company had the following acquistions: 
Mississippi Salvage Disposal Company, Inc., of Jackson, Mississippi and Sun 
City Salvage Pool, Inc., of El Paso, Texas. The consideration paid for these 
acquisitions consisted of $2,782,500 in cash. The Company also paid $200,000 
for an option to purchase land. The acquired net assets consisted of accounts 
and advances receivable, inventory, fixed assets, goodwill and covenants not 
to compete. The acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of 
accounting, and the operating results subsequent to the acquisition dates are 
included in the Company's consolidated statements of income. The excess of 
the purchase price over fair market value of the net identifiable assets 
acquired of $1,746,800 has been recorded as goodwill and is being amortized 
on a straight-line basis over 40 years. In conjunction with these 
acquisitions, the Company entered into leases for the use of these 
facilities. In addition, the Company paid $125,000 in June 1996 for 
contingent consideration related to fiscal 1994 acquisitions.

         The following unaudited pro forma financial information assumes the 
1998 and 1997 acquisitions occurred at the beginning of fiscal 1997. These 
results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport 
to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisitions been made 
at the beginning of fiscal 1997, or of the results which may occur in the 
future.







(3)       ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

         Accounts receivable consists of the following:


         Advance charges receivable represents amounts paid to third parties on
behalf of insurance companies for which the Company will be reimbursed when the
vehicle is sold. Trade accounts receivable include fees to be collected from
insurance companies and buyers. 

(4)       PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT
        
          Property and equipment consists of the following:



         Included in property and equipment as of July 31, 1998 and 1997, are
$1,488,000 and $939,100 respectively, of equipment under capital leases.
Accumulated amortization related to this equipment was $436,100 and $349,800 as
of July 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.


(5)       INTANGIBLE AND OTHER ASSETS

         Intangible and other assets consists of the following:




(6)       ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

         Accounts payable and accrued liabilities consists of the following:




(7)       LONG-TERM DEBT
        
        Long-term debt consists of the following:



The aggregate maturities of long-term debt are as follows:



         The Company has a bank credit facility provided by Wells Fargo Bank,
N.A., U.S. Bank of California and Fleet National Bank (the "Bank Credit
Facility"). The Bank Credit Facility consists of an unsecured revolving reducing
line of credit of $50 million, which matures in February 2002. The amount
available under the facility reduces by $10 million in February 2000 and 2001,
leaving the principal balance available as follows: March 1, 2000, $40 million
available; March 1, 2001, $30 million available; February 28, 2002, the line of
credit matures. Amounts outstanding under the Bank Credit Facility accrue
interest at either the prime rate most recently announced by Wells Fargo or at a
rate based on LIBOR plus a spread of 0.50%, subject to increases to a maximum
spread of 1.25% based on certain credit ratios. As of July 31, 1998, there are
no outstanding borrowings under this facility. The Company is subject to
customary covenants, including restrictions on payment of dividends, with which
it is in compliance. 

(8)      SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

         The Company adopted the Copart, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan (the
"Plan") as amended, presently covering 1,500,000 shares of the Company's Common
Stock. The Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options to employees
and non-qualified stock options to employees, officers, directors and
consultants at prices not less than 100% and 85% of the fair market value for
incentive and non-qualified stock options, respectively, as determined by the
Board of Directors at the grant date. Incentive and non-qualified stock options
may have terms of up to ten years and vest over periods determined by the Board
of Directors. Options generally vest ratably over a two or five year period.

         In March 1994, the Company adopted the Copart, Inc. 1994 Director
Option Plan under which 40,000 shares of the Company's common stock are
presently reserved. In general, new non-employee directors will automatically
receive grants of non-qualified stock options to purchase 3,000 shares and
subsequent grants to purchase 1,500 shares at specified intervals.

         The Company has authorized the issuance of 5,000,000 shares of
preferred stock, no par value, none of which are issued at July 31, 1998.

         The Copart, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP") provides for
the purchase of up to 170,000 shares of Common Stock of the Company by employees
pursuant to the terms of the ESPP. Shares of Common Stock issued pursuant to the
ESPP during fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996 were 20,268, 27,497 and 21,062,
respectively. Additional compensation expense of $52,400, $101,400 and $91,600
was recognized in fiscal 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.





            Pro forma information regarding net income and net income per share
is required by SFAS No. 123, and has been determined as if the Company had
accounted for the Plans under the fair value method. The fair value of options
issued under the Plans was estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes
option pricing model with the following assumptions: no dividend yield,
volatility factor of the expected market price of the Company's stock of .60, a
forfeiture rate of .05, a weighted-average expected life of the options of five
years and a risk-free interest rate of 5.8%, 6.6% and 6.7% for 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively. For purposes of pro forma disclosures, the estimated fair
value of the options is amortized to expense over the options vesting period.
The Company's pro forma net income and net income per common share would
approximate the following:




The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not
indicative of future amounts. SFAS No. 123 does not apply to awards prior to
1996. A summary of stock option activity for the years ended July 31, 1998, 1997
and 1996 follows:








A summary of stock option activity for the year ended July 31, 1998 follows:




9)        INCOME TAXES

         Income tax expense (benefit) consists of:


  The reconciliation between the amount computed by applying the U.S. federal
statutory tax rate of 34% to income before income taxes and the actual income
tax expense follows:



                


       The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented
below:



         In fiscal 1998 and 1997, the Company recognized a tax benefit of 
$977,200 and $1,798,700, respectively, upon the exercise of certain stock 
warrants and options.


(10)       NET INCOME PER SHARE

         There were no adjustments to net income in calculating diluted net
income per share. The table below reconciles basic weighted shares outstanding
to diluted weighted average shares outstanding:



(11)      MAJOR CUSTOMERS

         One customer accounted for 16% of revenue in fiscal 1998, 1997, and
1996, respectively. No other customer accounted for more than 10% of revenues.
No buyer of auto salvage accounted for more than 1% of gross proceeds in any
period.







(12)     COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 

         LEASES:

         The Company leases certain facilities under operating leases and has
either a right of first refusal to acquire or option to purchase certain
facilities at fair value. Facilities rental expense for the years ended July 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996 aggregated, $6,967,800, $6,223,300 and $5,536,400,
respectively.

         The Company has operating leasing lines with certain financial
institutions of approximately $10,100,000 for the purpose of leasing yard and
fleet equipment of which approximately $6,300,000 was available as of July 31,
1998.

         Noncancelable future minimum lease payments under capital and operating
leases with initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year at July 31,
1998 are as follows:



      COMMITMENT:

        The Company has entered into agreements to acquire approximately $1.0
million of multi-vehicle transport trucks and forklifts.

      CONTINGENCIES:

         The Company is subject to legal proceedings and claims which arise in
the ordinary course of business. In the opinion of management, any ultimate
liability with respect to these actions will not materially affect the financial
position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.

(13)      RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

         The Company leases certain of its facilities from affiliates of the
Company under lease agreements. Rental payments under these leases aggregated
$398,200, $388,800 and $1,517,900 for the years ended July 31, 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively, and expire on various dates through 2005.

         An affiliate provided $608,400, $565,500 and $559,800 of tow services
to the Company in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.



(14)      NONCASH FINANCING AND INVESTING ACTIVITIES

         In fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, 36,396, 54,140 and 94,607 warrants were
exercised in a non-cash transaction, which resulted in the issuance of 32,223,
46,953 and 87,431 shares of common stock, respectively.

         In fiscal 1996, 2,700 shares, valued at $56,700, were issued to an
outside consultant for services rendered in connection with the development of
computer software. In addition, 288 shares of common stock were issued as
contingent consideration related to the acquisition of the St. Louis facility.

         In fiscal 1996, the Company acquired (i) $62,900 of intangible assets
through the issuance of common stock, and (ii) $599,800 of tangible assets
through the issuance of notes payable in connection with capital leases. In
addition, in fiscal 1996, the Company acquired real property for the purchase
price of $10.5 million of which $3 million was paid in cash, and $7.5 million
was paid through the issuance of a note payable.

(15)      QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)








FORM 10-K
- ---------

The Company will provide, without charge to each Shareholder, upon written
request a copy of its Form 10-K as required to be filed with the Securities &
Exchange Commission pursuant to rule 13a-1, under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934. Your written request should be directed to: Chief Financial Officer,
Copart, Inc. 


ANNUAL MEETING 
- --------------

The Annual meeting of Shareholders will be held at
5500 E. Second Street, Benicia, California 94510 at 9:00 a.m.
December 8, 1998.






                                                                    SCHEDULE II

                          COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                    YEARS ENDED JULY 31, 1998, 1997 AND 1996




