
10-K
10-K





- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                --------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]  Annual Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
For the fiscal year ended:  July 31, 1996

                                       OR

[ ]  Transition Report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
For the transition period from _____________ to _____________

                     Commission File Number 0-23255
                                            -------

                                 COPART, INC.

            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

            CALIFORNIA                                    94-2867490
   (State or other jurisdiction of                     (I.R.S. Employer
   incorporation or organization)                   Identification Number)

        5500 E. SECOND STREET                               94510
         BENICIA, CALIFORNIA                              (zip code)
(address of principal executive offices)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (707) 748-5000

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:  None

  SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:  Common Stock
                                                             (TITLE OF CLASS)

                                --------------

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes __X__  No _____

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be 
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

     The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the 
registrant as of October 14, 1996 was $164,300,000 based upon the last sales 
price reported for such date on the Nasdaq National Market.  For purposes of 
this disclosure, shares of Common Stock held by persons who hold more than 5% 
of the outstanding shares of Common Stock and shares held by officers and 
directors of the registrant, have been excluded in that such persons may be 
deemed to be affiliates.  This determination is not necessarily conclusive 
for other purposes.

     At October 14, 1996 registrant had outstanding 12,653,790 shares of 
Common Stock.

                                --------------

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Part III incorporates certain information by reference from the 
definitive proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held 
on December 5, 1996 (the "Proxy Statement").



                                   PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     THIS REPORT CONTAINS FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS WITHIN THE MEANING OF 
SECTION 27A OF THE SECURITIES ACT OF 1933 AND SECTION 21E OF THE SECURITIES 
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934.  ACTUAL RESULTS COULD DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE 
PROJECTED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS AS A RESULT OF THE RISK FACTORS 
SET FORTH BELOW.  THE COMPANY HAS ATTEMPTED TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING 
STATEMENTS BY PLACING AN ASTERISK IMMEDIATELY FOLLOWING THE SENTENCE OR 
PHRASE THAT CONTAINS THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENT.

GENERAL

     Copart, Inc. ("Copart" or the "Company") provides vehicle suppliers, 
primarily insurance companies, with a full range of services to process and 
sell salvage vehicles through auctions, principally to licensed dismantlers, 
rebuilders and used vehicle dealers. Salvage vehicles are either damaged 
vehicles deemed a total loss for insurance or business purposes or are 
recovered stolen vehicles for which an insurance settlement with the vehicle 
owner has already been made.  The Company offers vehicle suppliers a full 
range of services which expedite each stage of the salvage vehicle auction 
process and minimize administrative and processing costs.  The Company 
generates revenues primarily from auction fees paid by vehicle suppliers and 
vehicle buyers as well as related fees for services such as towing and 
storage.  

     Since July 31, 1995, Copart has acquired two auction facilities in or 
near Jackson, Mississippi and El Paso, Texas; and opened five new facilities 
in or near Charlotte, North Carolina; Jacksonville, Florida; Indianapolis, 
Indiana; Van Nuys, California; and Phoenix, Arizona.  From July 31, 1990 
through July 31, 1995, Copart grew from four auction facilities in northern 
California to 42 auction facilities in 20 states.  In May, 1995, the Company 
acquired substantially all of the net operating assets (excluding real 
property) of NER Auction Group ("NER").  The operations acquired by Copart 
were part of a group of 14 companies that owned and operated 20 salvage 
vehicle auction facilities in 11 states (the "NER Acquisition"). The number 
of salvage vehicles processed annually by Copart has grown from approximately 
17,200 in fiscal 1990 to 391,100 in fiscal 1996.  

     Copart was organized as a California corporation in 1982.  The Company's 
principal executive offices are located at 5500 E. Second Street, Benicia, 
California  94510, and its telephone number at that address is (707) 748-5000.

THE SALVAGE VEHICLE AUCTION INDUSTRY

     Although there are other suppliers of salvage vehicles, such as 
financial institutions, vehicle leasing companies, automobile rental 
companies and automobile dealers, the primary source of salvage vehicles to 
the salvage vehicle auction industry historically has been insurance 
companies.  Of the total number of vehicles processed by the Company in 
fiscal 1996, over 90% were obtained from insurance company suppliers.  Due to 
the fragmented nature of the salvage vehicle auction industry, the Company 
believes numerous opportunities exist to either open or acquire facilities 
throughout the United States. *

INDUSTRY PARTICIPANTS

     The primary businesses and/or individuals involved in the salvage 
vehicle auction industry include: 

SALVAGE VEHICLE AUCTION COMPANIES.  Salvage vehicle auction companies such as 
the Company generally either (i) auction salvage vehicles on consignment, for 
a fixed fee or for a percentage of the sales price of

- ----------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations.  Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations.  The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





the vehicle or (ii) purchase vehicles from vehicle suppliers at a formula 
price, based on a percentage of the vehicles' estimated pre-loss value, or 
"actual cash value" ("ACV"), and auction the vehicles for their own account. 

VEHICLE SUPPLIERS.  The primary suppliers of salvage vehicles are insurance 
companies.  Additional suppliers include automobile dealers and automobile 
rental companies, which process self-insured salvage vehicles and 
occasionally process retired fleets, and financial institutions and vehicle 
leasing companies which process repossessed, uninsured salvage vehicles. 

VEHICLE BUYERS.  Vehicle dismantlers, rebuilders, repair licensees and used 
car dealers are the primary buyers of salvage vehicles.  Vehicle dismantlers, 
which the Company believes are the largest group of salvage vehicle buyers, 
either dismantle a vehicle and sell parts individually or sell the entire 
vehicle to rebuilders, used automobile dealers or the public.  Vehicle 
rebuilders and vehicle repair licensees repair salvage vehicles for sale to 
used car dealers and noncommercial buyers.  Used automobile dealers will 
generally purchase directly from a salvage vehicle auction facility vehicles 
requiring few repairs before resale such as late model, slightly damaged or 
intact recovered stolen vehicles. 

THE INSURANCE ADJUSTMENT AND VEHICLE AUCTION PROCESS

     Following an accident involving an insured vehicle, the damaged vehicle 
is generally towed to a towing company or a vehicle repair facility for 
temporary storage pending insurance company examination.  The vehicle is 
inspected by the insurance company's adjuster, who estimates the costs of 
repairing the vehicle and gathers information regarding the damaged vehicle's 
mileage, options and condition in order to estimate its ACV.  The insurance 
company's adjuster determines whether to pay for repairs or to classify the 
vehicle as a total loss, based upon the adjuster's estimate of repair costs 
and the vehicle's salvage value, as well as customer service considerations.  
If the cost of repair is greater than the ACV less the estimated salvage 
value, the insurance company generally will classify the vehicle as a total 
loss. The insurance company will thereafter assign the vehicle to a salvage 
auction company, such as the Company, settle with the insured vehicle owner 
and receive title to the vehicle. 

     Factors that vehicle suppliers consider when selecting a salvage vehicle 
auction company include (i) the anticipated percentage return on salvage 
(E.G., gross salvage proceeds, minus vehicle handling and selling expenses, 
divided by the ACV); (ii) the services provided by the salvage vehicle 
auction company and the degree to which such services reduce administrative 
costs and expenses; (iii) the ability to provide service across a broad 
geographic area; (iv) the timing of payment; and (v) the financial and 
operating history of the salvage vehicle auction company. 

     In disposing of a salvage vehicle, a vehicle supplier assigns the 
vehicle to a salvage vehicle auction company with which it has a contractual 
or other relationship.  Upon receipt of the pick-up order, which is conveyed 
by facsimile, telephone or computer, the salvage vehicle auction company 
dispatches one of its transporters or a contract towing company to transport 
the vehicle to the salvage vehicle auction company's facility.  As a service 
to the vehicle supplier, the salvage vehicle auction company customarily pays 
advance charges (reimbursable charges paid by the Company on behalf of 
vehicle suppliers) to obtain the subject vehicle's release from a towing 
company or vehicle repair facility. Typically, advance charges are paid on 
behalf of the vehicle supplier and are recovered by the salvage vehicle 
auction company upon sale of the salvage vehicle. 

     After being received and evaluated at the salvage vehicle auction 
facility, the vehicle remains in storage and cannot be sold at an auction 
until ownership documents are transferred from the insured vehicle owner and 
title to the vehicle is cleared through the appropriate state's motor vehicle 
regulatory agency (or "DMV").  If a vehicle is a total loss (as determined by 
the insurance company), it can be sold in most states upon settlement with 
and receipt of title documents from the insured.  Total loss vehicles may be 
sold in most states only after obtaining a salvage certificate from the DMV, 
however, in some states only a bill of





sale from the insured is required.  Upon receipt of the appropriate 
documentation from the state DMV or the insured, which is generally received 
within 45 to 60 days of vehicle pick-up, the salvage vehicle auction company 
auctions the vehicle.  Vehicles are sold primarily through live auctions, 
which are typically held weekly or biweekly at each facility, and 
occasionally by sealed bid auctions. 

     At the Company's facilities, the vehicles to be auctioned are moved from 
storage areas to a sales area for the convenience of the buyers.  At the 
Company and many other facilities, the auctioneer works from a truck that 
proceeds through the sales area from vehicle to vehicle.  Certain vehicles 
that are driveable are driven through an auction display area.  Minimum bids 
are occasionally set by vehicle suppliers on high-value and specialty cars, 
and often facilities have standing guaranteed bids of between $25 to $100 per 
vehicle from local dismantlers for "junk" vehicles. 

     Once a vehicle is sold at auction, the buyer typically must pay by 
cashier's check, money order or approved company check and take possession of 
the sold vehicle within two to five days.  After payment for the vehicle, the 
buyer receives the appropriate title documentation.  In addition to the 
awarded bid price, the buyer pays any fees or other charges assessed by the 
salvage vehicle auction company, such as post-sale processing, towing and 
storage fees.  The salvage vehicle auction company thereafter remits to the 
insurance company the vehicle sales proceeds, less advance charges and any 
fees for its towing, storage and selling of the vehicle pursuant to the 
arrangement between the insurance company and the salvage vehicle auction 
company.  The insurance proceeds check will typically be accompanied by 
copies of invoices for deducted fees and advance charges, and copies of title 
and related DMV documents.  The insurance company may then close its claims 
file with copies of all records of the transaction. 

OPERATING STRATEGY

     The Company's operating strategy is to increase salvage vehicle volume 
from new and existing vehicle suppliers by (i) designing sales programs 
tailored to a vehicle supplier's particular needs, (ii) offering a full range 
of services that reduce the administrative time and costs of the salvage 
vehicle auction process, such as computerized monitoring and tracking of 
salvage vehicles, (iii) developing a growing base of buyers, (iv) providing 
salvage vehicle auction facilities throughout broad geographic regions, and 
(v) offering insurance companies the ability to contract for vehicle salvage 
services on a regional or national basis. The Company believes its flexible, 
service-oriented approach promotes the establishment and maintenance of 
strong relationships with vehicle suppliers, which are an integral factor in 
competing effectively in the salvage vehicle auction industry.

FLEXIBLE VEHICLE PROCESSING PROGRAMS

     At the election of the vehicle supplier, the Company auctions vehicles 
(i) pursuant to its Percentage Incentive Program, (ii) on a fixed fee 
consignment basis, (iii) on a purchase basis or (iv) on a basis which 
combines the consignment and purchase bases in order to meet a vehicle 
supplier's particular needs.  Based upon the Company's database of historical 
returns on salvage vehicles and information provided by vehicle suppliers, 
the Company works with the vehicle supplier to design a program that 
maximizes the net returns on salvage vehicles.  The three primary sales 
programs are as follows: 

PERCENTAGE FEE CONSIGNMENT.  Copart introduced its Percentage Incentive 
Program, or the PIP, as an innovative processing program to better serve the 
needs of certain vehicle suppliers.  Under the PIP, Copart agrees to sell at 
auction all of the salvage vehicles of a vehicle supplier in a specified 
market for predetermined percentages of vehicle sales prices.  Because 
Copart's revenues under the PIP are directly linked to the vehicle's auction 
price, Copart has an incentive to actively merchandise the vehicles in order 
to maximize the net return on salvage vehicles.  Under the PIP, Copart 
provides the vehicle supplier, at Copart's expense, with transport of the 
vehicle to the nearest Company facility, storage at its facilities for up to 
90 days, and DMV processing.  In addition, Copart provides merchandising 
services such as covering/taping openings to protect vehicle interiors from 
weather, adding tires, if needed, washing vehicle





exteriors, vacuuming vehicle interiors, cleaning and polishing dashboards and 
tires, making keys for driveable vehicles and operating "drive-through" sales 
auctions of driveable vehicles.  The Company believes its merchandising 
increases the sales prices of salvage vehicles, thereby increasing the return 
on salvage vehicles to both vehicle suppliers and the Company.  In fiscal 
1996, approximately 25% of all salvage vehicles processed by Copart were 
processed under the PIP. However, due to, among other factors, including the 
timing and size of new acquisitions, market conditions, and acceptance of the 
PIP by vehicle suppliers, the percentage of vehicles processed under the PIP 
in future periods may vary.

FIXED FEE CONSIGNMENT.  Under the fixed fee consignment program, the Company 
sells vehicles for a fixed consignment fee, generally $50 to $125 per 
vehicle.  In addition to the consignment fees, the Company usually charges 
for, or includes in its fee to the vehicle supplier, the cost of transporting 
the vehicle to the Company's facility, storage of the vehicle, and other 
incidental costs.  Approximately 69% of all salvage vehicles processed by 
Copart in fiscal 1996, were processed under the fixed fee consignment program.

PURCHASE CONTRACT.  Under a purchase contract arrangement, the Company agrees 
to buy salvage vehicles of a vehicle supplier in a specific market.  The 
vehicles generally are purchased for a pre-determined percentage of the 
vehicle's ACV and then resold by the Company for its own account.  Under a 
purchase contract, the Company usually provides vehicle suppliers with free 
towing to its premises and storage at its facilities for up to 90 days.  
Approximately 6% of all salvage vehicles processed by the Company during 
fiscal 1996 were processed under purchase contracts. 

BROAD ARRAY OF SERVICES

     The Company offers vehicle suppliers a full range of services which 
expedite each stage of the salvage vehicle auction process and minimize 
administrative and processing costs. 

COPART SALVAGE ASSET MANAGER-C-.  Copart's Salvage Asset Manager (formerly 
called the Copart Salvage Estimating Guide) provides vehicle suppliers with a 
method for estimating the value of salvage vehicles based on Copart's 
historical sales data.  This computerized service illustrates the types and 
severity of damage to vehicles and the resulting variances in salvage value 
historically realized at Copart's auctions. By providing an estimate of a 
damaged vehicle's residual salvage value, the Copart Salvage Asset Manager 
enables an insurance adjuster to more accurately determine whether to repair 
a damaged vehicle or declare it a total loss and aids the adjuster in 
negotiations with the owner of an insured vehicle.  As part of the Copart 
Salvage Asset Manager service, the Company provides subscribers with the 
right to participate in the Copart Guaranteed Bid System, whereby the Company 
agrees to buy salvage vehicles at their salvage values calculated using the 
Copart Salvage Asset Manager. 

     The Company believes that use of the Copart Salvage Asset Manager 
(including participation in the Copart Guaranteed Bid System) will result in 
increased vehicle volume from vehicle suppliers that use the Copart Salvage 
Asset Manager.*  Although not historically a significant portion of Copart's 
business, in the event that the Copart Guaranteed Bid System becomes more 
significant, the Company believes that its liquidity will not be adversely 
affected, as the Company receives proceeds from the sale of such vehicles at 
approximately the same time as it pays for vehicles under the Copart 
Guaranteed Bid System. 

Salvage Lynk-TM-.   Copart's proprietary software program, Salvage Lynk, 
provides a vehicle supplier with on-line access to retrieve information on 
any of its salvage vehicles being processed at Copart throughout the claims 
adjustment and auction process.  Copart furnishes each user of Salvage Lynk 
with software and a

- ----------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations.  Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations.  The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





computer terminal, if necessary, which enables the user to monitor each stage 
of the salvage vehicle auction process, from pickup to payment and the 
eventual auction of the vehicle, from each user's own office.

MONTHLY REPORTING.  Upon request, the Company provides vehicle suppliers with 
monthly reports that summarize all of their salvage vehicles processed by the 
Company.  These reports are able to track the vehicle suppliers' gross and 
net return on each vehicle, service charges, and other data that enable the 
vehicle suppliers to more easily administer and monitor the salvage vehicle 
disposition process.  In addition, when the suppliers receive payment, they 
also receive a detailed closing invoice, noting any advance charges made by 
the Company on their behalf.  Copart's vehicle suppliers can obtain all of 
their payment and invoice information on-line through Salvage Lynk. 

DMV PROCESSING.  The Company offers employees of vehicle suppliers training 
on DMV document processing and has prepared a manual that provides 
step-by-step instructions to expedite title document processing.  In 
addition, the Company's computers provide a direct link to the California, 
Texas and New York DMV computer systems.  This training on DMV procedures 
and, in California, Texas and New York, the direct link to the DMV computer 
system, allow vehicle suppliers to expedite title searches and the processing 
of paperwork, thereby facilitating title acquisition from the insured vehicle 
owner and consequently shortening the time period in which vehicle suppliers 
can receive their salvage vehicle proceeds.  Under California's license 
registration fee rebate program, the Company, for a fee, assists 
participating vehicle suppliers in calculating, applying for and obtaining 
rebates of unused owner registration and license fees.  The net rebates are 
delivered and paid to the vehicle supplier. 

VEHICLE INSPECTION STATION.  The Company offers certain of its major 
insurance company suppliers office and yard space to house a Vehicle 
Inspection Station ("VIS") on-site at its auction facilities.  At July 31, 
1996, there were 26 VIS's at 20 of the Company's facilities.  An on-site VIS 
provides an insurance company a central location to inspect potential total 
loss vehicles and reduces storage charges that otherwise may be incurred at 
the initial storage and repair facility.  The Company believes that providing 
an on-site VIS enables the Company to improve the level of service it 
provides to such insurance company. 

VEHICLE PREPARATION AND MERCHANDISING.  The Company has developed 
merchandising techniques designed to increase the volume and sale price of 
salvage vehicles.  Under the PIP, Copart provides vehicle weather protection, 
including shrink-wrapping vehicles to protect them from inclement weather, 
cleaning and drive-through sales of driveable vehicles, which the Company 
believes enhance salvage vehicle presentation and increase vehicle sales 
prices. Direct mailings are also made to selected vehicle buyers, identified 
through the Company's database of buyers, to alert them to the availability 
of salvage vehicles in which they might be interested. 

SALVAGE BROKERAGE NETWORK.  In response to requests of vehicle suppliers to 
coordinate disposal of their vehicles outside of Copart's current areas of 
operation, Copart has developed a national network of salvage vehicle auction 
facilities that process vehicles under the direction of Copart.  Copart's 
customers benefit from being able to monitor and obtain information on 
virtually all of their salvage vehicles at any place in the United States 
through Salvage Lynk, as opposed to dealing with numerous salvage auction 
facilities across the country.  Copart receives revenues from the sale of 
vehicles processed by members of these networks (in each case, net of 
applicable fees of the facility which processed the vehicle and without 
buyer's fees) in substantially the same manner as for vehicles processed at 
Copart facilities.

TRANSPORTATION SERVICES.  The Company maintains a fleet of multi-vehicle 
transport trucks at most of its yards as well as contracts for vehicle 
transports at most facilities.





BUYER NETWORK

     The Company maintains a database of thousands of registered buyers of 
salvage vehicles in the vehicle dismantling, rebuilding, repair, and/or 
resale business.  Copart's database of buyers also includes vehicle 
preference and purchasing history by buyer.  This data enables a local 
facility manager to notify key prospective buyers throughout the region or 
country of the sale of salvage vehicles that match their preferences.  Sales 
notices listing the salvage vehicles to be auctioned on a particular day and 
location are made available at each auction.  Each notice details for each 
vehicle, among other things, the year and make of the vehicle, the 
description of the damage, the status of title and the order of the vehicle 
in the auction. 

     The Company seeks to establish a loyal and growing customer base of 
salvage vehicle buyers by providing a variety of value-added programs and 
services.  Copart has initiated its Buyers Plus Program, which includes a 
Copart Silver and Gold Card frequent buyer program designed to attract 
high-volume commercial customers by providing them with frequent buyer 
credits to acquire promotional merchandise, and extra services such as 
express check-in procedures and streamlined paperwork processing services.  
Copart also periodically provides free prizes and giveaways to promote 
auction attendance. 

MULTIPLE LOCATIONS

     The Company had a total of 49 facilities in 24 states at July 31, 1996.  
The Company's multiple locations provide vehicle suppliers certain 
advantages, including (i) a reduction in administrative time and effort, (ii) 
a reduction in overall towing costs, (iii) the ability for adjusters to make 
inspections of vehicles in their area, as opposed to traveling long 
distances, (iv) the convenience to the insurance company's customers of 
inspecting their vehicles and retrieving any personal belongings left in the 
vehicle and (v) access to buyers in a broad geographic area. 

GROWTH STRATEGY

     The Company's growth strategy is to (i) open or acquire new facilities, 
(ii) increase salvage vehicle volume from new and existing suppliers, (iii) 
increase revenues and profitability at its existing facilities, and (iv) 
pursue regional and national supply agreements with vehicle suppliers.*  Due 
to the fragmented nature of the salvage vehicle auction industry, the Company 
believes numerous opportunities exist to either open or acquire new 
facilities throughout the United States.* 

EXISTING MARKETS.  The Company attempts to increase vehicle volume from 
existing and new suppliers by promoting its ability to increase a supplier's 
net returns and to provide a broad selection of services to suppliers.  The 
Company also believes that a portion of its sales growth in existing markets 
has been attributable to recommendations from branch offices of an insurance 
company supplier to other branch offices of the same insurance company.  
Because a number of the Company's current insurance company suppliers are 
large national companies with branch offices throughout the country, the 
Company believes that such referrals provide the potential for future growth 
in sales in existing, as well as new, geographic markets.* 

NEW FACILITIES.  Since its formation in 1982, Copart has expanded, primarily 
through acquisition, from a single facility in Vallejo, California, to an 
integrated network of 49 facilities located in California, Texas, Arkansas, 
Oklahoma, Kansas, Washington, Oregon, Georgia, Missouri, New York, 
Connecticut, Florida, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Massachusetts, Maryland, 
Ohio, Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin, Mississippi, North Carolina, Indiana 
and Arizona. 

- ----------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations.  Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations.  The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





     The Company's strategy is to offer integrated service to vehicle 
suppliers on a regional or national basis by acquiring or opening salvage 
facilities in new markets as well as in regions currently served by the 
Company.  The Company believes that by either opening or acquiring new 
operations in such markets, it can capitalize on certain operating 
efficiencies resulting from, among other things, the reduction of duplicative 
overhead and the implementation of the Company's operating procedures.*  In 
accordance with the Company's growth strategy, Copart acquired five 
facilities in or near Houston, Dallas, Longview and Lufkin, Texas and 
Atlanta, Georgia and opened one facility in Portland, Oregon during fiscal 
1994. During fiscal 1995, in addition to the NER Acquisition, the Company 
acquired six facilities in or near Kansas City, Kansas, Tulsa and Oklahoma 
City, Oklahoma, St. Louis, Missouri, Conway and West Memphis, Arkansas and 
opened an additional facility in Sacramento, California.  During fiscal 1996, 
the Company acquired two facilities in or near Jackson, Mississippi and El 
Paso, Texas, and opened five new facilities in or near Charlotte, North 
Carolina; Jacksonville, Florida; Van Nuys, California; Indianapolis, Indiana 
and Phoenix, Arizona.  In addition, the Company believes that the 
establishment of a national presence both enhances the ability of a salvage 
vehicle auction company to enter into state, regional or national supply 
agreements with vehicle suppliers and to develop name recognition with 
vehicle suppliers and buyers.*   The Company, in the normal course of its 
business, maintains an active dialogue with numerous acquisition candidates 
of various sizes. 

     The Company seeks to increase revenues and profitability at acquired 
facilities by, among other things, (i) implementing its buyer fee structure, 
(ii) introducing and converting certain vehicle suppliers to the PIP, which 
typically results in higher net returns to vehicle suppliers and higher fees 
to the Company than standard fixed fee consignment programs, (iii) making 
available vehicle purchase programs which are designed to reduce vehicle 
suppliers' administrative expenses and (iv) initiating the Company's 
value-enhancing merchandising procedures.  In addition, the Company attempts 
to effect cost efficiencies at each of its acquired facilities through, among 
other things, implementing the Company's operating procedures, integrating 
the Company's management information systems and, when necessary, redeploying 
personnel.

     Before entering a new market, the Company seeks to establish vehicle 
supply arrangements with one or more of the major insurers in the targeted 
market.  Often this is accomplished by targeting an insurance company in that 
market with whom the Company does business in other geographic areas.  
Additional factors which the Company considers when acquiring or opening a 
new vehicle auction facility include relationships with vehicle suppliers, 
market size, supply of salvaged vehicles, quality and location of facility, 
growth potential and the region's potential for additional markets. 

     The Company strives to integrate its new facilities with minimum 
disruption to the facility's existing suppliers. Consistent with industry 
practice, most salvage vehicle auction companies, including those acquired by 
the Company, operate exclusively on a fixed fee consignment basis.  The 
Company works with suppliers to tailor a vehicle disposition method to fit 
their needs. Copart's fee structures and service programs for buyers are 
implemented at a new facility gradually, providing Copart the opportunity to 
gain knowledge of, and respond to, the existing market. The Company typically 
attempts to retain all or most of the management at acquired facilities and 
trains management at acquired facilities by rotating one or two managers from 
other Company facilities through the new facility for short assignments. If a 
new facility is opened or if management of an acquired facility needs 
assistance in converting to the Copart system, the Company will assign an 
integration team to the new facility, and, where necessary, transfer an 
experienced facility manager. 

- ----------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations.  Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations.  The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





     The following chart sets forth facilities acquired or opened by Copart 
since the beginning of fiscal 1992, through July 31, 1996.







SUPPLY ARRANGEMENTS AND SUPPLIER MARKETING

     The Company currently obtains salvage vehicles from thousands of vehicle 
suppliers, including local and regional offices of such suppliers.  In fiscal 
1996, vehicles supplied by its largest supplier accounted for approximately 
16% of the Company's revenues.  The Company's agreements with this and other 
vehicle suppliers are either oral or written agreements that generally are 
subject to cancellation by either party upon 30 to 90 days' notice. 

     The Company typically contracts with the regional or branch office of an 
insurance company or other vehicle supplier.  The agreements are customized 
to each vehicle supplier's particular needs, often providing for disposition 
of different types of salvage vehicles by differing methods.  Although the 
Company does not have written agreements with all of its vehicle suppliers, 
the Company has arrangements to process the vehicles generated by such 
suppliers.  Such contracts or arrangements generally provide that the Company 
will sell virtually all total loss and recovered stolen vehicles generated by 
the vehicle supplier in a designated geographic area.  The Company's written 
agreements with vehicle suppliers are typically subject to cancellation by 
either party upon 30 to 90 days' notice.  There can be no assurance that 
existing agreements will not be canceled or that the terms of any new 
agreements will be comparable to those of existing agreements. 

     The Company markets its services to vehicle suppliers through an 
in-house sales force which utilizes mailing of Company sales literature, 
telemarketing and follow-up personal sales calls, and participation in trade 
shows and vehicle and insurance industry conventions.  The Company's 
marketing personnel meet with vehicle suppliers and, based upon the Company's 
historical data on salvage vehicles and upon vehicle information supplied by 
the vehicle suppliers, provide vehicle suppliers with detailed analysis of 
the net return on salvage vehicles and a proposal setting forth ways in which 
the Company can improve net returns on salvage vehicles and reduce 
administrative costs and expenses. 

See "Factors Affecting Future Results" below.

BUYERS

     The buyers of salvage vehicles at salvage vehicle auctions are primarily 
dismantlers, rebuilders, vehicle repair licensees and used automobile 
dealers.  Dismantlers either dismantle the vehicles and sell the parts, or 
sell the entire vehicle to rebuilders, used car dealers or the public.  
Rebuilders and vehicle repair licensees are generally wholesale used car 
dealers and body shops that repair salvage vehicles for sale to used car 
dealers.  Used car dealers typically purchase late model, slightly damaged or 
intact, recovered stolen vehicles for repair and sale. 

     The Company maintains a database of thousands of registered buyers of 
salvage vehicles in the vehicle dismantling, rebuilding, repair, and/or 
resale businesses.  The Company believes that it has established a broad 
buyer base by providing buyers of salvage vehicles with a variety of programs 
and services.  In order to gain admission to a Company auction and become a 
registered buyer, prospective buyers must pay a one-time membership fee and 
an annual fee, have a vehicle dismantler's, dealer's or repair license, have 
an active resale license, and provide requested personal and business 
information. Membership entitles a buyer to transact business at any Company 
auction.  A buyer may also bring guests to an auction for a fee. Strict 
admission procedures are intended to prevent frivolous bids that would 
invalidate an auction.  The Company markets to buyers through customer 
incentive programs, sales notices, telemarketing and participation in trade 
show events.  In addition, Copart has initiated programs specifically 
designed to address the needs of its wholesale and high volume retail buyers, 
including providing streamlined paperwork processing, simplified payment 
procedures and personalized customer services.  No single buyer accounted for 
more than 1% of the Company's net revenues in fiscal 1996.





COMPETITION

     The salvage vehicle auction industry is highly fragmented.  As a result, 
the Company faces intense competition for the supply of salvage vehicles from 
vehicle suppliers, as well as competition for buyers of vehicles from other 
salvage vehicle auction companies.  The Company believes its principal 
competitor is Insurance Auto Auctions, Inc. ("IAA").  Over the last several 
years, IAA acquired and opened a number of salvage vehicle auction 
facilities. IAA is a significant competitor in certain regions in which the 
Company operates or may expand in the future.  In other regions of the United 
States, the Company faces substantial competition from salvage vehicle 
auction facilities with established relationships with vehicle suppliers and 
buyers and financial resources which may be greater than the Company's.  Due 
to the limited number of vehicle suppliers and the absence of long-term 
contractual commitments between the Company and such salvage vehicle 
suppliers, competition for salvage vehicles from such suppliers is intense.  
The Company may also encounter significant competition for state, regional 
and national supply agreements with vehicle suppliers.  Vehicle suppliers may 
enter into state, regional or national supply agreements with competitors of 
the Company.

     The Company has a number of regional and national contracts with various 
suppliers.  There can be no assurance that the existence of other state, 
regional or national contracts entered into by the Company's competitors will 
not have a material adverse effect on the Company or the Company's expansion 
plans.  Furthermore, the Company is likely to face competition from major 
competitors in the acquisition of salvage vehicle auction facilities, which 
could significantly increase the cost of such acquisitions and thereby 
materially impede the Company's expansion objectives or have a material 
adverse effect on the Company's results of operations.  Potential competitors 
could include vehicle suppliers, some of which presently supply salvage 
vehicles to the Company and used car auction companies.  While most vehicle 
suppliers have abandoned or reduced efforts to sell salvage vehicles without 
the use of service providers such as the Company, there can be no assurance 
that they may not in the future decide to dispose of their salvage vehicles 
directly to buyers.  Existing or new competitors may be significantly larger 
and have greater financial and marketing resources than the Company.  There 
can be no assurance that the Company will be able to compete successfully in 
the future. 

See "Factors Affecting Future Results" below.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The Company's operations are subject to federal, state and local laws 
and regulations regarding the protection of the environment.  In the salvage 
vehicle auction industry, large numbers of wrecked vehicles are stored at 
auction facilities for short periods of time.  Minor spills of gasoline, 
motor oils and other fluids may occur from time to time at the Company's 
facilities which may result in localized soil, surface water or groundwater 
contamination.  Petroleum products and other hazardous materials are 
contained in aboveground or underground storage tanks located at certain of 
the Company's facilities.  Waste materials such as waste solvents or used 
oils are generated at some of the Company's facilities which are disposed of 
as nonhazardous or hazardous wastes.  The Company has put into place 
procedures to reduce the amounts of soil contamination that may occur at its 
facilities, and has initiated safety programs and training of personnel on 
safe storage and handling of hazardous materials. The Company believes that 
it is in compliance in all material respects with applicable environmental 
regulations and does not anticipate any material capital expenditures for 
environmental compliance or remediation except with regard to the Dallas 
Operation (as defined below).  Environmental laws and regulations, however, 
could become more stringent over time and there can be no assurance that the 
Company or its operations will not be subject to significant compliance costs 
in the future.  To date, the Company has not incurred expenditures for 
preventive or remedial action with respect to soil contamination or the use 
of hazardous materials which have had a material adverse effect on the 
Company's financial condition or results of operations. Contamination which 
may occur at the Company's facilities and the potential contamination by 
previous users of certain acquired facilities create the risk, however, that 
the Company could incur substantial expenditures for preventive or





remedial action, as well as potential liability arising as a consequence of 
hazardous material contamination, which could have a material adverse effect 
on the Company. 

     On a case-by-case basis, the Company evaluates the potential risks and 
possible exposure to liabilities associated with hazardous materials.  In 
addition, the Company has a policy of conducting environmental site 
assessments of all newly-acquired or opened facilities.  In connection with 
the acquisition and lease of all of its newly-acquired facilities, except in 
connection with the Dallas Operation which is described below, the Company's 
policy is to obtain indemnification from the prior owner and/or landowner for 
any environmental contamination which is present on the property prior to the 
Company entering into a lease or acquiring the property.  However, there can 
be no assurance that prior or future owners and/or landowners will have 
assets sufficient to meet their indemnification obligations, if any. 

     In connection with its acquisition of a facility in the Dallas 
metropolitan area (the "Dallas Operation"), the Company will pay $3.0 million 
for environmental corrective action and consulting expenses associated with 
an approximately six-acre portion of the Dallas Operation's real property 
which contains elevated levels of lead which related to prior activities of 
the former operators.  The Company estimates that, based upon an 
investigation of the property by its environmental consultant, the most 
probable range of cost of corrective action is approximately $980,000 if the 
contaminated soil can be stabilized on-site to $2.9 million if the 
contaminated soil must be excavated and disposed of at an off-site disposal 
facility.  If total costs of corrective action at the Dallas Operation do not 
exceed $3.0 million, then the remaining funds after payment of all costs of 
corrective action, up to $3.0 million, will be paid as consulting fees to the 
former principal shareholder of the Dallas Operation.  If the total costs of 
corrective action exceed $3.0 million, then the former principal shareholder 
of the Dallas Operation will pay the next $1.2 million of costs of corrective 
action.  The Company and such former principal shareholder are each obligated 
to pay up to $1.5 million of the costs for corrective action, if incurred, 
between $4.2 million and $7.2 million. If the total costs of corrective 
action exceed $7.2 million, then such former principal shareholder will 
either pay up to the next $1.0 million, or notify the Company to pay up to 
the next $1.0 million in exchange for a dollar-for-dollar credit toward the 
purchase price of the Dallas Operation's real property, calculated as the 
greater of $1.0 million or the then fair market value.  Such former principal 
shareholder's obligations under this arrangement are secured by a pledge of 
225,000 shares of Common Stock.  However, there can be no assurance that such 
former principal shareholder will be able to meet his obligations or that the 
pledged stock will be sufficient to cover such obligations.  In March 1995, 
the Texas Natural Resource Conservation Commission ("TNRCC") authorized the 
Company to perform a Corrective Measure Study ("CMS") to determine if the 
proposed on-site soil stabilization remedy would be effective.  In August 
1995, the Company's environmental consultant submitted a Baseline Risk 
Assessment ("BRA") to the TNRCC, which concluded that neither human health 
nor the environment are placed at risk by the lead battery casing chips at 
the site.  In April 1996, the TNRCC approved the BRA, and the Company's 
environmental consultant is  preparing and submitting  a Corrective Measure 
Study.  There can be no assurance that the actual cost of corrective action, 
or any other liabilities with respect to the site, will not exceed estimates 
of the Company's environmental consultant, or that such actual costs will not 
have a material adverse effect on the Company. 

     Metals and hydrocarbon soil contamination was detected at one of 
Copart's California facilities, which was determined to be associated with 
uses of the property by persons prior to the time that the prior owner became 
the occupant of the facility.  In addition, metals were detected in samples 
collected from groundwater monitoring wells located at this property.  Copart 
obtained specific indemnification from the landowner of such facility for any 
liability for pre-existing environmental contamination.  In addition, a small 
quantity of tetrachlorethane ("PCE") and toluene was detected in a temporary 
ground water monitoring well at the Dallas Operation.  The Company's 
environmental consultants concluded that both PCE and toluene were from an 
off-site source upgradient of the facility, and no further action was 
recommended. 





     In 1991, Copart removed an underground storage tank from one of its 
California facilities after monitoring devices indicated that the tank was 
leaking.  Subsequent testing revealed localized low level contamination of 
the soil and ground water where the tank was removed, but no migration of the 
contamination.  The Company has retained the services of an environmental 
consultant to represent the Company before the local county environmental 
management department.  The Company has been informed by the consultant that 
the county agreed to a plan involving periodic monitoring of soil and ground 
water to assure that the contamination is not spreading.  The cost of this 
ongoing monitoring is nominal. 

     In connection with the acquisition of NER Auction Systems, environmental 
consultants were engaged to perform a limited environmental assessment of the 
properties on which NER conducted its business. Prior to the acquisition, the 
site assessment for the Company's leased facility located in Bellingham, 
Massachusetts, reported concentrations of Benzene and MTBE in the groundwater 
which slightly exceed the reportable concentrations under the Massachusetts 
environmental laws. The consultant has indicated that further investigation 
will be required to determine the complete extent of the contamination, and 
that remediation will likely be required (the "Bellingham Remediation"). It 
is estimated that the most likely total cost of the Bellingham Remediation 
will be approximately $50,000, with the maximum remediation costs estimated 
to be approximately $350,000. It is unclear at this time if any of the 
contamination has migrated off-site and additional remediation costs may be 
necessary if any groundwater beyond the site has been contaminated. 
Approximately $125,000 of the estimated remediation costs relate to amounts 
accrued  for operation and maintenance costs expected to be paid out through 
1999. Pursuant to the terms of the NER Acquisition, Copart is indemnified as 
to any environmental liabilities relating to sites being leased from NER 
Auction Group, including the Bellingham site. The total estimate of $50,000 
is a current estimate of all remediation costs and could change due to 
further site investigation or changes in applicable laws. 

     The Company does not believe that the metals and hydrocarbon soil 
contamination, PCE, storage tank removal or Bellingham Remediation will, 
either individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on 
the Company.* 

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     The Company's operations are subject to regulation, supervision and 
licensing under various federal, state and local statutes, ordinances and 
regulations.  The acquisition and sale of damaged and recovered stolen 
vehicles is regulated by state motor vehicle departments.  In addition to the 
regulation of sales and acquisitions of vehicles, the Company is also subject 
to various local zoning requirements with regard to the location of its 
auction and storage facilities.  These zoning requirements vary from location 
to location.  The Company is also subject to environmental regulations.  The 
Company believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with 
applicable regulatory requirements.  The Company may be subject to similar 
types of regulations by federal, state, and local governmental agencies in 
new markets. Although the Company believes that it has all permits necessary 
to conduct its business and is in material compliance with applicable 
regulatory requirements, failure to comply with present or future regulations 
or changes in interpretations of existing regulations could result in 
impairment of the Company's operations and the imposition of penalties and 
other liabilities.  For instance, vehicle inspections mandated by the 
California Torres Bill (1994 California Senate Bill No. 1833) which were 
suspended in 1995 because of demand which overwhelmed the inspectors are 
scheduled to begin again in 1997, with no guarantee that vehicle inspection 
waits will be shorter.  Recently enacted legislation in Texas, with 
inspection requirements similar to those enacted in California, could have a 
material adverse effect on the Company's Texas operations.

- ----------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations.  Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations.  The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM

     The Company's management information system ("MIS") consists of an 
expandable, integrated IBM AS/400 computer located in Benicia, California, 
integrated computer interfaces (Salvage Lynk) and proprietary software which 
enables salvage vehicles to be tracked by the Company and vehicle suppliers 
throughout the salvage vehicle auction process. Salvage Lynk provides remote 
access to customers via the client's personal computer system to allow direct 
inquiry during the Company's salvage vehicle disposal process. By providing 
this accessibility, the Company provides a unique marketing benefit to its 
customers in streamlining their internal salvage tracking process.  The 
Company's MIS is an essential part of its strategy to provide superior 
service to its clients and buyers, as well as to effectively support internal 
operations.  The Company continues to research new computer technologies to 
enhance its MIS development.  Other functions provided by MIS include 
accounting, inventory and salvage vehicle supplier and buyer information.  
The Company believes that, with planned upgrades and integration's of new 
acquisitions, the Company's MIS will serve its information management needs 
for the foreseeable future.* 

EMPLOYEES

     As of July 31, 1996, the Company had approximately 1,030 full-time 
employees, of whom approximately 620 were engaged in general and 
administrative functions and approximately 410 were engaged in yard and fleet 
operations. The Company is not subject to any collective bargaining 
agreements and believes that its relationships with its employees are good. 

                       FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE RESULTS

     Historically, a limited number of vehicle suppliers have accounted for a 
substantial portion of the Company's revenues.  In fiscal 1996, vehicles 
supplied by Copart's largest supplier accounted for approximately 16% of 
Copart's revenues.  The Company's agreements with this and other vehicle 
suppliers are either oral or written agreements that typically are subject to 
cancellation by either party upon 30 days' notice.  There can be no assurance 
that existing agreements will not be canceled or that the terms of any new 
agreements will be comparable to those of existing agreements.  While the 
Company believes that, as the salvage vehicle auction industry becomes more 
consolidated, the likelihood of large vehicle suppliers entering into 
agreements with single companies to dispose of all of their salvage vehicles 
on a statewide, regional or national basis increases, there can be no 
assurance that the Company will be able to enter into such agreements or that 
it will be able to retain its existing supply of salvage vehicles in the 
event vehicle suppliers begin disposing of their salvage vehicles pursuant to 
state, regional or national agreements with other operators of salvage 
vehicle auction facilities.  A loss or reduction in the number of vehicles 
from a significant vehicle supplier or material changes in the terms of an 
arrangement with a substantial vehicle supplier could have a material adverse 
effect on the Company's financial condition and results of operations.

     The Company's operating results have in the past and may in the future 
fluctuate significantly depending on a number of factors.  These factors 
include changes in the market value of salvage vehicles, buyer attendance at 
salvage auctions, delays or changes in state title processing and/or changes 
in state or federal laws or regulations affecting salvage vehicles, 
fluctuations in ACV's of salvage vehicles, the availability of vehicles and 
weather conditions.  As a result, the Company believes that period-to-period 
comparisons of its results of operations are not necessarily meaningful and 
should not be relied upon as any

- ----------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations.  Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations.  The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





indication of future performance.  There can be no assurance, therefore, that 
the Company's operating results in some future quarter will not be below the 
expectations of public market analysts and/or investors.

     The market price of the Company's Common Stock could be subject to 
significant fluctuations in response to various factors and events, including 
variations in the Company's operating results, the timing and size of 
acquisitions and facility openings, the loss of vehicle suppliers or buyers, 
the announcement of new vehicle supply agreements by the Company or its 
competitors, changes in regulations governing the Company's operations or its 
vehicle suppliers, environmental problems or litigation.  In addition, the 
stock market in recent years has experienced broad price and volume 
fluctuations that often have been unrelated to the operating performance of 
companies.

     The Company seeks to increase sales and profitability primarily through 
the opening of new facilities, the acquisition of other salvage vehicle 
auction facilities, and the increase of salvage vehicle volume and revenue at 
existing facilities.  There can be no assurance that the Company will be able 
to continue to acquire additional facilities on terms economical to the 
Company or that the Company will be able to increase revenues at newly 
acquired facilities above levels realized at such facilities prior to their 
acquisition by the Company.  Additionally, as the Company continues to grow, 
its openings and acquisitions will have to be more numerous or of a larger 
size in order to have a material impact on the Company's operations.  The 
ability of the Company to achieve its expansion objectives and to manage its 
growth is also dependent on other factors, including the integration of new 
facilities into existing operations, the establishment of new relationships 
or expansion of existing relationships with vehicle suppliers, the 
identification and lease of suitable premises on competitive terms and the 
availability of capital. The size and timing of such acquisitions and 
openings may vary and the Company believes that in the future it will open a 
greater number of new facilities than it has in the past.  Management 
believes that facilities opened by the Company require more time to reach 
revenue and profitability levels comparable to its existing facilities and 
may have greater working capital requirements than those facilities acquired 
by the Company.  Therefore, to the extent that the Company opens a greater 
number of facilities in the future than it has historically, the Company's 
growth rate in revenues and profitability may be adversely affected.

     While Copart has acquired a number of companies in recent years, the 
Company's acquisition of the NER Auction Group in May 1995 was its largest 
acquisition undertaken to date.  The successful integration of NER was more 
difficult and required a greater period of time than prior acquisitions.  In 
connection with the integration of NER, the Company completed the closure of 
the eastern division office and former NER corporate headquarters in July, 
1996.

     Currently, Willis J. Johnson, Chief Executive Officer of the Company, 
together with one other existing shareholder, beneficially own approximately 
30% of the issued and outstanding shares of Common Stock.  This controlling 
interest in the Company may also have the effect of making certain 
transactions, such as mergers or tender offers involving the Company, more 
difficult or impossible, absent the support of Mr. Johnson, and such other 
existing shareholder.





                     EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     The executive officers of the Company and their ages as of July 31, 1996 
are as follows: 

NAME                AGE   POSITION
- ----                ---   --------
Willis J. Johnson   49    Chief Executive Officer and Director
A. Jayson Adair     27    Executive Vice President and Director
James E. Meeks      47    Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer
Joseph M. Whelan    41    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
Paul A. Styer       40    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

     WILLIS J. JOHNSON, co-founder of the Company, has served as Chief 
Executive Officer of the Company since 1986, and has been a Board member 
since 1982. Mr. Johnson was also President of the Company from 1986 through 
the closing of the NER Acquisition in May 1995. Mr. Johnson has over 25 years 
of experience in owning and operating auto dismantling and vehicle salvage 
companies.

     A. JAYSON ADAIR has served as Executive Vice President of the Company 
since April 1995 and a director since September 1992.  From August 1990 until 
April 1995, Mr. Adair served as Vice President of Sales and Operations and 
from June 1989 to August 1990, Mr. Adair served as the Company's Manager of 
Operations. 

     JAMES E. MEEKS has served as Vice President and Chief Operating Officer 
of the Company since September 1992 when he joined the Company concurrent 
with the Company's purchase of South Bay Salvage Pool (the "San Martin 
Operation"). Mr. Meeks has served as Senior Vice President since April 1995.  
From April 1986 to September 1992, Mr. Meeks, together with his family, owned 
and operated the San Martin Operation.  Mr. Meeks is also an officer, 
director and part owner of Cas & Meeks, Inc., a towing and subhauling service 
company, which he has operated since 1991.  Mr. Meeks has also been an 
officer and director of E & H Dismantlers, a self-service auto dismantler, 
since 1967. Mr. Meeks has over 25 years of experience in the vehicle 
dismantling business.

     JOSEPH M. WHELAN has served as Senior Vice President since April 1995 
and Chief Financial Officer of the Company since March 1994.  From 1989 to 
1993, Mr. Whelan served as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
of Phillips, Inc., the largest privately held owner of educational facilities 
in the United States.  Mr. Whelan received a B.A. from Vanderbilt University 
and a M.B.A. from Tulane University.  Mr. Whelan is a certified public 
accountant. 

     PAUL A. STYER has served as General Counsel of the Company since 
September 1992, served as Senior Vice President since April 1995 and as Vice 
President from September 1992 until April 1995. Mr. Styer served as a 
Director of the Company from September 1992 until October 1993. Mr. Styer has 
served as Secretary since October 1993. From August 1990 to September 1992, 
Mr. Styer conducted an independent law practice.  Mr. Styer received a B.A. 
from the University of California, Davis and a J.D. from the University of 
the Pacific.  Mr. Styer is a member of the California State Bar Association. 

     Officers are elected by the Board of Directors and serve at the 
discretion of the Board.  There are no family relationships among any of the 
directors or executive officers of the Company, except that A. Jayson Adair 
is the son-in-law of Willis J. Johnson. 

     On April 18, 1996, Richard A. Polidori resigned his position as 
President and a member of the Board of the Company.





ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

FACILITIES INFORMATION

     The following table sets forth certain information regarding the 
facilities currently used by the Company. 









- -----------------

(1) Copart's initial facility. 

(2)  In connection with the acquisition of the Dallas Operation, Copart 
obtained an option, exercisable from March 2004 through March 2014, to acquire 
the Dallas Operation's real property for the purchase price of $2.5 million, 
consisting of $500,000 in cash and a $2.0 million promissory note bearing 
interest at the then prime rate payable in equal monthly installments over 10 
years. Such purchase price may be subject to adjustment in the event that the 
total cost of corrective action at the Dallas Operation exceeds $7.2 million.

(3)  Leasehold interest held by NER Auction Group on the current Southampton 
facility expires on July 31, 1997. Thereafter, the Company and Richard 
Polidori, the former principal owner of NER, intend to enter into a lease 
relating to property owned by Mr. Polidori on Long Island with acreage, a 
purchase option and a lease term as described. 

(4)  Right of first refusal for these properties is held by the NER Auction 
Group entities which are leasing such properties from third party landowners 
and as to which Copart is the sublesee.

(5)  Opened after July 31, 1996.

(6)  Corporate headquarters.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     On June 3, 1994, Bill Woltz, doing business as Salvage Pool Systems, 
filed a complaint against Copart and Willis J. Johnson, the Company's Chief  
Executive Officer and a Director, in the Northern District of California 
alleging claims for copyright infringement, breach of implied contract, common 
law fraud, negligent misrepresentation and slander.  Mr. Woltz is a former 
employee and consultant who performed computer programming services for 
Copart.  On August 25, 1994, the original complaint was dismissed without 
prejudice.  Mr. Woltz filed a new complaint on October 14, 1994 in the 
Northern District of California alleging the same claims contained in his 
prior complaint and, in addition, claims for unfair competition, goods sold 
and delivered, accounting and libel.  The dispute arises out of alleged 
contracts between Woltz and Copart, Copart's alleged use and copying of 
computer programs, and alleged statements by Copart about the computer 
programs and alleged contracts.  The complaint seeks an unspecified amount in 
damages, an injunction preventing Copart from using or offering to sell or 
license the software, costs and attorneys' fees, treble damages, punitive 
damages, and a retraction of alleged libelous statements.  Copart filed an 
answer to the complaint denying all of the allegations and asserting various 
defenses.  Management believes that the action is without merit and is 
contesting the action vigorously.   Additionally, the Company has asserted 
counterclaims against Woltz for ownership of software that Woltz developed 
while a Copart employee, conversion and possession of Copart's property.  In 
February 1996 the Company filed a Motion for Summary Judgment.  On August 19, 
1996, the Court entered an Order in which it denied summary judgment on 
plaintiff's copyright infringement claim and reserved ruling on plaintiff's 
seven state law causes of action.  However, in that Order the Court invited 
the Company to file a further summary judgment





motion based on certain copyright issues.  The Company intends to file such a 
motion by December 1996.  No trial date has yet been set.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS 

     Not applicable 

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


MARKET PRICE AND DISTRIBUTIONS

The following table summarized the high and low sales prices per share for 
each quarter during the last two fiscal years.  As of July 31, 1996, there 
were 12,641,213 shares outstanding.  The Company's Common Stock has been 
quoted on the Nasdaq National Market under the symbol CPRT since March 17, 
1994.  As of July 31, 1996, the Company had 259 shareholders of record.

1995                        High                      Low
- ----                        ----                      ---
First Quarter               18 5/8                    13 7/8
Second Quarter              20                        15 3/8
Third Quarter               20 5/8                    18
Fourth Quarter              23 5/8                    19 1/8

1996                        High                      Low
- ----                        ----                      ---
First Quarter               23 7/8                    19 1/4
Second Quarter              30 1/8                    20 3/4
Third Quarter               30 1/4                    23 1/4
Fourth Quarter              28 1/2                    12 1/4

The Company has not paid a cash dividend since 1984 and does not anticipate 
paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future.





ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The tables below summarize the Selected Consolidated Financial Data of the 
Registrant as of and for each of the last five fiscal years.  This selected 
financial information should be read in conjunction with the Company's 
Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto and "Management's 
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" 
included elsewhere in this Report.  The selected financial data presented 
below have been derived from the Company's consolidated financial statements 
that have been audited by KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent public 
accountants, whose report is included herein covering the consolidated 
financial statements as of July 31, 1996 and 1995 and for each of the three 
years in the period ended July 31, 1996. The selected operating data for the 
years ended July 31, 1993 and 1992 and the balance sheet data as of  July 31, 
1994, 1993 and 1992 are derived from audited consolidated financial statements 
not included herein:



   Notes

(1)  See Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of 
acquistions.

(2)   See Note 6 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of  
the extraordinary item.

(3)   See Note 9 to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of 
initial public offering.





               MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
                      CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

     The Company processes salvage vehicles principally on a consignment 
method, on either the Percentage Incentive Program (or the "PIP") or on a 
fixed fee consignment basis.  Using either consignment method, only the fees 
associated with vehicle processing are recorded in revenue.  The Company also 
processes a percentage of its salvage vehicles pursuant to purchase contracts 
(the "Purchase Program") under which the Company records the gross proceeds of 
the vehicle sale in revenue.  For the fiscal years ended July 31, 1996, 1995, 
and 1994, approximately 25%, 28%, and 50% of the vehicles sold by Copart, 
respectively, were processed under the PIP, and approximately 6%, 2% and less 
than 1% of the vehicles sold by Copart, respectively, were processed pursuant 
to the Purchase Program.  The decrease in the percentage of vehicles sold 
under the PIP resulted from the acquisition by Copart of various companies 
that conducted business on a fixed fee consignment basis, which is consistent 
with industry practice.  As a result of the acquisition of NER Auction Group 
("NER") on May 2, 1995, which processed almost all of its vehicles on a fixed 
fee consignment basis, the percentage of the Company's vehicles processed 
under the PIP decreased.  The Company attempts to convert acquired operations 
to the PIP Program which typically results in higher net returns to vehicle 
suppliers and higher fees to the Company than standard fixed fee consignment 
programs.  However, due to a number of factors, including the timing and size 
of new acquisitions, market conditions, and acceptance of the PIP and/or 
Purchase Program, by vehicle suppliers, the percentage of vehicles processed 
under these programs in future periods may vary.  In addition to auction fees 
paid by vehicle suppliers and vehicle buyers, approximately 27%, 31%, and 38% 
of Copart's revenues for the fiscal years ended July 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, 
respectively, were attributable to buyer fees, which are fees received from 
buyers in addition to amounts they pay to purchase salvage vehicles.

     Costs attributable to yard and fleet expenses consist primarily of 
operating personnel (which includes yard management, clerical and yard 
employees), rent, contract vehicle towing, insurance, fleet maintenance and 
repair, fuel and acquisition costs of salvage vehicles under the Purchase 
Program.  Costs associated with general and administrative expenses consist 
primarily of executive, accounting, data processing and sales personnel, 
professional fees and marketing expenses. 

     The results of the Company's operations reflect the increase in the 
number of vehicles processed in the eastern United States, the sale of these 
vehicles generated lower margins than those in Copart's operations in the 
western, midwest and southwestern United States.  The results also reflect 
additional vehicles processed under purchase programs as part of the Company's 
marketing thrust to secure new vehicle suppliers.

     The period-to-period comparability of Copart's operating results and 
financial condition is substantially affected by certain business acquisitions 
and new openings made by Copart during such periods.

ACQUISITIONS AND NEW OPERATIONS

     Copart has experienced significant growth as it acquired 38 salvage 
vehicle auction facilities and established seven new facilities since the 
beginning of fiscal 1992.  All of the acquisitions have been accounted for 
using the purchase method. Accordingly, the excess of the purchase price over 
the net tangible assets acquired (consisting principally of goodwill) is being 
amortized over a period not to exceed 40 years. 

     As part of the Company's overall expansion strategy of offering 
integrated service to vehicle suppliers, the Company anticipates further 
attempts to open or acquire new salvage yards in new regions, as well as the 
regions currently served by Company yards.  As part of this strategy, during 
fiscal 1996, Copart





acquired two facilities in or near Jackson, Mississippi, and El Paso, Texas, 
and opened five new facilities in or near Charlotte, North Carolina; 
Jacksonville, Florida; Indianapolis, Indiana; Van Nuys, California; and 
Phoenix, Arizona.  During fiscal 1995, Copart acquired NER, plus six 
facilities in or near Kansas City, Kansas; Tulsa and Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; 
St. Louis, Missouri; and Conway and West Memphis, Arkansas; and opened one 
facility in Sacramento, California.  In addition, Copart acquired five 
facilities in or near Houston, Dallas, Lufkin and Longview, Texas; and 
Atlanta, Georgia; and opened one facility in Portland, Oregon during fiscal 
1994.  The Company believes that these acquisitions and openings solidify the 
Company's coverage of the West Coast, expand the Company's coverage of the 
South, Southwest and Midwest, give the Company a substantial presence in the 
Northeast, the Great Lakes states, Georgia and Florida.  The Company expects 
to incur future amortization charges in connection with anticipated 
acquisitions attributable to goodwill, covenants not to compete and other 
purchase-related adjustments. *

     The Company seeks to increase revenues and profitability at acquired 
facilities by, among other things, (i) implementing its buyer fee structure, 
(ii) introducing and converting certain vehicle suppliers to the PIP, which 
typically results in higher net returns to vehicle suppliers and higher fees 
to the Company than standard fixed fee consignment programs, (iii) making 
available vehicle purchase programs which are designed to reduce vehicle 
suppliers' administrative expenses and (iv) initiating the Company's 
merchandising procedures.  In addition, the Company attempts to effect cost 
efficiencies at each of its acquired facilities through, among other things, 
implementing the Company's operational procedures, integrating the Company's 
management information systems and, when necessary, redeploying personnel. 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth for the periods indicated information 
derived from the consolidated statements of income of Copart expressed as a 
percentage of revenues.  There can be no assurance that any trend in operating 
results will continue in the future. 



- ----------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations.  Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations.  The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





FISCAL 1996 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1995

     Revenues were approximately $118.2 million during fiscal 1996, an 
increase of approximately $60.1 million, or 103%, over fiscal 1995 based on 
391,100 vehicles processed.  Approximately $45.8 million of the increase in 
revenues was the result of the acquisition of the Kansas City, Oklahoma City, 
Tulsa, St. Louis, Conway, West Memphis, NER, Jackson, and El Paso operations; 
and the opening of Copart's Charlotte, Jacksonville, Indianapolis, and Phoenix 
facilities.  Existing yard revenues increased by approximately $14.3 million, 
or 33% over fiscal 1995, of which revenues from Purchase Program vehicles 
accounted for approximately $11.5 million of the increase.  Under the Purchase 
Program the Company records the gross proceeds of the vehicle sale as revenue. 
The remainder of the increase in revenue at these facilities was primarily 
attributable to increased per unit revenues of approximately 9% and increased 
vehicle volume of approximately 3%.

     Yard and fleet expenses were approximately $83.5 million during fiscal 
1996, an increase of approximately $45.8 million, or 121%, over fiscal 1995.  
Approximately $34.2 million of the increase was the result of the acquisition 
of the Kansas City, Oklahoma City, Tulsa, St. Louis, Conway, West Memphis, 
NER, Jackson, and El Paso operations; and the opening of Copart's Charlotte, 
Jacksonville, Indianapolis, and Phoenix facilities.  The remainder of the 
increase in yard and fleet expenses was attributable to yard and fleet 
expenses from existing operations, including the cost of Purchase Program 
vehicles.  Yard and fleet expenses increased to 70.6% of revenues during 
fiscal 1996, as compared to 65.0% of revenues during fiscal 1995, primarily as 
a result of the Company processing additional vehicles under the Purchase 
Program.

     General and administrative expenses were approximately $10.9 million 
during fiscal 1996, an increase of approximately $5.2 million, or 91%, over 
fiscal 1995, due primarily to increased personnel expense resulting from 
acquisitions, increased hiring in anticipation of additional growth and 
additional investments in marketing and MIS staff.  General and administrative 
expenses decreased to 9.2% of revenues during fiscal 1996, as compared to 9.8% 
of revenues during fiscal 1995, primarily as a result of the Company 
processing additional vehicles under the Purchase Program which has higher 
revenue per unit.

     Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $6.0 million 
during fiscal 1996, an increase of approximately $2.6 million, or 76%, over 
fiscal 1995.  Such increase was due primarily to the amortization of goodwill 
and covenants not to compete and depreciation of acquired assets resulting 
from the acquisition of new salvage auction facilities. 

     The effective income tax rate of 39% applicable to fiscal 1996 is lower 
than the fiscal 1995 effective income tax rate, due to savings associated with 
state and local tax planning.

     Due to the foregoing factors, Copart realized net income of $11.2 million 
for fiscal 1996, an increase of 62% compared to net income of $6.9 million for 
fiscal 1995.

FISCAL 1995 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1994

     Revenues were approximately $58.1 million during fiscal 1995, an increase 
of approximately $35.3 million, or 155%, over fiscal 1994.  Approximately 
$24.3 million of the increase in revenues was the result of the acquisition of 
the Houston, Dallas, Lufkin, Longview, Atlanta, Kansas City, Oklahoma City and 
Tulsa, St. Louis, Conway and West Memphis and NER operations and the opening 
of Copart's Portland facility.  Existing yard revenues increased by 
approximately $11.0 million, or 61%, over fiscal 1994, of which revenues from 
Purchase Program vehicles accounted for approximately $7.6 million of the 
increase.  The remainder of the increase in revenues at existing operations 
was primarily attributable to increased buyer fees of approximately 7% and 
increased vehicle volume of approximately 12%. 





     Yard and fleet expenses were approximately $37.8 million during fiscal 
1995, an increase of approximately $23.0 million, or 156%, over fiscal 1995.  
Approximately $15.7 million of the increase was the result of the acquisition 
of the Houston, Dallas, Lufkin, Longview, Atlanta, Kansas City, Oklahoma City 
and Tulsa, St. Louis, Conway and West Memphis and NER operations and the 
opening of Copart's Portland facility.  The remainder of the increase in yard 
and fleet expenses was attributable to yard and fleet expenses from existing 
operations, including the cost of Purchase Program vehicles.  Yard and fleet 
expense increased to 65.0% of revenues during fiscal 1995, as compared to 
64.7% of revenues during fiscal 1994.

     General and administrative expenses were approximately $5.7 million 
during fiscal 1995, an increase of approximately $3.3 million, or 136%, over 
fiscal 1994, due primarily to increased personnel expense resulting from 
acquisitions and increased hiring in anticipation of additional growth.  
General and administrative expenses decreased to 9.8% of revenues during 
fiscal 1995, as compared to 10.6% of revenues during fiscal 1994 due to costs 
being spread over a greater revenue base. 

     Depreciation and amortization expense was approximately $3.4 million 
during fiscal 1995, an increase of approximately $1.9 million, or 123%, over 
fiscal 1994.  Such increase was due primarily to the amortization of goodwill 
and covenants not to compete and depreciation of acquired assets resulting 
from the acquisition of new salvage auction facilities. 

     Interest expense was approximately $491,000 during fiscal 1995, a 
decrease of $429,300 over fiscal 1994.  This decrease was attributable to the 
repayment in fiscal 1994 of the indebtedness incurred in the February 1993 
debt financing with the proceeds from the IPO.  In fiscal 1994, Copart 
recognized an extraordinary item on the loss on extinguishment of debt 
associated with the February 1993 debt financing, which is shown net of income 
tax benefit. 

     The effective income tax rate of 40% applicable to fiscal 1995 is 
consistent with the fiscal 1994 effective income tax rate.

     Due to the foregoing factors, Copart realized net income of $6.9 million 
for fiscal 1995, compared to income before extraordinary item of $2.2 million 
fiscal 1994 as noted above.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Copart has financed its growth principally through cash generated from 
operations, debt financing in February 1993, the issuance by Copart of 
1,071,600 shares of Common Stock at $7.00 per share in a private placement to 
certain of its existing shareholders in November 1993, its March 1994 initial 
public offering  ("IPO") of 2,300,000 shares of Common Stock at $12.00 per 
share, its follow-on offering in May 1995 of  1,897,500 shares of Common Stock 
at $19.25 per share, the equity issued in conjunction with certain 
acquisitions and borrowings under the Bank Credit Facility (as defined below) 
in connection with the NER Acquisition. 

     At July 31, 1996, Copart had working capital of approximately $40.6 
million, including cash and cash equivalents of approximately $13.0 million.  
The Company is able to process, market, sell and receive payment for processed 
vehicles quickly. Therefore, the Company does not require substantial amounts 
of working capital, as it receives payment for vehicles at approximately the 
same time as it remits payments to vehicle suppliers.  The Company's primary 
source of cash is from the collection of sellers' fees and reimbursable 
advances from the proceeds of auctioned salvage vehicles and from buyers' 
fees. 

     In May, 1995 Copart entered into a bank credit facility provided by Wells 
Fargo Bank, N.A. and U.S. Bank of California (the "Bank Credit Facility").  
The Bank Credit Facility consists of a revolving line of credit of $10 million 
which matures in November 1997 and a $18.5 million term loan facility which 
matures in May 2002. The term loan amortizes on a straight-line basis over its 
term.  The Company may reborrow up to the unamortized principal amount of the 
term loan.  Amounts outstanding under the Bank





Credit Facility accrue interest at either the prime rate most recently 
announced by Wells Fargo or at a rate based on LIBOR plus a spread of 1.75% 
subject to reductions based on certain credit ratios. The current spread has 
been reduced to 1.25%.  As of July 31, 1996, there are no outstanding 
borrowings under this facility.

     The Company has entered into various operating lease lines for the 
purpose of leasing up to $10.5 million of yard and fleet equipment, of which 
approximately $1.4 million was available as of July 31, 1996. 

     Copart generated cash from operations of approximately $11.3 million, 
$5.2 million and $4.7 million in fiscal years 1996, 1995 and 1994, 
respectively.  The increase in cash from operations from fiscal 1994 to fiscal 
1995 and from fiscal 1995 to fiscal 1996 reflects Copart's increased 
profitability.

     During the fiscal year ended July 31, 1996, Copart used cash for the 
acquisition of the Jackson, Mississippi and El Paso, Texas facilities, which 
had an aggregate cash cost of approximately $2.8 million.  During the fiscal 
year ended July 31, 1995, Copart's principal use of cash was for the 
acquisition of the NER, Kansas City, Oklahoma City and Tulsa, St. Louis, 
Conway and West Memphis salvage vehicle auction facilities, which had an 
aggregate cash cost of approximately $38.3 million. Copart financed the cash 
portion of the NER acquisition of approximately $24.7 million principally with 
the proceeds from the Bank Credit Facility.  The Company used a portion of the 
net proceeds of its May 1995 follow-on offering to repay the amounts borrowed 
under the Bank Credit Facility.  In addition, the Company issued $21.3 million 
in value of its Common Stock in conjunction with the fiscal 1995 acquisitions. 
Copart's principal use of cash in fiscal 1994 was for the acquisition of the 
Houston, Lufkin, Longview and Atlanta operations, which had an aggregate cash 
cost of approximately $11.3 million, and repayment of $7.0 million related to 
the February 1993 debt financing.

     Capital expenditures (excluding those associated with fixed assets 
attributable to acquisitions) were approximately $8.4 million, $5.1 million 
and $2.1 million for fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.  During the 
fiscal year ended July 31, 1996, Copart acquired approximately 40 acres of 
land at the Van Nuys facility for the purchase price of $10.5 million, for 
which the Company paid $3.0 million in cash and issued the seller a promissory 
note secured by the real property in the principal amount of $7.5 million, 
payable interest only at the rate of 7.2% per annum, with the principal 
payable in 5 years. Copart's capital expenditures have related primarily to 
opening and operating facilities and acquiring yard equipment.  Historically, 
while Copart has sub-contracted for a significant portion of its vehicle 
transport services, the Company has implemented a program for converting long 
haul transports to its own fleet of vehicle carriers at each facility.  Based 
upon the potential for increased revenues from Company-owned vehicle towing 
services, the Company has entered into agreements to acquire approximately 
$6.0 million of additional multi-vehicle transport trucks and forklifts and is 
disposing certain older equipment.

     In fiscal 1996 and 1995, the Company generated approximately $0.6  and 
$0.3 million through the exercise of employee incentive stock options, 
respectively.  In fiscal 1995, the Company generated approximately $33.8 
million of net cash primarily through the issuance of common stock in its 
follow-on offering.  In fiscal 1994, Copart generated approximately $24.5 
million of net cash from financing activities, primarily through the issuance 
in the IPO and private placement of Common Stock in the amount of 
approximately $32.2 million reduced by principal payments on notes payable of 
approximately $7.7 million.

     Cash and cash equivalents decreased by approximately $0.8 million and 
$4.1 million in fiscal 1996 and 1995, respectively.  The Company's liquidity 
and capital resources have not been materially affected by inflation and are 
not subject to significant seasonal fluctuations. 

     The Company believes that the proceeds of its follow-on offering of 
Common Stock, cash generated from operations, borrowing availability under the 
Bank Credit Facility and equipment leasing lines of credit will be sufficient 
to satisfy the Company's working capital requirements and fund openings





and acquisitions of new facilities for the next 12 months. * However, there 
can be no assurance that the Company will not be required to seek additional 
debt or equity financing prior to such time, depending upon the rate at which 
the Company opens or acquires new facilities.  

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     See Item 14 (a) for an index to the financial statements and 
supplementary financial information which are attached thereto.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANT ON ACCOUNTING AND 
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Not applicable


                                   PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information concerning the Company's directors required by this Item 
is incorporated herein by reference from the Company's Proxy Statement under 
the heading "Election of Directors."

     Information regarding executive officers is included in Part I hereof 
under the caption "Executive Officers of the Registrant" and is incorporated 
by reference herein.

     The information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended is incorporated herein by reference from the 
Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Election of Directors - Section 
16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference 
from the Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Election of 
Directors-Executive Compensation."

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference 
from the Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Election of 
Directors-Security Ownership."

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference 
from the Company's Proxy Statement under the heading "Certain Transactions."

- ----------------------------------
* This statement is a forward-looking statement reflecting current 
expectations.  Actual future performance may differ materially from the 
Company's current expectations.  The reader is advised to review "Factors 
Affecting Future Results" for a fuller discussion of factors that could 
affect future performance.





                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

                                                                       Page
 (a) 1.  INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         The following documents are filed as part of this report:

         Independent Auditors' Report...............................    31

         Consolidated Balance Sheets at July 31, 1996 and 1995......    32


         Consolidated Statements of Income for the three years ended 
          July 31, 1996.............................................    33

         Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the 
          three years ended July 31, 1996...........................    34

         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the three years 
          ended July 31, 1996.......................................    35

         Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.................    37

     2.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

         II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts.....................    50

     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the 
     required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.

     3.  EXHIBITS

   *3.1   Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation of the 
           Registrant
 ***3.2   Bylaws of the Registrant, as amended
***10.1+  Copart, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan, as amended
  *10.2+  1994 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, with form of 
           Subscription Agreement
  *10.3+  1994 Director Option Plan, with form of Subscription 
           Agreement
  *10.4   Indemnification Agreement, dated December 1, 1992, 
           among the Registrant and Willis J. Johnson, Reba J. 
           Johnson, A. Jayson Adair, Michael A. Seebode, Steven 
           D. Cohan and Paul A. Styer
  *10.5   Indemnification Agreement, dated July 1, 1993, 
           between the Registrant and Willis J. Johnson, Marvin 
           L.  Schmidt, James E. Meeks and Steven D. Cohan
  *10.6   Indemnification Agreement, dated November 9, 1993, 
           between the Registrant and James Grosfeld
  *10.7   Form of Indemnification Agreement to be entered into 
           by the Registrant and each of Harold Blumentstein 
           and Patrick Foley
  *10.8+  Employment Contract for Chief Executive, dated 
           February 17, 1993, between Willis J. Johnson and the 
           Registrant
  *10.9+  Employment Contract, dated August 1, 1992, between A. 
           Jayson Adair and the Registrant





   *10.10+  Employment for Senior Executive, dated September 1, 
             1992, between Paul A. Styer and the Registrant
   *10.11   Employment Contract for Senior Executive, dated 
             September 1, 1992, between James E. Meeks and the 
             Registrant 
   *10.12   Common Stock Warrant, dated November 9, 1993, issued to 
             James Grosfeld
 ***10.13   Credit Agreement among Copart, Inc. and Wells Fargo 
             Bank, National Association, U.S. Bank of 
             California and Wells Fargo Bank, National 
             Association, as Agent, dated May 1, 1995
****10.14   Agreement for Purchase and Sale of Assets of NER 
             Auction Systems, dated January 13, 1995, among 
             Registrant, the list of Sellers as set forth 
             therein, Richard A. Polidori, Gordon 
             VanValkenberg, and Stephen Powers
    10.15   Contract of Sale by and between the Stroh Companies, 
             Inc. as Seller an Copart, Inc. as Purchaser, dated 
             April 4, 1996
    11.1    Copart, Inc. and Subsidiary Computation of Net 
             Income Per Share
    23.1    Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
    24.1    Power of Attorney (See page 29 of this Form 10-K)
    27.1    Financial Data Schedule

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

       None

(c) See response to Item 14(a)(3) above

(d) See response to Item 14(a)(2) above

- -------------------------

* Incorporated by reference from exhibit to registrant's Registration 
Statement on Form S-1, as amended (File No. 33- 74250).
+  Denotes a compensation plan in which an executive officer participates.
***  Incorporated by reference from exhibit to registrant's Form 10-K for its 
fiscal year ended July 31, 1995, filed with the  Securities and Exchange 
Commission.
****  Incorporated by reference from exhibit to registrant's Registration 
Statement on Form S-3, as amended  (File No. 33- 91110) filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission.





                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its 
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                       Registrant

                                       COPART, INC.


October 28, 1996                   BY: /s/ Willis J. Johnson
                                       -----------------------------------
                                       Willis J. Johnson
                                       Chief Executive Officer


                               POWER OF ATTORNEY

     KNOWN ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature 
appears below constitutes and appoints Willis J. Johnson and Joseph M. Whelan 
and each of them, as his true and lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with 
full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him and in his name, place 
and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this 
Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and 
other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission, granting unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, 
full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing 
requisite and necessary to be done in connection therewith, as fully to all 
intents and purposes as he might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and 
confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents, or any of them, or 
their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by 
virtue hereof.





     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

   Signature               Capacity in Which Signed                Date
   ---------               ------------------------                ----

 /s/ Willis J. Johnson       Chief Executive Officer           October 28, 1996
 -----------------------  (Principal Executive Officer)
  Willis J. Johnson              and Director


 /s/ Joseph M. Whelan      Senior Vice President and           October 28, 1996
 -----------------------    Chief Financial Officer 
   Joseph M. Whelan        (Principal Financial and
                              Accounting Officer)


 /s/ A. Jayson Adair       Executive Vice President            October 28, 1996
 -----------------------        and Director 
   A. Jayson Adair


 /s/ James Grosfeld              Director                      October 28, 1996
 -----------------------
   James Grosfeld


 /s/ Marvin L. Schmidt       Senior Vice President             October 28, 1996
 -----------------------   of Corporate Development
   Marvin L. Schmidt             and Director


 /s/ Jonathan Vannini              Director                    October 28, 1996
 -----------------------
   Jonathan Vannini 

 /s/ Harold Blumenstein            Director                    October 28, 1996
 -----------------------
   Harold Blumenstein





                             INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT





The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Copart, Inc.:


We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Copart, Inc. and 
subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index.  In connection with our 
audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the 
financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index.  These 
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial statement 
schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Copart, 
Inc. and subsidiaries as of July 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results of their 
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year 
period ended July 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting 
principles.  Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, 
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements 
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information 
set forth therein.



                               KPMG Peat Marwick LLP



San Francisco, California
September 27, 1996

















         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.






                            COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME






         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.









                            COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY






         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.













                          COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




                    Continued on next page 












                           COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


 See note 14 for noncash financing and investing activities.






         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.















                          COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                          JULY 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994


(1)  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES


CORPORATION ACTIVITIES

     Copart, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company") provide vehicle 
suppliers with a full range of services to process and sell salvage vehicles. 
The Company auctions salvage vehicles, which are either damaged vehicles 
deemed a total loss for insurance or business purposes or are recovered 
stolen vehicles for which an insurance settlement with the vehicle owner has 
already been made. 

     Gross proceeds generated from auctioned vehicles were approximately 
$506,916,000, $317,788,000 and $144,397,200, for the years ended July 31, 
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the 
Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries.  Significant intercompany transactions 
and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 

REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Revenues are recorded at the date the vehicles are sold at auction and 
delivered to the buyers. 

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with 
maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 

VEHICLE POOLING COSTS

     Vehicle pooling costs consist of labor, towing, outside services and 
other costs directly attributable to the gathering and processing of vehicles 
prior to their sale. Vehicle pooling costs are recognized as expenses in the 
period the vehicle is sold at auction.  The Company continually evaluates and 
adjusts the components of vehicle pooling costs , as necessary.

INVENTORY

     Inventories of purchased vehicles are stated at the lower of specific 
cost or estimated realizable value.

DEFERRED PREOPENING COSTS

     Costs related to the opening of new auction facilities, such as 
preopening payroll and various training expenses, are deferred until the 
auction facilities open and are amortized over the subsequent 12 months. 
These costs are included in prepaid expenses and other assets.









PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation 
and amortization. Assets acquired before July 31, 1991 are depreciated using 
accelerated methods. For assets acquired subsequent to July 31, 1991, 
depreciation expense is provided on the straight-line method over the 
estimated useful lives of the related assets, generally five to nineteen 
years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the 
shorter of the lease terms or the useful lives of the respective assets. 

INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Intangible assets consist of covenants not to compete, goodwill, options 
to purchase leased property and other costs.  Amortization, except for the 
options to purchase leased property, is provided on the straight-line method 
over the estimated lives, not to exceed forty years. The Company continually 
evaluates the recoverability of goodwill as well as other intangible assets 
by assessing whether the amortization of the balance over the remaining life 
can be recovered through expected and undiscounted future results. As part of 
this review, the Company takes into consideration any events and 
circumstances which might have diminished the fair values. 

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

     In fiscal 1996, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting 
Standards (SFAS) No. 121, ACCOUNTING FOR THE IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS 
AND FOR LONG-LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF.  SFAS No. 121 requires that 
long-lived assets and certain identifiable intangibles held and used by an 
entity be reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes indicate that 
the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  Upon adoption, the 
Company identified no long-lived assets or identifiable intangibles which 
were impaired.

FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The amounts recorded for financial instruments in the Company's 
consolidated financial statements approximates fair value as defined in SFAS 
No. 107.

NET INCOME PER SHARE

     Net income per share is computed by using the weighted average number of 
common shares and equivalents assumed to be outstanding during the periods. 
Common stock options and warrants to purchase common stock were included in 
the calculations of net income per share.

INCOME TAXES

     Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method.  
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax 
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement 
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax 
bases and operating loss and tax credit carryforwards.  Deferred tax assets 
and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to 
taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected 
to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax assets and 
liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period 
that includes the enactment date.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT

     In October 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS 
No. 123, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION.  SFAS No. 123 will be 
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 1995, and will 
require that the Company either recognize in its consolidated financial 
statements costs on a 






fair value basis related to its employee stock based compensation plans, such 
as stock option and stock purchase plans, or make pro forma disclosures of 
such costs in a note to the consolidated financial statements.

     The Company expects to continue to use the intrinsic value-based method 
of Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, as allowed under SFAS No. 123, 
to account for all of its employee stock-based compensation plans. The 
adoption of SFAS No. 123 is not expected to have a material effect on the 
Company's consolidated results of income or financial position.

USE OF ESTIMATES

     Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions 
relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities to prepare these financial statements in 
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Actual results 
could differ from those estimates.

(2)  ACQUISITIONS

FISCAL 1996 TRANSACTIONS

     On August 1, 1995, the Company acquired certain assets of Mississippi 
Salvage Disposal Company, Inc., of Jackson, Mississippi.  On November 16, 
1995, the Company acquired certain assets of Sun City Salvage Pool, Inc., of 
El Paso, Texas.  The consideration paid for these acquisitions consisted of 
$2,782,500 in cash.  The Company also paid $200,000 for an option to purchase 
land.  The acquired net assets consisted of accounts and advances receivable, 
inventory, fixed assets, goodwill and covenants not to compete.  The 
acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and 
the operating results subsequent to the acquisition dates are included in the 
Company's consolidated statements of income.  The excess of the purchase 
price over fair market value of the net identifiable assets acquired of 
$1,746,800 has been recorded as goodwill and is being amortized in a 
straight-line basis over forty years.  In conjunction with these 
acquisitions, the Company entered into leases for the use of these 
facilities. In addition, the Company paid $125,000 in June 1996 for 
contingent consideration related to the fiscal 1994 Lufkin and Longview 
acquisitions, and paid $6,200 in stock consideration, in November 1995, 
related to the fiscal 1995 St. Louis acquisition. 

FISCAL 1995 TRANSACTIONS

     On October 17, 1994, the Company acquired all of the stock of Kansas 
City Salvage Pool, Inc. for $3,947,600 in cash and 93,104 shares of common 
stock valued at $1,512,900. The acquisition was accounted for using the 
purchase method, and the operating results subsequent to the acquisition date 
are included in the Company's consolidated statements of income.  The excess 
of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable assets 
acquired at $4,689,200 has been recorded as goodwill and is being amortized 
on a straight-line basis of 40 years.  In conjunction with this acquisition, 
the Company entered into a lease for the use of the facilities.

     On November 13, 1994, the Company acquired certain assets of Auto Pools 
of Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Inc., Auto Storage Pool, Inc. and Auto Pools of 
Tulsa, Inc. of  Oklahoma City and Tulsa, Oklahoma.  On March 1, 1995, the 
Company acquired certain assets of Missouri Auto Salvage Pool, Inc. of St. 
Louis, Missouri.  On April 7, 1995, the Company acquired certain assets and 
liabilities of Mid-Ark Salvage Pool, Inc. of Conway and West Memphis, 
Arkansas. The consideration paid for these acquisitions consisted of 
$4,391,300 in cash and 112,466 shares of common stock valued at $2,055,500.  
The Company also paid $500,000 for options to purchase the St. Louis, Conway, 
and West Memphis facilities.  The acquired net assets consisted of accounts 
and advances receivables, inventory, fixed assets, goodwill and covenants not 
to compete.  The acquisitions were accounted for using the purchase






method of accounting, and the operating results subsequent to the acquisition 
dates are included in the Company's consolidated statements of income.  The 
excess of the purchase price over fair market value of the net identifiable 
assets acquired of $4,471,000 has been recorded as goodwill and is being 
amortized in a straight-line basis between thirty and forty years.  In 
conjunction with these acquisitions, the Company entered into leases for the 
use of these facilities.  In addition, the Company paid $119,400 in May, 1995 
for contingent consideration related to the fiscal 1994 Lufkin and Longview 
acquisitions.

     On May 2, 1995, the Company acquired certain assets and liabilities of 
NER Auction Group with 20 locations in 11 states in the northeast and great 
lakes regions and Florida for $22,732,000 in cash and 1,161,103 shares of 
common stock valued at $17,741,700.  The Company also paid $2,000,000 for 
options to purchase land and buildings at certain facilities.  The 
acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method, and the operating 
results subsequent to the acquisition date are included in the Company's 
consolidated statements of income.  The excess of the purchase price over the 
fair value of the identifiable net assets acquired of $31,615,200 has been 
recorded as goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over 
forty years.  In conjunction with this acquisition, the Company entered into 
leases for all of the facilities.

FISCAL 1994 TRANSACTIONS

     On January 10, 1994, the Company acquired certain operating assets from 
Yeates Company, Inc. (Houston Auction Pool) of Houston, Texas for $7,324,800 
in cash. The acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method, and the 
operating results subsequent to the acquisition date are included in the 
Company's consolidated statements of income. The excess of the purchase price 
over the fair value of the net identifiable assets acquired of $6,009,000 has 
been recorded as goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis 
over forty years. In conjunction with this acquisition, the Company has 
entered into a lease for use of the facilities. 

 On March 16, 1994, the Company acquired all of the assets and liabilities 
(including the assumption of an environmental liability for $3,000,000) of 
North Texas Salvage Pool, Inc. for $200,000 in cash and, 979,583 shares of 
common stock valued at $11,755,000. The Company also paid $25,000 for options 
to purchase the land and buildings. The acquisition was accounted for using 
the purchase method, and the operating results subsequent to the acquisition 
date are included in the Company's consolidated statements of income. The 
excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the net identifiable 
assets acquired of $14,082,900 has been recorded as goodwill and is being 
amortized on a straight-line basis over forty years. In conjunction with this 
acquisition, the Company has entered into a lease for use of the facilities. 

 On May 1, 1994, the Company, through a wholly owned subsidiary, acquired 
certain operating assets of the Lufkin and Longview Partnership of Lufkin and 
Longview, Texas. On July 15, 1994, the Company, through a wholly owned 
subsidiary, acquired certain operating assets of Hughes Auto Disposal, Inc. 
of Atlanta, Georgia. The consideration paid for these acquisitions consisted 
of cash of $3,630,000 and the issuance of 42,167 shares of the Company's 
common stock. The acquired net assets consisted of accounts and advances 
receivable, inventory, fixed assets, options to purchase the related land and 
facilities, goodwill and covenants not to compete. The acquisitions were 
accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, and the operating 
results subsequent to the acquisition dates are included in the Company's 
consolidated statements of income. The excess of purchase price over fair 
value of the net identifiable assets acquired of $2,040,500 has been recorded 
as goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis between thirty 
and forty years. In conjunction with the acquisitions, the Company entered 
into leases for the use of the facilities. The lease pertaining to Hughes 
Auto Disposal, Inc. acquisition contains a purchase option to acquire the 
related land and facilities. 






     The following unaudited pro forma financial information assumes the 1996 
and 1995 acquisitions, debt repayment and secondary offering occurred at the 
beginning of fiscal 1995. These results have been prepared for comparative 
purposes only and do not purport to be indicative of what would have occurred 
had the acquisitions been made at the beginning of fiscal 1995 or of the 
results of which may occur in the future.

                                                        Years ended July 31,
                                                        --------------------
                                                        1996           1995
                                                        ----           ----


Revenues                                            $118,248,000   $ 84,820,000
                                                    ------------   ------------
                                                    ------------   ------------
Operating income                                    $ 17,802,000   $ 15,852,000
                                                    ------------   ------------
                                                    ------------   ------------
Net income                                          $ 11,185,000   $  9,578,000
                                                    ------------   ------------
                                                    ------------   ------------
Net income per share                                $       0.85   $       0.72
                                                    ------------   ------------
                                                    ------------   ------------


(3)  ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE

     Accounts receivable consists of the following: 

                                                              July 31,
                                                              --------

                                                         1996          1995
                                                         ----          ----

Accounts receivable                                   $29,730,500   $21,947,100
Related party receivable                                  360,500     2,053,500
                                                      -----------   -----------
                                                       30,091,000    24,000,600
Less allowance for doubtful accounts                       99,000        99,000
                                                      -----------   -----------
                                                      $29,992,000   $23,901,600
                                                      -----------   -----------
                                                      -----------   -----------

     Accounts receivable includes trade accounts receivable and advance 
charges.  Trade accounts receivable include fees to be collected from 
insurance companies and buyers. Advance charges receivable represent amounts 
paid to third parties on behalf of insurance companies for which the Company 
will be reimbursed when the vehicle is sold and approximate $9.8 million and 
$7.8 million as of July 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. 

(4)  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment consists of the following:

                                                              July 31,
                                                              --------
                                                         1996         1995
                                                         ----         ----
Transportation and other equipment                   $11,488,100   $10,185,700
Office furniture and equipment                         4,361,600     2,668,500
Land, buildings and leasehold improvements            17,582,800     4,677,300
                                                     -----------   -----------
                                                      33,432,500    17,531,500
Less accumulated depreciation                          7,228,300     4,449,500
                                                     -----------   -----------
                                                     $26,204,200   $13,082,000
                                                     -----------   -----------
                                                     -----------   -----------



     Included in property and equipment as of July 31, 1996 and 1995, are 
$1,330,600 and $663,700 respectively, of equipment under capital leases. 
Accumulated amortization related to this equipment was $404,200 and $220,800 
as of July 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(5)  INTANGIBLE AND OTHER ASSETS

     Intangible and other assets consists of the following: 


                                                    JULY 31,
                                                    --------
                                               1996           1995
                                               ----           ----
Covenants not to compete                  $  4,787,500    $  4,462,500
Goodwill                                    70,404,400      68,395,800
Options to purchase leased property          3,455,000       3,255,000
Software                                       809,800          81,000
Other                                          215,400         322,500
                                          ------------    ------------
                                            79,672,100      76,516,800
Less accumulated amortization                5,109,800       2,435,700
                                          ------------    ------------
                                          $ 74,562,300    $ 74,081,100
                                          ------------    ------------
                                          ------------    ------------

(6)  SUBORDINATED NOTES PAYABLE

     In 1993, the Company consummated a private placement note financing of 
$10 million and borrowed $7,000,000.  In connection with this financing, the 
Company issued 1,326,307 shares of common stock to the noteholders and 
warrants to purchase 405,944 shares of common stock to a placement agent.  
During fiscal 1994, the unamortized amounts of debt offering costs of $539,900 
and original issue discount of $2,181,500 were written off in connection with 
the repayment of the related debt and recorded as an extraordinary item.

(7)  ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED LIABILITIES

     Accounts payable and accrued liabilities consists of the following: 

                                                    JULY 31,
                                                    --------
                                               1996           1995
                                               ----           ----
Trade accounts payable                    $    347,600    $  1,461,400
Accounts payable to insurance companies      7,810,100       4,860,600
Accrued payroll                              1,455,400       1,000,700
Other accrued liabilities                      756,900       2,227,300
                                          ------------    ------------
                                          $ 10,370,000    $  9,550,000
                                          ------------    ------------
                                          ------------    ------------





(8)  LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-Term debt consists of the following: 

                                                          JULY 31,
                                                          --------
                                                     1996          1995
                                                     ----          ----
Note payable to a corporation, secured by land, 
payable in monthly interest only installments 
of $45,000 through May 2001, when balance is 
due, bearing interest at 7.2%                    $ 7,500,000              --

Unsecured note payable to an individual, 
payable in monthly installments of $33,000 
through September 1997 when the balances become 
due, bearing interest at 10%                       1,801,500       2,006,500

Notes payable under capital leases, secured by 
equipment, payable in monthly installments of 
$1,600 to $17,800 through July 1999, bearing 
interest from 3.9% to 10.4%                          908,300         449,400

Notes payable secured by land, payable in 
monthly installments of $2,600 to $3,100 
through July 2000, bearing interest at 8%            642,100         657,400

Unsecured notes payable to individuals, payable 
in monthly installments of $3,300 to $5,000 
through February 2000, bearing interest at 10% 
to 12%                                               229,700         346,900

Notes payable to financial institutions, 
secured by equipment, payable in monthly 
installments of  $1,400 to $3,200 through 
September 1999, bearing interest from 8% to 9.5%     178,200         273,500
                                                 -----------     -----------
                                                  11,259,800       3,733,700
Less current portion                                 772,800         582,700
                                                 -----------     -----------
                                                 $10,487,000     $ 3,151,000
                                                 -----------     -----------
                                                 -----------     -----------

The aggregate maturities of long-term debt are as follows: 

YEARS ENDING JULY 31,
- ---------------------
1997                                             $   772,800
1998                                               2,031,200
1999                                                 573,500
2000                                                 382,300
2001                                               7,500,000
                                                 -----------
                                                 $11,259,800
                                                 -----------
                                                 -----------

     The Company has entered into a bank credit facility which consists of a 
revolving line of credit of $10 million which matures in November 1997 and a 
$18.5 million term loan facility which matures in May 2002.  The term loan 
amortizes on a straight-line basis over its term. The Company may reborrow up 
to the unamortized principal amount of the term loan.  Amounts outstanding 
under the bank credit facility accrue interest at either the prime rate or at 
a rate based on LIBOR plus a spread of 1.75% subject to reductions based on 
certain credit ratios.  The current spread has been reduced to 1.25%.  As of 
July 31, 1996, there were no outstanding borrowings under this facility.  The 
Company is subject to customary covenants, including restrictions on payment 
of dividends, under the facility, with which it is in compliance.





(9)  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     On May 24, 1995 the Company completed a secondary offering of 1,897,500 
shares of common stock.  Proceeds to the Company, net of related costs of the 
offering, totaled $33,844,900.  On March 17, 1994, the Company completed an 
IPO of 2,300,000 shares of common stock. Proceeds to the Company, net of 
related costs of the offering, totaled $24,674,800. In November 1993, in a 
private placement financing to certain shareholders which generated proceeds 
to the Company of $7,486,500, the Company issued 1,071,600 shares of common 
stock and a warrant expiring in November 1998 to purchase 300,000 shares of 
common stock at $7.00 per share. 

     In fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, the Company issued 288, 1,366,666 and 
1,021,750 shares of common stock with a fair market value of $6,200, 
$21,310,100 and $12,405,000 in connection with certain acquisitions, 
respectively. 

     The Company adopted the Copart, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan (the "Plan"), 
as amended, presently covering 1,500,000 shares of the Company's common stock. 
The Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options to employees and 
non-qualified stock options to employees, officers, directors and consultants 
at prices not less than 100% and 85% of the fair market value for incentive 
and non-qualified stock options, respectively, as determined by the Board of 
Directors at the grant date. Incentive and non-qualified stock options may 
have terms of up to ten years and vest over periods determined by the Board of 
Directors. Options generally vest ratably over a two or five year period. 

     In March 1994, the Company adopted the Copart, Inc. 1994 Director Option 
Plan under which 40,000 shares of the Company's common stock are presently 
reserved. In general, new non-employee directors will automatically receive 
grants of non-qualified options to purchase 3,000 shares and subsequent grants 
to purchase 1,500 shares at specified intervals.



     In March 1994, the Company authorized the issuance of 5,000,000 shares of 
preferred stock, no par value, none of which are issued. 

     The Company adopted the Copart, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
effective January 1994. The plan provides for the purchase of up to 85,000 
shares of common stock of the Company by employees pursuant to the terms of 
the plan, as defined. Shares of common stock issued pursuant to the plan during 





fiscal 1996 and 1995 were 21,062 and 10,460, respectively.  Additional 
compensation expense of $91,600 and $68,600 was recognized in fiscal 1996 and 
1995, respectively.

     At July 31, 1996, the Company has 100,584 outstanding warrants expiring 
in 1997 to purchase shares of common stock at $2.04 per share in connection 
with the financing described in note 6.

(10)  INCOME TAXES

     Income tax expense (benefit) consists of:



     The reconciliation between the amount computed by applying the U.S. 
federal statutory tax rate of 34% to income before income tax expense and the 
actual income tax expense follows: 







     The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant 
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities are presented 
below:

                                                    Years ended July 31,
                                                  -----------------------
                                                      1996        1995
                                                      ----        ----
Deferred tax assets:
  Allowance for doubtful accounts receivable       $  38,700    $  30,200
  Accrued vacation                                   148,600      125,500
  State taxes                                        317,200       96,300
                                                   ---------    ---------
    Total gross deferred tax assets                  504,500      252,000
                                                   ---------    ---------
Deferred tax liabilities: 
  Amortization of goodwill                          (424,000)    (202,100)
  Accrual to cash basis accounting                  (126,100)    (242,000)
  Depreciation                                      (186,300)    (309,900)
                                                   ---------    ---------
     Total gross deferred tax liabilities           (736,400)    (754,000)
                                                   ---------    ---------
       Net deferred tax liability                  $(231,900)   $(502,000)
                                                   ---------    ---------
                                                   ---------    ---------

     In fiscal 1996 and 1995, the Company recognized a tax benefit of $860,300 
and $1,301,800, respectively upon the exercise of certain stock warrants that 
were issued to a placement agent  in connection with the financing described 
in note 6.

(11)  MAJOR CUSTOMERS

     One customer accounted for 16% of revenue in fiscal 1996, two customers 
accounted for 37% of revenue in fiscal 1995, and three customers accounted for 
approximately 53% of revenue in fiscal 1994. No other customer accounted for 
more than 10% of revenues. No buyer of auto salvage accounted for more than 
10% of gross proceeds in any period. 

(12) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     LEASES:

     The Company leases certain facilities under operating leases and has 
either a right of first refusal to acquire or option to purchase certain 
facilities at fair value. Facilities rental expense for the years ended July 
31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 aggregated, $5,536,400, $2,833,600, and $1,615,900, 
respectively.

     The Company has operating leasing lines with certain financial 
institutions of up to $10,500,000 for the purpose of leasing yard and fleet 
equipment of which approximately $1,445,100 was available as of July 31, 1996.





     Noncancelable future minimum lease payments under capital and operating 
leases with initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year at July 31, 
1996 are as follows: 

YEARS ENDING JULY 31,                               CAPITAL     OPERATING
- ---------------------                                LEASES        LEASES
                                                     ------        ------
1997                                               $  408,700   $  6,448,700
1998                                                  352,600      6,529,100
1999                                                  213,100      6,339,600
2000                                                       --      6,083,300
2001                                                       --      4,751,700
Thereafter                                                 --     10,472,700
                                                   ----------   ------------
                                                      974,400   $ 40,625,100
Less amount representing interest                      66,100   ------------
                                                   ----------   ------------
                                                   $  908,300
                                                   ----------
                                                   ----------

     COMMITMENT:

     The Company has entered into agreements to acquire approximately $6 
million of multi-vehicle transport trucks and forklifts.

     CONTINGENCIES:

     Copart is subject to legal proceedings and claims which arise in the 
ordinary course of business.  In addition, the Company is undergoing an 
examination of its fiscal 1992 through 1994 federal income tax returns.  In 
the opinion of management, any ultimate liability with respect to these 
actions will not materially affect the financial position of Copart. 

(13)  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     The Company leases certain of its facilities from affiliates of the 
Company under lease agreements. Rental payments under these leases aggregated 
$1,517,900, $589,300 and $149,100 for the years ended July 31, 1996, 1995 and 
1994, respectively, and expire on various dates through 2005. 

     An affiliate provided $559,800, $535,800 and $562,800 of tow services to 
the Company in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

(14)  NONCASH FINANCING AND INVESTING ACTIVITIES

     In fiscal 1996, 2,700 shares, valued at $56,700, were issued to an 
outside consultant for services rendered in connection with the development of 
computer software. In addition, 288 shares of common stock were issued as 
contingent consideration related to the acquisition of the St. Louis facility.

     In fiscal 1996 and 1995, the Company acquired (i) $62,900 and $21,310,100 
of intangible assets through the issuance of common stock, respectively and 
(ii) $599,800 and $133,100 of tangible assets through the issuance of notes 
payable in connection with capital leases, respectively.  In addition, in 
fiscal 1996, the Company acquired real property for the purchase price of 
$10.5 million of which $3 million was paid in cash, and $7.5 million was paid 
through the issuance of a note payable.

     In fiscal 1996 and 1995, 94,607 and 210,673 warrants were exercised in a 
non-cash transaction which resulted in the issuance of 87,431 and 188,431 
shares of common stock, respectively.





     In fiscal 1994, the Company acquired: (i) $14,957,000 of intangible 
assets and $478,300 of tangible assets through the assumption of a note 
payable on a capital lease, assumption of certain liabilities, and the 
issuance of common stock; (ii) $300,000 of tangible assets through issuance of 
a note payable; and (iii) $332,800 of tangible assets through issuance of 
notes payable in connection of capital leases. 

(15)  QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)







FORM 10-K

The Company will provide, without charge to each Shareholder, upon written 
request a copy of its Form 10-K as required to be filed with the Securities & 
Exchange Commission pursuant to rule 13a-1, under the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934.  Your written request should be directed to:  Chief Financial 
Officer, Copart, Inc.

ANNUAL MEETING

The Annual meeting of Shareholders will be held at 5500 E. Second Street, 
Benicia, California 94510 at 8:00 a.m. December 5, 1996.





                                                                    SCHEDULE II


                         COPART, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                    YEARS ENDED JULY 31, 1996, 1995 AND 1994







