
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
================================================================================
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                         ------------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4171
                          ---------------------------
 
                                KELLOGG COMPANY
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 

 
                               ONE KELLOGG SQUARE
                       BATTLE CREEK, MICHIGAN 49016-3599
                    (Address of Principal Executive Offices)
 
                 REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER: (616) 961-2000
                          ---------------------------
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE
                          ---------------------------
 
Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]
 
The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant (assuming only for purposes of this computation that directors and
executive officers may be affiliates) was $7,657,691,738 as determined by the
February 28, 1997 closing price of $68.50 for one share of common stock on the
New York Stock Exchange.
 
As of February 28, 1997, 208,986,548 shares of the common stock of the
registrant were issued and outstanding.
 
Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1996, are incorporated by reference into Part II and Part IV
of this Report.
 
Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement, dated March 13, 1997,
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 25, 1997, are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Report.
 
================================================================================

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
     The Company. Kellogg Company, incorporated in Delaware in 1922, and its
subsidiaries are engaged in the manufacture and marketing of ready-to-eat cereal
and other convenience food products on a worldwide basis. The address of the
principal business office of Kellogg Company is One Kellogg Square, P.O. Box
3599, Battle Creek, Michigan 49016-3599. Unless otherwise indicated by the
context, the term "Company" as used in this report means Kellogg Company, its
divisions and subsidiaries.
 
     Principal Products. The principal products of the Company are ready-to-eat
cereals and other convenience food products which are manufactured in 20
countries and distributed in nearly 160 countries. Ready-to-eat cereals are
marketed under the KELLOGG'S(R) name and are sold principally to the grocery
trade through direct sales forces for resale to consumers and through broker and
distribution arrangements in less developed market areas.
 
     Other Convenience Food Products. In the United States and Canada, in
addition to ready-to-eat cereals, the Company produces and distributes toaster
pastries, frozen waffles, crispy marshmallow squares, and cereal bars. The
Company also markets several other convenience food products in various
locations throughout the world. On December 16, 1996, the Company acquired the
Lender's(R) Bagels business from Kraft Foods, Inc. The purchase included three
Lender's plants and is further described in the Company's Annual Report under
the caption "Liquidity and capital resources" on Page 17 and in Note 2 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on Page 23. In 1996 the Company also purchased
a convenience foods plant in Pikeville, Kentucky.
 
     Raw Materials. Agricultural commodities are the principal raw materials
used in the Company's products. World supplies and prices of such commodities
are constantly monitored, as are government trade policies. The cost of raw
materials used may fluctuate widely due to government policy and regulation,
weather conditions, or other unforeseen circumstances. Continuous efforts are
made to maintain and improve the qualities and supplies of raw materials for
purposes of the Company's short-term and long-term requirements.
 
     The principal ingredients in the products produced by the Company in the
United States include corn grits, oats, rice, various fruits, sweeteners, wheat,
and wheat derivatives. Ingredients are purchased principally from sources in the
United States. In producing toaster pastries and frozen waffles, the Company may
use dairy products, eggs, fruit and other filling ingredients, flour,
shortening, and sweeteners, which ingredients are obtained from various sources.
Although the Company enters into some long-term contracts, the bulk of such raw
materials are purchased on the open market. While the cost of raw materials may
increase over time, the Company believes that it will be able to purchase an
adequate supply of such raw materials as needed. The Company also uses commodity
futures and options to hedge some of its raw material costs. Refer to Note 11 to
the Consolidated Financial Statements contained in the Company's Annual Report
on Pages 26 and 27.
 
     Raw materials and packaging needed for internationally based operations are
available in adequate supply and are sometimes imported from countries other
than those where used in manufacture.
 
     Cereal processing ovens at major domestic and international facilities are
regularly fueled by natural gas or propane obtained from local utilities or
other local suppliers. Short-term standby propane storage exists at several
plants for use in the event of interruption in natural gas supplies.
Additionally, oil may be used to fuel certain plant operations in the event of
natural gas shortages at various plants or when its use presents economic
advantages.
 
     Trademarks and Technology. Generally, the Company's products are marketed
under trademarks owned by the Company. The Company's principal trademarks are
its housemark, brand names, slogans and designs related to cereals and other
convenience food products manufactured and marketed by the Company. These
trademarks include Kellogg's(R), for cereals and other products of the Company
and the brand names of certain ready-to-eat cereals, including All-Bran(R),
Kellogg's Squares(TM), Apple Jacks(R), Apple Raisin Crisp(R), Apple
 

 
Cinnamon Rice Krispies, Bran Buds(R), Complete(R) Bran Flakes, Cocoa
Krispies(R), Common Sense(R), Cruncheroos(TM), Kellogg's Corn Flakes(R),
Cracklin' Oat Bran(R), Kellogg's(R) Cinnamon Mini-Buns, Crispix(R), Double Dip
Crunch(R), Froot Loops(R), Kellogg's Frosted Bran(R), Kellogg's Frosted
Flakes(R), Frosted Krispies(R), Frosted Mini-Wheats(R), Fruitful Bran(R), Fruity
Marshmallow Krispies(R), Just Right(R), Kellogg's(R) Low Fat Granola, Nut &
Honey Crunch(R), Nut & Honey Crunch O's(R), Mueslix(R), Nutri-Grain(R), Pops(R),
Product 19(R), Kellogg's(R) Two Scoops(R) Raisin Bran, Rice Krispies(R), Rice
Krispies Treats(R), Smacks(R), Special K(R)and Kellogg's Honey Crunch Corn
Flakes(TM). Additional Company trademarks are the names of certain combinations
of Kellogg's(R) ready-to-eat cereals, including Handi-Pak(R), Snack-Pak(R), Fun
Pak(R), Jumbo(R) and Variety(R) Pak. Other Company brand names include
Kellogg's(R) Corn Flake Crumbs; Croutettes(R) for herb season stuffing mix;
Kellogg's(R) Nutri-Grain(R) for cereal bars; Pop-Tarts(R) for toaster pastries;
Eggo(R), Special K(R) and Nutri-Grain(R) for frozen waffles; Lender's(R) for
Bagels; and Rice Krispies Treats(TM) for crispy marshmallow squares.
 
     Company trademarks also include depictions of certain animated characters
in conjunction with the Company's products, including Snap!(R) Crackle!(R)
Pop!(R) for Kellogg's(R) Frosted Krispies(R), Fruity Marshmallow Krispies(R) and
Rice Krispies(R); Tony the Tiger(R) for Kellogg's Frosted Flakes(R); Toucan
Sam(R) for Froot Loops(R); Dig 'Em!(R) for Smacks(R); Coco(TM) for Cocoa
Krispies(R); and Cornelius(R) for Kellogg's Corn Flakes(R).
 
     The slogans "The Best To You Each Morning"(R), "The Original and Best", and
"They're GR-R-REAT!"(R), used in connection with the Company's ready-to-eat
cereals, are also important Company trademarks. The Company's use of the
advertising theme "Get A Taste For The Healthy Life"(TM) represents part of its
effort to establish throughout the United States and the world the concept of a
nutritious breakfast.
 
     The Company considers that, taken as a whole, the rights under its various
patents, which expire from time to time, are a valuable asset, but the Company
does not believe that its businesses are materially dependent upon any single
patent or group of related patents. The Company's activities under licenses or
other franchises or concessions are not material.
 
     Seasonality. Demand for the Company's products is approximately level
throughout the year.
 
     Working Capital. Although terms vary around the world, in the United States
the Company generally requires payment for goods sold eleven days subsequent to
the date of invoice, with a 2% discount allowed for payment within ten days.
Receipts from goods sold, supplemented as required by borrowings, provide for
the Company's payment of dividends, capital expansion, and for other operating
expenses and working capital needs.
 
     Customers. The Company is not dependent on any single customer or a few
customers for a material part of its sales. Products of the Company are sold
through its own sales forces and through broker and distributor arrangements and
are generally resold to consumers in retail stores, restaurants and other food
service establishments.
 
     Backlog. For the most part, orders are filled within a few days of receipt
and are subject to cancellation at any time prior to shipment. The backlog of
any unfilled orders at any particular time is not material to the Company.
 
     Competition. The Company has experienced intense competition for sales of
all of its principal products in its major markets, both domestically and
internationally. The Company's products compete with advertised and branded
products of a similar nature as well as unadvertised and private label products,
which are typically distributed at lower prices, and generally with other food
products with different characteristics. Principal methods and factors of
competition include new product introductions, product quality, composition and
nutritional value, price, advertising, and promotion.
 
     Research and Development. Research to support and expand the use of the
Company's existing products and to develop new food products is carried on at
the Company's research laboratories and pilot plant facilities in Battle Creek,
Michigan, and at other plant locations around the world. The Company's
expenditures for research and development were approximately $84.3 million in
1996, $72.2 million in 1995, and $71.7 million in 1994.
 

 
     Environmental Matters. The Company's facilities are subject to various
foreign, federal, state and local laws and regulations regarding the discharge
of material into the environment and the protection of the environment in other
ways. The Company is not a party to any material proceedings arising under these
regulations. The Company believes that compliance with existing environmental
laws and regulations will not materially affect the financial condition or the
competitive position of the Company. The Company is currently in substantial
compliance with all material environmental regulations affecting the Company and
its properties.
 
     Employees. At December 31, 1996, the Company had 14,511 employees.
 
     Segment and Geographic Information. The Company operates in a single
industry, which is the manufacture and marketing of convenience food products
throughout the world. Net sales and operating profit for the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994, and identifiable segment assets and corporate
assets, consisting principally of cash and cash equivalents, at the related
year-ends are presented in Note 13 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on
Page 27 of the Company's Annual Report.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     The Company's corporate headquarters and principal research and development
facilities are located in Battle Creek, Michigan.
 
     The Company operates manufacturing plants and warehouses totaling more than
ten million (10,000,000) square feet of building area in the United States and
other countries. The Company's plants have been designed and constructed to meet
its specific production requirements, and the Company periodically invests money
for capital and technological improvements. At the time of its selection, each
location was considered to be favorable, based on the location of markets,
sources of raw materials, availability of suitable labor, transportation
facilities, location of other Company plants producing similar products and
other factors. Manufacturing facilities of the Company in the United States
include four cereal plants and warehouses located in Battle Creek, Michigan;
Lancaster, Pennsylvania; Memphis, Tennessee; and Omaha, Nebraska. Other of the
Company's convenience foods are also manufactured in the United States at
various locations.
 
     Outside the United States, the Company has additional manufacturing
locations, some with warehousing facilities, in Argentina, Australia, Brazil,
Canada, China, Colombia, Denmark, Germany, Great Britain, Guatemala, India,
Italy, Japan, Latvia, Mexico, South Africa, South Korea, Spain and Venezuela. A
new cereal plant in Thailand is expected to commence operation in 1997. The
Company also purchased a cereal plant in Ecuador in early 1997.
 
     The Company is currently constructing the W.K. Kellogg Institute for Food
and Nutrition Research, which is expected to open in late 1997.
 
     The principal properties of the Company, including its major office
facilities, are held in fee and none is subject to any major encumbrance.
Distribution centers and offices of non-plant locations typically are leased.
The Company considers its facilities generally suitable, adequate, and of
sufficient capacity for its current operations.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Company is not a party to any pending legal proceedings which, if
decided adversely, would be material to the Company on a consolidated basis, nor
are any of the Company's properties or subsidiaries subject to any such
proceedings.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 

 
ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The names, ages as of February 28, 1997, and positions of the executive
officers of the Company are listed below together with their business
experience. Executive officers are elected annually by the Board of Directors at
the meeting immediately following the Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 
Arnold G. Langbo
Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive Officer..................59
     Mr. Langbo has been employed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries
since 1956. He was named President and Chief Operating Officer in 1990 and
became Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer in 1992.
 
William A. Camstra
Executive Vice President, President -- Kellogg Latin America..................64
     Mr. Camstra has been employed by the Company and certain of its
subsidiaries since 1956. He was named Executive Vice President of the Company in
1992 and President, Kellogg Latin America in 1994.
 
Donald G. Fritz
Executive Vice President, President -- Kellogg Europe.........................49
     Mr. Fritz joined Kellogg Canada Inc. in 1979. He was named Executive Vice
President of the Company in 1992, and President, Kellogg Europe in 1994.
 
Jean-Louis Gourbin
Executive Vice President, President -- Kellogg Asia-Pacific...................49
     Mr. Gourbin joined Kellogg France in 1983. He was promoted to President and
CEO -- Kellogg Canada Inc. in 1990. In 1995, he was named Managing Director --
Kellogg (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. Mr. Gourbin was appointed Executive Vice President and
President, Kellogg Asia-Pacific in December 1996.
 
Carlos M. Gutierrez
Executive Vice President -- Business Development..............................43
     Mr. Gutierrez joined Kellogg de Mexico in 1975. In 1993, Mr. Gutierrez was
promoted to Executive Vice President, Kellogg USA and General Manager, Kellogg
USA Cereal Division. He was appointed Executive Vice President of the Company
and President, Kellogg Asia-Pacific in 1994, and Executive Vice President --
Business Development in December 1996.
 
Thomas A. Knowlton
Executive Vice President, President -- Kellogg North America..................50
     Mr. Knowlton joined Kellogg Canada Inc. in 1980. He was named Executive
Vice President of the Company in 1992 and President, Kellogg North America in
1994.
 
Donald W. Thomason
Executive Vice President -- Corporate Services and Technology.................53
     Mr. Thomason has been employed by the Company since 1966. He was named
Executive Vice President -- Corporate Services and Technology in 1990.
 
Richard M. Clark
Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary..........................59
     Mr. Clark joined the Company as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and
Secretary in 1989.
 
Robert L. Creviston
Senior Vice President -- Human Resources......................................55
     Mr. Creviston joined the Company as Vice President -- Employee Relations in
1982. He was named Senior Vice President -- Human Resources in 1991.
 

 
John R. Hinton
Senior Vice President -- Administration and Chief Financial Officer...........51
     Mr. Hinton joined the Company as Assistant to the Vice President -- Finance
in 1979. He was appointed Executive Vice President -- Financial Administration
and Treasurer for Kellogg USA Inc. in 1993. In July 1995, Mr. Hinton was named
Senior Vice President -- Administration and Chief Financial Officer.
 
Jay W. Shreiner
Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer...........................47
     Mr. Shreiner joined the Company as Assistant Treasurer in 1983. He was
named Vice President -- Information Services in 1990 and Senior Vice President
and Chief Information Officer in 1995.
 
Joseph M. Stewart
Senior Vice President -- Corporate Affairs....................................54
     Mr. Stewart has been employed by the Company since 1980. He was named
Senior Vice President -- Corporate Affairs in 1988.
 
Michael J. Teale
Senior Vice President -- Worldwide Operations and Technology..................52
     Mr. Teale joined Kellogg Company of Great Britain Limited in 1966. He was
named Vice President -- Cereal Manufacturing of the Company's U.S. Food Products
Division in 1990 and Senior Vice President -- Worldwide Operations and
Technology in 1994.
 
Alan Taylor
Vice President -- Corporate Controller........................................45
     Mr. Taylor has been employed by the Company and certain of its subsidiaries
since 1982. He served as Director -- Finance of Kellogg (Aust.) Pty. Ltd. from
1988 until 1993. He became Controller of the Company in 1993, and was named a
Vice President in 1994.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     The information called for by this Item is set forth on page 27 of the
Company's Annual Report in Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements of
the Company which is incorporated by reference into Item 8 of this Report.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
from pages 14 and 15 of the Company's Annual Report. Such information should be
read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company
and Notes thereto included in Item 8 of this Report.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
from pages 14 through 19 of the Company's Annual Report.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The information called for by this Item is incorporated herein by reference
from pages 20 through 28 of the Company's Annual Report. Supplementary quarterly
financial data, which is also incorporated herein by reference, is set forth in
Note 12 to the Consolidated Financial Statements on page 27 of the Company's
Annual Report.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 

 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     Directors -- Refer to the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1997,
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 25, 1997, under the
caption "Election of Directors" on pages 3 through 7, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.
 
     Executive Officers of the Registrant -- Refer to "Executive Officers of the
Registrant" under Item 4A at pages 5 and 6 of this Report.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     Refer to the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1997, for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 25, 1997, under the captions
"Executive Compensation" and "Selected Benefit Plans" at pages 10 through 12 and
12 through 13, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     Refer to the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1997, for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 25, 1997, under the caption
"Security Ownership" at pages 2 through 3, which information is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Refer to the Company's Proxy Statement dated March 13, 1997, for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held on April 25, 1997, under the captions "About
The Board of Directors" at page 5, and "Stock Option Loans and Executive Officer
Indebtedness" at page 13, which information is incorporated herein by reference.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS
ON FORM 8-K
 
          The following Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes,
     together with the Report thereon of Price Waterhouse LLP dated January 31,
     1997, appearing on pages 20 through 28 of the Company's Annual Report to
     Stockholders for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996, are incorporated
     herein by reference:
 
          (A)1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
     Consolidated Statement of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 1996,
1995, and 1994.
     Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December
31, 1996, 1995, and 1994.
     Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1996 and 1995.
     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1996,
1995, and 1994.
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
          (A)2. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
     The Financial Schedule and related Report of Independent Accountants filed
as part of this Report are as follows:
 

 
     This Consolidated Financial Statement Schedule should be read in
conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto
included in the Company's Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1996.
 

 
     All other financial statement schedules are omitted because they are not
applicable.
 
(A)3. EXHIBITS
 

 


 
- -------------------------
* A management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed with this
Report.
 
     The Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission,
upon its request, a copy of any instrument defining the rights of holders of
long-term debt of the Company and its Subsidiaries and any of its unconsolidated
Subsidiaries for which Financial Statements are required to be filed.
 
     The Company will furnish any of its stockholders a copy of any of the above
Exhibits not included herein upon the written request of such stockholder and
the payment to the Company of the reasonable expenses incurred by the Company in
furnishing such copy or copies.
 
(B) REPORT ON FORM 8-K
 
     On November 18, 1996 the Company filed a Form 8-K in connection with the
purchase of the Lenders(R) Bagels business from Kraft Foods, Inc.
 

 
                        SCHEDULE II -- VALUATION RESERVE
 
                                 (in millions)
 

 

 
       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 
To the Stockholders and Board of Directors
  of Kellogg Company
 
     Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our
report dated January 31, 1997, appearing in the 1996 Annual Report to
Stockholders of Kellogg Company (which report and consolidated financial
statements are incorporated by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K)
also included an audit of the Financial Statement Schedule listed in Item 14(a)
of this Form 10-K. In our opinion, this Financial Statement Schedule presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein when read in
conjunction with the related consolidated financial statements.
 
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP
 
Battle Creek, Michigan
January 31, 1997
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, this 27th day of March
1997.
 
                                          KELLOGG COMPANY
 
                                          By:      /s/ ARNOLD G. LANGBO
 
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                      Arnold G. Langbo
                                                   Chairman of the Board
                                                  Chief Executive Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 

 

 
- -------------------------
* A management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed with this
Report.
 
     The Company will furnish any of its stockholders a copy of any of the above
Exhibits not included herein upon the written request of such stockholder and
the payment to the Company of the reasonable expenses incurred by the Company in
furnishing such copy or copies.
 

