10-K


FORM 10-K


UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D. C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)

OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999

Commission File No. 001-11625

PENTAIR, INC.

(Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Minnesota

41-0907434

(State of incorporation)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)

1500 County
Road B2 West, Suite 400,

Saint Paul, Minnesota

55113-3105

(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

(651) 636-7920

(Registrant’s telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

1) Common Stock, Par Value $.16 2/3

New York Stock Exchange

2) Rights

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes _X_ No ___

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this
Form 10-K. ___

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant on February 28, 2000 was $1.5 billion. For purposes of this
calculation, all shares held by officers and directors of the Registrant and by
the trustees of employee stock ownership plans (ESOPs) and pension plans of the
Registrant and subsidiaries were deemed to be shares held by affiliates.

The number of shares outstanding of Registrant’s only class of common stock on
February 28, 2000 was 48,484,325.

The exhibit index as required by Item 601(a) of Regulation S-K is included in
Item 14 of Part IV of this report.

Documents Incorporated by Reference: Portions of the registrant’s definitive
Proxy Statement for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Report.


PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

(a) General Development of the Business.

Pentair, Inc. (the “Company” or “Pentair”) was incorporated in 1966 under the
laws of Minnesota. In the past year, the Company has not changed its form of
organization or mode of conducting business. The Company grows through
internal development and acquisitions. As in the past, periodic dispositions
of assets or business units are possible when they no longer fit with the
long-term strategies of the Company.

Effective January 1, 1994, the Company acquired the net assets and the
subsidiaries of Schroff GmbH (Schroff) from Fried. Krupp AG Hoesch-Krupp.
Schroff manufactures and sells enclosures, cases, subracks and accessories for
commercial electronic and instrumentation applications.

In September 1994, Pentair announced that it was exploring strategic
alternatives for its paper businesses, including their possible sale. In the
second quarter of 1995, all of the Pentair paper businesses were sold. On
April 1, 1995 the Company sold its Cross Pointe Paper Corporation subsidiary to
Noranda Forest, Inc. On June 30, 1995 the Company sold Niagara of Wisconsin
Paper Corporation, its 50% share of Lake Superior Paper Industries (LSPI) joint
venture and its 12% share of Superior Recycled Fiber Industries (SRFI) to
Consolidated Papers, Inc.

The sale of its paper businesses has permitted Pentair to focus its commitments
and resources on its industrial products businesses, building upon the strong
growth and leading market positions these businesses have achieved.

Effective November 1, 1995, the Company acquired Fleck Controls, Inc., a
manufacturer of control valves, which are major components in residential water
softeners, and commercial and industrial water conditioning systems. Fleck
Controls was Pentair’s first entry into the water treatment industry.

During 1996, the Company completed four acquisitions that strengthened market
positions throughout the world. In January, Myers acquired Aplex to broaden
its industrial pump line. In June, Porter-Cable acquired FLEX, a German power
tool company. In November, the Company acquired Century Manufacturing, a
manufacturer that serves service equipment markets, complementing its Lincoln
Automotive subsidiary. In December, Fleck Controls purchased SIATA, an Italian
manufacturer of water conditioning control equipment.

During 1997, the Company completed three acquisitions. In January, Schroff
France acquired Transrack S.A., a maker of complementary cases and enclosures.
In July, Century Manufacturing acquired P & F Technologies, a maker of
refrigerant recycling equipment. In August, Pentair acquired the General
Signal Pump Group in a significant acquisition designed to create a critical
mass in the water and wastewater pump markets.

Also in 1997, in another strategic development, the Company divested its
Federal Cartridge sporting ammunition business.

In the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company realigned its subsidiaries into
three operating groups to reflect its growing focus in its addressed markets:
Professional Tools and Equipment, Water and Fluid Technologies and Electrical
and Electronic Enclosures.

During 1998, the Company completed three acquisitions. In January, Pentair
acquired ORSCO, Inc., a maker of oil lubrication systems. In April, Century
Manufacturing acquired the assets of T-Tech Industries, a maker of automatic
transmission fluid exchangers and accessories. In October, Pentair acquired
The Walker Dickson Group Limited (now Pentair Enclosures U.K. and its
subsidiaries; its US affiliates are now part of Pentair Electronic Packaging),
a maker of custom and standard enclosures, subracks and systems.

During 1999, Pentair made three acquisitions. In April, Pentair acquired WEB
Tool and Manufacturing (WEB), a designer,


manufacturer and marketer of custom
server subracks and chassis for datacom and telecom networking applications.
In August, Pentair acquired the pressure vessel and pool equipment businesses
of Essef Corporation. In September, Pentair
acquired DeVilbiss Air Power Company, a manufacturer of compressors, generators
and pressure washers. In addition, the Company is reviewing strategic
alternatives for its industrial lubrication equipment business, Lincoln
Industrial.

(b) Financial Information about Industry Segments.

Pentair has three reportable segments: Professional Tools and Equipment (PTE),
Water and Fluid Technologies (WFT), and Electrical and Electronic Enclosures
(EEE).

The PTE segment includes the tool businesses (Delta and Porter-Cable); and the
equipment businesses (Century and the newly-acquired DeVilbiss Air Power
Company). Products manufactured include woodworking machinery, portable power
tools, battery charging and testing equipment, welding equipment, lubricating
and lifting equipment, air compressors, generators and pressure washers.

The WFT segment includes the pump and pool businesses (Pentair Pump Group and
one of the newly-acquired Essef businesses), the water treatment businesses
(Pentair Water Treatment which consists of Fleck Controls plus the remaining
Essef business) and Lincoln Industrial. Products manufactured include pumps
for wells and water treatment, sump pumps, pool and spa equipment such as
valves, pumps, filters, lights and related equipment, valves and pressure
vessels for water treatment products and automated and manual lubrication
systems.

The EEE segment includes Hoffman Enclosures, Schroff, Pentair Electronic
Packaging (a newly-integrated North American enclosures business, comprised of
Schroff US, the newly-acquired WEB and the US affiliates of the former Walker
Dickson business) and Pentair Enclosures U.K. Products manufactured include
metallic and composite cases, subracks and cabinets that house and protect
electrical and electronic controls, instruments and components.

Other includes corporate leadership expenses, captive insurance company,
intermediate financial companies, charges that do not relate to current
operations, divested operations (Federal Cartridge) and intercompany
eliminations. Segment assets exclude all cash and cash equivalents.

In evaluating financial performance, management focuses on operating income as
a segment’s measure of profit or loss. Operating income is before interest
expense, interest income and income taxes. Management uses a variety of
balance sheet ratios to measure the business. The primary focus is on
maximizing the return from each segment’s assets, excluding cash and temporary
investments. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
described in the summary of significant accounting policies (Note 1 of Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements). Most intersegment sales are component
parts and are sold at cost plus an equitable division of manufacturing and
marketing profits. The remaining intercompany sales are finished product and
are sold based on current market pricing to third parties.

Segment Information:

(in thousands)


(c) Narrative Description of Business.

Description of the Professional Tools and Equipment Segment:
Products; markets; competition

Products include: a full line of homeshop products, contractor tools, general
purpose stationary woodworking machinery, and accessories; air-powered nailing
products; portable electric tools including saws, routers, sanders, grinders,
drills, and cordless tools; and lubricating tools and equipment, battery
charging and testing equipment, lifting equipment, portable power supplies,
refrigerant and coolant recyclers, automatic transmission fluid exchangers, arc
and MIG welders, plasma cutters, welding accessories and air compressors,
portable generators and cold water pressure washers and accessories.

The products are sold in the United States, Canada, and overseas under the
brand names Delta, Biesemeyer, Porter-Cable, FLEX, Lincoln, Blackhawk
Automotive, Marquette, Guardian, Pro-Arc, T-Tech, Century, Solar, Booster Pac,
Cobra, Viper, Air America, Charge Air Pro, Ex-Cell and Pro Air II.

Products are sold through various channels, including networks of independent
industrial and warehouse distributors, home centers and national retailers,
hardware stores, and through mail order and catalogues. Certain service
equipment is sold under private label programs. The explosive growth in the
home center channel in the last few years has resulted in a significant
increase in PTE tool sales through this channel. Nationwide, home centers have
become the primary channel for all sales of power and bench top tools to end
users. While warehouse distributors continue to be the most significant
channel for service equipment sales, product entry into retail and home center
stores has continued to grow.

Markets include: do-it-yourself(DIY)/homeshop; residential, commercial, and
industrial construction; remodeling and cabinet, case good and furniture
makers; industrial fabrication and maintenance, automotive repair and vehicle
maintenance, farm and industrial equipment; and aftermarket and retail channels
for professional and DIY automotive and body repair.

Each of the businesses in the PTE segment faces a number of competitors, some
of whom are larger and have more resources. Competition in the PTE segment has
been intense and growing more so for the past few years, especially as these
industries consolidate. In most markets, only a few large players remain, each
having extensive product lines. The Company’s tool businesses are no longer
perceived as niche players, but have become significant general competitors,
even though their addressed market of professional users and higher-end DIY
customers does not extend into the larger general consumer tool markets. Growth
in these markets should come from product development, continued penetration of
expanding market channels and acquisitions. Patents and proprietary technology
are becoming more significant for this segment.

Competition at the end-user level focuses primarily on brand names, product
performance and features, quality, service and, most importantly, price. The
competition for shelf space at home centers and national retailers is
particularly intense, demanding continuing product innovation, special
inventory and delivery programs, after-sale service capability and competitive
pricing. The strategy of the businesses in the PTE segment is to be the
price/quality leader in its selected markets. Their success in maintaining
their respective positions in the marketplace is largely due to continuing
product feature innovations, new products and outsourcing and other
cost-reduction measures. As leaders in their markets, these businesses are
able to command access for their products in the most important channels in the
face of growing competition.


Description of the Water and Fluid Technologies Segment:
Products; markets; competition

Products include: pumps for wells, sump pumps for residential service,
submersible non-clog and grinder pumps and systems for residential, commercial,
and municipal service, pumps for water treatment and wastewater solid handling,
fire pumps, and reciprocating, turbine, submersible, and centrifugal pumps for
commercial and industrial services; a complete line of control valves and
composite and fiberglass storage tanks and filtration systems used in the
manufacture of water softeners and filtration, deionization, and desalination
systems; pool and spa equipment such as valves, pumps, filters, lights and
related equipment; and automated and manual lubrication systems and equipment
and pumps and pumping stations for fluid transfer applications.

The products are sold in the United States, Canada, and overseas under the
brand names Myers, Aplex, Fairbanks Morse, Aurora, Water Ace, Shur Dri,
Hydromatic, Fleck, Structural, Wellmate, Codeline, Pac-Fab, Purex-Triton,
Rainbow Lifegard, American, Compool, Kreepy Krauly, FIBERworks, SIATA, Lincoln,
Lincoln Industrial and ORSCO.

Products are sold through various channels, including the DIY market for retail
sale through home centers and hardware stores, by specially-qualified systems
distributors with design, installation and service capability, through
industrial supply and specialty distributors and stores, directly by internal
sales organizations, and through national catalog distribution. In the pool
market, the Company sells its products primarily to distributors and directly
to installers. Sales of spa and jetted tub fittings and pumps are made
primarily to OEMs with the balance to distributors.

Markets include wholesale and retail distribution to residential users;
commercial HVAC, plumbing, and fire pump markets; municipal waste and water
treatment facilities and industrial companies; manufacturers and assemblers who
supply residential and commercial markets with standard and custom designed
water softener products; pool and spa markets; and heavy industry (steel mills,
cement plants, pulp and paper, power plants), automobile manufacturers,
commercial vehicles, agriculture, construction equipment, food and beverage,
mining, printing and general lubrication markets.

The water and waste water pump industry continues a trend toward consolidation,
evidenced in part by the acquisitions of Goulds Pump by ITT Corporation and of
the former General Signal Pump Group by Pentair, both in 1997. The latter
acquisition by the Company significantly expanded the number, range and
targeted markets of the Pentair Pump Group. The Company continues to
rationalize the product lines, facilities and manufacturing operations of these
businesses to cut costs and increase efficiencies. The water treatment industry
is also experiencing rapid consolidation, as evidenced by US Filter
Corporation’s 1998 acquisition of Culligan Water Technologies, Inc. (both
customers of Pentair Water Treatment) and US Filter’s subsequent acquisition by
Vivendi in 1999. No other water conditioning valve supplier in the water
treatment market competes directly in both the valve and tank product markets
as does the Company. In addition, captive valve manufacturers support their
own sales of water conditioning systems in competition with customers of
Pentair Water Treatment. Growth will come largely from product development,
coordinated marketing programs, increased channel penetration and acquisitions
of additional technologies.

Each of the businesses in the WFT segment faces a number of competitors, some
of which are larger, have more resources and are more vertically integrated.
Competition in the commercial and residential pump markets focuses on brand
names, product performance, quality and price. While home center and national
retailers are important for residential lines of water and wastewater pumps,
they are much less important in commercial pump markets. In municipal pump
markets, competition focuses on performance to required specification, service
and price. Competition in the water treatment component market focuses on
product performance and design, quality, delivery and price. In the pool and
spa equipment market, there are a number of competitors with one that the
Company considers its major competitor. The Company competes by offering a
wide variety of innovative and high quality products which are competitively
priced. Its existing distribution channels and reputation for quality also
contribute to its continuing market penetration.


Description of the Electrical and Electronic Enclosures Segment:
Products; markets; competition

Products include metallic and composite enclosures that house and protect
electrical and electronic controls, instruments, and components. These
enclosures include cabinets, cases, subracks and microcomputer packaging
systems, as well as a full line of accessories including backplanes and power
supplies. Products manufactured fall within two broad groups, standard and
modified standard products and custom-designed products.

The products are sold in the United States, Canada, and overseas under the
brand names Hoffman, Schroff, Transrack, Optima, Eraba, Electronic Enclosures,
Pentair Enclosures and Pentair Electronic Packaging.

Segment products are sold in three primary markets: electrical enclosures in
North America, the channel which is primarily served through industrial
electrical distribution; electronic enclosures throughout the world, sold
primarily through electronic equipment distributors and to original equipment
manufacturers (OEMs); and information and communication technology (ICT)
products throughout the world, marketed primarily to OEMs. The company is
increasingly focusing efforts on serving the latter two faster-growing markets
in the US and abroad both through acquisition (the former Walker Dickson and
WEB), reorganization of certain businesses (Pentair Electronic Packaging) and
through modified standard and custom-designed products.

Industrial markets include manufacturing industries in which electrical and
electronic controls require protection from harsh factory floor environments;
plant maintenance and repair; commercial construction; and electrical equipment
manufacturers. Commercial electronic markets include computer, test and
measurement, industrial control and factory automation and medical industries.
Finally, ICT products are found in the LAN, datacom and telecom industries.

Competition in product markets can be very intense, especially in electronic
and ICT markets, where product design, prototyping, global supply and customer
service are very significant factors. Finally, growth in the EEE segment will
likely come from continued channel penetration, growth in defined modification
product offerings, product development, geographic expansion and acquisitions.
Consolidation, globalization and outsourcing are the most important trends in
the faster-growing electronic enclosure business. The Company has made several
acquisitions in the past few years in this area. The globalization of product
demand increasingly requires world-wide local supply capability; no one
competitor (including the EEE segment businesses) has successfully established
that capability, although each of the major competitors in this market is
actively pursuing geographic extension for customer support purposes. In
addition to these competitors, there exists a large number of regional
suppliers whose capabilities are focused more on small runs of specialized
build-to-print products.

Information Regarding All Segments:
Status of new products.

The industries in which the segments participate are essentially mature and do
not experience the introduction of new products or technologies that materially
change the nature of the industry. Nonetheless, new product development or
improvement becomes more important for sales growth and channel penetration.
The Company emphasizes product development in all its segments; products
introduced within the last five years average 30% of company-wide annual sales.
No single new product constitutes a material amount of sales.

Raw materials.

The raw materials used in Pentair’s manufacturing processes include steel (bar
and sheet), brass, copper, aluminum and various other metals and plastics.
Selected motors, castings, plastic parts and components are also purchased.
The supply of all raw materials and components is currently adequate. The PTE
and WFT segments import a significant amount of selected products and
components from Taiwan and China, the supply of which is also currently
adequate.


Patents, trademarks, licenses, franchises and concessions.

Pentair’s businesses own a number of U.S. and foreign patents and trademarks.
They have been acquired over many years and relate to many products and
improvements. No single patent or trademark is of material importance to any
segment, though intellectual property protection is a significant competitive
tool in each of the segments.

Seasonal aspects and working capital items.

The PTE segment has historically experienced strong fourth quarter and weaker
first quarter sales and billings, due in large part to holiday retail sales.
Reflecting the somewhat seasonal impact of the PTE segment and the growing
importance of home center retail sales, there is a buildup of inventory in the
third quarter in anticipation of fourth quarter shipments, and growth in
receivables in the fourth and the following first quarter of each fiscal year.
In the WFT segment, the pool and spa equipment business is strongly seasonal.
Peak sales are in the March-July time period. There are advance sales in
earlier months but with long receivables terms. The August 1999 acquisition
date for Essef meant that 1999 calendar results for Pentair do not show the
benefit of the peak season for this business.

Dependence on limited number of customers.

The homecenters and mass retailers constitute the single most important
distribution channel for the Company, however, the Company as a whole is not
dependent on a single customer or on a few customers. The loss of a limited
number of customers would not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s
results of operations. The single largest customer of the Company as a whole
accounted for less than 10% of sales in 1999.

Backlog.

As of December 31, 1999, the Company had approximately $235 million in order
backlog; substantially all of which are expected to be fulfilled by the end of
2000. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately $135 million in
order backlog; substantially all of which were fulfilled by the end of 1999.
The increase in backlog is largely due to 1999 acquisitions and long-term
orders with OEMs for Enclosure products.

Production and sourcing is geared towards providing adequate inventories in
order to meet customer forecast requirements and minimize customer back orders.
Therefore, order rates and inventory management are more significant factors
than backlogs. For most of the Company’s businesses, backlogs are an
indication of near-term demand, but are generally subject to cancellation by
the customer. Other than for some municipal water system pumps, the segments
normally have few products with long lead times. With the addition of the pool
and spa equipment products, certain advance sales are made in the fourth
quarter.

Government contracts.

The Company has no significant portion of sales under federal government
contracts that may be subject to renegotiation of profits or termination of
contracts at the election of the government.

Research and development.

Pentair’s businesses have not historically undertaken any significant basic or
applied research, since the products and processes involve traditional
technologies which are well known to all competitors. As discussed above,
however, each of the segments, especially PTE, undertakes extensive product
development and design work in order to drive improvements in features and
manufacturing costs. Overall, Pentair’s businesses spent over 1.1% of sales on
such development in 1999, 1998 and 1997. See also Note 1 of Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.


Environmental matters.

See Management’s Discussion and Analysis and Note 9 of Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8.

Employees.

As of December 31, 1999, the Company and its subsidiaries employed
approximately 13,900 persons worldwide. Total employees in the United States
were approximately 10,935 of which 2,331 (21%) were represented by trade unions
having collective bargaining agreements.

Labor contracts negotiated in 1999: International Union of Electrical Workers –
Jonesboro, Arkansas (extended to April 3, 2002) approximately 250 employees.

Contracts expiring in 2000: Teamsters Local 984 — Memphis, Tennessee (expires
March 31, 2000) approximately 85 employees;

GMP Local 45 — Ashland, Ohio (expires April 1, 2000) approximately 70
employees; UAW Local 691 — St. Louis, Missouri (expires June 2, 2000)
approximately 150 employees; Teamsters Local 848 – El Segundo, California
(expires October 31, 2000) approximately 50 employees.

The Company considers its employee and labor relations to be good and believes
future contracts will be able to be negotiated on terms beneficial to the
businesses and their employees.

(d) Financial Information about Foreign Operations.

The Company operates primarily in North America, Europe and Asia.

Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of customer. Assets are
based on the geographic location of the subsidiary and have been translated
into U.S. dollars.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The following are the executive officers of the Registrant. Their term of
office extends until the next annual meeting of the Board of Directors,
scheduled for April 26, 2000.

Louis L. Ainsworth 52

Senior Vice President and General Counsel since July 1997; Shareholder and
Officer of the law firm of Henson & Efron, P.A., November 1985 — June 1997.

Winslow H. Buxton 60

Chairman since January 1993; Chief Executive Officer since August 1992;
President August 1992 – November 1999.


Richard J. Cathcart 55

Executive Vice President since February 1996; Executive Vice President,
Corporate Development March 1995 — January 1996; Vice President, Business
Development of Honeywell, Inc. 1994 — March 1995.

Joseph R. Collins 58

Vice-Chairman since November 1998; Executive Vice President March 1995 –
October 1998; Acting Chief Financial Officer, June 1993 — March 1994; Senior
Vice President — Specialty Products August 1991 — February 1995.

George M. Danko 49

Senior Vice President Corporate Development & Central Operating Services since
September 1999; Vice President, Corporate Development October 1997 – August
1999; General Manager of Sales Operations of General Electric’s Electrical
Distribution and Control Division September 1994 — October 1997; General
Manager Tektronix Test & Measurement Division June 1992 — August 1994.

Karen A. Durant 40

Vice President, Controller since September 1997; Controller January 1996 -
August, 1997; Assistant Controller September 1994 — December 1995; Director of
Financial Planning and Control of Hoffman Enclosures Inc. (subsidiary of
Registrant) October 1989 — August 1994.

David D. Harrison 52

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer since March 2000;
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of The Scotts Company,
August 1999 — February 2000; Executive Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Coltec Industries, Inc., August 1996 – August 1999; Executive Vice
President of Pentair, Inc. March 1995 – August 1996 and Chief Financial Officer
of Pentair, Inc. March 1994 – August 1996; Senior Vice President of Pentair,
Inc. March 1994 — February 1995; Vice-President, Finance and Information
Technology of the GE Canada Appliance Component subsidiary of General Electric,
August 1992 — March 1994.

Randall J. Hogan 44

President and Chief Operating Officer since December 1999; Executive Vice
President March 1998 – November 1999; President of United Technologies’ Carrier
Transicold Division 1995 – 1997; Vice President and General Manager Pratt &
Whitney Turbo Power & Marine Division 1994 — 1995.

Debby S. Knutson 45

Vice President, Human Resources since September 1994; Assistant Vice President,
Human Resources , August 1993 — September 1994.

Roy T. Rueb 59

Vice President, Treasurer since October 1986 and Secretary since June 1994.

James A. White 54

Executive Vice President since November 1998; Senior Vice President,
Professional Tools Businesses July 1997 – October 1998; President of
Porter-Cable Corporation (subsidiary of Registrant) December 1991 — June 1997.

There is no family relationship between any of the executive officers or
directors.

Item 2. Properties

The Company and its subsidiaries operate in 82 manufacturing and distribution
locations in North America, Europe and Asia. The Company owns most of its
facilities with the exception of the following major facilities which are
leased or leased under special tax increment financing: in the United States -
Mt. Sterling, KY; Jackson, TN (Porter-Cable); Kansas City, KS; Aurora, IL;
Ashland, OH (Hydromatic); Moorpark, CA; Warwick, RI and in Europe — Betschdorf,
France (Schroff).


The number, type, location and estimated size of the Company’s properties are
shown on the following charts, by segment. (Professional Tools and Equipment -
PTE; Water and Fluid Technologies — WFT; Electrical and Electronic
Enclosures — EEE)

Locations of HQ, Manufacturing and Distribution Facilities

North

Segment

America

Europe

Asia

Africa

PTE





WFT





EEE





HQ Offices


Management believes that its owned and leased facilities are well maintained
and suitable for the operations conducted.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

The Company or its subsidiaries have been made parties to a number of actions
filed or have been given notice of potential claims relating to the conduct of
its business, including those pertaining to product liability, environmental,
safety and health, patent infringement, and employment matters. Major matters
that may have an impact on the Company are discussed below. The Company
believes that the outcome of such legal proceedings and claims will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company’s financial position, liquidity, or
future results of operations, based on current circumstances known to the
Company.

Environmental Claims.

The Company and its current subsidiaries have been named
as defendants, targets or potentially responsible parties (PRPs) in a small
number of environmental cleanups, in which the Company or its current or former
business units have generally been given

de minimis

status. None of these
claims have resulted to date in cleanup costs, fines, penalties or damages in
an amount material to the Company’s financial condition or results of
operations. The Company has disposed of a number of businesses over the past
ten years; in certain cases, such as the disposition of Company’s Cross Pointe
Paper Corporation uncoated paper business in 1995 and the disposition of its
Federal Cartridge Company ammunition business in 1997, the Company has retained
responsibility for some or all environmental obligations and potential
liability. The Company has established what it believes to be, based on
current circumstances known to it, adequate accruals for potential liabilities
arising out of these retained responsibilities.

In addition to retained obligations relating to these disposed operations,
there are pending environmental issues concerning a site in Jackson, Tennessee,
on which the state environmental agency has opened an investigation. The
Company acquired the site from Rockwell International Corporation, with whom
the Company has agreed on division of responsibility for remediation and other
future costs relating to the site. The Company does not believe, however, that
projected response costs, as currently known, will result in material liability
or material changes in operations.

Product Liability Claims.

As of February 28, 2000, the Company or its
subsidiaries are defendants in approximately 111


product liability lawsuits and
have been notified of approximately 191 additional claims. The Company has had
and currently has in place insurance coverage it deems adequate for its needs.
A substantial number of these lawsuits and claims are insured and accrued for
by Penwald Insurance Company (“Penwald”), a regulated insurance company wholly
owned by the Company. See discussion in Item 7 (Management’s Discussion &
Analysis — Insurance Subsidiary) and Item 8 (Note 1 of Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements – Insurance Subsidiary). Accounting accruals
covering the deductible portion of liability claims not covered by Penwald have been
established and are reviewed on a regular basis. The Company has not
experienced unfavorable trends in either the severity or frequency of product
liability claims.

Horizon Litigation.

Twenty-eight separate lawsuits involving 29 primary
plaintiffs, a class action and claims for indemnity by Celebrity, were brought
against Essef Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries which concern alleged
exposure to Legionnaires bacteria by passengers aboard the cruise ship M/V
Horizon, a ship operated by Celebrity Cruise Lines. The lawsuits included a
class action brought on behalf of all passengers aboard the ship during the
relevant time period, individual “opt-out” passenger suits, and a suit by
Celebrity Cruise Lines, Inc.

The claims against Essef and its involved subsidiaries, are based upon the
allegation that Essef designed, manufactured and marketed two sand swimming
pool filters that were installed as a part of the spa system on the Horizon,
and allegations that the spa, and filters, contained bacteria that infected
certain passengers on cruises from December, 1993 through July of 1994.

A settlement was reached in the class action litigation whereunder Essef agreed
to pay monetary damages in the aggregate amount of $575,000 and Celebrity
agreed to provide class members with coupons and other non-monetary
consideration valued at approximately $1.2 million.

Essef and Celebrity have jointly attempted to resolve claims brought by
“opt-out” plaintiffs. To date, eleven of these claims have been settled, for
nominal amounts, leaving 18 primary plaintiffs. Essef and Celebrity have borne
the cost of these settlements equally, subject to later allocation. The first
trial for a primary plaintiff has been set to start on May 1, 2000.

Celebrity Cruises, Inc. is alleging that it has sustained economic damages due
to loss of usage of the M/V Horizon while it was dry docked.

Claims asserted against Essef and the other defendants, in aggregate, exceed
$200 million. However, trial counsel is optimistic that all of the pending
suits will be resolved within available insurance coverage.

Essef’s insurance carriers are presently defending the Horizon litigations
subject to a reservation of rights, and they have filed a Declaratory Judgment
action to determine to what extent they have responsibility for making payments
in the event Essef is found liable.

Patent Infringement Claims.

In late 1998, The Black & Decker Corporation
(“Black & Decker”), a competitor of the Company in its PTE segment, commenced
litigation against the Company’s Porter-Cable business claiming patent
infringement over the new Porter-Cable plate joiner. In order to minimize the
likelihood of future claims, Porter-Cable changed the design of the plate
joiner involved shortly after its introduction. At trial, Black & Decker
sought $14 million in compensatory damages and removal of the plate joiner from
the market. In late February 1999, the jury found for Black & Decker on a
limited number of its claims and awarded $1 million in damages. Porter-Cable
filed an appeal from the judgment, as it believed that there was no
infringement of the Black & Decker patent at issue. The appeal was denied in
January of 2000.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

During the fourth quarter, no matter was submitted to a vote of security
holders.


PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Shareholder Matters.

(a)

Market Information
Pentair Common Stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol “PNR”.


High

Low

Close

First Quarter

Second Quarter

Third Quarter

Fourth Quarter

$41 13/16

$48 7/8

$47 13/16

$41 1/8

$31 5/16

$30 15/16

$40 1/8

$32 7/16

$31 5/16

$45 5/16

$41 7/16

$38 1/2


First Quarter

Second Quarter

Third Quarter

Fourth Quarter

$45 9/16

$45 3/4

$43

$41

$34 3/16

$37 1/4

$27 7/8

$30 7/16

$44 3/4

$42

$32 1/4

$39 13/16

(b)

Holders of the Corporation’s Capital Stock
As of December 31, 1999, there were 4,395 holders of record of the
Corporation’s Common Stock.

(c)

Dividends
In January 2000, the board of directors approved the cash dividend of
$.16 per share quarterly for an indicated annual rate of $.64 per
share. Pentair has now paid 96 consecutive quarterly dividends. See
Note 6 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for certain
dividend restrictions.

Quarterly dividends per common share for the most recent two years are as follows:



First Quarter

$

.16

$

.15

Second Quarter

.16

.15

Third Quarter

.16

.15

Fourth Quarter

.16

.15

TOTAL

$

.64

$

.60

(d)

Annual Meeting of Stockholders
The 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders of the Corporation is
scheduled to be held on April 26, 2000 at 10:00 a.m. at the Lutheran
Brotherhood Building, Minneapolis, Minnesota.


Item 6. Selected Financial Data.

SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

[Additional columns below]

[Continued from above table, first column(s) repeated]

All Share and Per Share Data adjusted for stock dividends. (a) 1992 -
before the cumulative effects of accounting changes. (b) From continuing
operations.


Item 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations.

Management’s Discussion and Analysis

Strategic Direction

Pentair grows its businesses through innovative marketing and product design
and intensive productivity improvement, coupled with capital investment, and
employee training and participation. Pentair has chosen to focus these skills
on its three core markets of Professional Tools and Equipment (PTE), Water and
Fluid Technologies (WFT), and Electrical and Electronic Enclosures (EEE).
During the last five years, Pentair has divested its paper businesses (1995)
and Federal Cartridge (1997) and has made fifteen acquisitions in its three
core markets.

Beginning in 1999, the cost of certain support services provided by the
corporate office is no longer reflected in the “Other” segment and is allocated
to the operating segments. As a result, the prior years segment information
has been restated to conform to the 1999 presentation with no effect on
previously reported total operating income, net income or shareholders’ equity.

Results of Operations

*

Other includes corporate leadership expenses, captive insurance company,
intermediate financial companies, charges that do not relate to current
operations, divested operations (Federal) and intercompany eliminations.

**

Including net restructuring charge of $38 million taken in 1999. Before
restructuring charge, operating income for the segments and for Pentair as a
whole were: PTE — $122,170; WFT — $85,731; EEE — $63,089; and Pentair total —
$252,331.

CONSOLIDATED

1999 VERSUS 1998

Consolidated net sales increased over 1998 levels to $2,367.8 million in 1999,
or 22.2%, attributable in part to healthy markets as well as three acquisitions
in 1999. Net sales in each of the three segments increased over 10% for the
full year, with the largest increase posted by PTE. For the fourth quarter of
1999, sales growth accelerated dramatically, with consolidated net sales up
49.8% over the prior year quarter. This growth was significantly enhanced by
the third-quarter acquisitions of the Essef and DeVilbiss Air Power businesses,
with WFT up 63.9% and PTE up 56.9%; while, excluding


acquisitions, sales growth
in the fourth quarter was over 9% for Pentair as a whole, with each of the
three segments contributing impressive increases.

Operating income increased $21.1 million to $214.3 million in 1999, up 10.9%
over 1998, after the restructuring charge, and increased by $59.1 million or
30.6% over 1998, excluding the charge. Operating income before acquisitions
increased over 20% compared to 1998 performance. Return on sales was 9.1%
after the restructuring charge and 10.7% excluding the charge. Profitability
(before the charge) improved due to volume and other manufacturing
efficiencies, material cost savings, offset in part by continuing pricing
pressures, increasing employment costs, costs of special selling programs and
other sales expenses. Gross profit margins declined to 31.0% in 1999 versus
31.3% in 1998, largely attributable to the 1999 acquisitions. Excluding
acquisitions, gross margins improved by 130 basis points year-over-year.
Research and development declined slightly in percentage terms to 1.1% from
1.2% of net sales in 1998. Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A)
as a percent of sales was 19.3% in 1999 as compared to 20.2% in 1998.

Fourth-quarter operating income increased 58.1% to $91.6 million over the same
period in 1998; even without the benefit of the 1999 acquisitions, operating
income for the quarter increased dramatically by over 30%. Return on sales in
the quarter improved to 11.7%, largely as a result of the acquisitions, volume
and other manufacturing efficiencies and material savings.

Interest expense was significantly higher in 1999 and in the fourth quarter as
compared to the same periods in 1998, due primarily to much higher borrowings
incurred in connection with the 1999 acquisitions.

The Company’s effective income tax rate was 38.0% in 1999, an increase from the
comparable 1998 rate of 37.5%. A one percent improvement to 36.5% (reflected in the first
two quarters) was more than offset by the impact of non-deductible goodwill incurred as a
result of the acquisitions of the three businesses in 1999.

Net income decreased slightly to $103.3 million in 1999 from $106.8 million in
1998, including the $38 million ($24.1 million after-tax) restructuring charge
in 1999. Net income before the charge was $127.4 million, or an increase of
19.3%. Net income in the fourth quarter was up 30.5% to $43.0 million.
Full-year EPS was $2.33 compared to $2.46 in 1998 after the restructuring
charge; excluding the restructuring charge, EPS increased 17.5% to $2.89.
Fourth-quarter EPS in 1999 increased 18.4% from $.76 to $.90.

1998 VERSUS 1997

Consolidated net sales increased to $1,937.6 million in 1998, representing a
5.4% increase over 1997(up over 13% excluding the 1997 sales of Federal
Cartridge, divested in November 1997). PTE and WFT posted double-digit growth
rates, with the latter including the full year effect of a 1997 pump business
acquisition. EEE segment experienced lower sales due to soft capital spending
environments in the U.S. and the overall German and Asian economies.

Operating income increased to $193.2 million in 1998, up 13.8% over 1997, which
as a percent of sales improved from 9.2% to 10.0%. Profitability improved due
to volume efficiencies, favorable outsourcing opportunities, and
manufacturing/purchasing efficiencies resulting from the integration of
acquired pump businesses. Gross profit margins improved to 31.3% in 1998
versus 29.8% in 1997. Research and development expenses were 1.2% of net sales
versus 1.2% in 1997. Selling, general and administrative expense (SG&A) as a
percent of sales was 20.2% in 1998 as compared to 19.4% in 1997. The Company
continues to incur costs to support major information system upgrades (which
are starting to be offset by the associated cost improvements) and expenses
were incurred to implement company-wide process improvement and cost savings
programs with benefits beginning in 1999.

Interest expense was higher in 1998 as compared to 1997 due to slightly higher
effective interest rates.

The Company’s effective income tax rate was 37.5% in 1998. The comparable 1997
tax rate (excluding the unusual tax impact on the sale of Federal) was 39.0%.


Net income increased 16.6% to $106.8 million versus $91.6 million in 1997. EPS
of $2.46 in 1998 represented an increase of 16.6% over 1997 EPS of $2.11.
Excluding the $0.03 gain from the sale of Federal in 1997, there was an 18.3
percent increase over 1997.

OUTLOOK

Pentair is focused on three core markets. This diversification enables the
Company to consistently improve results despite difficult markets in one or
another segment. Continuing demand for power tools and service equipment,
ever-rising needs for clean water throughout the world, and the critical
importance of protecting sensitive electronics give Pentair’s chosen businesses
excellent prospects for strong long-term performance. The Company’s basic
operating strategies – ongoing cost containment, new product development,
multi-channel distribution, and the pursuit of value-added acquisitions – drive
the businesses in both growing and softer economies. Pentair is focusing on
implementation of its corporate-wide process redesign and cost savings programs
initiated in 1998 which management believes will continue to improve operating
efficiencies and therefore performance.

Pentair began implementation in 1999 of a program to consolidate a number of
its businesses into larger, more effective units which will be better
positioned to compete in their respective markets. Pentair’s tool businesses,
Porter-Cable and Delta, will consolidate their operations in the first quarter
of 2000, following an earlier combination of their sales organizations. Also
underway in 1999 and to be completed in 2000 is the consolidation of two
service equipment businesses (Century and Lincoln Automotive), including the
closing of one manufacturing facility. The tool businesses also have completed
construction of a new 650,000 square foot warehouse facility in Jackson,
Tennessee. The warehouse is expected to go into full operation in the first
quarter of 2000, when two smaller warehouses for Delta and Porter-Cable will
close.

The acquisition of Essef in August 1999 has increased the complexity and
opportunities in the WFT businesses. Pentair has closed one of the acquired
facilities and relocated manufacturing operations; over the next few quarters,
Pentair intends to continue reorganization and consolidation of units in order
to improve manufacturing efficiencies and financial performance.

In addition, the Company’s EEE segment combined five separate North American
facilities into one business, Pentair Electronic Packaging, in order to focus
on the high-growth custom and modified enclosure market for datacom and telecom
products.

The Company continues to look for synergistic acquisitions in each of its
business segments, in line with its pattern over the past five years. Of the
fifteen acquisitions made since 1994, most were smaller businesses or product
lines, which fit with existing operations, offering new products or expanded
geographic scope. Three recent transactions in 1997 and 1999, however, were
stand-alone acquisitions of large established businesses, two in Pentair’s WFT
segment (General Signal Pump Group and Essef) and one in its PTE segment
(DeVilbiss Air Power Company). Pentair intends to continue to pursue smaller,
bolt-on purchases, but will also carefully review larger targets that have the
capability to significantly expand its current segments, or in appropriate
cases, that establish an additional business segment.

SEGMENT DISCUSSION

Pentair operates in three segments: Professional Tools and Equipment (PTE),
Water and Fluid Technologies (WFT), and Electrical and Electronic Enclosures
(EEE).

PROFESSIONAL TOOLS and EQUIPMENT

The PTE segment includes the tool businesses (Delta and Porter-Cable); and the
equipment businesses (Century and the newly-acquired DeVilbiss Air Power
Company). Products manufactured include woodworking machinery, portable power


tools, battery charging and testing equipment, welding equipment, lubricating
and lifting equipment, air compressors, generators and pressure washers.

1999 VERSUS 1998

Net sales increased substantially in 1999, from $849.3 million to $1,073.8
million, or 26.4%. Net sales in the fourth quarter increased 56.9%. The
DeVilbiss Air Power Company acquisition accounted for a significant portion of
the sales increase. The increase in internal growth in 1999 is attributable in
large part to continued innovation and new product introductions by each of the
businesses in this segment.

PTE operating income for the year increased to $105.4 million, after the
restructuring charge, or 5.8%. Excluding the restructuring charge, operating
income was $122.2 million, or an increase of 22.6%. For the fourth quarter,
operating income for the segment was $50.8 million or 33.0% better than 1998,
attributable to the DeVilbiss Air Power Company acquisition. Both full-year
and fourth-quarter operating income for the segment was unfavorably impacted by
two factors: one-time costs not covered by the restructuring charge incurred as
a result of the consolidation of operations as well as severe competitive
pressures for certain automotive and service products.

Segment return on sales (before restructuring charge) was down 30 basis points
to 11.4% for the full year, although operating margins for the segment
excluding acquisitions was comparable to the 11.7% recorded for 1998. Segment
return on sales after the restructuring charge was 9.8%. For the fourth
quarter, return on sales for the entire segment was 12.6% compared to 14.8% in
the same period in 1998, attributable in part to the new acquisition.

1998 VERSUS 1997

PTE sales increased by $102.2 million or 13.7%. These businesses continue to
outperform their markets, upholding a performance record that includes three
consecutive years of double-digit sales growth and five consecutive years of
double-digit operating income growth. The tool businesses continued to
introduce innovative new products such as a plate joiner and jigsaw and
expanded its offering of pneumatic nailers, staplers and accessories. The
service equipment business increased sales of Booster Pacs and expanded its
automotive offering with the product line acquisition of T-Tech automatic
transmission fluid exchangers.

Operating income as a percent of sales increased to 11.7% in 1998 from 10.3% in
1997. Profitability increased in the tool business due to favorable sourcing
opportunities and volume efficiencies. Profitability also increased in the
service equipment business due to productivity improvements and facility
rationalizations.

OUTLOOK

The Professional Tools and Equipment segment is expected to continue to realize
sales growth in 2000, both as a result of the DeVilbiss Air Power Company
acquisition and, more importantly, continued organic growth as a result of
continued new product introductions and increased cross-selling of products,
including acquired products, across all major distribution channels.
Operations will be adversely impacted for the first half of 2000 as a result of
continuing one-time costs for consolidations of segment business units and
start-up costs at the new Jackson, Tennessee distribution center. Nonetheless,
Pentair expects continued improvement in operating margins and income
throughout the coming year, as a result of the acquisition and of other
manufacturing, purchasing and distribution efficiencies.

WATER and FLUID TECHNOLOGIES

The WFT segment includes the pump and pool businesses (Pentair Pump Group and
one of the newly-acquired Essef businesses), the water treatment businesses
(Pentair Water Treatment which consists of Fleck Controls plus the remaining
Essef business) and Lincoln Industrial. Products manufactured include pumps
for wells and water treatment, sump pumps, pool and spa equipment such as
valves, pumps, filters, lights and related equipment, valves and pressure


vessels for water treatment products and automated and manual lubrication
systems.

1999 VERSUS 1998

Net sales increased substantially in 1999, from $537.9 million to $669.6
million, or 24.5%. The Essef acquisition accounted for the majority of the
increase for the year. Net sales in the fourth quarter increased 63.9%, with
organic growth accelerating to over 6% of prior-period sales.

WFT operating income for the year increased to $81.3 million, after the
restructuring charge, or 23.2%. Excluding the restructuring charge, operating
income was $85.7 million, or an increase of 29.9% and excluding acquisitions,
operating income increased nearly 20%. For the fourth quarter, operating
income for the segment was $25.5 million or 50.5% better than 1998, while
excluding acquisitions, operating income was up over 30% from the prior year.
Both full-year and fourth-quarter operating income for the segment increased as
a result of supply management initiatives and strong labor productivity.

Segment return on sales (before restructuring charge) improved 50 basis points
to 12.8% for the full year, although operating margins for the segment
excluding acquisitions increased over 200 basis points over 1998. Segment
return on sales after the restructuring charge was 12.1%. For the fourth
quarter, return on sales for the entire segment was 12.1%, down from the
year-earlier quarter which was 13.2%. This decrease is entirely attributable
to the Essef acquisition; excluding acquisitions this segment’s return on sales
for the period increased nearly 300 basis points.

1998 VERSUS 1997

WFT sales increased by $133.9 million or 33.1%, primarily due to the full year
effect of the 1997 pump business acquisitions; internal growth accounted for
approximately 5% of the sales increase. Net revenues were adversely impacted
in part by the deliberate elimination in 1998 of the unprofitable sales from
the Layne & Bowler product line, acquired as part of the General Signal pump
acquisition in 1997.

Operating income as a percent of sales increased to 12.3% in 1998 from 10.4% in
1997. The Group’s performance benefited from improved performance at the water
conditioning control valve business, increased profitability at European
operations, and over $10 million worth of manufacturing and purchasing
efficiencies resulting from the integration of the acquired pump businesses.

OUTLOOK

As a result of the Essef acquisition, the WFT segment greatly expanded its
product and geographic capabilities. The segment plans to focus more resources
on its growth in overseas markets, especially by Pentair Water Treatment, while
continuing to implement its operating improvement initiatives previously
adopted and while integrating the newly acquired businesses into its ongoing
operations. As a result of the increasing importance of the water markets to
the segment following the Essef acquisition, Pentair announced that it is
investigating strategic alternatives for its Lincoln Industrial business.

ELECTRICAL and ELECTRONIC ENCLOSURES

The EEE segment includes Hoffman Enclosures, Schroff, Pentair Electronic
Packaging (a newly-integrated North American enclosures business, comprised of
Schroff US, the newly-acquired WEB and the US affiliates of the former Walker
Dickson business) and Pentair Enclosures U.K. Products manufactured include
metallic and composite cases, subracks and cabinets that house and protect
electrical and electronic controls, instruments and components.

1999 VERSUS 1998

Net sales increased 12.3% in 1999, to $633.7 million, most of which is
attributable to the 1998 acquisition of Walker


Dickson and the 1999 acquisition
of WEB. Overall net sales in the fourth quarter increased 22.0%, with internal
growth up nearly 15% from prior-period sales. The improvement in internal
growth in the fourth quarter was largely attributable to expanded distribution
in North America of standard electrical enclosure products and increased
penetration into the faster-growing datacom and telecom product markets, as
well as accelerating growth of standard electronic enclosures in Europe.
Fourth quarter sales in local currency in Europe improved 18%
quarter-over-quarter, although in US dollar terms the growth amounted to 8%.

EEE operating income for the year after the restructuring charge increased
slightly to $46.3 million. Excluding the restructuring charge, however,
operating income improved 37.1% and operating income, excluding acquisitions,
increased over 45%. For the fourth quarter, operating income for the segment
was $19.9 million or 149.9% better than 1998, while excluding acquisitions,
operating income was up nearly 200% from the prior year.

Segment return on sales (before restructuring charge) improved significantly
for the full year, from 8.2% to 10.0%, although operating margins for the
segment excluding acquisitions increased nearly 360 basis points over 1998.
Segment return on sales after the restructuring charge was 7.3%. For the
fourth quarter, return on sales for the entire segment was 11.5%, up
dramatically from the very weak year-earlier quarter which was only 5.6%.
Excluding acquisitions, however, the increase was even stronger, which is
largely attributable to vastly improved performance at the European enclosure
businesses and to strong performance of all of the North American businesses.

1998 VERSUS 1997

EEE sales decreased $15.3 million or 2.6%. Enclosures Americas sales were
lower in 1998 largely due to lower automotive and machine tool capital
spending. Enclosures Europe sales also decreased due to slow sales of standard
product throughout Europe, while Enclosures Asia sales were below 1997 due to
the weak Asian economy. With the October 1998 acquisition of Pentair Enclosures
U.K., Pentair strengthened its position in markets serving high-growth
manufacturers in information and communication technology markets.

Operating income as a percent of sales was flat at 8.2%, the same overall
profitability as 1997, despite a decrease in sales. Enclosures Americas
increased profits due to overhead reductions and repositioning of the sales
force to focus on high growth customers and leverage modification capabilities.
Enclosures Europe earnings declined in part due to lower volumes and
unfavorable product mix throughout Europe. In addition, the closing of one
facility in France and resultant headcount reductions were delayed by a lengthy
government approval process until the fourth quarter of 1998. Enclosures Asia
profitability decreased due to the weak Asian economy.

OUTLOOK

Pentair plans to continue process improvement and reorganization at all of the
businesses in the EEE segment. While no further significant headcount
reductions are currently planned, the expansion of the enclosure businesses
around the world will be critical to the segment’s future success in the
rapidly expanding datacom and telecom fields, especially in creating a
world-wide capability to serve these markets, whether in the Americas, Europe
or Asia.

SPECIAL RESTRUCTURING CHARGE

In the first quarter of 1999, the Company recorded a special restructuring
charge of $38.0 million ($24.1 million after-tax or $.56 per share). As shown
below, $12.8 million has been spent or charged through December 31, 1999. The
remaining balance is classified within Accrued Liabilities and Other Expenses
on the balance sheet.

The restructuring plan comprises consolidation of certain operations, overhead
reductions, and outsourcing of specific product lines in each of the Company’s
three business segments. Pentair anticipates a reduction of approximately
1,050 jobs, as detailed below, offset by approximately 350 new jobs at other
Pentair facilities in connection with consolidation and rationalization. The
restructuring plan does not contemplate the Company exiting any of its current
lines of business; the projects involved are designed to make the Company’s
existing businesses more efficient.


The Professional Tools and Equipment segment is consolidating North American
distribution operations and combining the headquarters of the two power tool
businesses, Delta and Porter-Cable, in Jackson, Tennessee. In the service
equipment businesses, products are being outsourced to offshore manufacturers
or transferred to other North American facilities. The Jonesboro, Arkansas
manufacturing operation of Lincoln Automotive will be closed. These actions
will result in the termination of more than 600 employees. Restructuring
charges for this segment amounted to $16.8 million, $10 million of which is
attributable to employee terminations, and the balance of which relates to
asset write-downs and other exit costs. Management estimates the benefits
under the restructuring plan will be approximately $16 million in 2000 and $15
million in 2001.

The Water and Fluid Technologies segment has reduced the workforce at its
Lincoln Industrial business and is
outsourcing some product manufacturing, resulting in headcount reductions of
approximately 100 employees. Lincoln Industrial plans to eliminate
approximately 50 percent of the manufacturing space at its U.S. manufacturing
facilities. The charge for this segment was $4.5 million, approximately $1.2
million of which relates to terminated employees, and the balance of which is
attributable to demolition and other exit costs. Management estimates the
benefits under the restructuring plan will be approximately $2 million in 2000
and $2 million in 2001.

The Electrical and Electronic Enclosures segment reduced its workforce in
Europe and adopted a plan to rationalize manufacturing at its North American
facilities. These actions will result in the reduction of approximately 350
employees. This segment absorbed $16.7 million of the charge, largely related
to employee terminations. Management estimates the benefits under the
restructuring plan will be approximately $9 million in 2000 and $12 million in
2001.

The components of the restructuring charge and related reserve balances
remaining at December 31, 1999 were (in millions):

Personnel

Asset

Exit

Costs

Disposals

Costs

Total

1999 Restructuring Charge

$

27.5

$

7.0

$

3.5

$

38.0

1999 Spending to Date
Cash spending

(9.4

)

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

(9.6

)

Non-cash spending

(0.0

)

(2.9

)

(0.3

)

(3.2

)

Remaining Reserve

$

18.1

$

4.0

$

3.1

$

25.2

“Personnel Costs” consists of severance, medical plan continuation, pension
cash-outs, and outplacement per company policy for the 1,050 employees planned
to be terminated. As of December 31, 1999, approximately 400 employees have
been terminated (or in Europe are working under statutory notice periods).

“Asset Disposals” consists of the write-down of the carrying value of the Delta
headquarters building which is held for resale and the write-off of special-use
manufacturing and support assets which will no longer be needed and which will
be scrapped or abandoned. The real estate held for resale is expected to be
disposed of by mid-2000. All of these assets are currently classified as
property, plant and equipment. No charge has been taken with respect to the
Jonesboro real estate since the Company believes it will be able to be sold for
book value within a reasonable period.

“Exit Costs” consists of maintenance and security costs of surplus buildings
until leases expire or demolition or disposal of certain buildings, including
the Jonesboro building.

“Personnel Costs” and “Exit Costs” are cash costs and the “Asset Disposals” are
primarily non-cash costs. Our currently anticipated schedule projects cash
expenditures of $19 million in 2000 and $2 million in 2001. These requirements
will be funded through cash from operations or borrowings under our existing
credit facilities.

During 1999, restructuring benefits (largely personnel cost savings) of
approximately $6 million were realized. Anticipated benefits are projected to
be $26 million in 2000 and $30 million in 2001. The major components of
anticipated benefits are


in reductions in labor costs and efficiencies in consolidating distribution and
administrative functions.

The anticipated benefits noted above are net of the costs of adding 350
employees at other Pentair locations. The benefits do not, however, take into
account one-time costs associated with these restructuring plans. The Company
anticipates that the associated one-time costs will amount to approximately $6
million, one-quarter of which was incurred in 1999, with most of the balance to
be incurred in the first quarter of 2000. These costs are not included in the
restructuring charge, since they relate to asset relocations, start-up costs
and training and recruiting of employees at other locations.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The Company incurred approximately $800 million of indebtedness in 1999 in
order to complete the acquisitions of Essef and DeVilbiss Air Power. As a
result of these borrowings, Pentair’s total debt to capital ratio at the end of
the third quarter of 1999 was 63%. Following the successful common stock
offering in October 1999 and application of cash flow from operations in the
fourth quarter, the Company’s total debt to capital ratio was 51% at December
31, 1999. This compares with a 33% total debt to capital ratio at the end of
1998. The Company has targeted a total debt to capital ratio in the range of
30% to 40% as appropriate for its financing needs and current business plans,
although Pentair will exceed this target ratio from time-to-time as needed for
operational purposes and/or acquisitions.

Of the total indebtedness of the Company at the end of 1999, more than 85%
(approximately $885 million, including $27.2 million in current maturities) is
long-term and has an average life to maturity of 6 years. This long-term
indebtedness has interest rates varying from 4.0% to 9.0%, with an average
interest rate of 7.22%. The Company believes that currently outstanding
long-term indebtedness is and will continue to be adequate for its financing
needs for the foreseeable future. The Company also believes that it will be
able to obtain additional long-term indebtedness as its needs may increase or
its current indebtedness matures.

Short-term indebtedness (included in current maturities of long-term debt)
stands at $150.6 million as of the end of 1999 with interest rates that range
from 6.37% to 8.5%, with an average interest rate of 7.0%. The Company
believes that it will generate substantial cash flow from operations and from
any asset dispositions which will be used in part to reduce current
indebtedness during 2000. The Company has no reason to believe that it would
not be able to renew its current short-term credit agreements, at the time of
their expiration in August 2000. In addition, the Company has entered into a
commercial paper program in January 2000 for the issuance of short-term notes
at what it believes are favorable interest rates.

The Company expects capital spending in 2000 to be in the $90-100 million
range. Contemplated uses include computer hardware and software, manufacturing
cost reduction projects, new product development, e-business initiatives and
reconfiguration of manufacturing facilities.

The Company declared its anticipated 2000 quarterly dividend of $.16 per share
or an indicated annual rate of $.64 per share.

INFLATION

The impact of inflation on the Company’s results of operations is not
considered material given the current inflationary outlook.

INSURANCE SUBSIDIARY

The Company’s captive insurance subsidiary provides a cost effective means of
obtaining insurance coverage for general and product liability, product recall,
workers’ compensation and auto liability. The insurance subsidiary insures
directly and reinsures an admitted carrier. Loss reserves are established
based on actuarial projections of ultimate loss.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Under current laws and regulations, Pentair’s obligations relating to
environmental matters are not expected to have a material impact on the
Company’s operations, financial condition or operating results. Some
subsidiaries face remediation


of soil and groundwater as a result of
predecessors’ or their own previous disposal practices. In addition, Pentair
subsidiaries have been named as potentially responsible parties at a small
number of Superfund or other sites being studied or remediated. Generally, the
affected business has been deemed to be a

de minimis

defendant or its share of
remediation costs has not been material to Pentair. Pentair contractually
retained certain obligations pertaining to environmental issues of discontinued
paper businesses and the divested sporting ammunition business. Costs and
capital expenditures related to environmental obligations were not material to
the Company’s operations in either 1999 or 1998, and are not anticipated to be
material in 2000.

Pentair engages environmental professionals to perform periodic audits of its
facilities to assist Pentair in complying with the various environmental laws
and regulations faced by its businesses. For purposes of maintaining
appropriate reserves against liabilities associated with environmental issues,
whether involving on- or off-site locations, Pentair management reviews each
individual site, taking into consideration the number of parties involved with
the site, the joint and several liability imposed by certain environmental laws, the expected level
of contributions of the other parties, the nature and quantities of wastes
involved, the expected method and extent of remediation, the estimated
professional expenses involved and the time period over which any costs would
be incurred. Based on this evaluation, reserves are established when loss
amounts are probable and reasonably estimable. Insurance recoveries are
recorded only when claims for recovery are settled.

YEAR 2000

The Company pursued an extensive Year 2000 program in order to anticipate and
correct Y2K computer problems. As a result of this program, the Company
suffered only very minor computer-related problems at any of its businesses in
early 2000, all of which have since been corrected.

As a result of the numerous different information systems used by businesses
that the Company has acquired over the years and also as a result of changing
business requirements, the Company has an ongoing development plan with
scheduled replacements of hardware and software occurring over the past few
years and continuing into the future throughout the organization. Year 2000
compliance was a by-product of the Company’s information systems (IS)
development plan. This plan calls for the installation or updating of new
Enterprise Resource Planning (ERP) systems for its current manufacturing and
headquarters locations designed to enable these facilities and the related
businesses to operate more efficiently and to provide better management
reporting. The Company has already installed its ERP systems in 22 locations.
The Company’s remaining manufacturing locations and businesses will be
converted to the new ERP system over the next few years as the information
system development plan progresses.

The costs specifically attributable to Year 2000 compliance, apart from other
IS development activities, amounted to approximately $13 million. The cost
associated with the total IS development plan over the five-year period from
1995 to 1999 was approximately $60 million. The Company estimates that the
cost to convert the remaining facilities and businesses to the new ERP systems
will amount to approximately $10-12 million and will be completed over the next
three to four years for the Company’s current businesses. Acquisition or
establishment of new business units would also require the conversion or
updating of ERP systems as necessary.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is exposed to various market risks, including changes in pricing of
raw materials and sourced components, foreign currency exchange rates and
interest rates. Market risk is the potential loss arising from adverse changes
in market rates and prices, such as foreign currency exchange and interest
rates. The Company enters into financial instruments to manage and reduce the
impact of some of these risks. The Company does not enter into derivatives or
other financial instruments for trading or speculative purposes.

The Company is exposed to cash flow and fair value risk arising out of changes
in interest rates with respect to its long-


term debt. The table below presents
principal cash flows and related weighted average interest rates of the
Company’s long-term debt at December 31, 1999 by expected maturity dates.
Weighted average variable rates are based on implied forward rates in the yield
curve at December 31, 1999 plus the Company’s borrowing spread. Implied
forward rates should not be considered a predictor of actual future interest
rates.

The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements with major financial
institutions to exchange variable rate interest payment obligations for fixed
rate obligations without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts.

The Company hedges net investments in significant foreign subsidiaries by
borrowing in those subsidiaries’ functional currencies. The Company has also
entered into foreign currency swap agreements, principally to Deutschemarks and
Italian Lira, with major financial institutions to hedge firm foreign currency
commitments. During 2000, the Company intends to redraft its agreements to
convert to the Euro currency.

See also Notes 6 & 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

(1) The foreign exchange information is presented in local currency by
maturity, however, the fair value is presented in US dollars.

NOTIFICATION REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

It should be noted that certain statements herein which are not historical
facts, including without limitation those regarding 1) the timeliness of
product introductions and deliveries; 2) expectations regarding market growth
and developments; 3) expectations for growth and profitability; 4)
implementation of plans; 5) anticipated savings; 6) results achieved from


acquisitions; and 7) statements preceded by “believes”, “anticipates”,
“expects”, “estimates”, “will” or similar expressions are forward-looking
statements. Because such statements involve risks and uncertainties, actual
results may differ materially from the results currently expected by the
Company.

Factors that could cause such differences include, but are not limited to, 1)
general economic conditions, such as the rate of economic growth in the
Company’s principal geographic markets or fluctuations in exchange rates or
interest rates; 2) industry conditions, such as the strength of product demand,
the intensity of competition, pricing pressures, the acceptability of new
product introductions, the introduction of new products by competitors, changes
in technology or the ability of the Company to source components from third
parties without interruption and at reasonable prices and the financial
condition of the Company’s customers; 3) operating factors, such as continued
improvement in manufacturing and distribution activities and the achievement of
related efficiencies, as well as inventory risks due to shifts in market
demand; and 4) integration of new businesses.

The Company undertakes no obligation to revise any forward-looking statements
in order to reflect events or circumstances that may arise after the date
hereof. Readers are urged to carefully review and consider the various
disclosures made by the Company in this report and in the Company’s other
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission from time to
time that advise interested parties of the risks and uncertainties that may
affect the Company’s financial condition and results of operations.

Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

The following consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries are included herein as indicated below:


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries

Supplemental Cash Flow Information:

Cash payments for interest were $43,152,
$24,470, and $18,507 for the years ending December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. Cash payments for income taxes were $68,108, $64,956, and
$73,374 for the years ending December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Pentair, Inc. and Subsidiaries

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

The consolidated financial statements include Pentair, Inc. and its wholly
owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and transactions
have been eliminated.

Fiscal Year

Pentair has adopted a standard “4-4-5 week” accounting quarter for reporting in
1999. The duration of each quarter is approximately 13 weeks per quarter with
the first three quarters always ending on a Saturday. The Company’s fiscal
year ends on December 31.

Cash Equivalents

The Company considers all highly liquid investments purchased with a maturity
of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

Property, Plant and Equipment

Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation is computed
using the straight-line method. Estimated useful lives are: land improvements
- - 5 to 20 years, buildings — 5 to 50 years, and machinery and equipment — 3 to
15 years.

Insurance Subsidiary

The Company’s wholly owned insurance subsidiary, Penwald Insurance Company,
insures Company general and product liability, product recall, workers’
compensation, and auto liability risks.

Reserves for policy claims ($28,885,000 with $22,885,000 noncurrent as of
December 31, 1999 and $35,441,000 with $29,441,000 noncurrent as of December
31, 1998) are established based on actuarial projections of ultimate loss.

In order to maximize investment earnings from insurance reserves, Penwald has a
long-term receivable from Pentair (established in July, 1997) in lieu of its
former marketable securities portfolio. The intercompany receivable is
interest bearing and payable on demand and eliminated in consolidation. Prior
to July 1997, the insurance subsidiary invested in marketable securities
including debt and equity securities classified as available-for-sale in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115,
“Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities.” Debt and
equity securities classified as available-for-sale were carried at fair value
on the balance sheet with unrealized gains and losses reported in a component
of shareholders’ equity.

The debt and securities investments were treated as operating assets of the
insurance subsidiary and the related earnings ($2,864,000 in 1997) were
recorded as a reduction of the insurance component of cost of sales. The 1997
gain on sale of securities from the liquidation of the portfolio ($5,932,000)
was recorded as other income and included as a reduction of selling, general
and administrative costs.

Goodwill

The excess purchase price paid over the fair value of net assets of businesses
acquired is amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from 25 to
40 years. The amortization recorded for 1999, 1998,and 1997 was $25,911,000,
$15,255,000, and $14,113,000, respectively. Accumulated amortization was
$83,775,000, and $61,311,000 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
Company periodically reviews goodwill to assess recoverability. The Company
evaluates the recoverability by measuring the unamortized balance of such
goodwill against estimated undiscounted future cash flows. If events or
changes in circumstances indicated that the carrying amount of such asset might
not be recoverable, the asset would be adjusted to the present value of the
estimated future cash flows. Based on evaluations performed, there were no
adjustments to the carrying value of goodwill during any of the three years
ended December 31, 1999.

Long-Lived Assets

Pentair evaluates the carrying value of long-lived assets. When the carrying
value exceeds the projected undiscounted cash flows from the assets, an
impairment is recognized to reduce the carrying value to the fair market value.
Losses on long-lived assets to be disposed of are determined in a similar
manner, except that the fair market values are reduced for


the cost to sell. Based on evaluations performed, there were no adjustments
to the carrying value of such assets during any of the three years ended
December 31, 1999, except as included in the 1999 restructuring charge. See
Note 3.

Foreign Currency Translation

Translation gains or losses resulting from translating foreign currency
financial statements are reported as a component of shareholders’ equity.
Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in earnings as
incurred.

Revenue Recognition

Revenue from sales is recognized at the time the product is shipped.

Product Warranty Costs

Provision for estimated warranty costs is recorded at the time of sale and
periodically adjusted to reflect actual experience.

Research and Development

Research and development expenditures are expensed as incurred. Development
activities generally relate to creating new products, improving or creating
variations of existing products, or modifying existing products to meet new
applications.

Earnings per Common Share

Basic earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income, after
deducting preferred stock dividends, by the weighted average common shares
outstanding during the period.

Diluted earnings per common share is computed by dividing net income, after
adjusting the tax benefits on deductible ESOP dividends, by the weighted
average common shares outstanding plus the incremental shares that would have
been outstanding upon the assumed exercise of dilutive stock options and upon
the assumed conversion of each series of preferred stock. The tax benefits
applicable to preferred dividends paid to ESOPs are recorded in the following
ways. For allocated shares, they are credited to income tax expense and
included in the earnings per share calculation. For unallocated shares, they
are credited to retained earnings and excluded from the earnings per share
calculation. See also Note 19.

Reclassifications

Certain reclassifications have been made to prior years’ financial statements
to conform to the current year presentation.

2. Adoption of New Accounting Standards

In 1998, the Company adopted the following new accounting standard: Statement
of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 132, “Employers’ Disclosures about
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits”. FAS 132 revises and standardizes
disclosures for pensions and other postretirement benefits. See Note 15.

In 1997, the Company adopted the following accounting standards: Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 128, “Earnings per Share”, Statement of
Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 130 “Reporting Comprehensive Income”,
and Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (FAS) No. 131 “Disclosures about
Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information”. The impact of these new
standards on Pentair was immaterial.

Prior year financial statements have been restated accordingly.

3. Special Restructuring Charge

In the first quarter of 1999, the Company recorded a special restructuring
charge of $38.0 million ($24.1 million after-tax or $.56 per share). As shown
below, $12.8 million has been spent or charged through December 31, 1999. The
remaining balance is classified within Accrued Liabilities and Other Expenses
on the balance sheet.

The restructuring plan comprises consolidation of certain operations, overhead
reductions, and outsourcing of specific product lines in each of the Company’s
three business segments. Pentair anticipates a reduction of approximately
1,050 jobs, as detailed below, offset by approximately 350 new jobs at other
Pentair facilities in connection with consolidation
and rationalization. The restructuring plan does not contemplate the Company
exiting any of its current lines of business;


the projects involved are
designed to make the Company’s existing businesses more efficient.

The Professional Tools and Equipment segment is consolidating North American
distribution operations and combining the headquarters of the two power tool
businesses, Delta and Porter-Cable, in Jackson, Tennessee. In the service
equipment businesses, products are being outsourced to offshore manufacturers
or transferred to other North American facilities. The Jonesboro, Arkansas
manufacturing operation of Lincoln Automotive will be closed. These actions
will result in the termination of more than 600 employees. Restructuring
charges for this segment amounted to $16.8 million, $10 million of which is
attributable to employee terminations, and the balance of which relates to
asset write-downs and other exit costs. Management estimates the benefits
under the restructuring plan will be approximately $16 million in 2000 and $15
million in 2001.

The Water and Fluid Technologies segment has reduced the workforce at its
Lincoln Industrial business and is outsourcing some product manufacturing,
resulting in headcount reductions of approximately 100 employees. Lincoln
Industrial plans to eliminate approximately 50 percent of the manufacturing
space at its U.S. manufacturing facilities. The charge for this segment was
$4.5 million, approximately $1.2 million of which relates to terminated
employees, and the balance of which is attributable to demolition and other
exit costs. Management estimates the benefits under the restructuring plan
will be approximately $2 million in 2000 and $2 million in 2001.

The Electrical and Electronic Enclosures segment reduced its workforce in
Europe and adopted a plan to rationalize manufacturing at its North American
facilities. These actions will result in the reduction of approximately 350
employees. This segment absorbed $16.7 million of the charge, largely related
to employee terminations. Management estimates the benefits under the
restructuring plan will be approximately $9 million in 2000 and $12 million in
2001.

The components of the restructuring charge and related reserve balances
remaining at December 31, 1999 were (in millions):

Personnel

Asset

Exit

Costs

Disposals

Costs

Total

1999 Restructuring Charge

$

27.5

$

7.0

$

3.5

$

38.0

1999 Spending to Date

Cash spending

(9.4

)

(0.1

)

(0.1

)

(9.6

)

Non-cash spending

(0.0

)

(2.9

)

(0.3

)

(3.2

)

Remaining Reserve

$

18.1

$

4.0

$

3.1

$

25.2

“Personnel Costs” consists of severance, medical plan continuation, pension
cash-outs, and outplacement per company policy for the 1,050 employees planned
to be terminated. As of December 31, 1999, approximately 400 employees have
been terminated (or in Europe are working under statutory notice periods).

“Asset Disposals” consists of the write-down of the carrying value of the Delta
headquarters building which is held for resale and the write-off of special-use
manufacturing and support assets which will no longer be needed and which will
be scrapped or abandoned. The real estate held for resale is expected to be
disposed of by mid-2000. All of these assets are currently classified as
property, plant and equipment. No charge has been taken with respect to the
Jonesboro real estate since the Company believes it will be able to be sold for
book value within a reasonable period.

“Exit Costs” consists of maintenance and security costs of surplus buildings
until leases expire or demolition or disposal of certain buildings, including
the Jonesboro building.

“Personnel Costs” and “Exit Costs” are cash costs and the “Asset Disposals” are
primarily non-cash costs. Our currently anticipated schedule projects cash
expenditures of $19 million in 2000 and $2 million in 2001. These requirements
will be funded through cash from operations or borrowings under our existing
credit facilities.

During 1999, restructuring benefits (largely personnel cost savings) of
approximately $6 million were realized. Anticipated


benefits are projected to be $26 million in 2000 and $30 million in 2001. The major components of
anticipated benefits are in reductions in labor costs and efficiencies in
consolidating distribution and administrative functions.

The anticipated benefits noted above are net of the costs of adding 350
employees at other Pentair locations. The benefits do not, however, take into
account one-time costs associated with these restructuring plans. The Company
anticipates that the associated one-time costs will amount to approximately $6
million, one-quarter of which was incurred in 1999, with most of the balance to
be incurred in the first quarter of 2000. These costs are not included in the
restructuring charge, since they relate to asset relocations, start-up costs
and training and recruiting of employees at other locations.

4. Acquisitions/Divestitures


In 1999, the Company paid $953,156,000 to acquire 3 new businesses, all
accounted for as purchase acquisitions with $755,395,000 of goodwill recorded
during 1999 for these acquisitions. The goodwill life for the WEB acquisition
is 25 years and the goodwill life for the Essef and DeVilbiss Air Power Company
acquisitions is 40 years. The recorded fair value of the net assets acquired
was based on preliminary estimates at the time of the acquisitions and may be
revised as better information becomes available in 2000. Management does not
believe that the final purchase price allocation will produce materially
different results than those reflected herein.

WEB Tool & Manufacturing, Inc.

On April 2, 1999, Pentair acquired all of the common stock of WEB Tool &
Manufacturing, Inc. and related entities for approximately $62 million, which
was financed through bank borrowings. WEB designs, manufactures, and markets
custom server subracks and chassis for computer technology applications. The
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and accordingly, the results of
operations are included in the consolidated financial statements since the date
of acquisition. The proforma effect of this acquisition is not presented
because it is not material to the Company’s consolidated financial statements.

Essef Corporation

On August 10, 1999, Pentair acquired two businesses owned by Essef Corporation,
Structural Fibers and Pac-Fab. A third business formerly owned by Essef,
Anthony & Sylvan, was split off to Essef shareholders at the time of the
acquisition. The acquisition price was $310 million plus approximately $120
million of Essef indebtedness which was required to be refinanced immediately.
The Essef acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting
and accordingly, the results of operations are included in the consolidated
financial statements since the date of acquisition. Structural Fibers designs,
manufactures and distributes products used in moving, treating and storing
water, including pumps, storage tanks and filtration systems for residential,
commercial, municipal and industrial customers. Pac-Fab manufactures pool and
spa equipment, including valves, pumps, heaters and lights, used in residential
and commercial applications.

DeVilbiss Air Power Company

On September 3, 1999, Pentair acquired all of the outstanding shares of Falcon
Manufacturing, Inc., the parent company of DeVilbiss Air Power Company (Falcon
Manufacturing, Inc. and DeVilbiss Air Power Company, together “DeVilbiss Air
Power”). The acquisition price was approximately $460 million. The DeVilbiss
Air Power acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting
and accordingly, the results of operations are included in the consolidated
financial statements since the date of acquisition. DeVilbiss Air Power Company
manufactures air compressors, portable generators, pressure washers and
accessories.

ProForma Financial Information for Essef and DeVilbiss Air Power Acquisitions
The results of operations for the acquired Essef and DeVilbiss Air Power
companies are included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
since the date of acquisition. Had the acquisitions occurred at January 1,
1998, unaudited proforma results for the full year 1998 would have been: net
sales $2,621 million; net income $89 million and basic and diluted earnings per
share $2.20 and $2.04 respectively. The unaudited proforma results for the
full year 1999 would have been: net sales $2,927 million; net income $106
million and basic and diluted earnings per share $2.42 and $2.39 respectively.

The results have been prepared for comparative purposes only and do not purport
to be indicative of what would have occurred had the acquisitions been made at
the beginning of 1998, or of the results which may occur in the future.



In 1998, the Company paid $68,384,000 to acquire 3 new businesses, all
accounted for as purchase acquisitions with $34,479,000 of goodwill recorded
during 1998 for these acquisitions. The proforma effect of these acquisitions
is not deemed material to the Company.


In 1997, the Company paid $210,620,000 to acquire 3 new businesses, all
accounted for as purchase acquisitions with $180,348,000 of goodwill recorded
during 1997 for these acquisitions. The proforma effect of these acquisitions
is not deemed material to the Company.

In 1997, the Company sold its Federal Cartridge business for $112,000,000 cash
plus receivables approximating $13,000,000 for final closing adjustments.
Federal’s operating results are included in the Company’s results through
October 31, 1997. The gain on the sale was $1,221,000 after income tax expense
of $9,092,000. Tax expense for the transaction was extraordinarily high due to
non-deductible goodwill. The transaction added 3 cents to diluted earnings per
share in 1997.

5. Balance Sheet Information

Accounts receivable are stated net of allowances for doubtful accounts of
$17,575,000 in 1999 and $10,858,000 in 1998.

Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. All non-US companies use
the first-in, first-out — FIFO and moving average methods. The US companies
use the last-in, first-out — LIFO method.

December 31

(In thousands)



Finished goods

$

243,757

$

147,780

Work in process

64,629

64,421

Raw materials and supplies

117,549

66,380

Total

$

425,935

$

278,581

If all LIFO inventories were valued at FIFO, aggregate inventory would have
been $428,057,000 and $281,950,000 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

6. Long-Term Debt and Credit Facilities

Debt is summarized as follows:

On September 2, 1999, the Company entered into two new revolving credit
facilities aggregating $800 million; a new five-year $425 million revolving
credit facility (the “$425 Million Revolver”) and a new 364-day $375 million
revolving credit facility (the “$375 Million Revolver”) (collectively the “New
Revolving Credit Facilities”). The New Revolving Credit Facilities replaced
the Company’s $390 Million Credit Facilities. The $425 Million Revolver
expires September 2, 2004 and the $375 Million Revolver expires on August 31,
2000. Inclusive of related facilities fees, the New Revolving Credit
Facilities accrue interest at a floating rate based upon the rating of the
Company’s long term senior unsecured debt
assigned by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Group and Moody’s Investor Service, Inc.,
or if no rating is available, based on a


leverage ratio. Revolving credit
facilities provide credit facilities which can be borrowed in US$, the Euro,
Deutschemarks, French Francs, British Pounds Sterling or Canadian Dollars. The
Company also has $101.4 million in other credit facility agreements of which,
$86.4 million is uncommitted.

On October 5, 1999, Pentair sold $250,000,000 aggregate principal amount of its
7.85% Senior Notes due 2009. The net proceeds of approximately $248 million
were used to refinance other indebtedness.

Current maturities of long-term debt include borrowings of $150,612,000 under
the $375 Million Revolver. It is the Company’s intention to continually renew
this credit facility.

At December 31, 1999, $590,612,000 was outstanding under revolving credit
facilities, which included $571,000,000 in U.S. dollars with an average current
interest rate of 7.00% and $19,612,000 in various foreign currencies with an
average current local interest rate of 5.58%. The weighted average credit
facilities borrowing rates were 6.10% in 1999 and 4.99% in 1998. See also
interest rate swap agreements at Note 7.

Various debt agreements have restrictions relating to minimum net worth,
certain financial ratios, and dividends and certain other restricted payments.
Under the most restrictive covenants, $292,900,000 of the December 31, 1999
retained earnings were unrestricted for such purposes. The Company has
remained in compliance with these covenants.

Total long-term debt maturities are $177,788,000, $19,812,000, $6,241,000,
$53,221,000, and $489,473,000 for the years 2000 to 2004, respectively with
$288,549,000 due thereafter.

7. Financial Instruments

The Company utilizes various derivatives such as interest rate swap agreements,
currency swap agreements, and interest rate cap agreements. The Company also
utilizes commodity swap agreements from time to time. The Company uses these
derivatives in a strategic manner to minimize interest rate and foreign
currency risk. The instruments are not purchased as speculative investments.
Derivatives used for hedging purposes must be designated as, and effective as,
a hedge of an identified risk exposure at the inception of the contract.
Accordingly, changes in the fair market value of the derivative contract must
be highly correlated with the changes in the fair market value of the
underlying hedged item both at the inception of the hedge and over the life of
the hedge contract.

Foreign exchange contracts are accounted for as hedges to the extent they are
designated as, and are effective as, hedges of firm or anticipated foreign
currency commitments. Any foreign exchange contracts designated but no longer
effective as a hedge are marked to market and the related gains and losses are
recognized in earnings.

Interest rate contracts designated and effective as a hedge of underlying debt
obligations are not marked-to-market, but cash flow from such contracts results
in adjustments to interest expense recognized over the life of the underlying
debt agreement. Gains and losses from terminated contracts are deferred and
amortized over the remaining period of the original contract. Cash flows from
such terminations are classified according to the underlying financial
instrument the contract was designated to hedge. Open interest rate contracts
are reviewed regularly to ensure that they remain effective as hedges of
interest rate exposure.

The Company hedges its net investments in significant foreign subsidiaries by
borrowing in those subsidiaries’ functional currencies. The Company has also
entered into currency swap agreements, principally to Deutschemarks and Italian
Lira, with major financial institutions to hedge firm foreign currency
commitments. The notional amounts serve as a basis for the calculation of
interest payments which are exchanged over the life of the swap transaction and
are equal to the amount of foreign currency or dollar principal exchanged at
maturity.

Gains and losses on contracts designated as hedges of net investments in
foreign subsidiaries are recognized in shareholders’ equity as foreign currency
translation adjustments. Gains and losses on contracts designated as hedges of
identifiable foreign currency firm commitments are not recognized until the
gains or losses of the related foreign currency transactions are recognized.

Interest Rate Risk Management
The Company has entered into interest rate swap agreements with major financial
institutions to exchange variable rate interest payment obligations for fixed
rate obligations without the exchange of the underlying principal amounts in
order to manage interest rate exposures. Net payments or receipts under the
agreements are recorded as adjustments to interest


expense and credit risk is considered remote.

As of December 31, 1999, the Company has swap agreements outstanding with an
aggregate notional amount of $74,500,000 that expire in varying amounts through
June 2005. The swap agreements have a fixed interest rate of 6.56% and an
average remaining maturity of 4 years. Under the interest rate environment
existing as of December 31, 1999, the net fair value of the Company’s swap
agreements was a net asset of $1,517,536.

As of December 31, 1999, the Company has one interest rate cap agreement
outstanding. It is a 35,000,000 Deutschemark cap that expires in November 2001
with a capped interest rate of 7.29% DEM-LIBOR.

Foreign Exchange Risk Management

The Company has entered into currency swap agreements, principally to
Deutschemarks and Italian Lira, with major financial institutions to hedge
firm foreign currency commitments. The original term of the currency swap
agreements ranged from 3 to 6 years. As of December 31, 1999, the remaining
swap agreements had a range to maturity of 6 months to 4 years. The notional
amounts set forth in the table below serve solely as a basis for the
calculation of interest payments which are exchanged over the life of the swap
transaction and are equal to the amount of foreign currency or dollar principal
exchanged at maturity. Gains or losses are deferred and are recognized in
income as part of the related transaction. Deferred unrealized gains and
losses, based on dealer-quoted prices, are presented in the following table:

(in thousands)



Notional amounts

$

128,431

$

128,431

Gains

5,322

6,413

Losses


16,191

Fair Value of Financial Instruments

The estimated fair value of long-term debt represents the present value of debt
service at rates currently available to the Company for issuance of debt with
similar terms. The fair value of interest rate swap agreements and currency
swap agreements were estimated based on quotes obtained from dealers for those
or similar instruments. Except for those listed, all other financial
instruments are carried at amounts that approximate estimated fair value.

Fair values for the cross-currency swaps are based on the termination of these
agreements.

8. Lease Commitments

Rent expense related to operating leases amounted to $27,235,000, $22,655,000,
and $15,737,000 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The majority of the
lease commitments are for information systems equipment and buildings.

Future minimum rental payments under all operating leases are $29,356,000,
$22,476,000, $16,509,000, $13,938,000 and $10,211,000 for the years 2000 to
2004, respectively.

9. Commitments and Contingencies

Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or
asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its businesses,
including those pertaining to product liability, environmental, safety and
health, and employment matters. The Company records liabilities when loss
amounts are determined to be probable and reasonably estimable. Insurance
recoveries are recorded only when claims for recovery are settled. Although
the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits,
claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management
believes, based on facts presently known, that the outcome of such legal
proceedings and claims will not have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
financial position, liquidity, or future results of operations.


10. Capital Stock

Preferred Stock

The two series of preferred stock (par value — $.10) were: $7.50 Callable
Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1988; and 8% Callable Cumulative
Voting Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1990 at December 31, 1998. Both
issues were held by ESOPs (see Note 12). The preferred shares were convertible
into common stock and were redeemable, in whole or in part, at the option of
the Company on or after the dates indicated below, and at redemption prices
declining to the original price per share after ten years.

Upon the retirement or other termination of an ESOP participant, the shares of
preferred stock (Series 1988 and 1990) in which he or she is vested were
automatically converted into common shares and distributed in that form, with
fractional shares paid in cash.

Both Series 1988 and Series 1990 preferred stock classes were redeemed and all
outstanding shares were converted to common stock on January 4, 1999 and
January 15, 1999, respectively. Following shareholder approval in 1999, the
two series of preferred stock were terminated and the authorized number of
shares were added back to authorized but unissued shares of common or preferred
stock.

Common Stock

At December 31, 1999, the authorized stock of the Company consisted of 250
million shares of stock, of which no more that 15 million shares may be
preferred stock issuable in the future, and of which the balance, net of
outstanding preferred shares, may be shares of common stock, having a par value
of $.16 2/3.

Changes in outstanding common shares are summarized as follows (in thousands):

On December 29, 1997, the Company announced that the Pentair board had
authorized the repurchase within the next 12 months of up to 350,000 shares of
Pentair common stock. The Company completed the repurchase of 350,000 shares
in 1998.

On December 14, 1998, the Company announced that the Pentair board had
authorized the Company to repurchase on an annual basis up to 400,000 shares of
Pentair common stock. Any purchases would be made periodically in the open
market, by block purchases or private transactions. The share repurchase is
intended to offset the dilution caused by stock issuances under employee stock
compensation plans. In 1999, the Company had repurchased 117,000 shares under
the new authorization.

On October 5, 1999, Pentair sold 5,500,000 shares of its common stock in a firm
underwriting. The net proceeds of approximately $215 million were used to
reduce indebtedness.


11. Share Rights Plan

The Company has a Share Rights Plan for its shareholders. Each Right entitles
the registered holder to purchase from the Company one common share at a price
of $80.00, subject to adjustment. Such rights only become exercisable ten
business days after a person or group acquires beneficial ownership of, or
commences a tender or exchange offer for, 15 percent or more of the Company’s
common stock.

The Company can redeem the rights for $.01 per right. The Rights will expire
on July 31, 2005, unless the Rights are earlier redeemed or exchanged by the
Company.

12. Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP)

The Company has an Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) covering non-bargaining
and some bargaining U.S. employees.

From 1990 to 1998, the employees received Series 1990 Preferred Stock in lieu
of cash 401(k) matching contributions and other cash compensation. To finance
the plan, the ESOP borrowed $56,500,000 from the Company and exchanged it for
1,867,768 shares of Callable Cumulative Voting Convertible Preferred Stock,
Series 1990 at $30.25 per share. The unpaid balance of the twenty-year, 8.75%
loan was included in the Company’s balance sheet as unearned ESOP compensation.
Gross compensation expense (i.e. the value of shares allocated to
participants’ accounts) was $7,092,000 and $7,081,000 in 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The stock held by the ESOP is released for allocation to the
participants’ accounts as principal and interest is paid from dividends on
unallocated shares ($517,000 and $1,140,000 in 1998 and 1997, respectively) and
Company contributions. As of December 31, 1998, the loan had been reduced to
zero since all shares had been allocated to participant accounts as
compensation and dividends. A separate frozen ESOP held the Series 1988
Preferred Stock. Both Series 1988 and Series 1990 preferred stock classes were
redeemed and all shares were converted to common stock on January 4, 1999 and
January 15, 1999, respectively.

Beginning in 1999, the employees received Pentair common stock in lieu of
certain cash compensation and cash for 401(k) matching contributions.
Compensation expense for the value of the shares allocated to participants’
accounts was $3,934,000 in 1999.

13. Stock Incentive Plans

Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan

In April 1996, shareholders approved amendments to the Omnibus Stock Incentive
Plan (the Plan) to authorize the issuance of additional shares of the Company’s
common stock. The Plan extends to February 14, 2006. At December 31, 1999,
there were 1,970,055 shares available for grant under the Plan.

The Plan allows for the granting of nonqualified stock options, incentive stock
options, restricted stock, rights to restricted stock, incentive compensation
units (ICUs), stock appreciation rights, performance shares and performance
units.

Restricted Shares, Rights to Restricted Stock and ICUs
Restrictions on the restricted shares, rights to restricted stock and ICUs
generally expire in the third, fourth and fifth years after issuance.
Beginning with 1993 grants, ICU restrictions will expire at the end of three
years. The value of each ICU is based on the increase in book value of common
stock during the restriction period and is payable when the restrictions lift.
Compensation expense consists of (a) amortization of the market value of the
stock on the date of award over the period in which the restrictions lapse, and
(b) the annual increase in ICU value. Compensation expense was $7,329,000 in
1999, $6,100,000 in 1998, and $4,991,000 in 1997. The Company records
incremental tax benefits resulting from the program as additional paid-in
capital.

Options

Options are granted to purchase shares at not less than fair market value of
shares on date of grant. Options have expiration dates of five or ten years
from date of grant.

Outside Directors Nonqualified Stock Option Plan

The Outside Directors Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (the Directors Plan)
allows for the granting of nonqualified stock options. Options are granted to
purchase shares at not less than fair market value of shares on date of grant.
Options generally expire after five years but may expire up to ten years from
date of grant. The Directors Plan extends to January


2008. At December 31, 1999, there were 384,498 shares available for grant
under the Directors Plan.

Details of options for both plans are as follows:

Options Outstanding and Exercisable by Price Range
as of December 31, 1999:

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, the Company has
chosen to continue accounting for its plans using the “intrinsic method” in
accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25 which requires no
compensation expense to be recorded for the issuance of stock options when
exercise prices are equal to market value on the date of grant. Had
compensation cost for the plans been determined using the “fair value” method
as defined in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS) No. 123,
“Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation”, compensation expense would have been
accrued and the effect on the Company’s income from continuing operations
and earnings per


share would have been as follows:

The weighted average fair value of options granted is estimated on the date of
grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
weighted-average assumptions:

The expected life was determined separately for each of the Omnibus Stock
Incentive Plan and the Outside Directors Nonqualified Stock Option Plan, due to
differing exercise patterns.

The fair value for all options as a group are determined using the
Black-Scholes model. The number of shares for which the options are granted in
a year is multiplies by the fair value of each option to arrive at the total
fair value of all options granted.

The total fair value is amortized to expense over the three-year option vesting
period in determining the proforma impact of the alternative method of
determining the compensation cost of the options.

14. Provision for Income Taxes

The components of earnings before income taxes were as follows:

(In thousands)




U.S

$

149,726

$

147,339

$

139,006

International

16,803

23,605

19,376

$

166,529

$

170,944

$

158,382

The provisions for income taxes, excluding tax benefits credited directly to
shareholders’ equity, were as follows:

(In thousands)




Current
U.S.(less foreign tax credits)

$

52,073

$

41,594

$

60,640

State

8,802

9,274

9,573

International

11,109

7,506

7,837

Current provision

71,984

58,374

78,050

Deferred
U.S

(3,519

)

4,415

(11,592

)

International

(5,245

)

1,315


Deferred provision

(8,764

)

5,730

(11,268

)

Total provision

$

63,220

$

64,104

$

66,782


A reconciliation of the statutory federal tax rate to the effective rate
follows:

The tax effect of the primary temporary differences giving rise to the
Company’s deferred tax assets and liabilities at December 31, 1999 and 1998 are
as follows:

15. Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits

Pension Benefits

The Company has several non-contributory defined benefit employee pension plans
covering substantially all employees of its U.S. and certain non-U.S.
subsidiaries. Employees covered under the bargaining plans are eligible to
participate at the time of employment and the benefits are based on a fixed
amount for each year of service. Employees covered under the non-bargaining
pension plans are eligible to participate upon the attainment of age 21 and the
completion of one year of service; and benefits are based upon final average
salary and years of service. All employees are fully vested in the plans after
5-7 years of service. The Company’s funding policy is to make contributions as
required by applicable regulations.

Other Benefits

The Company provides certain health care and life insurance benefits for
retired employees. Employees become eligible for these benefits if they meet
minimum age and service requirements and are eligible for pension benefits.

Weighted average assumptions as of December 31:

Pension Benefits

Other Benefits







Discount rate

7.75

%

6.75

%

7.0

%

7.75

%

6.75

%

7.0

%

Expected return on plan assets

8.5

%

8.5

%

8.5

%

Rate of compensation increase

5.0

%

5.0

%

5.0

%


For measurement purposes, an annual rate of 9.62 percent for pre-65 and post-65
benefits for increases in the per capita cost of covered health care benefits
were assumed for 2000. The rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 6.0
percent for 2019 and remain at that level thereafter.

The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows:

A one-percentage point change in the assumed health care cost trend rates would have the following effects:

1-Percentage-

1-Percentage-

Point Increase

Point Decrease

(in thousands)

Effect on total of service and interest cost

$


$

(29

)

Effect on postretirement benefit obligation

1,006

(857

)


In 1999, Pentair acquired DeVilbiss Air Power Company. As part of that
transaction, appropriate pension assets and liabilities for DeVilbiss Air Power
Company employees were transferred into the Company’s pension plans.

In November 1997, Pentair divested the Federal Cartridge business. As part of
that transaction, appropriate pension assets and liabilities for Federal
Cartridge employees were transferred to the buyer’s pension fund. This pension
asset transfer was not effected until 1998 following the necessary actuarial
calculations; therefore this asset transfer did not match the fiscal period for
the sale of Federal Cartridge.

At December 31, 1999, for plans with assets less than Projected Benefit
Obligation (PBO), the aggregate PBO is $45.2 million and the aggregate assets
are $0.2 million. For plans with assets less than Accumulated Benefit
Obligation (ABO), the aggregate ABO is $39.8 million and the aggregate assets
are zero. The majority of the under funding is related to German pension
plans, which are not commonly funded.

At December 31, 1999, plan assets are held in trust and consist mainly of
listed stocks and bonds or cash and short-term investments. The Company’s own
common stock accounted for 10% of plan assets.

16. Disclosure about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information

Pentair Inc. has three reportable segments:

Professional Tools and Equipment
(PTE), Water and Fluid Technologies (WFT), and Electrical and Electronic
Enclosures (EEE). The PTE segment includes the tool businesses (Delta and
Porter-Cable); and the equipment businesses (Century and the newly-acquired
DeVilbiss Air Power Company). Products manufactured include woodworking
machinery, portable power tools, battery charging and testing equipment,
welding equipment, lubricating and lifting equipment, air compressors,
generators and pressure washers. The WFT segment includes the pump and pool
businesses (Pentair Pump Group and one of the newly-acquired Essef businesses),
the water treatment businesses (Pentair Water Treatment which consists of Fleck
Controls plus the remaining Essef business) and Lincoln Industrial. Products
manufactured include pumps for wells and water treatment, sump pumps, pool and
spa equipment such as valves, pumps, filters, lights and related equipment,
valves and pressure vessels for water treatment products and automated and
manual lubrication systems. The EEE segment includes Hoffman Enclosures,
Schroff, Pentair Electronic Packaging (a newly-integrated North American
enclosures business, comprised of Schroff US, the newly-acquired WEB and the US
affiliates of the former Walker Dickson business) and Pentair Enclosures U.K.
Products manufactured include metallic and composite cases, subracks and
cabinets that house and protect electrical and electronic controls, instruments
and components. Other includes corporate leadership expenses, captive
insurance company, intermediate financial companies, charges that do not relate
to current operations, divested operations (Federal Cartridge), and
intercompany eliminations. Segment assets exclude all cash and cash
equivalents.

Segment Information:


Segment Geographic Information:

Revenues are attributed to countries based on location of customer. Assets are
based on the geographic location of the subsidiary and have been translated
into US dollars.

In evaluating financial performance, management focuses on operating income as
a segment’s measure of profit or loss. Operating income is before interest
expense, interest income and income taxes. Management uses a variety of
balance sheet ratios to measure the business. The primary focus is on
maximizing the return from each segment’s assets, excluding cash and temporary
investments. The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those
described in the summary of significant accounting policies (Note 1). Most
intersegment sales are component parts and are sold at cost plus an equitable
division of manufacturing and marketing profits. The remaining intercompany
sales are finished product and are sold based on current market pricing to
third parties.


•

For 1999, due to the issuance of Equity in the Fourth Quarter, the sum of the
four quarters’ Earnings per Share does not equal the Total Year Earnings per
Share.

18. Disclosure of Risks and Uncertainties

Pentair, Inc. is engaged principally in the design, engineering, and
manufacturing of various industrial products. The diversified businesses
manufacture woodworking equipment, power tools, vehicle service equipment,
pumps, water conditioning control valves, industrial lubrication systems and
material dispensing equipment, and enclosures for electrical and electronic
equipment.

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

The Company has retained certain obligations of discontinued and divested
businesses. Based on evaluations by management and environmental
professionals, amounts for currently estimable and probable risks or
obligations have been accrued.

Although the individual subsidiaries deal with major customers throughout North
America and Europe, Pentair as a whole has mitigated any significant impact or
potential risk of concentration of customers or products, or in certain markets
or geographic areas. This is due to the diversified nature of the Company and
its product lines.

19. Earnings Per Share

In 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (FAS)
No. 128, “Earnings per Share”. The following table reflects the calculation of
basic and diluted earnings per share.


20. Accounting
Developments

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”) issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 133, “Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities.” The FASB subsequently issued
SFAS No. 137 delaying the effective date for one year, to fiscal years
beginning after June 15, 2000. The Company must adopt this standard no later
than January 1, 2001. The Company is reviewing the requirements of this
standard, which are quite complex. Although the Company expects that this
standard will not materially affect its financial position and results of
operations, it has not yet determined the impact of this standard on its
financial statements.


Independent Auditors’ Report

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Pentair, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pentair, Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders’ equity, cash flows, and comprehensive
income for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at
Item 14. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on the financial statements and the financial statement schedule
based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Pentair, Inc. and subsidiaries at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our
opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the
basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

Deloitte & Touche LLP

Minneapolis, Minnesota

February 2, 2000

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

None.

PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

Information regarding nominees and directors appearing under “Election of
Directors” in the Pentair, Inc. Notice of Annual Meeting of Shareholders and
Proxy Statement for the April 2000 annual shareholders’ meeting (the “2000
Proxy Statement”) is hereby incorporated by reference. Information regarding
executive officers is set forth in Item 1 of Part I of this report.

Item 11. Executive Compensation.

Information appearing under “Election of Directors” and “Executive
Compensation” in the 2000 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.

Information appearing under “Security Ownership of Management and Beneficial
Ownership” in the 2000 Proxy Statement is hereby incorporated by reference.


Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

No relationships or transactions existed or occurred during the last year that
require disclosure under Item 13.

PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K.

(a) Financial Statements and Exhibits.

1. List of Financial Statements

The following consolidated financial statements of Pentair, Inc. and
subsidiaries are included in Item 8 or

Part II:

3. List of Exhibits

The following exhibits are either included in this report or incorporated
by reference as indicated below:

Exhibit

Number

Description

(3.1)

Second Restated Articles of Incorporation as amended through June 14,
1999. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company’s Amendment
1 to Registration Statement on Form S-3 dated July 16, 1999).

(3.2)

Second Amended and Superseding By-Laws as amended through July 21, 1995.
(Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the Company’s Form 10-Q for
the quarter ended June 30, 1995).

(4.1)

Rights Agreement as of July 21, 1995 between Norwest Bank N.A. and
Pentair, Inc. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company’s
Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1995).


The Corporation agrees to furnish a copy of any other documents with respect to
long-term debt instruments of the Corporation and its subsidiaries upon
request.


•

Denotes management contract or compensatory plan.

EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit

Number

Description

(21)

Subsidiaries of Registrant.

(23)

Consent of Deloitte & Touche LLP.

(24)

Power of Attorney (see Signature Page)

(27)

Financial Data Schedule.

Exhibit 27 has been excluded from the printed version.

(b) Reports on Form 8-K.

A report on Form 8-K was filed on October 4, 1999 regarding completion of a
common stock and a debt offering.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PENTAIR, INC.

(Registrant)

Dated: March 10, 2000,

By /s/ David D. Harrison

David D. Harrison

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

POWER OF ATTORNEY

KNOW ALL MEN BY THESE PRESENTS that the undersigned directors of Pentair,
Inc., a Minnesota corporation, hereby constitute and appoint Louis L. Ainsworth
his/her attorney-in-fact and agent, with full power of substitution, for the
purpose of signing on his/her behalf as a director of Pentair, Inc. the Annual
Report on Form 10-K, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission
within the next sixty days, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and
other supporting documents, with the Commission, granting unto such
attorney-in-fact, full power and authority to do and perform any and all acts
necessary or incidental to the performance and execution of the powers herein
expressly granted.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has also been signed by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



SCHEDULE II — VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES

PENTAIR, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

(Thousands of Dollars)

Balance

(A)

At

Charged

Changes

Balance

Beginning

to Costs

Add

At End

Description

of Period

and Expenses

Deductions

(Deduct)

of Period

Allowance for doubtful accounts

Year Ended December 31


$

10,858

$

5,490

$

2,918

$

4,145

$

17,575


12,446

1,686

4,068


10,858


7,348

2,406

1,687

4,379

12,446

(A) Primarily assumed or established in connection with acquisitions.

53