10-K


f84358e10vk.htm

FORM 10-K DATED 7/27/2002

Cisco Systems, Inc.

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(Mark one)

[X]

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended July 27, 2002

OR

[   ]

TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES

EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ________ to ________

Commission file number 0-18225

CISCO SYSTEMS, INC.

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

California

77-0059951

(State or other jurisdiction of

incorporation or organization)

(IRS Employer

Identification No.)

170 West Tasman Drive

San Jose, California

95134-1706

(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code: (408) 526-4000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:      None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

Common stock, $0.001 par value

Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.   
Yes  [X]      No    [     ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to the
best of Registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K.[     ]

As of August 23, 2002, 7,285,904,553 shares of Registrant’s common stock were
outstanding. The approximate aggregate market value of voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the Registrant was $103,281,833,311 (based upon the closing
price for shares of the Registrant’s common stock as reported by
the Nasdaq National Market on that date).

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

(1)  Portions of the Registrant’s Annual Report to Shareholders for its fiscal
year ended July 27, 2002 are incorporated by reference into Part I and Part II
of this Annual Report on Form 10-K where indicated.

(2)  Portions of the Registrant’s Proxy Statement relating to the Registrant’s
2002 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 19, 2002, are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K where indicated.


PART I

ITEM 1. Business

General

This Annual Report on Form 10-K
(“Report”), including the “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations” which is incorporated by reference from Cisco’s
2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, contains forward-looking statements
regarding future events and the future results of Cisco that are based on
current expectations, estimates, forecasts, and projections about the
industries in which Cisco operates and the beliefs and assumptions of the
management of Cisco. Words such as ‘expects,’ ‘anticipates,’ ‘targets,’
‘goals,’ ‘projects,’ ‘intends,’ ‘plans,’ ‘believes,’ ‘seeks,’ ‘estimates,’
variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such
forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements are only
predictions and are subject to risks, uncertainties, and assumptions that are
difficult to predict. Therefore, actual results may differ materially and
adversely from those expressed in any forward-looking statements. Factors that
might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to,
those discussed in this Report under the section entitled “Risk Factors” and
elsewhere, and in other reports Cisco files with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (“SEC”), specifically the most recent reports on Form 8-K and Form
10-Q, each as it may be amended from time to time. Cisco undertakes no obligation to revise or
update publicly any forward-looking statements for any reason.

Cisco Systems, Inc. (“Cisco”) manufactures and sells networking and
communications products and provides services associated with that equipment
and its use. Its products are installed at corporations, public institutions,
and telecommunication companies, and are also found in small and medium-sized
commercial enterprises. Cisco provides a broad line of products for
transporting data, voice, and video within buildings, across campuses, or
around the world. Cisco conducts its business globally and is managed
geographically in four segments: the Americas; Europe, the Middle East, and
Africa (“EMEA”); Asia Pacific; and Japan (see Note 12, “Segment Information and
Major Customers,” on pages 46 and 47 of Cisco’s 2002 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference herein).

Cisco was incorporated in California in December 1984 and is headquartered in
San Jose. Cisco’s headquarters mailing address is 170 West Tasman Drive, San
Jose, California, 95134-1706, and the telephone number at that location is
(408) 526-4000. The Cisco Web site is www.cisco.com.

Products and Services

Cisco sells scalable, standards-based networking products that cover a wide
range of customers’ networking needs. Cisco’s products and services help
customers build their own network infrastructure while also providing tools to
allow them to communicate with their customers, prospects, business partners,
suppliers, and employees.

Products are used individually or in combinations to connect computing devices
to networks or computer networks with each other — whether they are within a
building, across a campus, or around the world. Cisco’s breadth of product and
service offerings enables it to offer a wide


range of products and services to meet customer requirements. Cisco also
provides products and services that allow customers to transition their various
networks to a single multiservice data, voice, and video network.

Over time, Cisco believes that the Internet and the various networks associated
with it, including but not limited to corporate intranets, cable, broadband and
dialup networks, and voice and video networks, will converge into a “network of
networks.” In that environment, the successful vendors will be those capable
of providing an end-to-end spectrum of products aimed not at a particular
technology platform but at solutions to networking problems which cut across
the segmentation that currently defines the industry. As such, a large part of
Cisco’s strategic initiatives and investments is aimed at meeting the
requirements that such a network of networks would demand. For a discussion of
the risks associated with that strategy, please see the portion of this Report
entitled “Risk Factors,” including but not limited to the risk factor entitled,

“We depend upon the development of new products and enhancements to existing
products and are subject to rapid changes in technology and the market.”

Cisco’s offerings fall into several categories:

Routing

Routing is a foundation technology for computer networking. Routers
interconnect computer networks and move information from one network to
another. Cisco’s routing products offer features to increase security of
transmissions and increase efficiency in use of transmission capacity. We
offer a broad range of routers from core backbone infrastructure to small
office deployments. In addition, Cisco’s storage networking products offer
customers a variety of options in accessing and interconnecting storage
networks that can be shared and managed globally.

Switching

Switching is another integral networking technology that is used in both
local-area networks (“LANs”) and wide-area networks (WANs). Cisco’s switching
products are designed to help users migrate from traditional shared LANs to
fully switched networks. Cisco solutions employ several widely used switching
technologies, including Ethernet, Gigabit Ethernet, Token Ring, and
Asynchronous Transfer Mode (ATM).

Access

Cisco access products give remotely located groups and individuals similar
levels of connectivity and information access to achieve seamless connections
for users whether they are located at a company’s head office or at home or
while they are traveling. Asynchronous and integrated services digital network
(ISDN) remote-access routers, dialup access servers, wireless solutions,
digital subscriber line (DSL) technologies, and cable universal broadband
routers provide telecommuters, mobile workers, and students with remote network
access.


Other Products

Other Cisco offerings include the following products:

IP Telephony

Cisco provides IP telephony products for transmitting voice communications over
a network using an open, standards-based Internet Protocol. Cisco’s IP
telephony products use a single network infrastructure for the transmission of
data, voice, and video traffic to deliver IP voice and fully integrated
communications. IP telephony products provide a seamless migration to full IP
communications by interoperating with existing systems.

Internet Network Service and Security

Cisco offers Internet network products and services to improve a network
manager’s ability to cope with challenges posed by the popularity of the
Internet, such as network traffic volume and network address shortages. Cisco
seeks to achieve architectural consistency by focusing on standards-based
services between clients and servers such as end-to-end quality of service
(“QoS”) and end-to-end security.

Optical Networking

Cisco provides optical networking products for both the enterprise and service
provider markets. Advances in next-generation Synchronous Optical
Network/Synchronous Digital Hierarchy (SONET/SDH) provide an evolutionary path
for telecommunications carriers from their existing infrastructures, as well as
giving newer carriers and enterprises the capability to deploy cost-effective,
multiservice networks. Cisco also uses optical technologies such as dense wave
division multiplexing (DWDM) and coarse wave division multiplexing (CWDM) to
scale optical bandwidth as high-bandwidth applications, such as Gigabit
Ethernet and storage, to become more commonplace.

Network Management Software

Cisco’s network management offerings are built around CiscoWorks software, a
family of management applications based on Internet standards. These tools are
designed to enable customers to better secure, monitor, and manage large,
complex networks. For service providers, Cisco Internet OSS is a foundation and
framework designed for next-generation, Internet Protocol (“IP”)-based services
and packet network infrastructure. Cisco Internet OSS provides management
enablement of intelligent network services.

The technologies offered in conjunction with product offerings are Cisco AVVID
and Cisco IOS® Software. Cisco AVVID provides an intelligent network
infrastructure for Internet business solutions and consists of several
architectural building blocks for key Internet services. Cisco IOS Software is
a common networking software platform deployed across a broad spectrum of Cisco
products.


Service

In addition to its product offerings, Cisco provides a broad range of service
offerings, including technical maintenance support and consultative services,
to assist customers in building and maintaining high-availability networks, in
knowledge transfer, and in building customer satisfaction. Cisco services
provide device-level, network-level, and application-level support for all
stages of the network life cycle. These services help customers and channel
partners by assisting them to deploy new technologies, achieve
high-availability networking, streamline business processes, and reduce
operating costs.

Customers and Markets

Networking needs are influenced by a number of factors, including the size of
the organization, number and types of computer systems, geographic location,
and the applications requiring communications. Cisco’s customer base is not
concentrated in any particular industry and in each of the past three fiscal
years, no single customer has accounted for 10 percent or more of Cisco’s net
sales. For additional information regarding segment information, see Note 12,
“Segment Information and Major Customers,” on pages 46 and 47 of Cisco’s 2002
Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference herein.

Cisco’s customers are primarily in the following markets:

Large Enterprise Businesses

Large enterprise businesses are generally defined as organizations with 500 or
more employees and often have complex networking needs, as well as multiple
locations, and various types of computer systems. Such enterprise customers
include corporations, government agencies, utilities, and educational
institutions. Cisco products for these customers include those designed for
enterprise routing, switching, security, and IP telephony.

Service Providers

Service providers offer data, voice, and/or video communication services to
businesses, governments, utilities, and consumers. They include regional,
national, and international telecommunications carriers, as well as Internet,
cable, and wireless service providers. Many service providers resell Cisco
products to their own residential, enterprise, or commercial customers. These
customers use a variety of Cisco switching, routing, and management products in
their networks. Compared to other end-user customers, service provider
customers are more likely to require network design services, and their
business is characterized by long design cycles. Historically, service
providers relied on equipment suppliers to take greater responsibility for
implementation of turnkey solutions or to act as prime contractors in deploying
network solutions, with implications for timing of revenue recognition. The
large number of new entrants to this business in the late 1990s, and the
eventual lack of sufficient customer demand for telecommunications services to
meet the business plans of all entrants, has led to a condition of oversupply,
leading many service providers to cease operations, and the remaining


companies, particularly in the United States, to significantly reduce projected
and actual technology-related capital expenditures.

Commercial

Commercial customers, primarily small and medium-sized businesses, have fewer
than 500 employees and a need for networks of their own, as well as connection
to the Internet and to business partners. However, these customers generally
have limited resources and expertise in networking technology. Therefore,
Cisco attempts to provide products that are affordable and easy to install and
use. The commercial market remains an area of potential growth for network
adoption and deployment of intelligent network solutions. The emerging
markets, which include network security, mobility, and converged voice and data
solutions, are of specific interest to small and medium-sized businesses. Cisco
also works to set standards for the consumer market through the Internet Home
Alliance.

Cisco Sales Overview

Cisco’s worldwide sales and marketing organization, at July 27, 2002, consisted
of approximately 14,000 individuals, including managers, sales representatives,
and technical support personnel. Cisco has field sales offices in more than 60
countries and sells its products and services both directly and through channel
partners with support from its sales force. Channel partners include
distributors, value-added resellers, system integrators, and service providers.
The system integrators and value-added resellers buying through distributors
often provide system installation, technical support, and follow-up services to
the end customers. For additional information regarding Cisco’s sales, see
Note 12, “Segment Information and Major Customers,” on pages 46 and 47 of
Cisco’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference
herein.

Cisco’s service offerings complement its products via a range of consulting,
technical, project, quality, and maintenance support-level services including
24x7 online and telephone support through technical assistance centers.

Cisco Systems Capital Corporation facilitates and provides lease and other
financing to certain qualified customers for the purchase of equipment and
other needs. For additional information regarding Cisco Systems Capital
Corporation’s financing activities, see Note 6, “Lease Receivables, Net,” on
page 37 of Cisco’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by
reference herein.


Acquisitions, Investments, and Alliances

The markets in which Cisco competes require a wide variety of technologies,
products, and capabilities. The combination of complexity and rapid change
make it difficult for one company, no matter how large, to develop all
technological solutions alone. Through acquisitions, investments, and
alliances Cisco is able to deliver products and services to customers in target
markets.

Cisco employs the following strategies to satisfy the need for new or enhanced
networking products and solutions: develop new technologies and products
internally; enter into joint-development efforts with other companies; resell
another company’s product; or acquire all or part of another company.

Acquisitions

Since 1993, Cisco has acquired a number of companies and Cisco expects to make
future acquisitions. Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are
inherently risky, especially if no product has been shipped by the acquired
company. No assurance can be given that Cisco’s previous or future acquisitions
will be successful or will not materially adversely affect its financial
condition or operating results. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide
range of outcomes, from successful introduction of new products and
technologies to an inability to do so. The risks associated with acquisitions
are more fully discussed in the “Risk Factors” section contained in Item 1 of
this Report.

Investments in Privately Held Companies

Cisco makes minority investments in privately held companies that develop
technology or provide services that are complementary to Cisco products or
provide strategic value. By investing in new ventures, Cisco strengthens its
relationships with such companies. The risks associated with acquisitions are
more fully discussed in the “Risk Factors” section contained in Item 1 of this
Report.

Strategic Alliances

Cisco pursues strategic alliances with other companies in areas where
collaboration can produce industry advancement and acceleration of new markets.
The objectives and goals for a strategic alliance can include one or more of
the following: technology exchange, product and solution development, joint
sales and marketing, or new-market creation. Currently, Cisco has entered into
strategic alliances with Callisma, Cap Gemini/Ernst & Young, EDS,
Hewlett-Packard/Compaq, IBM, Intel, Italtel, KPMG Consulting, Microsoft,
Motorola, Oracle, Sony, and Sun Microsystems, among others.


Backlog

Cisco’s backlog at September 9, 2002 was
approximately $1.4 billion, compared
with a backlog of approximately $2.0 billion at September 14, 2001. We include
in backlog only orders confirmed with a purchase order for products to be
shipped within 90 days to customers with approved credit status. Because of
the generally short cycle between order and shipment and occasional customer
changes in delivery schedules or cancellation of orders (which are made without
significant penalty), Cisco does not believe that its backlog, as of any
particular date, is necessarily indicative of actual net sales for any future
period.

Competition

Cisco competes in the networking and communications equipment markets,
providing products and services for transporting data, voice, and video traffic
across intranets, extranets, and the Internet. The market is characterized by
rapid change, converging technologies, and a migration to networking solutions
that offer superior advantages. These market factors represent both an
opportunity and a competitive threat to Cisco. Cisco competes with numerous
vendors in each product category. The overall number of competitors providing
niche product solutions may increase due to the market’s long-term attractive
growth.

Cisco’s competitors include 3Com, Alcatel, Avaya, Avici, Check Point Software,
Ciena, Dell, Ericsson, Enterasys, Extreme Networks, Foundry Networks, Fujitsu,
Huawei, Juniper, Lucent, Marconi, Nokia, Nortel Networks, Redback Networks,
Riverstone, Siemens AG, and Sycamore Networks, among others. Some of these
companies compete across many of Cisco’s product lines, while others are
primarily focused in a specific product area. Barriers to entry are relatively
low, and new ventures to create products that do or could compete with Cisco’s
products are regularly formed. In addition, several of Cisco’s current and
potential competitors may have greater resources, including technical and
engineering resources, than it does.

The principal competitive factors in the markets in which we presently compete
and may compete in the future include:

Cisco also faces competition from customers to whom it licenses or supplies
technology and suppliers from whom it transfers technology. The inherent
nature of networking requires interoperability. As such, we must cooperate and
at the same time compete with many


companies. Any inability of Cisco to effectively manage these complicated
relationships with customers and suppliers, or the uncontrollable and
unpredictable acts of others, could have a material adverse effect on its
business, operating results, and financial condition and accordingly affect its
chances of success.

Research and Development

Cisco regularly seeks to introduce new products and features in areas
including, among others, data, voice, and video over IP; advanced access and
aggregation technologies such as cable, wireless and other broadband
technologies; advanced enterprise switching; optical transport; storage
networking; content networking; security; network management; and advanced core
and edge routing technologies.

The industry in which Cisco competes is subject to rapid technological
developments, evolving industry standards, changes in customer requirements,
and new product introductions and enhancements. As a result, Cisco’s success,
in part, depends upon its ability, on a cost-effective and timely basis, to
continue to enhance its existing products and to develop and introduce new
products that improve performance and reduce total cost of ownership. In order
to achieve these objectives, Cisco’s management and engineering personnel work
with customers to identify and respond to customer needs, as well as with other
innovators of internetworking products, including universities, laboratories,
and corporations. Cisco also expects to continue to make acquisitions and
investments where appropriate. Cisco intends to work to achieve products that
meet key industry standards and to continue to support important protocol
standards as they emerge. Still, there can be no assurance that Cisco will be
able to successfully develop products to address new customer requirements and
technological changes, or that such products will achieve market acceptance.

Cisco’s research and development expenditures were $3.4 billion, $3.9 billion,
and $2.7 billion in fiscal 2002, 2001, and 2000, respectively. All of Cisco’s
expenditures for research and development costs, as well as in-process research
and development of $65 million, $855 million, and $1.4 billion in fiscal 2002,
2001, and 2000, respectively, have been expensed as incurred.

Manufacturing

Cisco primarily employs an outsourced manufacturing strategy that relies on
contract manufacturers for manufacturing services. Cisco’s manufacturing
operations primarily consist of quality assurance of materials and components,
subassemblies, final assembly and test of products. We presently use a variety
of independent third-party companies to provide services related to printed
circuit board assembly, in-circuit test, and product repair as well as product
assembly. Cisco and its suppliers install proprietary software on
electronically programmable memory chips installed in its systems in order to
configure products to customer needs and to maintain quality control and
security. The manufacturing process enables Cisco to configure the hardware
and software in unique combinations to meet a wide variety of individual
customer requirements. Cisco also uses automated testing equipment and
burn-in procedures, as well as comprehensive inspection, testing, and
statistical process control, to ensure the quality and reliability of its
products. Cisco and its partners’ manufacturing processes and procedures are


generally ISO 9001 or ISO 9003 certified.

Patents, Intellectual Property, and Licensing

Cisco seeks to establish and maintain its proprietary rights in its technology
and products through the use of patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade
secret laws. Cisco has a program to file applications for and obtain patents,
copyrights, and trademarks in the United States and in selected foreign
countries where it believes filing for such protection is appropriate. Cisco
also seeks to maintain its trade secrets and confidential information by
non-disclosure policies and through the use of appropriate confidentiality
agreements. Cisco has obtained a substantial number of patents in the United
States and in other countries. The existence of patents does not mean,
however, that these patents are valid or can be enforced against competitive
products in every jurisdiction. Although Cisco believes the protection afforded
by its patents, patent applications, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets
has value, the rapidly changing technology in the networking industry and
uncertainties in the legal process makes Cisco’s future success dependent
primarily on the innovative skills, technological expertise, and management
abilities of its employees rather than on the protection afforded by patent,
copyright, trademark, and trade secret laws.

Many Cisco products are designed to include software or other intellectual
property licensed from third parties. While it may be necessary in the future
to seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of its products, Cisco
believes, based upon past experience and standard industry practice that such
licenses generally could be obtained on commercially reasonable terms.
Nonetheless, there can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be
available on acceptable terms, if at all. The inability of Cisco to obtain
certain licenses or other rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on
favorable terms, or the need to engage in litigation regarding these matters,
could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results, and
financial condition. Moreover, inclusion in Cisco’s products of software or
other intellectual property licensed from third parties on a non-exclusive
basis can limit Cisco’s ability to protect its proprietary rights in its
products.

The industry in which Cisco competes is characterized by rapidly changing
technology, a large number of patents, and frequent claims and related
litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. There can
be no assurance that Cisco’s patents and other proprietary rights will not be
challenged, invalidated or circumvented, that others will not assert
intellectual property rights to technologies that are relevant to Cisco, or
that its rights will give Cisco a competitive advantage in which it competes.
In addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect Cisco’s
proprietary rights to the same extent as the laws of the United States. The
risks associated with patents and intellectual property are more fully
discussed in the “Risk Factors —

Our business depends upon
our proprietary rights, which might prove difficult to enforce, and
there is a risk our products could be held to infringe rights of
third parties

” section
contained in Item 1 of this Report.

Employees

As of July 27, 2002, Cisco has approximately 36,000 employees, including 6,000
in manufacturing and service; 13,000 in engineering; 14,000 in sales and
marketing; and 3,000 in finance and administration. Approximately 10,000
employees are in locations outside the United


States. Cisco considers the relationships with its employees to be positive.
Competition for technical personnel in the industry in which Cisco competes is
intense. Cisco believes that its future success depends in part on its
continued ability to hire, assimilate, and retain qualified personnel. To
date, Cisco believes that it has been successful in recruiting qualified
employees, but there is no assurance that it will continue to be successful in
the future.


Risk Factors

Set forth below and elsewhere in this Report and in other documents we file
with the SEC are risks and uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ materially from the results contemplated by the forward-looking
statements contained in the Report.

OUR OPERATING RESULTS MAY FLUCTUATE IN FUTURE PERIODS

Our operating results have been in the past, and will continue to be, subject
to quarterly and annual fluctuations as a result of a number of factors. These
factors include:

As a consequence, operating results for a particular future period are
difficult to predict, and therefore, prior results are not necessarily
indicative of results to be expected in future periods. Any of the foregoing
factors, or any other factors discussed elsewhere herein, could have a material
adverse effect on our business, results of operations, and financial condition.


OUR BUSINESS MAY BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED BY UNFAVORABLE ECONOMIC AND MARKET
CONDITIONS

Adverse economic conditions worldwide have contributed to slowdowns in the
communications and networking industries and may continue to impact our
business, resulting in:

Recent political turmoil in many parts of the world, including terrorist and
military actions, may continue to put pressure on global economic conditions.
If the economic and market conditions in the United States and globally do not
improve, or if they deteriorate further, we may continue to experience material
adverse impacts on our business, operating results, and financial condition as
a consequence of the above factors or otherwise. We do not expect the trend of
lower capital spending among service providers to reverse itself in the near
term.

OUR DIFFICULTY IN PREDICTING REVENUES MAY HAVE A MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR
OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS

As a result of a variety of factors discussed in this Report, our revenues for
a particular quarter are difficult to predict. Our net sales may grow at a
slower rate than experienced in past periods and, in particular periods, may
decline. Our ability to meet financial expectations could also be adversely
affected if the nonlinear sales pattern seen in certain of our past quarters
recurs in future periods. We have experienced periods of time where shipments
exceeded net bookings, leading to nonlinearity in shipping patterns. This can
increase costs, as irregular shipment patterns result in periods of
underutilized capacity and periods when overtime expenses may be incurred, as
well as leading to additional costs arising out of inventory management.

In addition, to improve customer satisfaction, we continue to attempt to reduce
our manufacturing lead times, which may result in corresponding reductions in
order backlog. A decline in backlog levels could result in more variability
and less predictability in our quarter-to-quarter net sales and operating
results going forward. In the past, long manufacturing lead times caused our
customers to place the same order multiple times within our various sales
channels and cancel the duplicative orders when the product is received from
one of the channels from where it was ordered, or place orders with other
vendors with shorter manufacturing lead times. Such multiple ordering (along
with other factors) may cause difficulty in predicting our sales, and as a
result could impair our ability to manage parts inventory effectively.


We plan our operating expense levels primarily based on forecasted revenue
levels. These expenses and the impact of long-term commitments are relatively
fixed in the short-term. A shortfall in revenue could lead to operating
results being below expectations as we may not be able to quickly reduce these
fixed expenses in response to short-term business changes.

Any of the above factors could have a material adverse impact on our operations
and financial results.

WE EXPECT GROSS MARGIN VARIABILITY OVER TIME

Although we have experienced increasing product gross margins during fiscal
2002, product gross margins may be adversely affected in the future by a number
of factors, including but not limited to:

Changes in service gross margin may result from various factors such as the
changes in mix between technical support and consultative services, as well as
the timing of support contract renewals.

DISRUPTION OF OR CHANGES IN THE MIX OF OUR PRODUCT DISTRIBUTION MODEL OR
CUSTOMER BASE COULD AFFECT SALES AND MARGINS

If we fail to manage distribution of our products and services properly, or if
our distributors’ financial condition or operations weaken, our revenues and
gross margins could be adversely affected. Furthermore, a change in the mix of
our customers between service provider and enterprise, or a change in mix of
direct sales and indirect sales, can adversely affect revenues and gross
margins.

We use a variety of channels to bring our products to our customers, including
system integrators, two-tier distributors who in turn sell to resellers, and
direct sales to both enterprise accounts and service providers. Since each
distribution channel has a distinct profile, the failure


to implement the most advantageous balance in the delivery model for our
products and services could adversely affect our gross margin and, therefore,
profitability.

For example:

We must manage inventory effectively, particularly with respect to sales to
distributors. Distributors may increase orders during periods of product
shortages, cancel orders if their inventory is too high, or delay orders in
anticipation of new products. Distributors also may adjust their orders in
response to the supply of our products and the products of our competitors that
are available to the distributor and to seasonal fluctuations in end-user
demand. If we have excess inventory, we may have to reduce our prices and write
down inventory, which in turn could result in lower gross margins. Our
two-tier distribution channels, in contrast to our one-tier distributors, are
given privileges to return a portion of inventory and participate in various
cooperative marketing programs. In addition, if sales through indirect
channels increase, this may lead to greater difficulty in forecasting the mix
of our products, and to a certain degree, the timing of orders from our
customers. We recognize revenue to two-tier distributors based on information
provided by our distributors and also maintain accruals and allowances for all
cooperative marketing and other programs.

SALES TO THE SERVICE PROVIDER MARKET ARE ESPECIALLY VOLATILE

Sales to the service provider market have been characterized by large and often
sporadic purchases with longer sales cycles. We have experienced significant
decreases in sales to service providers as market conditions have
changed. Sales activity in this industry depends upon the stage of completion
of expanding network infrastructures, the availability of funding, and the
extent that service providers are affected by regulatory, economic, and
business conditions in the country of operations. Continued declines or delays
in sales orders from this industry could have a material adverse effect on our
business, operating results, and financial condition, particularly as we
continue to invest in development of new products aimed at this market segment.
The slowdown in the general economy, over-capacity, changes in the service


provider market, and the constraints on capital availability have had a
material adverse effect on many of our service provider customers, with a
number of such customers going out of business or substantially reducing their
expansion plans. These conditions have had a material adverse effect on our
business and operating results, and we expect that these conditions may
continue for the foreseeable future. Finally, service provider customers
typically have longer design cycles, require a broader range of service,
including design services, demand that vendors take on a larger share of risks,
often have acceptance provisions which can lead to a delay in revenue
recognition and expect financing from vendors. All these factors can add
further risk to business conducted with service providers.

WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON ADEQUATE COMPONENT SUPPLY AND MANUFACTURING CAPACITY

Our growth and ability to meet customer demands also depend in part on our
ability to obtain timely deliveries of parts from our suppliers. We have
experienced component shortages in the past that have adversely affected our
operations. We may in the future experience a short supply of certain component
parts as a result of strong demand in the industry for those parts or problems
experienced by suppliers. If shortages or delays persist, the price of these
components may increase, or the components may not be available at all. We may
not be able to secure enough components at reasonable prices or of acceptable
quality to build new products in a timely manner in the quantities or
configurations needed. Accordingly, our revenues and gross margins could suffer
until other sources can be developed. There can be no assurance that we will
not encounter these problems in the future. Although in many cases we use
standard parts and components for our products, certain components are
presently available only from a single source or limited sources. We may not
be able to diversify sources in a timely manner, which could harm our ability
to deliver products to customers and seriously impact present and future sales.

We believe that we may be faced with the following challenges going forward:

•

New markets that we participate in may grow quickly and thus, consume
significant component capacity;

•

As we continue to acquire companies and new technologies, we are
dependent, at least initially, on unfamiliar supply chains or relatively
small supply partners; and

•

We face competition for certain components, which are supply constrained,
from existing competitors and companies in other markets.

Manufacturing capacity and component supply constraints could be significant
issues for us. We use several contract manufacturers and suppliers to provide
manufacturing services for our products. During the normal course of business,
in order to reduce manufacturing lead times and ensure adequate component
supply, we enter into agreements with certain contract manufacturers and
suppliers that allow them to procure inventory based upon criteria as defined
by us. If we fail to anticipate customer demand properly, an oversupply of
parts could result in excess or obsolete components which could adversely
affect our gross margins. For additional information regarding our purchase
commitments, see Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” on pages


38 to 40 of our 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by
reference herein. A reduction or interruption in supply, a significant
increase in the price of one or more components, a failure to adequately
authorize procurement of inventory by our contract manufacturers, or a decrease
in demand of products could materially adversely affect our business, operating
results and financial condition and could materially damage customer
relationships. Furthermore, as a result of binding price or purchase
commitments with suppliers, we may be obligated to purchase components at
prices that are higher than those available in the current market. In the event
that we become committed to purchase components at prices in excess of the
current market price when the components are actually utilized, our gross
margins could decrease.

The fact that we do not own the bulk of our manufacturing facilities could have
an adverse impact on future products supply and on operating results.
Financial problems of contract manufacturers on whom we rely, or reservation of
capacity by other companies, inside or outside of our industry, could either
limit supply or increase costs.

WE HAVE MANY SUBSTANTIAL COMPETITORS

For additional information regarding our competition, and the risks arising out
of the competitive environment in which we operate, see the section entitled
“Competition” contained in Item 1 of this Report.

WE DEPEND UPON THE DEVELOPMENT OF NEW PRODUCTS AND ENHANCEMENTS TO EXISTING
PRODUCTS AND ARE SUBJECT TO RAPID CHANGES IN TECHNOLOGY AND THE MARKET

The markets for our products are characterized by rapidly changing technology,
evolving industry standards, new product introductions, and evolving methods of
building and operating networks. Our operating results depend on our ability
to develop and introduce new products into existing and emerging markets and to
reduce the costs to produce existing products. As we have indicated in Part 1
of this Report, we believe the Internet and other data, voice and video
networks are evolving into a “network of networks” which will require common
technology platforms and broad end-to-end solutions for particular applications
rather than products aimed at particular market segments. In that
environment,
customers will be more concerned with overall solutions rather than with
whether the solution is built around a particular technology, such as routing
or switching. The process of developing new technology is complex and
uncertain, and if we fail to accurately predict customers’ changing needs and
emerging technological trends, our business could be harmed. We must commit
significant resources to develop new products before knowing whether our
investments will result in products the market will accept. In particular, if
the “network of networks” does not emerge as we believe it will, many of our
investments may prove to be without value. Furthermore, we may not execute
successfully on that vision because of errors in product planning or timing,
technical hurdles which we fail to overcome in timely fashion, or because of
lack of appropriate resources. This could result in competitors providing
those solutions before we do, and loss of market share, revenues and earnings.
The success of new products is dependent on several factors, including proper
new product definition, component costs, timely completion and introduction of
these products,


differentiation of new products from those of our competitors, and market
acceptance of these products. There can be no assurance that we will
successfully identify new product opportunities, develop and bring new products
to market in a timely manner, and achieve market acceptance of our products, or
that products and technologies developed by others will not render our products
or technologies obsolete or noncompetitive.

OUR BUSINESS SUBSTANTIALLY DEPENDS UPON THE CONTINUED GROWTH OF THE INTERNET
AND INTERNET-BASED SYSTEMS; CHANGES IN INDUSTRY STRUCTURE COULD LEAD TO PRODUCT
DISCONTINUANCES

A substantial portion of our business and revenue depends on growth of the
Internet and on the deployment of our products by customers that depend on the
continued growth of the Internet. As a result of the economic slowdown and the
reduction in capital spending, which has particularly affected
telecommunications service providers, spending on Internet infrastructure has
declined, which has had a material adverse effect on our business. To the
extent that the economic slowdown and reduction in capital spending continue to
adversely affect spending on Internet infrastructure, we could continue to
experience material adverse effects on our business, operating results, and
financial condition.

Because of the rapid introduction of new products, and changing customer
requirements related to matters such as cost-effectiveness and security, we
believe that there could be certain performance problems with Internet
communications in the future, which could receive a high degree of publicity
and visibility. As we are a large supplier of networking products, we may be
materially adversely affected, regardless of whether or not these problems are
due to the performance of our own products. Such an event could also result in
a material adverse effect on the market price of our common stock independent
of direct effects on our business, and could materially adversely affect our
business, operating results, and financial condition.

In response to changes in industry and market conditions, we may be required to
strategically realign our resources and consider restructuring, disposing of,
or otherwise, exiting businesses. Any decision to limit investment in or to
dispose of or otherwise, exit businesses may result in the recording of special
charges, such as inventory and technology related write-offs and workforce
reduction costs, or claims from third parties who were resellers or users of
discontinued products. Estimates with respect to the useful life or ultimate
recoverability of our carrying basis of assets, including purchased intangible
assets, could change as a result of such assessments and decisions.
Additionally, we are required to perform goodwill impairment tests on an annual
basis and between annual tests in certain circumstances. There can be no
assurance that future goodwill impairment tests will not result in a charge to
earnings.


WE EXPECT TO MAKE FUTURE ACQUISITIONS; ACQUISITIONS INVOLVE NUMEROUS RISKS

Our growth is dependent upon market growth, our ability to enhance our existing
products, and our ability to introduce new products on a timely basis. We have
and will continue to address the need to develop new products through
acquisitions of other companies and technologies, including the personnel such
acquisitions may bring to us. Acquisitions involve numerous risks, including
the following:

Acquisitions may also cause us to:

Mergers and acquisitions of high-technology companies are inherently risky, and
no assurance can be given that our previous or future acquisitions will be
successful and will not materially adversely affect our business, operating
results, or financial condition. Failure to manage and successfully integrate
acquisitions we make could harm our business and operating results in a
material way. Prior acquisitions have resulted in a wide range of outcomes,
from successful introduction of new products and technologies to an inability
to do so. Even when an acquired company has already developed and marketed
products, there can be no assurance that product enhancements will be made in a
timely fashion or that all preacquisition due diligence will have identified
all possible issues that might arise with respect to such products.

From time to time, we have made acquisitions that result in in-process research
and development expenses being charged in an individual quarter. These charges
may occur in any particular quarter resulting in variability in our quarterly
earnings.


See also the discussion of risks related to new product development, which also
applies to acquisitions, above under the risk factor entitled,

“We depend upon
the development of new products and enhancements to existing products and are
subject to rapid changes in technology and the market.”

THE ENTRANCE INTO NEW OR DEVELOPING MARKETS EXPOSES OUR BUSINESS AND OPERATIONS
TO RISKS

As we focus on new market opportunities, such as transporting data, voice, and
video traffic across the same network, we will increasingly compete with large
telecommunications equipment suppliers as well as startup companies. Several
of our current and potential competitors may have greater resources, including
technical and engineering resources, than we do. Additionally, as customers in
these markets complete infrastructure deployments, they may require greater
levels of service, support, and financing than we have provided in the past. We
expect that demand for these types of service or financing contracts may
increase in the future. There can be no assurance that we can provide
products, service, support, and financing to effectively compete for these
market opportunities. Further, provision of greater levels of services by us
may result in a delay in the timing of revenue recognition.

PRODUCT QUALITY PROBLEMS COULD LEAD TO REDUCED REVENUES AND GROSS MARGINS

We produce highly complex products which incorporate leading-edge technology,
including both hardware and software. Software typically contains “bugs” which
can unexpectedly interfere with expected operations. There can be no assurance
that our pre-shipment testing programs will be adequate to detect all defects —
either in individual products or which could affect numerous shipments — which
might interfere with customer satisfaction, reduce sales opportunities, or
affect gross margins if the cost of remedying the problems exceeded reserves
established for that purpose. In the past, we have had to recall certain
components. While the cost of such recalls was not material, there can be no
assurance that such a recall, depending on the product involved, would not have
a material impact. An inability to cure a product defect could result in the
failure of a product line, and withdrawal, at least temporarily from a product
or market segment, damage to our reputation, inventory costs, product
reengineering expenses, and a material impact on revenues and margins.

THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE COMPETE AND THE INDUSTRIES IN WHICH OUR CUSTOMERS
COMPETE, ARE SUBJECT TO CONSOLIDATION

There has been a trend toward industry consolidation in our markets for several
years. We expect this trend toward industry consolidation to continue as
companies attempt to strengthen or hold their market positions in an evolving
industry. We believe that industry consolidation may result in stronger
competitors that are better able to compete as sole-source vendors for
customers. This could lead to more variability in operating results and could
have a material adverse effect on our business, operating results, and
financial condition. Furthermore, particularly in the service provider market,
rapid consolidation will lead to fewer customers, with


the effect that loss of a major customer could have a material impact on
results not anticipated in a customer marketplace comprised of more numerous
participants.

OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO RISKS FROM GLOBAL OPERATIONS

We conduct significant sales and customer support operations in countries
outside of the United States and also depend on non-U.S. operations of our
contract manufacturers and our distribution partners. For fiscal 2002, we
derived 46% of our revenues from sales outside the United States.
Accordingly, our future results could be materially adversely affected by a
variety of uncontrollable and changing factors including, among others, foreign
currency exchange rates; political or social unrest or economic instability in
a specific country or region; trade protection measures and other regulatory
requirements which may affect our ability to import or export our products from
various countries; service provider and government spending patterns affected
by political considerations; difficulties in staffing and managing
international operations; and adverse tax consequences, including imposition
of withholding or other taxes on payments by subsidiaries. Any or all of these
factors could have a material adverse impact on our future business.

WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES

Because a significant portion of our business is conducted outside the United
States, we face exposure to adverse movements in non-U.S. currency exchange
rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and
could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows.
Historically, our primary exposures have related to non-dollar-denominated
sales in Japan, Canada, and Australia, and certain non-dollar-denominated
operating expenses in Europe, Latin America, and Asia, where we sell primarily
in U.S. dollars. Additionally, we have exposures to emerging market currencies
which can have extreme currency volatility. An increase in the value of the
dollar could increase the real cost to our customers of our products in those
markets outside the United States where we sell in dollars, and a weakened
dollar could increase the cost of local operating expenses and procurement of
raw materials to the extent we must purchase components in foreign currencies.

Currently, we hedge only those currency exposures associated with certain
assets and liabilities denominated in nonfunctional currencies and periodically
will hedge anticipated foreign currency cash flows. The hedging activities
undertaken by us are intended to offset the impact of currency fluctuations on
certain nonfunctional currency assets and liabilities. Our attempts to hedge
against these risks may not be successful resulting in an adverse impact on our
net income.


WE ARE EXPOSED TO THE CREDIT RISK OF SOME OF OUR CUSTOMERS AND TO CREDIT
EXPOSURES IN WEAKENED MARKETS

Most of our sales are on an “open credit” basis, with payment terms of 30 days
typically in the United States, and, because of local customs or conditions,
longer in some markets outside the United States. We monitor individual
customer payment capability in granting such open credit arrangements, seek to
limit such open credit to amounts we believe the customers can pay, and
maintain reserves we believe are adequate to cover exposure for doubtful
accounts. Beyond our open credit arrangements, we have also experienced
demands for customer financing and facilitation of leasing arrangements. We
expect demand for customer financing to continue. We believe customer
financing is a competitive factor in obtaining business, particularly in
supplying customers involved in significant infrastructure projects. Our loan
financing arrangements may include not only financing the acquisition of our
products but also providing additional funds for other costs associated with
network installation and integration of our products and for working capital
purposes.

Because of the current slowdown in the global economy, our exposure to the
credit risks relating to our financing activities described above have
increased. Although we have programs in place to monitor and mitigate the
associated risk, including monitoring of particular risks in certain geographic
areas, there can be no assurance that such programs will be effective in
reducing our credit risks. There have been significant bankruptcies among
customers both on open credit and with loan or lease financing arrangements,
particularly among Internet businesses and service providers, causing us to
incur economic or financial losses. There can be no assurance that, should
economic conditions not improve, additional losses would not be incurred, and
that such losses would not be material. Although these losses have not been
material to date, future losses, if incurred, could harm our business and have
a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition.

A portion of our sales is derived through our resellers in two-tier
distribution channels. These resellers/customers are generally given
privileges to return a portion of inventory, receive credits for changes in
selling prices, and participate in various cooperative marketing programs. We
maintain estimated accruals and allowances for such exposures. However, such
resellers tend to have more limited financial resources than other resellers
and end-user customers and therefore, represent potential sources of increased
credit risk because they may be more likely to lack the reserve resources to
meet payment obligations.

OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS UPON OUR PROPRIETARY RIGHTS, WHICH MIGHT PROVE DIFFICULT
TO ENFORCE, AND THERE IS A RISK OUR PRODUCTS COULD BE HELD TO INFRINGE RIGHTS
OF THIRD PARTIES

We generally rely on patents, copyrights, trademarks, and trade secret laws to
establish and maintain proprietary rights in our technology and products.
While we have been issued a number of patents and other patent applications are
currently pending, there can be no assurance, that any of these patents will
not be challenged, invalidated, or circumvented, or that any rights granted
under these patents will in fact provide competitive advantages to us. In
addition, there can be no assurance that patents will be issued from pending
applications, or that claims allowed


on any future patents will be sufficiently broad to protect our technology. In
addition, the laws of some foreign countries may not protect our proprietary
rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States. If we are
unable to protect our proprietary rights in a market we may find ourselves at a
competitive disadvantage to others who do not have to incur the substantial
expense, time and effort required to create the innovative products which have
enabled us to be successful.

From time to time, third parties have asserted exclusive patent, copyright,
trademark and other intellectual property rights to technologies and related
standards that are relevant to us. These assertions have increased over time
as a result of our growth and the general increase in the pace of patent claims
assertions, particularly in the United States. Because of the existence of a
large number of patents in the networking field, the secrecy of some pending
patents and the rapid rate of issuance of new patents, it is not economically
practical nor even possible to determine in advance whether a product or any of
its components infringe or will infringe the patent rights of others. Third
parties, including customers, have asserted claims and/or initiated litigation,
and may in the future assert claims or initiate litigation, against us or our
manufacturers, suppliers, or customers, alleging infringement of their
proprietary rights with respect to our existing or future products or
components of those products. Regardless of the merit of these claims, they
can be time-consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical
and management personnel, or require us to develop a non-infringing technology
or enter into license agreements; where claims are made by customers,
resistance even to unmeritorious claims could damage customer relationships.
There can be no assurance that licenses will be available on acceptable terms
and conditions, if at all, in all such circumstances, or that our
indemnification by their suppliers will be adequate to cover their costs if a
claim were brought directly against us or our customers. If any infringement
or other intellectual property claim made against us by any third party is
successful, or if we fail to develop non-infringing technology or license the
proprietary rights on commercially reasonable terms and conditions, our
business, operating results and financial condition could be materially and
adversely affected.

Many of our products are designed to include software or other intellectual
property licensed from third parties. It may be necessary in the future to
seek or renew licenses relating to various aspects of these products. There
can be no assurance that the necessary licenses would be available on
acceptable terms, if at all. The inability to obtain certain licenses or other
rights or to obtain such licenses or rights on favorable terms, or the need to
engage in litigation regarding these matters, could have a material adverse
effect on our business, operating results, and financial condition. Moreover,
the inclusion in our products of software or other intellectual property
licensed from third parties on a non-exclusive basis could limit our ability to
protect our proprietary rights in our products.


WE FACE RISKS FROM THE UNCERTAINTIES OF REGULATION OF THE INTERNET

Currently, few laws or regulations apply directly to access or commerce on the
Internet. We could be materially adversely affected by regulation of the
Internet and Internet commerce in any country where we operate. Such
regulations could include matters such as voice over the Internet or using
Internet Protocol, encryption technology, and access charges for Internet
service providers. Our business could be materially adversely affected by the
changes in the regulations surrounding the telecommunications industry. The
adoption of regulation of the Internet and Internet commerce could decrease
demand for our products, and at the same time increase the cost of selling our
products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results, and financial condition.

OUR SUCCESS LARGELY DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO RETAIN AND RECRUIT KEY PERSONNEL

Our success has always depended in large part on our ability to attract and
retain highly skilled technical, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel.
In spite of the economic slowdown, competition for these personnel is intense,
especially in the Silicon Valley area of Northern California. Volatility or
lack of positive performance in our stock price may also adversely affect our
ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been granted stock options.
The loss of services of any of our key personnel, the inability to retain and
attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required
personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it
difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product
introductions. In addition, companies in the networking industry whose
employees accept positions with competitors frequently claim that competitors
have engaged in improper hiring practices. We have received these claims in
the past and may receive additional claims to this effect in the future.

WE FACE CERTAIN LITIGATION RISKS

We are a party to lawsuits in the normal course of our business. Litigation
can be expensive, lengthy, and disruptive to normal business operations.
Moreover, the results of complex legal proceedings are difficult to predict.
An unfavorable resolution of a particular lawsuit could have a material adverse
effect on our business, operating results, or financial condition. For
additional information regarding certain of the lawsuits in which we are
involved, see Item 3, “Legal Proceedings,” contained in Part I of this Report.

CHANGES IN EFFECTIVE TAX RATES COULD AFFECT OUR RESULTS

Our future effective tax rates could be adversely affected by earnings being
lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory rates,
changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, or by
changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof.


OUR BUSINESS IS ESPECIALLY SUBJECT TO THE RISKS OF EARTHQUAKES, FLOODS, AND
OTHER NATURAL CATASTROPHIC EVENTS, AND TO INTERRUPTION BY MANMADE PROBLEMS SUCH
AS COMPUTER VIRUSES OR TERRORISM

Our corporate headquarters, including certain of our research and development
operations and our manufacturing facilities, are located in the Silicon Valley
area of Northern California, a region known for seismic activity.
Additionally, certain of our facilities, which include one of our manufacturing
facilities, are located near rivers that have experienced flooding in the past.
A significant natural disaster, such as an earthquake or a flood, could have a
material adverse impact on our business, operating results, and financial
condition. In addition, despite our implementation of network security
measures, our servers are vulnerable to computer viruses, break-ins, and
similar disruptions from unauthorized tampering with our computer systems. Any
such event could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results, and financial condition. In addition, the effects of war or acts of
terrorism could have a material adverse effect on our business, operating
results, and financial condition. The terrorist attacks in New York and
Washington, D.C. on September 11, 2001 disrupted commerce throughout the world
and intensified the uncertainty of the U.S. and other economies. The continued
threat of terrorism and heightened security and military action in response to
this threat, or any future acts of terrorism, may cause further disruptions to
these economies and create further uncertainties. To the extent that such
disruptions or uncertainties result in delays or cancellations of customer
orders, or the manufacture or shipment of our products, our business, operating
results and financial condition could be materially and adversely affected.

WE ARE EXPOSED TO FLUCTUATIONS IN THE MARKET VALUES OF OUR PORTFOLIO
INVESTMENTS AND IN INTEREST RATES

We maintain an investment portfolio of various holdings, types, and maturities.
These securities are generally classified as available for sale and,
consequently, are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value
with unrealized gains or losses reported as a separate component of accumulated
other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax. Part of this portfolio includes
equity investments in several publicly traded companies, the values of which
are subject to market price volatility. Recent events have adversely affected
the public equities market and general economic conditions may continue to
worsen. As a result, we may recognize in earnings the decline in fair value of
our publicly traded equity investments below the cost basis when the decline is
judged to be other-than-temporary. For information regarding the sensitivity
of and risks associated with the market value of portfolio investments and
interest rates, see the section titled “Quantitative and Qualitative
Disclosures About Market Risk” on pages 23 and 24 of our 2002 Annual Report to
Shareholders which is incorporated by reference herein. Furthermore, our equity
investments in both publicly traded companies and private companies are subject
to risk of loss of investment capital. These investments are inherently risky
as the market for the technologies or products they have under development are
typically in the early stages and may never materialize. We could lose our
entire investment in these companies.


WE ARE SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH STRATEGIC ALLIANCES

We have several strategic alliances with large and complex organizations and
other companies with whom we work to offer complementary products and services.
These arrangements are generally limited to specific projects, the goal of
which is generally to facilitate product compatibility and adoption of industry
standards. If successful, these relationships may be mutually beneficial and
result in industry growth. However, these alliances carry an element of risk
because, in most cases, we must compete in some business areas with a company
with which we have a strategic alliance and, at the same time, cooperate with
that company in other business areas. Also, if these companies fail to perform
or if these relationships fail to materialize as expected, we could suffer
delays in product development or other operational difficulties.

WE FACE RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH CHANGES IN TELECOMMUNICATIONS REGULATION AND
TARIFFS

Changes in telecommunications requirements in the United States or other
countries could affect the sales of our products. In particular, we believe it
is possible that there may be changes in U.S. telecommunications regulations in
the future that could slow the expansion of the service providers’ network
infrastructures and materially adversely affect our business, operating
results, and financial condition. Future changes in tariffs by regulatory
agencies or application of tariff requirements to currently untariffed services
could affect the sales of our products for certain classes of customers.
Additionally, in the United States, our products must comply with various
Federal Communications Commission requirements and regulations. In countries
outside of the United States, our products must meet various requirements of
local telecommunications authorities. Changes in tariffs or failure by us to
obtain timely approval of products could have a material adverse effect on our
business, operating results, and financial condition.

OUR STOCK PRICE MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE

Our common stock has experienced substantial price volatility, particularly as
a result of variations between our actual financial results, and the published
expectations of analysts, and as a result of announcements by our competitors
and us. Furthermore, speculation in the press or investment community about
our strategic position, financial condition, results of operations, business or
significant transactions can cause changes in stock price. In addition, the
stock market has experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have
affected the market price of many technology companies, in particular, and that
have often been unrelated to the operating performance of these companies.
These factors, as well as general economic and political conditions, may
materially adversely affect the market price of our common stock in the future.
Additionally, volatility or a lack of positive performance in our stock price
may adversely affect our ability to retain key employees, all of whom have been
granted stock options.


ITEM 2. Properties

The Company’s headquarters is located on an owned site in San Jose, California.
In addition to this site, the Company has certain owned sites in the United
States, both completed and under construction, which include facilities in the
surrounding areas of San Jose, California; Boxborough, Massachusetts; Salem,
New Hampshire; Richardson, Texas; and Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.
The Company also has land for expansion in some of these locations.

Outside the United States, the Company has operations, primarily in leased
sites, in the Americas; EMEA; Asia Pacific; and Japan. Larger site locations
include the United Kingdom, France, Belgium, the Netherlands, Singapore, Hong
Kong, Australia, Japan, and India. The Company has owned and leased
manufacturing facilities, which are primarily test and assembly operations, in
three locations in the United States and none internationally. We believe that
our existing properties are in good condition and suitable for the conduct of
our business.

For additional information regarding the Company’s obligations under leases,
see Note 8, “Commitments and Contingencies,” on pages 38 to 40 of the Company’s
2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated by reference herein.
For additional information regarding the Company’s properties by operating
segment, see Note 12, “Segment Information and Major Customers” on pages 46 and
47 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated
by reference herein.

ITEM 3. Legal Proceedings

The Company is subject to legal proceedings, claims, and litigation arising in
the ordinary course of business. While the outcome of these matters is
currently not determinable, management does not expect that the ultimate costs
to resolve these matters will have a material adverse effect on the Company’s
consolidated financial position, results of operations, or cash flows.

Beginning on April 20, 2001, a number of purported shareholder class action
lawsuits were filed in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of California against Cisco and certain of its officers and directors.
The lawsuits have been consolidated, and the consolidated action is
purportedly brought on behalf of those who purchased the Company’s publicly
traded securities between August 10, 1999 and February 6, 2001. Plaintiffs
allege that defendants have made false and misleading statements, purport to
assert claims for violations of the federal securities laws, and seek
unspecified compensatory damages and other relief. Cisco believes the claims
are without merit and intends to defend the actions vigorously.

In addition, beginning on April 23, 2001, a number of purported shareholder
derivative lawsuits were filed in the Superior Court of California, County of
Santa Clara and in the Superior Court of California, County of San Mateo.
There is a procedure in place for the coordination of such actions. Two
purported derivative suits have also been filed in the United States District
Court for the Northern District of California, and those federal court actions
have been consolidated. The complaints in the various derivative actions
include claims for breach of fiduciary duty, waste of corporate assets,
mismanagement, unjust enrichment, and violations of the California


Corporations Code; seek compensatory and other damages, disgorgement and other
relief; and are based on essentially the same allegations as the class actions.

ITEM 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

None.

PART II

ITEM 5. Market for Registrant’s Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page 49
of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 6. Selected Financial Data

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to page 13
of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 7. Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages 14
to 22 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages 23
and 24 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The information required by this Item is incorporated by reference to pages 25
to 49 of the Company’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders.

ITEM 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosures

None.


PART III

ITEM 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Reference is made to the information regarding Directors appearing under the
caption “Election of Directors” in the Company’s Proxy Statement related to the
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on November 19, 2002, which
information is incorporated herein by reference.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

Position

Name

Age

Position

Held Since

Larry R. Carter


Senior Vice President, Finance and
Administration, Chief Financial Officer,
Secretary, and Director

Mr. Carter was elected to the Board of Directors
in July 2000. He joined the Company in January
1995 as Vice President for Finance and
Administration, Chief Financial Officer, and
Secretary. In July 1997, he was promoted to his
present position of Senior Vice President for
Finance and Administration, Chief Financial
Officer, and Secretary. Prior to his services
with the Company, he was with Advanced Micro
Devices, Inc. as the Vice President and
Corporate Controller. Mr. Carter currently
serves on the Board of Directors of eSpeed,
Inc., QLogic Corporation, and Transmeta
Corporation; and is on the Board of Trustees for
Loyola Marymount University.


John T. Chambers


President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director

Mr. Chambers has been a member of the Board of
Directors since November 1993. He joined the
Company as Senior Vice President in January 1991
and became Executive Vice President in June
1994. Mr. Chambers became President and Chief
Executive Officer of the Company as of January
31, 1995. Prior to his services with the
Company, he was with Wang Laboratories for eight
years, most recently as Senior Vice President of
U.S. Operations. Mr. Chambers currently serves
on the Board of Directors of Wal-Mart Stores,
Inc.


Richard J. Justice


Senior Vice President, Worldwide Field Operations

Mr. Justice joined the Company in December 1996
as Senior Vice President of the Americas. In
February 2000, he was promoted to Senior Vice
President of Worldwide Field Operations. Prior
to Cisco, Mr. Justice spent 22 years at Hewlett-Packard Company where, in his last role, he was
responsible for Worldwide Enterprise Sales and
Marketing.


Mario Mazzola


Senior Vice President, Chief Development Officer

Mr. Mazzola joined the Company in September 1993
as Vice President and General Manager of the
Workgroup Business Unit. He was promoted to
Senior Vice President of the Enterprise Line of
Business in April 1997. In June 2000, Mr. Mazzola took on the leadership of Cisco’s new
technology development efforts as Senior Vice
President of New Business Ventures. In August
2001, he was promoted to his current position of
Senior Vice President, Chief Development
Officer. Prior to Cisco, he was President and
CEO of Crescendo Communications, Inc. from 1990.
Crescendo was acquired by Cisco in September
1993.



Position

Name

Age

Position

Held Since

Randy Pond


Senior Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing Operations and Logistics

Mr. Pond joined the Company in September 1993. In 1994, Mr. Pond
assumed leadership of Cisco’s Supply / Demand group. In 1994, he was
appointed Director of Manufacturing Operations. He was promoted to
Vice President of Manufacturing in 1995. In June 1999, Mr. Pond was
promoted to Senior Vice President of West Coast and Asia operations.
He was promoted into his current role in June 2001, increasing his
responsibilities to his present day role. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Pond held the position of Vice President Finance, Chief
Financial Officer and Vice President of Operations at Crescendo
Communications, Inc.


James Richardson


Senior Vice President, Chief Marketing Officer

Mr. Richardson joined the Company in May 1990, founded the Company’s
Canadian operations, and became Vice President of Intercontinental
Operations in June 1992. Mr. Richardson became Vice President of
North American Operations in July 1994. He became
President of EMEA and Senior Vice President in August 1996. In April
2000, he was named Senior Vice President of the Enterprise Line of
Business and Internet Communications Software Group. In August 2001,
Mr. Richardson was named to his current position of Chief Marketing
Officer.


ITEM 11. Executive Compensation

The information appearing under the caption “Executive Compensation and
Related Information” in the Company’s Proxy Statement that is related to
the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 19, 2002, is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information appearing under the captions “Election of Directors” and
“Ownership of Securities” in the Company’s Proxy Statement that is related
to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on November 19, 2002, is
incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information appearing under the caption “Ownership of Securities” and
“Executive Compensation and Related Information” in the Company’s Proxy
Statement that is related to the Annual Meeting of Shareholders, to be held on
November 19, 2002, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 14. Controls and Procedures

(a)

Evaluation of disclosure
controls and procedures.

Based on their
evaluation as of a date within 90 days of the filing date of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, the Company’s principal executive officer
and principal financial officer have concluded that the Company’s
disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-14(c) and
15d-14(c) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the “Exchange
Act”) are effective to ensure that information required to be
disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the
Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
the time periods specified in Securities and Exchange Commission rules
and forms.

(b)

Changes in internal controls.

There were no significant changes in
the Company’s internal controls or in other factors that could
significantly affect these controls subsequent to the date of their
evaluation. There were no significant deficiencies or material
weaknesses, and therefore there were no corrective actions taken.

PART IV

ITEM 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K


(b)

Reports on Form 8-K

The Company filed two reports on Form 8-K during the quarter ended July 27,
2002. Information regarding the items reported on is as follows:

Date

Item Reported On

May 14, 2002

On April 30, 2002, the Company announced the acquisitions of
Hammerhead Networks, Inc. and Navarro Networks, Inc.

July 3, 2002

On June 25, 2002, the Company completed the acquisition of
Hammerhead Networks, Inc. On June 27, 2002, the Company
completed the acquisition of Navarro Networks, Inc.


INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

Item 15(a)


SCHEDULE II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

(In millions)

Balance at

Charged to

Balance at

Beginning

Expenses or

End of

of Period

Other Accounts

Deductions

Period

Year ended July 29, 2000:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$


$


$


$


Allowance for excess and obsolete
inventory

$


$


$


$


Valuation allowance for deferred
tax assets

$

—

$


$

—

$


Year ended July 28, 2001:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$


$


$


$


Allowance for excess and obsolete
inventory

$


$

2,775

$


$

2,279

Valuation allowance for deferred
tax assets

$


$

—

$


$

—

Year ended July 27, 2002:

Allowance for doubtful accounts

$


$


$


$


Allowance for excess and obsolete
inventory

$

2,279

$


$

1,964

$



REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors of Cisco Systems, Inc.:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated August 6, 2002, except for Note 14, as to which the date is August 19,
2002, appearing in the 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders of Cisco Systems,
Inc. (which report and consolidated financial statements are incorporated by
reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K) also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 15(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our
opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

San Jose, California

August 6, 2002


SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this Report on Form 10-K to be signed on its behalf
by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of San Jose, State
of California on this 12th day of September, 2002.

Cisco Systems, Inc.

/s/ John T. Chambers

(John T. Chambers, President and Chief

Executive Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report on Form 10-K has been signed by the following persons in the capacities
and on the dates indicated.



CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER CERTIFICATION

I, John T. Chambers, President and Chief Executive Officer of Cisco Systems,
Inc., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems,
Inc. (the “Registrant”);

2. Based on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this Annual Report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this Annual Report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in
this Annual Report;

4. The Registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the Registrant and
have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the Registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this Annual Report is
being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant’s disclosure controls
and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
this Annual Report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The Registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation, to the Registrant’s auditors and
the audit committee of Registrant’s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely affect the Registrant’s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
identified for the Registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in
internal controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant’s
internal controls; and


6. The Registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in
this Annual Report whether there were significant changes in internal controls or in other
factors that could significantly affect internal controls subsequent to
the date of our most recent evaluation, including any corrective
actions with regard to significant deficiencies and material
weaknesses.

Dated: September  17, 2002

/s/   John T. Chambers

President and Chief Executive Officer

(Principal Executive Officer)


CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER CERTIFICATION

I, Larry R. Carter, Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration,
Chief Financial Officer and Secretary of Cisco Systems, Inc., certify that:

1. I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Cisco Systems,
Inc. (the “Registrant”);

2. Based on my knowledge, this Annual Report does not contain any
untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact
necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances
under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to
the period covered by this Annual Report;

3. Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial
information included in this Annual Report, fairly present in all
material respects the financial condition, results of operations and
cash flows of the Registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in
this Annual Report;

4. The Registrant’s other certifying officers and I are responsible for
establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as
defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-14 and 15d-14) for the Registrant and
have:

a) designed such disclosure controls and procedures to ensure that
material information relating to the Registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those
entities, particularly during the period in which this Annual Report is
being prepared;

b) evaluated the effectiveness of the Registrant’s disclosure controls
and procedures as of a date within 90 days prior to the filing date of
this Annual Report (the “Evaluation Date”); and

c) presented in this Annual Report our conclusions about the
effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures based on our
evaluation as of the Evaluation Date;

5. The Registrant’s other certifying officers and I have disclosed,
based on our most recent evaluation, to the Registrant’s auditors and
the audit committee of Registrant’s board of directors (or persons
performing the equivalent functions):

a) all significant deficiencies in the design or operation of internal
controls which could adversely affect the Registrant’s ability to
record, process, summarize and report financial data and have
identified for the Registrant’s auditors any material weaknesses in
internal controls; and

b) any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or
other employees who have a significant role in the Registrant’s
internal controls; and


6. The Registrant’s other certifying officers and I have indicated in
this Annual Report whether there were significant changes in internal
controls or in other factors that could significantly affect internal
controls subsequent to the date of our most recent evaluation,
including any corrective actions with regard to significant
deficiencies and material weaknesses.

Dated: September 17, 2002

/s/   Larry R. Carter

Senior Vice President, Finance and Administration,

Chief Financial Officer and Secretary

(Principal Financial Officer)


Index to Exhibits

Exhibit

Number

Exhibit Description

3.1

Restated Articles of Incorporation of Cisco Systems, Inc., as currently in
effect (1)

3.2

Amended and Restated Bylaws of Cisco Systems, Inc., as currently in effect (1)

4.1

Rights Agreement dated as of June 10, 1998 between Cisco Systems, Inc. and
Bank Boston, N.A. (2)

4.2

First Amendment to the Rights Agreement and Certification of Compliance with
Section 27 Thereof between Cisco Systems, Inc. and Fleet National Bank (f/k/a
Bank Boston, N.A.) (3)

4.3

Second Amendment
to the Rights Agreement and Certification of Compliance with
Section 27 Thereof between Cisco Systems, Inc. and Fleet
National Bank (f/k/a Bank Boston, N.A.) (7)

10.2    *

Cisco Systems, Inc. Amended and Restated 1996 Stock Incentive Plan (4)

10.3    *

1997 Supplemental Stock Incentive Plan (including the following: Stock Option

Agreement in connection with the 1997 Supplemental Stock Incentive Plan) (5)

10.12   *

Cisco Systems,
Inc. Professional and Leadership Incentive Plan-Fiscal Year
2002 (3)

10.13   *

Cisco Systems, Inc. 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (6)


Pages 13 to 49 of the Registrant’s 2002 Annual Report to Shareholders

21.01

Subsidiaries of the Company

23.02

Consent of Independent Accountants

99.1

Certification of Principal Executive Officer

99.2

Certification of Principal Financial Officer

(1)

Incorporated by reference to our registration statement on Form S-3, No.
333-56004, filed on February 21, 2001.

(2)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4 of the Company’s Current Report on
Form 8-K filed on June 11, 1998.

(3)

Incorporated by
reference as Exhibit 10.12 of the Company’s Quarterly
Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
January 26, 2002.

(4)

Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of the Company’s Quarterly Report
on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 30, 1999.

(5)

Incorporated by reference to the exhibits with the corresponding exhibit
numbers in the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
July 25, 1998.

(6)

Incorporated by reference to exhibits with the corresponding exhibit numbers
of the Company’s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended July
26, 1997.

(7)

Incorporated by
reference to Exhibit 4.1 of the Company’s Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 27, 2001.

*

Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed
as an exhibit pursuant to Item 15(c) of Form 10-K.

43