
10-K
FORM 10-K




                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K
(Mark One)

/X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995

                                       OR

/ / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from ________ to _______________

Commission File Number: 0-13468

                  EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           Washington                                         91-1069248
(State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer 
incorporation or organization)                          Identification Number)

19119 - 16th Avenue South, Seattle, Washington                    98188
  (Address of principal executive offices)                      (Zip Code)

                                 (206) 246-3711
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:     None

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:     Common Stock,
                                                                  par value
                                                                $.01 per share

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes /X/   No / /

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to 
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be 
contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or 
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 
10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  / /

     At March 11, 1996, the aggregate market value of the registrant's Common 
Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $ 306,722,894.

     At March 11, 1996, the number of shares outstanding of registrant's 
Common Stock was 12,038,687.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Portions of the definitive proxy statement for the Registrant's 1996 
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 8, 1996 are incorporated by 
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.  Portions of the Annual Report to 
Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1995 are incorporated by 
reference into Part I, Part II and Part IV of this Form 10-K.

                               Page 1 of 52 pages.

                      The Exhibit Index appears on page 22.



                                     PART I

ITEM 1 - BUSINESS

     Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (the "Company") is engaged 
in the business of providing global logistics services.  The Company offers 
its customers a seamless international network supporting the movement and 
strategic positioning of goods.  The Company's services include the 
consolidation or forwarding of air and ocean freight.  In each U.S. office, 
and in many overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker.  The 
Company also provides additional services including distribution management, 
vendor consolidation, cargo insurance, purchase order management and 
customized logistics information. The Company does not compete for domestic 
freight, overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft 
or steamships.

     The Company, including its majority owned subsidiaries, operates full 
service offices (-) in the major cities identified below.  Full service 
offices have also been established in locations where the Company maintains 
unilateral control over assets and operations and where the existence of the 
parent subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record 
ownership of voting stock (#).  See Notes 1(a) and 1(j) to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements for discussion of reclassification of the Taiwan 
exclusive agency and consolidation as a result of unilateral control over 
assets and operations.  In other cities, the Company contracts with 
independent agents to provide required services and has established over 120 
such entities world-wide.  Agent locations where Company employees perform 
sales and customer service functions are identified below as international 
service centers (*).  In each case, the opening date for the full service 
office or international service center is set forth in parenthesis. 













     The Company was incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979.  
Its executive offices are located at 19119 - 16th Avenue South, Seattle, 
Washington, and its telephone number is (206) 246-3711.

     For information concerning the amount of revenues, operating income, 
identifiable assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization 
attributable to the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its 
business, see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 

     Beginning in 1981, the Company's primary business focus was on 
airfreight shipments from the Far East to the United States and related 
customs brokerage and import services. In the mid-1980's, the Company began 
to expand its service capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and 
distribution services. Today the Company offers a complete range of global 
logistics services to a diversified group of customers, both in terms of 
industry specialization and geographic location. As opportunities for 
profitable growth arise, the Company plans to create new offices.  While the 
Company has historically expanded through organic growth, the Company has 
also been open to growth through acquisition of, or establishing joint 
ventures with, existing agents or others within the industry.

                              Airfreight Services 

      Airfreight services accounted for approximately 47, 48, and 54 percent 
of the Company's 1995, 1994, and 1993 consolidated revenues net of freight 
consolidation expenses ("net revenues"), respectively.  When performing 
airfreight services, the Company typically acts either as a freight 
consolidator or as an agent for the airline which carries the shipment.  When 
acting as a freight consolidator, the Company purchases cargo space from 
airlines on a volume basis and resells that space to its customers at lower 
rates than the customers could obtain directly from airlines.  When moving 
shipments between points where the volume of business does not facilitate 
consolidation, the Company receives and forwards individual shipments as the 
agent of the airline which carries the shipment. Whether acting as an agent 
or consolidator, the Company offers its customers knowledge of optimum 
routing, familiarity with local business practices, knowledge of export and 
import documentation and procedures, the ability to arrange for ancillary 
services, and assistance with space availability in periods of peak demand.

     In its airfreight forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments 
from its customers, determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for 
a particular airport distribution point, and selects the airline for 
transportation to the distribution point.  At the distribution point, the 
Company or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into 
its component shipments and for the transportation of the individual 
shipments to their final destinations.

     The Company estimates its average airfreight consolidation weighs 
approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and includes merchandise from several 
shippers.  Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with 
ocean transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high 
value-to-weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both.

     The Company typically delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the 
origin to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or onto 
pallets.  Shipments normally arrive at the destination distribution point 
within forty-eight hours after such delivery.  During peak shipment periods, 
cargo space available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and 
backlogs of freight shipments may occur.  When these conditions exist, the 
Company will, on occasion, charter aircraft to meet customer demand.

     The Company consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume 
characteristics in cost-effective combinations.  Typically, as the weight or 
volume of a shipment increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic 
inch/centimeter charged by the Company decreases.  The rate charged by 
airlines to forwarders and others also generally decrease as the weight or 
volume of the shipment increases.  As a result, by aggregating shipments and 
presenting them to an airline as a single shipment, the Company is able to 
obtain a lower rate per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which 
it charges to its customers for the individual shipment, while generally 
offering the customer a lower rate than could be obtained from the airline 
for an unconsolidated shipment. 

     The Company's net airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated 
shipment includes the differential between the rate charged to the Company by 
an airline and the rate which the Company charges to its customers, 
commissions paid to the Company by the airline carrying the freight and fees 
for ancillary services.  Such ancillary services provided by the Company 
include preparation of shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating 
and insurance services, negotiation of letters of credit, and preparation of 
documentation to comply with local export laws.  When the Company acts as an 
agent




for an airline handling an unconsolidated shipment, its net revenues are 
primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees for ancillary 
services paid by the customer.

     The Company does not own aircraft and does not plan to do so.  
Management believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the Company 
to undue business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed 
operating expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with 
airlines. Because the Company relies on commercial airlines to transport its 
shipments, changes in carrier policies and practices such as pricing, payment 
terms, scheduling, and frequency of service may affect its business.

     The Company also performs breakbulk services which involve receiving and 
breaking down consolidated airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of 
the individual shipments.  Breakbulk service revenues also include 
commissions from non-exclusive agents for airfreight shipments.  

                     Customs Brokerage and Import Services 

     Customs brokerage and import services accounted for approximately 33, 
35, and 29 percent of the Company's 1995, 1994, and 1993 consolidated net 
revenues, respectively.  As a customs broker, the Company assists importers 
to clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, 
calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the importer, 
arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and 
arranging for delivery.  The Company also provides other services at 
destination including temporary warehousing, inland transportation, inventory 
manipulation and management, cargo insurance and product distribution. 

     The Company provides customs clearance services in connection with many 
of the shipments it handles as a freight forwarder.  However, substantial 
customs brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to use a 
competing forwarder.   Conversely, shipments handled by the Company as a 
forwarder may be processed by another customs broker selected by the customer.

     There is currently a noticeable trend, prompted by customer demand, to 
quote rates on a door-to-door basis.  Management foresees the potential, in 
the medium to long-term, for fees normally associated with customs clearance 
to be de-emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by 
the Company.

                            Ocean Freight Services 

     Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 20, 17, and 17 
percent of the Company's 1995, 1994, and 1993 consolidated net revenues, 
respectively. The Company's revenues as an ocean freight forwarder are 
derived from commissions paid by the carrier and revenues from fees charged 
to customers for ancillary services which the Company may provide, such as 
preparing documentation, procuring insurance, arranging for packing and 
crating services, and providing consultation.  The Company operates 
Expeditors International Ocean ("EIO"), a Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier 
("NVOCC") specializing in ocean freight consolidation from the Far East to 
the United States.   EIO also provides service, on a smaller scale, to and 
from any location where the Company has an office or agent.  As an NVOCC, EIO 
contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain transportation for a fixed 
number of containers between various points during a specified time period at 
an agreed rate.  EIO solicits less than container load ("LCL") freight to 
fill the containers and charges lower rates than those available directly 
from shipping lines.  EIO also handles full container loads for customers 
that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to negotiate comparable 
contracts directly with the ocean carriers. The Company does not own vessels 
and generally does not physically handle the cargo. 

      Expeditors Cargo Management Systems ("ECMS") supplies a sophisticated 
ocean consolidation service.  The Company owns and maintains software that 
allows it to sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed their own 
service contracts with the ocean carriers.  As an ocean consolidator, ECMS 
may obtain LCL freight from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into 
full containers.  The Company's revenues as an ocean consolidator are derived 
from handling LCL cargo at origin and from the fees paid by customers for 
access to data captured during the consolidation process.

                             Marketing and Customers

     The Company provides flexible service and seeks to understand the needs 
of the customers from point of origin to ultimate destinations.  Although the 
domestic importer usually designates the logistics company and the services 
that will be required, the foreign shipper may also participate in this 
selection process.  Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program 
to reach both domestic importers and their overseas suppliers.




     The Company's marketing efforts are focused primarily on the traffic, 
shipping and purchasing departments of existing and potential customers.  The 
district manager of each office is responsible for marketing, sales 
coordination, and implementation in the area in which he or she is located.  
All employees are responsible for customer service and relations.

     The Company staffs its offices largely with managers and other key 
personnel who are citizens of the nations in which they operate and who have 
extensive experience in global logistics.  Marketing and customer service 
staffs are responsible for marketing the Company's services directly to local 
shippers and traffic managers who may select or influence the selection of 
the logistics vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and 
efficient service. The Company believes that its expertise in supplying 
solutions customized to the needs of its customers, its emphasis on 
coordinating its origin and destination customer service and marketing 
activities, and the incentives it gives to its managers have been important 
elements of its success.

     The goods handled by the Company are generally a function of the 
products which dominate international trade between any particular origin and 
destination.  Shipments of computer components, other electronic equipment, 
housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys comprise a significant 
percentage of the Company's business.  Typical import customers include 
computer retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store 
chains, clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores. 
Historically, no single customer has accounted for five percent or more of 
the Company's revenues.

COMPETITION

     The global logistics services industry is intensively competitive and is 
expected to remain so for the foreseeable future.  There are a large number 
of companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the 
number of firms with a global network that offer a full complement of 
logistics services is more limited.  Depending on the location of the shipper 
and the importer, the Company must compete against both the niche players and 
larger entities.  While there is currently a marked trend within the industry 
toward consolidation of the niche players into the larger firms striving for 
immediate multinational and multi-service networks, the regional and local 
competitors maintain a strong market presence.   The U.S. publicly traded 
entities most similar to the Company are Air Express International 
Corporation, The Harper Group, Inc. and Fritz Companies, Inc. 

     Historically, the primary competitive factors in the global logistics 
services industry have been price and quality of service, including 
reliability, responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. 

      The Company emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are 
competitive with the prices of others in the industry.  Recently, larger 
customers have exhibited a trend toward the more sophisticated and efficient 
procedures for the management of the logistics supply chain by embracing 
strategies such as just-in-time inventory management.  This trend has made 
computerized customer service capabilities a significant factor in attracting 
and retaining customers.  These computerized customer service capabilities 
include customized Electronic Data Interchange, or EDI, and on-line freight 
tracing and tracking applications.  The customized EDI applications allow the 
transfer of key information between the customers' systems and the Company's 
systems.  Freight tracing and tracking applications allows customers to know 
the location, transit time and estimated delivery time of inventory in 
transit.

     Management believes that the ability to develop and deliver innovative 
solutions to meet customers' increasingly sophisticated information 
requirements is a critical factor in the ongoing success of the Company.  
Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources 
towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these 
customer demands.  Management believes that the Company's existing systems 
are competitive with the systems currently in use by other logistics services 
companies with whom it competes.

     Developing these systems has added a considerable indirect cost to the 
services provided to customers.  Small and middle-tier competitors, in 
general, do not have the resources available to develop these customized 
systems.  As a result, there is a significant amount of consolidation 
currently taking place in the industry.  Management expects that this trend 
toward consolidation will continue for the short to medium term.  
Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition has proven to be a 
challenge for many of the Company's competitors and typically involves the 
purchase of significant "goodwill."  As a result, the Company has pursued a 
strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by certain strategic 
acquisitions.

     The Company's ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified 
personnel with experience in global logistics services is an essential, if 
not the most important, element of its ability to compete in the industry.  
To this end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs which 
make percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for 
distribution among key personnel.  The Company believes that these incentive 
compensation programs, combined with its experienced personnel and its 
ability to coordinate global marketing efforts, provide it with a distinct 
competitive




advantage and accounts for historical growth that competitors have matched 
only through acquisition. 

                         Currency and Other Risk Factors

     The nature of the Company's worldwide operations necessitate the Company 
dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. dollar.  This 
results in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the 
international currency markets and governmental interference.  Many of the 
countries where the Company maintains offices and/or agency relationships 
have strict currency control regulations which influence the Company's 
ability to hedge foreign currency exposure.  The Company tries to compensate 
for these exposures by accelerating international currency settlements among 
these offices or agents.

     In addition, the Company's ability to provide service to its customers 
is highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities 
including airlines, steamship lines and governmental agencies.  The Company 
considers its current working relationships with these entities to be good. 
However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental 
deregulation efforts, "modernization" of the regulations governing customs 
clearance, and/or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the 
Company's business in unpredictable ways.

                                   Seasonality

     Historically, the Company's operating results have been subject to 
seasonal trends when measured on a quarterly basis.  The first quarter has 
traditionally been the weakest and the third quarter has traditionally been 
the strongest. This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous 
factors including climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic 
conditions and a myriad of other similar and subtle forces.  In addition, 
this historical quarterly trend has been influenced by the growth and 
diversification of the Company's international network and service offerings. 
 The Company cannot accurately forecast many of these factors nor can the 
Company estimate accurately the relative influence of any particular factor 
and, as a result, there can be no assurance that historical patterns, if any, 
will continue in future periods. 

     A significant portion of the Company's revenues are derived from 
customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer 
demand and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent 
upon just-in-time production schedules.  Therefore, the timing of the 
Company's revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the 
Company's control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and/or 
manufacturing production delays.  Additionally, many customers ship a 
significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and 
therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in 
a quarter.  To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not 
expected by securities analysts, any shortfall from levels predicted by 
securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading 
price of the Company's stock.

                                  Environmental

     In the United States, the Company is subject to Federal, state and local 
provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or 
otherwise for the protection of the environment.  Similar laws apply in many 
foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates.  Although current 
operations have not been significantly affected by compliance with these 
environmental laws, governments are becoming increasingly sensitive to 
environmental issues, and the Company cannot predict what impact future 
environmental regulations may have on its business.  The Company does not 
anticipate making any material capital expenditures for environmental control 
purposes during the remainder of the current or succeeding fiscal years.

                                    Employees

     At February 29, 1996, the Company employed approximately 2,465 people, 
1,190 in the United States and 40 in the balance of North America, 20 in 
South America, 340 in Europe, 735 in the Far East & Australasia, 25 in the 
Near/Middle East and 115 in Africa.  Approximately 250 of the Company's 
employees are engaged principally in sales and marketing and customer 
service, 1,585 in operations and 630 in finance and administration.  The 
Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreement and considers 
its relations with its employees to be satisfactory.

     In order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and 
motivated employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its 
incentive compensation programs and stock option plans.




                      Executive Officers of the Registrant 

     The following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current 
executive officers of the Company.

NAME               AGE   POSITION

Peter J. Rose       53   Chairman and Chief Executive Officer and director
Kevin M. Walsh      45   President and Chief Operating Officer and director
James L.K. Wang     48   Executive Vice President and director
Glenn M. Alger      39   Senior Vice President
William J. Coogan   41   Senior Vice President-Ocean
Rommel C. Saber     38   Senior Vice President-Air Export
Michael R. Claydon  48   Director-Europe
Timothy C. Barber   36   Vice President-Sales and Marketing
R. Jordan Gates     40   Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
Jeffrey J. King     41   Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary
David M. Lincoln    37   Vice President-Systems Management
Charles J. Lynch    35   Corporate Controller

     Peter J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company 
since July 1981.  Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice President of the Company 
in May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987, President and Chief 
Executive Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
in May 1991.

     Kevin M. Walsh has served as a director and Vice President of the 
Company since July 1981.  Mr. Walsh was elected a Senior Vice President of 
the Company in May 1986, Executive Vice President in December 1989, and 
President and Chief Operating Officer in May 1991.

     James L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of 
Expeditors International Taiwan Ltd., the Company's former exclusive Taiwan 
agent, since September 1981.  Mr. Wang's employment agreement with the 
Company has been assigned to the Company's current exclusive Taiwan agent, 
E.I. Freight (Taiwan), Ltd.   In October 1988, Mr. Wang became a director of 
the Company and its Director-Far East.  In January 1996, Mr. Wang was elected 
to the office of Executive Vice President.

     Glenn M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a Regional Manager.  
Mr. Alger was elected Vice President in October 1988, Senior Vice President 
and Regional Manager in January 1992, and Senior Vice President in January 
1993.

     William J. Coogan was employed as New York Ocean Manager of EIO when it 
was acquired by the Company in May 1985.  Mr. Coogan was promoted to East 
Coast Regional Sales Manager of the Company in June 1986, District Manager of 
the Company's New York office in July 1988, and Senior Vice President of EIO 
in April 1989.  Mr. Coogan was elected Senior Vice President - Ocean in 
February 1993.

     Rommel C. Saber joined the Company as Director-Middle/Near East in 
February 1990 and was elected Senior Vice President-Sales and Marketing in 
January 1993. In September 1993, Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice 
President-Air Export.

     Michael R. Claydon joined the Company as Director-Europe in October 
1987. 

     Timothy C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986 as Import Manager in 
the Seattle office.  Mr. Barber was promoted to District Manager in January 
1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993.  Mr. Barber was elected 
Vice President-Sales and Marketing in September 1993.

     R. Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller-Europe in February 
1991.  Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the 
Company in August 1994. 

     Jeffrey J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director-Taxation 
and Legal Services and was elected Vice President-General Counsel in May 
1992.  In August 1994, Mr. King was elected Vice President-General Counsel 
and Secretary. 

     David M. Lincoln joined the Company as its Controller-U.S. Operations in 
March 1984.  Mr. Lincoln served as




Corporate Controller of the Company from May 1986 to January 1991, and was 
elected Vice President-Systems Management in December 1989.

     Charles J. Lynch joined the Company as its Senior Accountant in 
September 1984.  Mr. Lynch was promoted to Assistant Controller in July 1985 
and Controller-Domestic Operations in January 1989.  Mr. Lynch was elected 
Corporate Controller in January 1991.

                                   Regulation

     With respect to Company's activities in the air transportation industry 
in the United States, it is subject to regulation by the Department of 
Transportation ("DOT") as an indirect air carrier.  The Company's overseas 
offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective 
countries of operation.  The Company is licensed in each of its offices or in 
the case of its newer offices, has made application for a license, as an 
airfreight forwarder by the International Air Transport Association ("IATA"). 
IATA is a voluntary association of airlines which prescribes certain 
operating procedures for airfreight forwarders acting as agents for its 
members.  The majority of the Company's airfreight forwarding business is 
conducted with airlines which are IATA members.

     The Company is licensed as a customs broker by the Customs Service of 
the Department of the Treasury in each U.S. customs district in which it does 
business.  All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed 
records and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service.  In other 
jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company 
is licensed by the appropriate governmental authority.

     The Company is licensed as an ocean freight forwarder by the Federal 
Maritime Commission ("FMC").  The FMC has established certain qualifications 
for shipping agents, including certain surety bonding requirements.  The FMC 
also is responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating 
or terminating in the United States.  To comply with these economic 
regulations, vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as EIO, are required to file 
tariffs electronically which establish the rates to be charged for the 
movement of specified commodities into and out of the U.S.   The FMC has the 
power to enforce these regulations by assessing penalties. 

     The Company does not believe that current U.S. and foreign governmental 
regulation impose significant economic restraint upon its business 
operations. In general, the Company conducts its business activities in each 
country through a majority owned subsidiary corporation that is organized and 
existing under the laws of that country.  However, the regulations of foreign 
governments can impose barriers to the Company's ability to provide the full 
range of its business activities in a wholly or majority U.S. owned 
subsidiary.  For example, foreign ownership of a customs brokerage business 
is prohibited in some jurisdictions and less frequently the ownership of the 
licenses required for freight forwarding and/or freight consolidation is 
restricted to local entities. When the Company encounters this sort of 
governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets 
the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the 
substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the 
absence of such regulation.  This can be accomplished by creating a joint 
venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that 
holds the required license.  In cases where the Company has unilateral 
control over the assets and operations of the local entity, notwithstanding 
the lack of technical majority ownership of common stock, the Company 
consolidates the accounts of the local entity.  In such cases, consolidation 
is necessary to fairly present the financial position and results of 
operations of the Company because of the existence of the parent-subsidiary 
relationship by means other than record ownership of voting common stock. 

                                 Cargo Liability

     When acting as an airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a 
carrier's liability for lost or damaged shipments.  This legal liability is 
typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the 
released value ($9.07 per pound unless the customer declares a higher value 
and pays a surcharge), except if the loss or damage is caused by willful 
misconduct or in the absence of an appropriate air waybill.  The airline 
which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to 
the Company in the same manner and to the same extent.  When acting solely as 
the agent of the airline or shipper, the Company does not assume any 
contractual liability for loss or damage to shipments tendered to the 
airline. 

     When acting as an ocean freight consolidator, the Company assumes a 
carrier's liability for lost or damaged shipments.  This liability is 
typically limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the 
released value ($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the 
customer declares a higher value and pays a surcharge).  The steamship line 
which the Company utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to 
the Company in the same manner and to the same extent.




In its ocean freight forwarding and customs clearance operations, the Company 
does not assume cargo liability. 

     When providing warehouse and distribution services, the Company limits 
its legal liability by contract and tariff to an amount generally equal to 
the lower of fair value or fifty cents per pound with a maximum of fifty 
dollars per "lot" - which is defined as the smallest unit that the warehouse 
is required to track. Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and 
distribution services, the Company will assume additional liability. 

     The Company maintains marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses 
attributable to missing or damaged shipments for which it is legally liable. 
The Company also maintains insurance coverage for the property of others 
which is stored in Company warehouse facilities.





ITEM 2 - PROPERTIES

     The Company owns a 27,200 square foot office facility near 
Seattle-Tacoma International Airport, an 80,000 square foot office and 
warehouse facility on a ten-acre parcel near O'Hare International Airport in 
Chicago, a 5,500 square foot office facility in the Tsim Sha Tsui East 
district of Kowloon, Hong Kong, and a 10,900 square foot office facility in 
Taipei, Taiwan.  The Company also owns a 23,400 square foot office and 
warehouse facility on a long-term renewable land lease at the Brussels Cargo 
facility in Brussels, Belgium.  The Company has entered into a contract to 
purchase a 150,000 square foot warehouse with a long term land lease in 
Nassau County, New York.  As of the date hereof, the Company could terminate 
each of the purchase contracts without financial obligation.

     The Company leases and maintains 23 additional offices and satellite 
locations in the United States and 59 offices throughout the world, each 
located close to an airport or ocean port.  The majority of these facilities 
contain warehouse facilities.  Lease terms are either on a month-to-month 
basis or terminate at various times through 2007.  As an office matures, the 
Company will investigate the possibility of building or buying suitable 
facilities.  Lease payments currently aggregate approximately $470,000 per 
month.  See Note 5 to the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements.  The 
Company believes that current leases can be extended and that suitable 
alternative facilities are available in the vicinity of each present facility 
should extensions be unavailable at the conclusion of current leases.


ITEM 3 - LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is ordinarily involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in 
the normal course of business, none of which currently, in management's 
opinion, will have a significant effect on the Company's financial condition.


ITEM 4 - SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     Inapplicable.




                                     PART II


ITEM 5 - MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER 
MATTERS

     The information required by this item is included on page 64 of the 
Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1995 
and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 6 - SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The information required by this item is included on page 1 of the 
Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1995 
and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7 - MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The information required by this item is included on pages 57 through 61 
of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 
31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8 - FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The information required by this item is included on pages 40 through 56 
of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 
31, 1995 and is incorporated herein by reference.  See also Item 14.


ITEM 9 - CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     Inapplicable.




                                    PART III


ITEM 10 - DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to 
information under the caption "Proposal 1 - Election of Directors" and to the 
information under the caption "Section 16(a) Reporting Delinquencies" in the 
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its annual meeting of shareholders 
to be held on May 8, 1996.  See also Part I - Item 1 - Executive Officers of 
the Registrant.


ITEM 11 - EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to 
information under the caption "Executive Compensation" in the Company's 
definitive Proxy Statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held 
on May 8, 1996.


ITEM 12 - SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to 
information under the captions "Voting Securities and Principal Holders" and 
"Proposal 1 - Election of Directors" in the Company's definitive Proxy 
Statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 8, 1996.


ITEM 13 - CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to 
information under the caption "Executive Compensation" and "Certain 
Transactions" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its annual 
meeting of shareholders to be held on May 8, 1996.


                                     PART IV


ITEM 14 - EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The Financial Statements and Independent Auditors' Report are included 
in the Company's 1995 Annual Report to Shareholders (pages 40 through 56) and 
are incorporated in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as Exhibit 13.1.

                                                                   Location in
                                                    Location in    this Report
                                                    Annual Report  on Form 10-K
                                                    -------------  ------------
Consolidated Balance Sheets, December 31, 1995 and 1994        40            27

Consolidated Statements of Earnings for each of the years
ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993                        42            29

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for each of
the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993              43            30

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for each of the years
ended December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993                        44            31

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                     46            33

Independent Auditors' Report                                   56            43




     (a)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
                                                                   Location in
                                                                   this Report
                                                                   on Form 10-K
                                                                   ------------
Independent Auditors' Report                                                 20

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts for the years ended          21
December 31, 1995, 1994, and 1993

     All other schedules are omitted because they are not required, not 
applicable, or the required information is included in the consolidated 
financial statements or notes thereto.

     (a)(3) EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS

     The following list is a subset of the list of exhibits described below 
and contains all compensatory plans, contracts or arrangements in which any 
director or executive officer of the Company is a participant, unless the 
method of allocation of benefits thereunder is the same for management and 
non-management participants:

            (1)     Form of Employment Agreement executed by the Company's
                    Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.  See Exhibit 10.23.

            (2)     Form of Employment Agreement executed by the Company's
                    President and Chief Operating Officer and certain of the
                    Company's executive officers.  See Exhibit 10.24.

            (3)     Form of Employment Agreement executed by certain of the
                    Company's Principal foreign employees.  See Exhibit 10.2.

            (4)     Form of Employment Agreement executed by the Company's
                    Director - Europe.  See Exhibit 10.3.

            (5)     The Company's Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.  See Exhibit
                    10.4.

            (6)     Form of Stock Option Agreement used in connection with
                    options granted under the Company's Amended 1985 Stock
                    Option Plan.  See Exhibit 10.5.

            (7)     The Company's Restated and Amended 1988 Employee Stock
                    Purchase Plan.  See Exhibit 10.20.

            (8)     Form of Stock Purchase Agreement used in connection with
                    options granted under the Company's Restated and Amended
                    1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan.  See Exhibit 10.7.

            (9)     The Company's 1993 Directors' Non-Qualified Stock Option
                    Plan.  See Exhibit 10.8.

            (10)    Form of Stock Option Agreement used in connection with
                    options granted under the Company's 1993 Directors' Non-
                    Qualified Stock Option Plan.  See Exhibit 10.9.

     (b)REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period
covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.




     (c) EXHIBITS

    Exhibit
    Number                             Exhibit
    -------

     3.1     The Company's Restated Articles of Incorporation and the Articles
             of Amendment thereto dated December 9, 1993.  (Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Form 10-K, filed on or about March
             31, 1995.)  

     3.2     The Company's Amended and Restated Bylaws.  (Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Form 10-K, filed on or about March
             28, 1994.)  

    10.2     Form of Employment Agreement executed by certain of the Company's
             Principal foreign employees.  (Incorporated by reference to 
             Exhibit 10.18 to Registration Statement No. 2-91224, filed on 
             May 21, 1984.)

     10.3    Form of Employment Agreement executed by the Company's Director -
             Europe.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to Form 10-K,
             filed on or about March 28, 1991.)

     10.4    The Company's Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.  (Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.14 to Form 10-K, filed on or about March
             28, 1991.)

     10.5    Form of Stock Option Agreement used in connection with options
             granted under the Company's Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan. 
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to Form 10-K, filed on
             or about March 28, 1991.)

     10.7    Form of Stock Purchase Agreement used in connection with options
             granted under the Company's Restated and Amended 1988 Employee
             Stock Purchase Plan.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.36
             to Form 10-K, filed on or about March 28, 1989.)

     10.8    The Company's 1993 Directors' Non-Qualified Stock Option Plan. 
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to Form 10-K, filed on
             or about March 28, 1994.)

     10.9    Form of Stock Option Agreement used in connection with options
             granted under the Company's 1993 Directors' Non-Qualified Stock
             Option Plan.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to Form
             10-K, filed on or about March 28, 1994.)

     10.17   Exclusive Agency Agreement, dated as of January 1, 1991, between
             E.I. Freight (Taiwan) Ltd. and EI Freight (H.K.) Limited.
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.17 to Form 10-K, filed
             on or about March 28, 1994.) 

     10.18   Plan and Agreement of Reorganization, dated as of January 1,
             1984, between the Company and the individual shareholders of Fons
             Pte. Ltd. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2.5 to
             Registration Statement No. 2-91224, filed on May 21, 1984.)

     10.19   Plan and Agreement of Reorganization, dated as of January 1,
             1984, among the Company, EIO Investment Ltd., Wong Hoy Leung,
             Chiu Chi Shing, and James Li Kou Wang.  (Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 2.6 to Registration Statement No. 2-91224,
             filed on May 21, 1984.)

     10.20   The Company's Restated and Amended 1988 Employee Stock Purchase
             Plan. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration
             Statement No. 33-81460, filed on July 12, 1994.)




     Exhibit
     Number                             Exhibit
     -------

     10.21   Credit Agreement Between the Company and Seattle-First National
             Bank dated June 6, 1994 with respect to the Company's $10,000,000
             unsecured line of credit together with the Revolving Note due
             March 31, 1995.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.21 to
             Form 10-K, filed on or about March 31, 1995.)  

     10.22   Loan Modification Agreement Between the Company and Seattle-First
             National Bank dated March 28, 1995 amending the maturity date of
             the Revolving Note and extending the loan commitment to March 31,
             1996.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to Form 10-K,
             filed on or about March 31, 1995.  Superseded by Exhibit 10.26 to
             this Report.)

     10.23   Form of Employment Agreement executed by the Company's Chairman
             and Chief Executive Officer dated November 2, 1994. 
             (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.23 to Form 10-K, filed
             on or about March 31, 1995.)  

     10.24   Form of Employment Agreement executed by the Company's President
             and Chief Operating Officer and certain of the Company's
             executive officers dated November 2, 1994.   (Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.24 to Form 10-K, filed on or about March
             31, 1995.)  

     10.25   Loan Modification Agreement Between the Company and Seattle-First
             National Bank dated August 2, 1995 amending the maximum principal
             amount of the Company's unsecured line of credit to $ 15,000,000
             and increasing the Company's maximum obligation under the
             Revolving Note to $ 15,000,000.  

     10.26   Loan Modification Agreement Between the Company and Bank of
             America NW, N.A. doing business as Seafirst Bank dated March 22,
             1996 amending the maturity date of the Revolving Note and
             extending the loan commitment to March 31, 1997.




     Exhibit
     Number                             Exhibit
     -------                           --------- 
     11.1    Statement Re: Computation of Per Share Net Earnings.

     13.1    Portions of the Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for the
             year ended December 31, 1995 incorporated by reference herein. 
             Filed herewith.

     21.1    Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

     23.     Consent of Independent Certified Public Accountants.

     27.     Financial Data Schedule (Filed Electronically Only).




                                   SIGNATURES

       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

     Date:  March 28, 1996.


                                     EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF
                                     WASHINGTON, INC.



                                     By:  /s/ R. JORDAN GATES
                                        -------------------------------------
                                          R. Jordan Gates
                                          Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer






   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 28, 1996.


SIGNATURE                        TITLE
- ---------                        -----

 /s/ Peter J. Rose           Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
- -------------------------    (Principal Executive Officer) and Director
(Peter J. Rose)


 /s/ R. Jordan Gates         Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
- -------------------------    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer)
(R. Jordan Gates)


 /s/ Kevin M. Walsh          President and Chief Operating Officer and Director
- -------------------------
(Kevin M. Walsh)


 /s/ James Li Kou Wang      Executive Vice President and Director
- -------------------------
(James Li Kou Wang)


 /s/ James J. Casey          Director
- -------------------------
(James J. Casey)


 /s/ Dan P. Kourkoumelis     Director
- -------------------------
(Dan P. Kourkoumelis)


 /s/ John W. Meisenbach      Director
- -------------------------
(John W. Meisenbach)





                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc.:


Under date of February 16, 1996, we reported on the consolidated balance 
sheets of Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. and subsidiaries as of 
December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated statements of 
earnings, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the 
three-year period ended December 31, 1995, as contained in the 1995 Annual 
Report to Shareholders.  These consolidated financial statements and our 
report thereon are incorporated by reference in the Annual Report on Form 
10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995.  In connection with our audits of 
the aforementioned consolidated financial statements, we also audited the 
related financial statement schedule.  This financial statement schedule is 
the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on this financial statement schedule based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.



KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

/s/ KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP


Seattle, Washington
February 16, 1996




                                  SCHEDULE II


                  EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.

                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

              FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994, AND 1993
                                 (in thousands)






                                INDEX TO EXHIBITS

                                                                    Location in
Exhibit                                                             this Report
Number     Description                                             on Form 10-K
- -------    -----------                                              -----------
10.25      Loan Modification Agreement Between the Company and
           Seattle-First National Bank dated August 2, 1995
           amending the maximum principal amount of the Company's
           unsecured line of credit to $ 15,000,000 and increasing
           the Company's maximum obligation under the Revolving 
           Note to $ 15,000,000.                                         23

10.26      Loan Modification Agreement Between the Company and 
           Bank of America NW, N.A. doing business as Seafirst 
           Bank dated March 22, 1996 amending the maturity 
           date of the Revolving Note and extending the loan 
           commitment to March 31, 1997.                                 24

11.1       Statement Re: Computation of Per Share Net Earnings.          25

13.1       Portions of the Company's Annual Report to 
           Shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1995 
           incorporated by reference herein.  Filed herewith.            26

21.1       Subsidiaries of the Registrant.                               50

23.        Consent of Independent Certified Public Accountants.          52

27.        Financial Data Schedule (Filed Electronically Only).            



