
10-K405
10K



                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
(Mark One)
 
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934
For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
 
                                       OR
 
[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934
For the transition period from       to
 
Commission File Number: 0-13468
 
                  EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X No
 
    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]
 
    At March 9, 1998, the aggregate market value of the registrant's Common
Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $936,706,000.
 
    At March 9, 1998, the number of shares outstanding of registrant's Common
Stock was 24,573,494.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
    Portions of the definitive proxy statement for the Registrant's 1998 Annual
Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May 7, 1998 are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Form 10-K.
 
                             Page 1 of 59 pages.
 
 





Forward-Looking Statements

From time to time Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. (the Company) 
and its representatives may provide information, whether orally or in 
writing, which are deemed to be "forward-looking" within the meaning of the 
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 ("Litigation Reform Act"). 
This includes certain statements in this report on Form 10-K under Part I, 
Item 1 "Business" and Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis 
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations." These forward-looking 
statements and other information relating to the Company are based on the 
beliefs of management and are necessarily the result of assumptions made 
using the information currently available to management. Actual results will 
vary, and even vary materially, from those predicted in the forward-looking 
statements.

In accordance with the provisions of the Litigation Reform Act the Company is 
making readers aware that forward-looking statements, because they relate to 
future events, are by their very nature subject to many important risk 
factors which could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
contained in the forward-looking statements. For additional information about 
forward-looking statements and for an identification of risk factors and their 
potential significance, see "Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements Under 
Securities Reform Act of 1995; Certain Cautionary Statements" immediately 
preceding Part II, Item 7 "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations" in this report.

                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1--BUSINESS
 
    Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. is engaged in the business 
of providing global logistics services. The Company offers its customers a 
seamless international network supporting the movement and strategic 
positioning of goods. The Company's services include the consolidation or 
forwarding of air and ocean freight. In each U.S. office, and in many 
overseas offices, the Company acts as a customs broker. The Company also 
provides additional services including distribution management, vendor 
consolidation, cargo insurance, purchase order management and customized 
logistics information. The Company does not compete for domestic freight, 
overnight courier or small parcel business and does not own aircraft or 
steamships.
 
    The Company, including its majority owned subsidiaries, operates full
service offices (-) in the major cities identified below. Full service offices
have also been established in locations where the Company maintains unilateral
control over assets and operations and where the existence of the parent
subsidiary relationship is maintained by means other than record ownership of
voting stock (#). In other cities, the Company contracts with independent agents
to provide required services and has established over 120 such relationships
world-wide. Locations where Company employees perform sales and customer service
functions are identified below as international service centers (*). In each
case, the opening date for the full service office or international service
center is set forth in parenthesis.
 


 

 





    The Company was incorporated in the State of Washington in May 1979. Its
executive offices are located at 999 Third Avenue, Suite 2500, Seattle,
Washington, and its telephone number is (206) 674-3400.
 
    For information concerning the amount of revenues, operating income,
identifiable assets, capital expenditures and depreciation and amortization
attributable to the geographic areas in which the Company conducts its business,
see Note 7 to the Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
    Beginning in 1981, the Company's primary business focus was on airfreight
shipments from the Far East to the United States and related customs brokerage
and import services. In the mid-1980's, the Company began to expand its service
capabilities in export airfreight, ocean freight and distribution services.
Today the Company offers a complete range of global logistics services to a
diversified group of customers, both in terms of industry specialization and
geographic location. As opportunities for profitable growth arise, the Company
plans to create new offices. While the Company has historically expanded through
organic growth, the Company has also been open to growth through acquisition of,
or establishing joint ventures with, existing agents or others within the
industry.
 
                              AIRFREIGHT SERVICES
 
    Airfreight services accounted for approximately 43, 47 and 47 percent of the
Company's 1997, 1996 and 1995 consolidated revenues net of freight consolidation
expenses ("net revenues"), respectively. When performing airfreight services,
the Company typically acts either as a freight consolidator or as an agent for
the airline which carries the shipment. When acting as a freight consolidator,
the Company purchases cargo space from airlines on a volume basis and resells
that space to its customers at lower rates than the customers could obtain
directly from airlines. When moving shipments between points where the volume of
business does not facilitate consolidation, the Company receives and forwards
individual shipments as the agent of the airline which carries the shipment.
Whether acting as an agent or consolidator, the Company offers its customers
knowledge of optimum routing, familiarity with local business practices,
knowledge of export and import documentation and procedures, the ability to
arrange for ancillary services, and assistance with space availability in
periods of peak demand.
 
    In its airfreight forwarding operations, the Company procures shipments from
its customers, determines the routing, consolidates shipments bound for a
particular airport distribution point, and selects the airline for
transportation to the distribution point. At the distribution point, the Company
or its agent arranges for the consolidated lot to be broken down into its
component shipments and for the transportation of the individual shipments to
their final destinations.
 
    The Company estimates its average airfreight consolidation weighs
approximately 3,500 to 4,500 pounds and includes merchandise from several
shippers. Because shipment by air is relatively expensive compared with ocean
transportation, air shipments are generally characterized by a high
value-to-weight ratio, the need for rapid delivery, or both.
 
    The Company typically delivers shipments from a Company warehouse at the
origin to the airline after consolidating the freight into containers or on to
pallets. Shipments normally arrive at the destination distribution point within
forty-eight hours after such delivery. During peak shipment periods, cargo space
available from the scheduled air carriers can be limited and backlogs of freight
shipments may occur. When these conditions exist, the Company may charter
aircraft to meet customer demand.
 
    The Company consolidates individual shipments based on weight and volume
characteristics in cost-effective combinations. Typically, as the weight or
volume of a shipment increases, the cost per pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter
charged by the Company decreases. The rates charged by airlines to forwarders
and others also generally decrease as the weight or volume of the shipment
increases. As a result, by aggregating shipments and presenting them to an
airline as a single shipment, the Company is able to obtain a lower rate per
pound/kilo or cubic inch/centimeter than that which it charges to its customers
for the individual shipment, while generally offering the customer a lower rate
than could be obtained from the airline for an unconsolidated shipment.
 
    The Company's net airfreight forwarding revenues from a consolidated
shipment includes the differential between the rate charged to the Company by an
airline and the rate which the Company charges to its customers, commissions
paid to the Company by the airline carrying the freight and fees for ancillary
services. Such ancillary services provided by the Company include preparation of
shipping and customs documentation, packing, crating and insurance services,
negotiation of letters of credit, and preparation of documentation to comply
with local export laws. When the Company




acts as an agent for an airline handling an unconsolidated shipment, its net 
revenues are primarily derived from commissions paid by the airline and fees 
for ancillary services paid by the customer.
 
    The Company does not own aircraft and does not plan to do so. Management
believes that the ownership of aircraft would subject the Company to undue
business risks, including large capital outlays, increased fixed operating
expenses, problems of fully utilizing aircraft and competition with airlines.
Because the Company relies on commercial airlines to transport its shipments,
changes in carrier policies and practices such as pricing, payment terms,
scheduling, and frequency of service may affect its business.
 
    The Company also performs breakbulk services which involve receiving and
breaking down consolidated airfreight lots and arranging for distribution of the
individual shipments. Breakbulk service revenues also include commissions from
non-exclusive agents for airfreight shipments.
 
                     CUSTOMS BROKERAGE AND IMPORT SERVICES
 
    Customs brokerage and import services accounted for approximately 39, 34, 
and 35 percent of the Company's 1997, 1996, and 1995 consolidated net 
revenues, respectively. As a customs broker, the Company assists importers to 
clear shipments through customs by preparing required documentation, 
calculating and providing for payment of duties on behalf of the importer, 
arranging for any required inspections by governmental agencies, and 
arranging for delivery. The Company also provides other services at 
destination including temporary warehousing, inland transportation, inventory 
manipulation and management, cargo insurance and product distribution.
 
    The Company provides customs clearance services in connection with many of
the shipments it handles as a freight forwarder. However, substantial customs
brokerage revenues are derived from customers that elect to use a competing
forwarder. Conversely, shipments handled by the Company as a forwarder may be
processed by another customs broker selected by the customer.
 
    The Company also provides custom clearances for goods moving by rail and
truck between the United States, Canada and/or Mexico. The commodities being
cleared and the time sensitive nature of the border brokerage business required
the Company to make significant modifications to its systems and traditional
office structure in order to provide competitive service. Management believes
that success in the border brokerage business will be an important addition to
the Company's global logistics strategy.
 
    During 1996 the Company established a subsidiary, Expeditors Consulting
Services, L.L.C., to respond to customer driven requests for high-end customs
consulting services. The demand for these services was stimulated by the changes
made by US Customs Service in response to the 1993 Customs Modernization Act.
Fees for these non-transactional services are based upon hourly billing rates
and bids for mutually agreed procedures.
 
    There is currently a noticeable trend, prompted by customer demand, to quote
rates on a door-to-door basis. Management foresees the potential, in the medium
to long-term, for fees normally associated with customs clearance to be
de-emphasized and included as a component of other services offered by the
Company.
 
                             OCEAN FREIGHT SERVICES
 
    Ocean freight services accounted for approximately 18, 19, and 18 percent of
the Company's 1997, 1996, and 1995 consolidated net revenues, respectively. The
Company's revenues as an ocean freight forwarder are derived from commissions
paid by the carrier and revenues from fees charged to customers for ancillary
services which the Company may provide, such as preparing documentation,
procuring insurance, arranging for packing and crating services, and providing
consultation. The Company operates Expeditors International Ocean ("EIO"), a
Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier ("NVOCC") specializing in ocean freight
consolidation from the Far East to the United States. EIO also provides service,
on a smaller scale, to and from any location where the Company has an office or
agent. As an NVOCC, EIO contracts with ocean shipping lines to obtain
transportation for a fixed number of containers between various points during a
specified time period at an agreed rate. EIO solicits less than container load
("LCL") freight to fill the containers and charges lower rates than those
available directly from shipping lines. EIO also handles full container loads
for customers that do not have annual shipping volumes sufficient to negotiate
comparable contracts directly with the ocean carriers. The Company does not own
vessels and generally does not physically handle the cargo.



 
    Expeditors Cargo Management Systems ("ECMS") supplies a sophisticated ocean
consolidation service. The Company owns and maintains software that allows it to
sell ECMS to large volume customers that have signed their own service contracts
with the ocean carriers. As an ocean consolidator, ECMS may obtain LCL freight
from several vendors and consolidate this cargo into full containers. The
Company's revenues as an ocean consolidator are derived from handling LCL cargo
at origin and from the fees paid by customers for access to data captured during
the consolidation process.
 
                            MARKETING AND CUSTOMERS
 
    The Company provides flexible service and seeks to understand the needs 
of the customers from point of origin to ultimate destinations. Although the 
domestic importer usually designates the logistics company and the services 
that will be required, the foreign shipper may also participate in this 
selection process. Therefore, the Company coordinates its marketing program 
to reach both domestic importers and their overseas suppliers.
 
    The Company's marketing efforts are focused primarily on the traffic,
shipping and purchasing departments of existing and potential customers. The
district manager of each office is responsible for marketing, sales
coordination, and implementation in the area in which he or she is located. All
employees are responsible for customer service and relations.
 
    The Company staffs its offices largely with managers and other key personnel
who are citizens of the nations in which they operate and who have extensive
experience in global logistics. Marketing and customer service staffs are
responsible for marketing the Company's services directly to local shippers and
traffic managers who may select or influence the selection of the logistics
vendor and for ensuring that customers receive timely and efficient service. The
Company believes that its expertise in supplying solutions customized to the
needs of its customers, its emphasis on coordinating its origin and destination
customer service and marketing activities, and the incentives it gives to its
managers have been important elements of its success.
 
    The goods handled by the Company are generally a function of the products
which dominate international trade between any particular origin and
destination. Shipments of computer components, other electronic equipment,
housewares, sporting goods, machine parts, and toys, comprise a significant
percentage of the Company's business. Typical import customers include computer
retailers and distributors of consumer electronics, department store chains,
clothing and shoe wholesalers, manufacturers and catalogue stores. Historically,
no single customer has accounted for five percent or more of the Company's
revenues.
 
                                  COMPETITION
 
    The global logistics services industry is intensely competitive and is
expected to remain so for the foreseeable future. There are a large number of
companies competing in one or more segments of the industry, but the number of
firms with a global network that offer a full complement of logistics services
is more limited. Depending on the location of the shipper and the importer, the
Company must compete against both the niche players and larger entities. While
there is currently a marked trend within the industry toward consolidation of
the niche players into the larger firms striving for immediate multinational and
multi-service networks, the regional and local competitors maintain a strong
market presence. The U.S. publicly traded entities most similar to the Company
are Air Express International Corporation, The Harper Group, Inc. and Fritz
Companies, Inc.
 
    Historically, the primary competitive factors in the global logistics
services industry have been price and quality of service, including reliability,
responsiveness, expertise, convenience, and scope of operations. The Company
emphasizes quality service and believes that its prices are competitive with the
prices of others in the industry. Recently, larger customers have exhibited a
trend toward more sophisticated and efficient procedures for the management of
the logistics supply chain by embracing strategies such as just-in-time
inventory management. This trend has made computerized customer service
capabilities a significant factor in attracting and retaining customers. These
computerized customer service capabilities include customized Electronic Data
Interchange, or EDI, and on-line freight tracing and tracking applications. The
customized EDI applications allow the transfer of key information between the
customers' systems and the Company's systems. Freight tracing and tracking
applications allows customers to know the location, transit time and estimated
delivery time of inventory in transit.



 
    Management believes that the ability to develop and deliver innovative 
solutions to meet customers' increasingly sophisticated information 
requirements is a critical factor in the ongoing success of the Company. 
Accordingly, the Company has devoted a significant amount of resources 
towards the maintenance and enhancement of systems that will meet these 
customer demands. Management believes that the Company's existing systems are 
competitive with the systems currently in use by other logistics services 
companies with whom it competes.
 
    Developing these systems has added a considerable indirect cost to the
services provided to customers. Small and middle-tier competitors, in general,
do not have the resources available to develop these customized systems. As a
result, there is a significant amount of consolidation currently taking place in
the industry. Management expects that this trend toward consolidation will
continue for the short to medium-term. Historically, growth through aggressive
acquisition has proven to be a challenge for many of the Company's competitors
and typically involves the purchase of significant "goodwill." As a result, the
Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic growth supplemented by
certain strategic acquisitions.
 
    The Company's ability to attract, retain, and motivate highly qualified
personnel with experience in global logistics services is an essential, if not
the most important, element of its ability to compete in the industry. To this
end, the Company has adopted incentive compensation programs which make
percentages of branch revenues or profits available to managers for distribution
among key personnel. The Company believes that these incentive compensation
programs, combined with its experienced personnel and its ability to coordinate
global marketing efforts, provide it with a distinct competitive advantage and
accounts for historical growth that competitors have matched only through
acquisition.
 
                        CURRENCY AND OTHER RISK FACTORS
 
    The nature of the Company's worldwide operations necessitate the Company
dealing with a multitude of currencies other than the U.S. dollar. This results
in the Company being exposed to the inherent risks of the international currency
markets and governmental interference. Many of the countries where the Company
maintains offices and/or agency relationships have strict currency control
regulations which influence the Company's ability to hedge foreign currency
exposure. The Company tries to compensate for these exposures by accelerating
international currency settlements among these offices or agents.
 
    In addition, the Company's ability to provide service to its customers is
highly dependent on good working relationships with a variety of entities
including airlines, steamship lines and governmental agencies. The Company
considers its current working relationships with these entities to be good.
However, changes in space allotments available from carriers, governmental
deregulation efforts, "modernization" of the regulations governing customs
clearance, and/or changes in governmental quota restrictions could affect the
Company's business in unpredictable ways.
 
                                  SEASONALITY
 
    Historically, the Company's operating results have been subject to seasonal
trends when measured on a quarterly basis. The first quarter has traditionally
been the weakest and the third quarter has traditionally been the strongest.
This pattern is the result of, or is influenced by, numerous factors including
climate, national holidays, consumer demand, economic conditions and a myriad of
other similar and subtle forces. In addition, this historical quarterly trend
has been influenced by the growth and diversification of the Company's
international network and service offerings. The Company cannot accurately
forecast many of these factors nor can the Company estimate accurately the
relative influence of any particular factor and, as a result, there can be no
assurance that historical patterns, if any, will continue in future periods.
 
    A significant portion of the Company's revenues are derived from 
customers in industries whose shipping patterns are tied closely to consumer 
demand and from customers in industries whose shipping patterns are dependent 
upon just-in-time production schedules. Therefore, the timing of the 
Company's revenues are, to a large degree, impacted by factors out of the 
Company's control, such as shifting consumer demand for retail goods and/or 
manufacturing production delays. Additionally, many customers ship a 
significant portion of their goods at or near the end of a quarter, and 
therefore, the Company may not learn of a shortfall in revenues until late in 
a quarter. To the extent that a shortfall in revenues or earnings was not 
expected by securities analysts, any such shortfall from levels predicted by 
securities analysts could have an immediate and adverse effect on the trading 
price of the Company's stock.



 
                                 ENVIRONMENTAL
 
    In the United States, the Company is subject to Federal, state and local
provisions regulating the discharge of materials into the environment or
otherwise for the protection of the environment. Similar laws apply in many
foreign jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Although current operations
have not been significantly affected by compliance with these environmental
laws, governments are becoming increasingly sensitive to environmental issues,
and the Company cannot predict what impact future environmental regulations may
have on its business. The Company does not anticipate making any material
capital expenditures for environmental control purposes during the remainder of
the current or succeeding fiscal years.
 
                                  EMPLOYEES
 
    At February 28, 1998, the Company employed approximately 4,500 people, 2,070
in the United States and 60 in the balance of North America, 110 in South
America, 660 in Europe, 1,280 in the Far East & Australasia, 160 in the
Near/Middle East and 160 in Africa. Approximately 505 of the Company's employees
are engaged principally in sales and marketing and customer service, 2,855 in
operations and 1,135 in finance and administration. The Company is not a party
to any collective bargaining agreement and considers its relations with its
employees to be satisfactory.
 
    In order to retain the services of highly qualified, experienced, and
motivated employees, the Company places considerable emphasis on its incentive
compensation programs and stock option plans.
 



                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The following table sets forth the names, ages, and positions of current
executive officers of the Company.
 

 
    Peter J. Rose has served as a director and Vice President of the Company
since July 1981. Mr. Rose was elected a Senior Vice President of the Company in
May 1986, Executive Vice President in May 1987, President and Chief Executive
Officer in October 1988, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer in May 1991.
 
    Kevin M. Walsh has served as a director and Vice President of the Company
since July 1981. Mr. Walsh was elected a Senior Vice President of the Company in
May 1986, Executive Vice President in December 1989, and President and Chief
Operating Officer in May 1991.
 
    James L.K. Wang has served as a director and the Managing Director of
Expeditors International Taiwan Ltd., the Company's former exclusive Taiwan
agent, since September 1981. Mr. Wang's employment agreement with the Company
has been assigned to the Company's current exclusive Taiwan agent, E.I. Freight
(Taiwan), Ltd. In October 1988, Mr. Wang became a director of the Company and
its Director-Far East. In January 1996, Mr. Wang was elected to the office of
Executive Vice President.
 
    Glenn M. Alger joined the Company in July 1981 as a Regional Manager. Mr.
Alger was elected Vice President in October 1988, Senior Vice President and
Regional Manager in January 1992, and Senior Vice President in January 1993. In
March 1997, Mr. Alger was elected Executive Vice President and Director-North
America.
 
    William J. Coogan has worked for the Company since May 1985. Mr. Coogan was
promoted District Manager of the Company's New York office in July 1988 and
Senior Vice President of EIO in April 1989. Mr. Coogan was elected Senior Vice
President-Ocean in February 1993 and Senior Vice President-Ocean Cargo in May
1996.
 
    Albert H. Leung joined the Company as Senior Vice President-Far East in
May 1997. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Leung was employed by Northwest
Airlines for 19 years, most recently as Regional Director-Cargo, Taiwan, S.E.
Asia and Indian Subcontinent.
 
    Rommel C. Saber joined the Company as Director-Middle/Near East in February
1990 and was elected Senior Vice President-Sales and Marketing in January 1993.
Mr. Saber was elected Senior Vice President-Air Export in September 1993. Since
July 1997 he has served as Senior Vice President Near/Middle East and Indian
Subcontinent.
 
    Michael R. Claydon joined the Company as Director-Europe in October 1987. He
was elected Senior Vice President-Europe and Africa in September 1997.
 
    Jean Claude Carcaillet joined the Company as Managing 
Director-Australasia in August 1988. He was elected Senior Vice 
President-Australasia in September 1997.
 
    Timothy C. Barber joined the Company in May 1986. Mr. Barber was promoted to
District Manager of the Seattle 




office in January 1987 and Regional Vice President in January 1993. Mr. 
Barber was elected Vice President-Sales and Marketing in September 1993 and 
Senior Vice President-Sales and Marketing in January 1998.
 
    R. Jordan Gates joined the Company as its Controller-Europe in February
1991. Mr. Gates was elected Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company
in August 1994 and Senior Vice President-Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer
in January 1998.
 
    Jeffrey J. King joined the Company in October 1990 as Director-Taxation and
Legal Services and was elected Vice President-General Counsel in May 1992. In
August 1994, Mr. King was elected Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary
and Senior Vice President-General Counsel and Secretary in January 1998.
 
    David M. Lincoln joined the Company as its Controller-U.S. Operations in
March 1984. Mr. Lincoln served as Corporate Controller of the Company from May
1986 to January 1991, and was elected Vice President-Systems Management in
December 1989. Mr. Lincoln was elected Vice President-Information Systems in May
1996 and Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer in October 1997.
 
    Charles J. Lynch joined the Company in September 1984. Mr. Lynch was
promoted to Assistant Controller in July 1985 and Controller-Domestic Operations
in January 1989. Mr. Lynch was elected Corporate Controller in January 1991 and
Vice President-Corporate Controller in January 1998.
 
                                   REGULATION
 
    With respect to Company's activities in the air transportation industry in
the United States, it is subject to regulation by the Department of
Transportation ("DOT") as an indirect air carrier. The Company's overseas
offices and agents are licensed as airfreight forwarders in their respective
countries of operation. The Company is licensed in each of its offices or in the
case of its newer offices, has made application for a license, as an airfreight
forwarder by the International Air Transport Association ("IATA"). IATA is a
voluntary association of airlines which prescribes certain operating procedures
for airfreight forwarders acting as agents for its members. The majority of the
Company's airfreight forwarding business is conducted with airlines which are
IATA members.
 
    The Company is licensed as a customs broker by the Customs Service of the
Department of the Treasury in each U.S. customs district in which it does
business. All U.S. customs brokers are required to maintain prescribed records
and are subject to periodic audits by the Customs Service. In other
jurisdictions in which the Company performs clearance services, the Company is
licensed by the appropriate governmental authority.
 
    The Company is licensed as an ocean freight forwarder by the Federal
Maritime Commission ("FMC"). The FMC has established certain qualifications for
shipping agents, including certain surety bonding requirements. The FMC also is
responsible for the economic regulation of NVOCC activity originating or
terminating in the United States. To comply with these economic regulations,
vessel operators and NVOCCs, such as EIO, are required to file tariffs
electronically which establish the rates to be charged for the movement of
specified commodities into and out of the U.S. The FMC has the power to enforce
these regulations by assessing penalties.
 
    The Company does not believe that current U.S. and foreign governmental 
regulation impose significant economic restraint upon its business 
operations. In general, the Company conducts its business activities in each 
country through a majority owned subsidiary corporation that is organized and 
existing under the laws of that country. However, the regulations of foreign 
governments can impose barriers to the Company's ability to provide the full 
range of its business activities in a wholly or majority U.S. owned 
subsidiary. For example, foreign ownership of a customs brokerage business is 
prohibited in some jurisdictions and less frequently the ownership of the 
licenses required for freight forwarding and/or freight consolidation is 
restricted to local entities. When the Company encounters this sort of 
governmental restriction, it works to establish a legal structure that meets 
the requirements of the local regulations while also giving the Company the 
substantive operating and economic advantages that would be available in the 
absence of such regulation. This can be accomplished by creating a joint 
venture or exclusive agency relationship with a qualified local entity that 
holds the required license. In cases where the Company has unilateral control 
over the assets and operations of the local entity, notwithstanding the lack 
of technical majority ownership of common stock, the Company consolidates the 
accounts of the local entity. In such cases, consolidation is necessary to 
fairly present the financial position and results of operations of the 
Company because of the existence of the parent-subsidiary relationship by 
means other than record ownership of voting common stock.



 
                                CARGO LIABILITY
 
    When acting as an airfreight consolidator, the Company assumes a carrier's
liability for lost or damaged shipments. This legal liability is typically
limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value
($9.07 per pound unless the customer declares a higher value and pays a
surcharge), except if the loss or damage is caused by willful misconduct or in
the absence of an appropriate air waybill. The airline which the Company
utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the
same manner and to the same extent. When acting solely as the agent of the
airline or shipper, the Company does not assume any contractual liability for
loss or damage to shipments tendered to the airline.
 
    When acting as an ocean freight consolidator, the Company assumes a
carrier's liability for lost or damaged shipments. This liability is typically
limited by contract to the lower of the transaction value or the released value
($500 per package or customary freight unit unless the customer declares a
higher value and pays a surcharge). The steamship line which the Company
utilizes to make the actual shipment is generally liable to the Company in the
same manner and to the same extent. In its ocean freight forwarding and customs
clearance operations, the Company does not assume cargo liability.
 
    When providing warehouse and distribution services, the Company limits its
legal liability by contract and tariff to an amount generally equal to the lower
of fair value or fifty cents per pound with a maximum of fifty dollars per "lot"
- --which is defined as the smallest unit that the warehouse is required to track.
Upon payment of a surcharge for warehouse and distribution services, the Company
will assume additional liability.
 
    The Company maintains marine cargo insurance covering claims for losses
attributable to missing or damaged shipments for which it is legally liable. The
Company also maintains insurance coverage for the property of others which is
stored in Company warehouse facilities.
 



ITEM 2--PROPERTIES
 
    The Company owns a 27,200 square foot office facility near Seattle-Tacoma
International Airport, an 80,000 square foot office and warehouse facility on a
ten-acre parcel near O'Hare International Airport in Chicago, a 5,500 square
foot office facility in the Tsim Sha Tsui East district of Kowloon, Hong Kong,
and a 10,900 square foot office facility in Taipei, Taiwan. The Company also
owns a 23,400 square foot office and warehouse facility on a long-term renewable
land lease at the Brussels Cargo facility in Brussels, Belgium. During 1996, the
Company purchased a 150,000 square foot warehouse with the underlying land in
Nassau County, New York. The Company also purchased a 130,000 square foot office
building in downtown Seattle, Washington. The Company intends to renovate and
expand the building to approximately 200,000 square feet and will initially
occupy approximately 100,000 square feet as a new corporate office. The
remaining square footage will be leased to tenants.
 
    The Company leases and maintains 40 additional offices and satellite
locations in the United States and 97 offices throughout the world, each located
close to an airport, ocean port, or on an important border crossing. The
majority of these facilities contain warehouse facilities. Lease terms are
either on a month-to-month basis or terminate at various times through 2007. As
an office matures, the Company will investigate the possibility of building or
buying suitable facilities. Lease payments currently aggregate approximately
$787,000 per month. See Note 5 to the Company's Consolidated Financial
Statements. The Company believes that current leases can be extended and that
suitable alternative facilities are available in the vicinity of each present
facility should extensions be unavailable at the conclusion of current leases.
 
ITEM 3--LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
    The Company is ordinarily involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the
normal course of business, none of which currently, in management's opinion,
will have a significant effect on the Company's financial condition.
 
ITEM 4--SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
    Inapplicable.
 



                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5--MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
        MATTERS
 
    The following table sets forth the high and low sale prices in the
over-the-counter market for the Company's Common Stock as reported by The NASDAQ
National Market System under the symbol EXPD.
 

 
    There were 856 shareholders of record as of December 31, 1997. Management
estimates that there were approximately 9,000 beneficial shareholders at that
date.
 
    The Board of Directors declared semi-annual dividends during the two most
recent fiscal years as follows:
 

 
    All share and per share information have been adjusted to reflect a 2-for-1
stock split effected in November, 1996.
 
ITEM 6--SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
Financial Highlights
In thousands except per share data
 

 
    All share and per share information have been adjusted to reflect two 
2-for-1 stock splits effected in November, 1993 and November, 1996.
 



SAFE HARBOR FOR FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS UNDER SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM
  ACT OF 1995; CERTAIN CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS
 
    From time to time, the Company or its representatives have made or may 
make forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. Such forward-looking 
statements may be included in, but not limited to, press releases, oral 
statements made with the approval of an authorized executive officer or in 
various filings made by the Company with the Securities and Exchange 
Commission. The words or phrases "will likely result", "are expected to", 
"will continue", "is anticipated", "estimate", "project" or similar 
expressions are intended to identify "forward-looking statements" within the 
meaning of the Securities Litigation Reform Act. Such statements are 
qualified in their entirety by reference to and are accompanied by the 
following discussion of certain important factors that could cause actual 
results to differ materially from such forward-looking statements.
 
    The risks included here are not exhaustive. Furthermore, reference is also
made to other sections of this report which include additional factors which
could adversely impact the Company's business and financial performance.
Moreover, the Company operates in a very competitive and rapidly changing
environment. New risk factors emerge from time to time and it is not possible
for management to predict all of such risk factors, nor can it assess the impact
of all of such risk factors on the Company's business or the extent to which any
factor, or combination of factors, may cause actual results to differ materially
from those contained in any forward-looking statements. Accordingly,
forward-looking statements cannot be relied upon as a guarantee of actual
results.
 
    Shareholders should be aware that while the Company does, from time to time,
communicate with securities analysts, it is against the Company's policy to
disclose to such analysts any material non-public information or other
confidential commercial information. Accordingly, shareholders should not assume
that the Company agrees with any statement or report issued by any analyst
irrespective of the content of such statement or report. Furthermore, the
Company has a policy against issuing financial forecasts or projections or
confirming the accuracy of forecasts or projections issued by others.
Accordingly, to the extent that reports issued by securities analysts contain
any projections, forecasts or opinions, such reports are not the responsibility
of the Company.
 




 



ITEM 7--MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS
 
    The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the
Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and related Notes thereto contained
elsewhere within this report.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
    The following table shows the consolidated net revenues (revenues less
consolidation expenses) attributable to the Company's principal services and the
Company's expenses for 1997, 1996 and 1995, expressed as percentages of net
revenues. With respect to the Company's services other than consolidation, net
revenues are identical to revenues. Management believes that net revenues are a
better measure than total revenues of the relative importance of the Company's
principal services since total revenues earned by the Company as a freight
consolidator include the carriers' charges to the Company for carrying the
shipment whereas revenues earned by the Company in its other capacities include
only the commissions and fees actually earned by the Company.

 
1997 COMPARED WITH 1996
 
    Airfreight net revenues in 1997 increased 31% compared with 1996 primarily
due to (1) increased airfreight shipments and tonnages handled by the Company
from the Far East to North America and Europe, (2) increased prices charged by
the airlines which were passed along to customers, and (3) increased export
airfreight shipments and tonnages from North America and Europe. The Company's
North American export airfreight net revenues increased 34% in 1997 compared to
1996. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 25%
and 40%, respectively, for 1997 compared with 1996.
 
    Ocean freight net revenues increased 35% in 1997 compared to 1996. During 
the first two quarters of 1997, the ocean freight market to North America 
from the Far East continued to be impacted by overcapacity experienced by 
direct ocean carriers. During the last two quarters of 1997, freight volumes 
between North America and the Far East somewhat reduced the overcapacity 
situation. As a result, freight rates, which had steadily fallen over the 
previous two years, stabilized. Management was still able to expand market 
share, increase ocean tonnage, expand margins 




and increase net ocean freight revenues while offering competitive market 
rates to its customers. In addition to increases in the traditional NVOCC 
(Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier) and ocean forwarding business, E.C.M.S. 
(Expeditors Cargo Management Systems), a PC-based ocean freight consolidation 
management and purchase order tracking service, continued to be instrumental 
in attracting new business. The Company's North American export ocean freight 
net revenues increased 41% in 1997 compared to 1996. This increase was a 
result of the Company handling more ocean shipments moving from North America 
to the Far East and, to a lesser extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean 
freight net revenues from the Far East and from Europe increased 26% and 57%, 
respectively, for 1997 compared with 1996.
 
    Customs brokerage and import services revenue increased 65% in 1997 as
compared with 1996 as a result of (1) the Company's entry into the truck and
rail border brokerage business in the United States, (2) the Company's growing
reputation for providing high quality service, (3) consolidation within the
customs brokerage market as customers seek out customs brokers with more
sophisticated computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics
management program, and (4) the growing importance of distribution services as a
separate and distinct service offered to existing and potential customers.
Distribution services accounted for nearly 16% of the increase in customs
brokerage and import services revenues for 1997 compared with 1996.
 
    Salaries and related costs increased in 1997 compared to 1996 as a result of
(1) the Company's increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative
personnel in existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business
activity and (2) increased compensation levels. Salaries and related costs
decreased approximately 1% as a percentage of net revenues -- a measure that
management believes is significant in assessing the effectiveness of corporate
cost containment objectives. This 1% decrease is largely attributable to
increased net revenues in both new and existing offices without a commensurate
increase in personnel costs. The relatively consistent relationship between
salaries and net revenues is the result of a compensation philosophy that has
been maintained since the inception of the Company: offer a modest base salary
and the opportunity to share in a fixed and determinable percentage of the
operating profit of the business unit controlled by each key employee. Using
this compensation model, changes in individual compensation will occur in
proportion to changes in Company profits. Management believes that the growth in
revenues, net revenues and net earnings for 1997, (and 1996 and 1995) are a
result of the incentives inherent in the Company's compensation program.
 
    Other operating expenses increased in 1997 as compared with 1996 as rent
expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs
expanded to accommodate the Company's growing operations. Other operating
expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased 1% in 1997 as compared with
1996 due to increased revenues in both new and existing offices and the
realization of certain economies of scale.
 
    Other income, net, increased in 1997 as compared to 1996 primarily due to
foreign exchange gains. Interest income was lower in 1997 as a result of cash
being used for the acquisitions of real estate and of the Company's Irish agent.
 
    The Company pays income taxes in the United States and other jurisdictions,
as well as other taxes which are typically included in costs of operations. The
Company's consolidated effective income tax rate remained virtually constant at
38.6% for 1997 and 38.7% in 1996.
 
1996 COMPARED WITH 1995
 
    Airfreight net revenues in 1996 increased 33% compared with 1995 
primarily due to (1) increased airfreight shipments and tonnages handled by 
the Company from the Far East to North America and Europe, (2) increased 
prices charged by the airlines which were passed along to customers, and (3) 
increased export airfreight shipments and tonnages from North America and 
Europe. The Company's North American export airfreight net revenues increased 
32% in 1996 compared to 1995. Airfreight net revenues from the Far East and 
from Europe increased 46% and 6%, respectively, for 1996 compared with 1995.
 
    Ocean freight net revenues increased 38% in 1996 compared to 1995. During
the first three quarters of 1996, the ocean freight market to North America from
the Far East was severely impacted by extreme overcapacity on the part of direct
ocean carriers. This overcapacity situation was largely the result of new
vessels being placed into service. As a result, ocean freight rates during this
period dropped precipitously. However, due to aggressive marketing and its
relations with direct ocean carriers, management was able to expand market
share, increase ocean tonnage, expand margins and increase net ocean freight
revenues while still being able to offer competitive market rates to its




customers. E.C.M.S. was instrumental in providing new business. The Company's 
North American export ocean freight net revenues increased 31% in 1996 
compared to 1995. This increase was a result of the Company handling more 
ocean shipments moving from North America to the Far East and, to a lesser 
extent, from North America to Europe. Ocean freight net revenues from the Far 
East and from Europe increased 54% and 10%, respectively, for 1996 compared 
with 1995.
 
    Customs brokerage and import services revenue increased 26% in 1996 as
compared with 1995 as a result of (1) the Company's growing reputation for
providing high quality service, (2) consolidation within the customs brokerage
market as customers seek out customs brokers with more sophisticated
computerized capabilities critical to an overall logistics management program,
and (3) the growing importance of distribution services as a separate and
distinct service offered to existing and potential customers-- distribution
services accounted for nearly 12% of the increase in customs brokerage and
import services revenues for 1996 compared with 1995.
 
    Salaries and related costs increased annually as a result of (1) the
Company's increased hiring of sales, operations, and administrative personnel in
existing and new offices to accommodate increases in business activity and (2)
increased compensation levels.
 
    Salaries and related costs decreased approximately 1% as a percentage of net
revenues. This 1% decrease is largely attributable to increased net revenues in
both new and existing offices without a commensurate increase in personnel cost.
 
    Other operating expenses increased in 1996 as compared with 1995 as rent
expense, communications expense, quality and training expenses, and other costs
expanded to accommodate the Company's growing operations. Other operating
expenses as a percentage of net revenues decreased 1% in 1996 as compared with
1995 due to increased revenues in both new and existing offices and the
realization of certain economies of scale.
 
    Other income, net, increased in 1996 as compared to 1995 primarily due to
higher interest income earned, as a result of higher positive cash flow during
1996 and resulting in higher interest income on the Company's invested cash
balances. In addition, due to the change in the Company's tax policy effected
January 1, 1993, line of credit borrowings in the United States were kept at a
minimum level by repatriating cash from overseas subsidiaries. This is very
significant to the Company's U.S. operations where the Company is most active in
its role as a customs broker and regularly advances duties on behalf of
customers.
 
    The Company's consolidated effective income tax rate remained constant at
38.7% for both 1996 and 1995.
 
CURRENCY AND OTHER RISK FACTORS
 
    During the third and fourth quarters of 1997, the currencies in Thailand,
Malaysia, Indonesia and South Korea devalued significantly. The currencies of
Taiwan, Singapore and other Far East countries were also weakened by events in
these other Asian countries. A large percentage of the billings from these
countries are denominated in U.S. Dollars. The Company also utilizes an internal
clearing house to reduce exposure from foreign exchange rate fluctuations. Net
foreign currency gains realized during 1997 were approximately $1.065 million.
Foreign currency gains and losses realized during 1996 and 1995 were immaterial.
 
    The Company has traditionally generated revenues from airfreight, ocean
freight and customs brokerage and import services. In light of the
customer-driven trend to provide customer rates on a door-to-door basis,
management foresees the potential, in the medium- to long-term, for fees
normally associated with customs house brokerage to be de-emphasized and
included as a component of other services offered by the Company.
 
    Management believes that the Company has sufficiently addressed any "Year
2000" issues related to its information systems.
 
SOURCES OF GROWTH
 
    Historically, growth through aggressive acquisition typically involves the
purchase of significant "goodwill", the value of which can be realized in large
measure only by retaining the customers and profit margins of the acquired




business. As a result, the Company has pursued a strategy emphasizing organic
growth supplemented by certain strategic acquisitions, where future economic
benefit significantly exceeds the "goodwill" recorded in the transactions.
 
OFFICE ADDITIONS
 
    The Company added 22 offices -- 19 start-ups and 3 acquisitions (indicated
below with an asterisk) during 1997.
 

 
INTERNAL GROWTH
 
    Management believes that a comparison of "same store" growth is critical 
in the evaluation of the quality and extent of the Company's internally 
generated growth. This "same store" analysis isolates the financial 
contributions from offices that have been included in the Company's operating 
results for at least one full year. The table below presents "same store" 
comparisons for the year ended December 31, 1997, relative to the same period 
of 1996, and for the year ended December 31, 1996, relative to the same 
period of 1995.
 
    Same store comparisons for the years ended December 31,
 

 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
    The Company's principal source of liquidity is cash generated from
operations. At December 31, 1997, working capital was $87 million, including
cash and short-term investments of $42 million. The Company had no long-term
debt at December 31, 1997. In 1996, the Company purchased a corporate office
building located in Seattle, Washington, a portion of which will house the
Company's corporate offices. Total anticipated costs approximate $40 million of
which $15.5 million had been incurred as of December 31, 1997. While the nature
of its business does not require an extensive investment in property and
equipment, the Company cannot eliminate the possibility that it could acquire an
equity interest in facilities and/or property at or near airports. The Company
currently expects to spend approximately $35 million on property and equipment
in 1998, which is expected to be financed with cash, short-term floating rate,
and/or long-term fixed-rate borrowings.
 
    The Company borrows internationally and domestically under unsecured bank
lines of credit totaling $31.2 million. At December 31, 1997, the Company was
directly liable for $1.1 million drawn on these lines of credit and was
contingently liable for an additional $16.5 million of standby letters of
credit. In addition, the Company maintains 




a bank facility with its U.K. bank for $8.3 million. The Company was 
contingently liable at December 31, 1997 for the entire $8.3 million.
 
    Management believes that the Company's current cash position, bank financing
arrangements, and operating cash flows will be sufficient to meet its capital
and liquidity requirements for the foreseeable future.
 
    In some cases, the Company's ability to repatriate funds from foreign
operations is subject to foreign exchange controls. These matters, at the
current time, do not have a significant impact on the Company's operations. The
repatriation of certain undistributed earnings of the Company's subsidiaries
would, under most circumstances, require the Company to pay some additional
Federal and state income tax. The Company has not provided for this additional
tax on undistributed earnings accumulated through December 31, 1992 because the
Company intends to reinvest such earnings to fund the expansion of its foreign
activities, or to distribute them in a manner in which no significant additional
taxes would be incurred. At December 31, 1997, the total of such pre-1993
undistributed earnings was approximately $41.9 million and the associated
Federal and state tax that would be payable on any hypothetical repatriation of
these earnings approximates $10.1 million.
 
IMPACT OF INFLATION
 
    To date, the Company's business has not been adversely affected by
inflation, nor has the Company experienced significant difficulty in passing
carrier rate increases on to its customers by means of price increases. Direct
carrier rate increases could occur over the short- to medium-term period. Due to
the high degree of competition in the market place, these rate increases might
lead to an erosion in the Company's margins. However, as the Company is not
required to purchase or maintain extensive property and equipment and has not
otherwise incurred substantial interest rate-sensitive indebtedness, the Company
currently has no direct exposure to increased costs resulting from increases in
interest rates.
 
    The forward looking statements contained in this document involve a number
of risks and uncertainties. Factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from these statements include: risks associated with foreign
operations, elimination of intercompany transactions, matching of expenses with
the associated revenue, seasonality, shifts in consumer demand, other accounting
estimates, and other risk factors disclosed from time to time in the Company's
public reports.
 



ITEM 7A -- QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
    The Company's market capitalization as of January 28, 1997 did not exceed
$2.5 billion. Therefore, in accordance with the instructions to this item, the
Company is not obligated to disclose information under this item as part of this
report.
 
ITEM 8--FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
    The following documents are filed on the pages listed below, as part of Part
II, Item 8 of this report.
 

 
ITEM 9--CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
    Inapplicable.
 



                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10--DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
    The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
information under the caption "Proposal 1--Election of Directors" and to the
information under the caption 'Section 16(a) Reporting Delinquencies' in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to
be held on May 7, 1998. See also Part I--Item 1--Executive Officers of the
Registrant.
 
ITEM 11--EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
    The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
information under the caption "Executive Compensation" in the Company's
definitive Proxy Statement for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on
May 7, 1998.
 
ITEM 12--SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
    The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
information under the captions "Principal Holders of Voting Securities" and
"Proposal 1--Election of Directors" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement
for its annual meeting of shareholders to be held on May 7, 1998.
 
ITEM 13--CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
    The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
information under the caption "Executive Compensation" and "Certain
Transactions" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement for its annual meeting
of shareholders to be held on May 7, 1998.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14--EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 
    Other schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions under which
they are required or because the required information is given in the
consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.
 



(a)(3) EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION PLANS AND ARRANGEMENTS
 
    The following list is a subset of the list of exhibits described below 
and contains all compensatory plans, contracts or arrangements in which any 
director or executive officer of the Company is a participant, unless the 
method of allocation of benefits thereunder is the same for management and 
non-management participants:
 

 
    (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period
covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K.





(c) EXHIBITS
 






 



                                   SIGNATURES
 
    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
    Date: March 31, 1998.
 
                                        EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF
                                          WASHINGTON, INC.
 
                                        By:  /s/ R. Jordan Gates
                                            -------------------------------
                                            R. Jordan Gates
                                            Senior Vice President-Chief
                                            Financial Officer and Treasurer
 



    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities indicated on March 31, 1998.
 

 



                  EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.
 
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                            ------------------------
 
                       CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
                COMPRISING ITEM 8 AND SCHEDULE II LISTED IN THE
 
               INDEX AT ITEM 14(a)2 OF ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 
                 TO SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION FOR THE
 
                 YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996, AND 1995
 


Independent Auditors' Report
 
The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Expeditors International of Washington, Inc.:
 
    We have audited the consolidated balance sheets of Expeditors 
International of Washington, Inc. and subsidiaries as listed in the 
accompanying index. In connection with our audits of the consolidated 
financial statements, we have also audited the financial statement schedule 
as listed in the accompanying index. These consolidated financial statements 
are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial 
statement schedule based on our audits.
 
    We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Expeditors
International of Washington, Inc. and subsidiaries at December 31, 1997 and
1996, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related 
financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the consolidated 
financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material 
respects, the information set forth therein.
 
KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
/s/ KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
 
Seattle, Washington
February 13, 1998
 
                                       F-1



                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                         IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT SHARE DATA
                                  DECEMBER ,
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-2

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                         IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT SHARE DATA
                            YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31,
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-3

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996 AND 1995
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-4

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                            IN THOUSANDS YEARS ENDED
                                  DECEMBER 31,
 

 
Non-Cash Investing and Financing Activities:
 
During 1996 the Company purchased real estate for $5.7 million with short-term
financing provided by the seller. No principal was paid in 1996. The obligation
was paid in February 1997.
 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-5

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
A. BASIS OF PRESENTATION
 
    Expeditors International of Washington, Inc. ("the Company") is a global
logistics company operating through a worldwide network of offices,
international service centers and exclusive or non-exclusive agents. The
Company's customers include retailing and wholesaling, electronics, and
manufacturing companies around the world. The Company grants credit upon
approval to customers.
 
    International trade is influenced by many factors, including economic and
political conditions in the United States and abroad, currency exchange rates,
and United States and foreign laws and policies relating to tariffs, trade
restrictions, foreign investments and taxation. Periodically, governments
consider a variety of changes to current tariffs and trade restrictions. The
Company cannot predict which, if any, of these proposals may be adopted, nor can
the Company predict the effects adoption of any such proposal will have on the
Company's business. Doing business in foreign locations also subjects the
Company to a variety of risks and considerations not normally encountered by
domestic enterprises. In addition to being affected by governmental policies
concerning international trade, the Company's business may also be affected by
political developments and changes in government personnel or policies in the
nations in which it does business.
 
    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries. In addition, the accounts of exclusive agents have been
consolidated in those circumstances where the Company maintains unilateral
control over the agents' assets and operations, notwithstanding a lack of
technical majority ownership of the agents' common stock.
 
    In 1997, the Company acquired its Irish agent in a purchase business
combination for approximately $8,500 of cash. Goodwill from this transaction was
approximately $5,500. Results of operations of this entity are not material in
relation to the Company as a whole.
 
    All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated
in consolidation.
 
    All dollar amounts in the notes are presented in thousands except for share
data.
 
B. SHORT-TERM INVESTMENTS
 
    Short-term investments are designated as available-for-sale and cost
approximates market at December 31, 1997 and 1996.
 
C. PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
 
    Property and equipment are recorded at cost, including interest capitalized
for the construction of certain facilities, and are depreciated or amortized on
the straight-line method over the shorter of the assets' estimated useful lives
or lease terms. Useful lives for major categories of property and equipment are
as follows:
 

 
    Interest capitalized in 1997 and 1996 was $505 and $133, respectively. No
interest was capitalized in 1995.
 
    Expenditures for maintenance, repairs, and renewals of minor items are 
charged to earnings as incurred. Major renewals and improvements are 
capitalized. Upon disposition, the cost and related accumulated depreciation 
are removed from the accounts and the resulting gain or loss is included in 
income for the period.
 
    The excess of the cost over the fair value of the net assets of acquired
businesses (included in other assets, net) is amortized on the straight-line
method over periods up to 40 years.
 
                                      F-6


D. REVENUES AND REVENUE RECOGNITION
 
    Airfreight revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the
shipments when the Company acts as a freight consolidator. Ocean freight
revenues include the charges to the Company for carrying the shipments when the
Company acts as a Non-Vessel Operating Common Carrier (NVOCC). Revenues realized
in other capacities include only the commissions and fees earned.
 
    Revenues related to shipments are recognized at the time the freight is
tendered to a direct carrier at origin. All other revenues, including breakbulk
services, local transportation, customs formalities, distribution services and
logistics management, are recognized upon performance.
 
E. INCOME TAXES
 
    Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method of
accounting. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are
recognized for the future tax consequences attributed to differences between the
financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and
their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured
using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in
which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The
effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is
recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.
 
F. NET EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE
 
    During 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 128. Under SFAS No. 128, diluted earnings per share is computed using
the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive common share
equivalents outstanding. Common share equivalents represent outstanding stock
options. Basic earnings per share is calculated using the weighted average of
common shares outstanding without taking into consideration dilutive common
share equivalents outstanding.
 
G. FOREIGN CURRENCY
 
    Foreign currency amounts attributable to foreign operations have been
translated into U.S. Dollars using year-end exchange rates for assets and
liabilities, historical rates for equity, and average annual rates for revenues
and expenses. Unrealized gains or losses arising from fluctuations in the
year-end exchange rates are generally recorded as equity adjustments from
foreign currency translation. Currency fluctuations are a normal operating
factor in the conduct of the Company's business and exchange transaction gains
and losses are generally included in freight consolidation expenses. Net foreign
currency transaction gains realized outside of ordinary transaction settlements
in 1997 were approximately $1,065. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses
realized in 1996 and 1995 were insignificant.
 
H. CASH EQUIVALENTS
 
    All highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less at
date of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents.
 
I. USE OF ESTIMATES
 
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of the assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the period.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
J. RECLASSIFICATION
 
    Certain 1995 and 1996 amounts have been reclassified to conform with the
1997 presentation.
 
                                      F-7



NOTE 2. CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS
 
    The Company has a $30,000 United States bank line of credit extending
through March 30, 1998. Borrowings under the line bear interest at the LIBOR
+.75% (7.52% at December 31, 1997) and are unsecured. As of December 31, 1997,
the Company had $1,000 of borrowings under this line.
 
    The majority of the Company's foreign subsidiaries maintain bank lines of
credit for short-term working capital purposes. These credit lines are supported
by standby letters of credit issued by a United States bank, or guarantees
issued by the Company to the foreign banks issuing the credit line. Lines of
credit bear interest at .5% to 1.5% over the foreign banks' equivalent prime
rates. At December 31, 1997 and 1996, the Company was liable for $1,145 and
$952, respectively, of borrowings under these lines, and at December 31, 1997
was contingently liable for approximately $16,500 under outstanding standby
letters of credit and guarantees related to these lines of credit and other
obligations.
 
    In addition, at December 31, 1997 the Company had a $8,271 credit facility
with a United Kingdom bank (U.K. facility), secured by a corporate guarantee.
The Company was contingently liable under the U.K. facility at December 31, 1997
for $8,271 used to secure customs bonds issued by foreign governments.
 
    At December 31, 1997, the Company was in compliance with all restrictive
covenants of these credit lines and the associated credit facilities, including
maintenance of certain minimum asset, working capital and equity balances and
ratios.
 
NOTE 3. INCOME TAXES
 
    Income tax expense for 1997, 1996 and 1995 includes the following
components:
 

 
    Income tax expense differs from amounts computed by applying the U.S.
Federal income tax rate of 35% to earnings before income taxes as a result of
the following:
 

 
                                      F-8



    The components of earnings before income taxes are as follows:
 

 
    The tax effects of temporary differences, tax credits and operating loss
carryforwards that give rise to significant portions of deferred tax assets and
deferred tax liabilities at December 31, 1997 and 1996 are as follows:
 

 
    At December 31, 1997, the Company has net operating loss carryforwards for
foreign income tax purposes of $1,228 which are available over an indefinite
period to offset future foreign taxable income.
 
    The Company has not provided U.S. Federal income taxes on undistributed
earnings of foreign subsidiaries accumulated through December 31, 1992 since the
Company intends to reinvest such earnings indefinitely or to distribute them in
a manner in which no significant additional taxes would be incurred. Such
undistributed earnings are approximately $41,900 and the additional Federal and
state taxes payable in a hypothetical distribution of such accumulated earnings
would approximate $10,100. Since 1993, the Company has been providing for
Federal and state income tax expense on foreign earnings without regard to
whether such earnings will be permanently reinvested outside the United States.
 
NOTE 4. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
A. DIVIDENDS
 
    On November 7, 1996, the Board of Directors declared a 2-for-1 stock split,
effected in the form of a stock dividend of one share of common stock for every
share outstanding, and increased the authorized common stock to 80,000,000
shares. The stock dividend was distributed on December 11, 1996 to shareholders
of record on November 25, 1996. All share and per share information, except par
value, has been adjusted for all years to reflect the stock split.
 
B. NON-DISCRETIONARY STOCK REPURCHASE PLAN
 
    The Company has a Non-Discretionary Stock Repurchase Plan under which
management is authorized to repurchase up to 1,100,000 shares of the Company's
common stock in the open market with the proceeds received from the exercise of
Employee and Director Stock Options. As of December 31, 1997, the Company had
repurchased and retired 641,096 shares of common stock at an average price of
$16.15.
 
                                      F-9



C. STOCK OPTION PLANS
 
    The Company has two stock option plans (the "1985 Plan" and the "1997 Plan")
for employees under which the Board of Directors may grant officers and key
employees options to purchase common stock at prices equal to or greater than
market value on the date of the grant. The 1985 Plan provides for non-qualified
grants at exercise prices equal to or greater than the market value on the date
of grant. Outstanding options generally vest and become exercisable over periods
up to five years from the date of grant and expire no more than 10 years from
the date of grant. The 1997 Plan provides for qualified and non-qualified grants
of options to purchase shares, limited to not more than 50,000 per person per
year. Grants less than or equal to 10,000 shares in any fiscal year, are granted
at or above common stock prices on the date of the grant. Any 1997 Plan grants
in excess of the initial 10,000 shares granted per person per year (Excess
Grants) require an exercise price of not less than 120% of the common stock
price on the date of the grant. Excess Grants expire no later than 5 years from
the date of grant. Excess Grants in 1997 vest completely 3 years from the date
of grant.
 
    The Company also has a stock option plan (Directors Plan) under which
non-employee directors elected at each annual meeting are granted non-qualified
options to purchase 4,000 shares of common stock on the first business day of
the month following the meeting.
 
    Upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options, the Company derives a tax
deduction measured by the excess of the market value over the option price at
the date of exercise. The related tax benefit is credited to additional paid-in
capital.
 
    Details regarding the plans are as follows:
 

 
    The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related interpretations in 
accounting for its stock option and its employee stock purchase rights plans. 
Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its fixed stock 
option or employee stock purchase rights plans. Had compensation cost for the 
Company's three stock based compensation and employee stock purchase rights 
plans been determined consistent with FASB No. 123, the Company's net 
earnings, basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share would have 
been decreased to the pro forma amounts indicated below:
 

 
                                      F-10




 
    The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions used for
grants:
 

 
    The following table summarizes information about fixed-price stock options
outstanding at December 31, 1997:
 

 
D. BASIC AND DILUTED EARNINGS PER SHARE
 
    The following table reconciles the numerator and the denominator of the
basic and diluted per share computations for the earnings per share in 1997,
1996 and 1995.
 

 
                                      F-11




 
E. STOCK PURCHASE PLAN
 
    The Company's 1988 Employee Stock Purchase Plan provides for 1,400,000
shares of the Company's common stock to be reserved for issuance upon exercise
of purchase rights granted to employees who elect to participate through regular
payroll deductions beginning August 1 of each year. The purchase rights are
exercisable on July 31 of the following year at a price equal to the lesser of
(1) 85% of the fair market value of the Company's stock on July 31 or (2) 85% of
the fair market value of the Company's stock on the preceding August 1. At
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, an aggregate of 846,145 shares, 675,746 shares
and 547,772 shares, respectively, had been issued under the plan, and at
December 31, 1997, $1,828 had been withheld in connection with the plan year
ending July 31, 1998.
 
NOTE 5. COMMITMENTS
 
A. LEASES
 
    The Company occupies office and warehouse facilities under terms of
operating leases expiring up to 2007. At December 31, 1997, future minimum
annual lease payments under all leases are as follows:
 

 
B. EMPLOYEE BENEFITS
 
    The Company has an employee savings plan under which the Company provides a
discretionary matching contribution. In 1997, 1996, and 1995, the Company's
contributions under the plan were $1,119, $1,044 and $756, respectively.
 
NOTE 6. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 
    The Company is ordinarily involved in claims and lawsuits which arise in the
normal course of business, none of which currently, in management's opinion,
will have a significant effect on the Company's financial condition.
 
                                      F-12



NOTE 7. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
    Financial information regarding the Company's 1997, 1996, and 1995
operations by geographic area are as follows:


 
    The Company charges its subsidiaries and affiliates for services rendered in
the United States on a cost recovery basis.
 
                                      F-13



NOTE 8. QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)
 

 
    Net revenues are determined by deducting freight consolidation costs from
total revenues. Quarterly per share data may not equal the per share total
reported for the year.
 
                                      F-14



                                  SCHEDULE II
 
                  EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997, 1996, AND 1995
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
                                      S-1



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
 
                                WASHINGTON, D.C.

                            ------------------------
 
                                 ANNUAL REPORT
 
                                       ON
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                             FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED
 
                               DECEMBER 31, 1997

                            ------------------------
 
                  EXPEDITORS INTERNATIONAL OF WASHINGTON, INC.
 
                                    EXHIBITS
 


                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS
 





