
10-K
0001.txt
FORM 10-K



================================================================================

                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   ----------

[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934

      For the fiscal year ended: December 31, 2000

                                       OR

[_]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        Commission File Number: 1-10551

                                   ----------

                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            New York                                    13-1514814
(State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
 incorporation or organization)

    437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY                      10022
(Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600
           Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                 Name of each Exchange
      Title of each class                         on which Registered
- ----------------------------------          --------------------------------
  Common Stock, $.15 Par Value                  New York Stock Exchange

        Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

                                   ----------

      The registrant  has (1) filed all reports  required to be filed by Section
13 or 15(d) of the  Securities  Exchange  Act of 1934  during the  preceding  12
months and (2) been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.

      Disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulations S-K is
not contained herein and will not be contained in the definitive proxy or
information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

                                   ----------

      At March 15, 2001, 184,372,879 shares of Omnicom Common Stock, $.15 par
value, were outstanding; the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
nonaffiliates at March 15, 2001 was $15,317,326,000.

      Certain portions of Omnicom's definitive proxy statement relating to its
annual meeting of shareholders scheduled to be held on May 22, 2001 are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

================================================================================


                               OMNICOM GROUP INC.

                                   ----------

                         ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K FOR
                        THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                         INDEX AND CROSS-REFERENCE SHEET
               PURSUANT TO INSTRUCTIONS G(4) AND H AND FORM 10-K

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
PART 1

Item 1.     Business.......................................................   1
Item 2.     Properties.....................................................   2
Item 3.     Legal Proceedings..............................................   2
Item 4.     Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders............   2

PART II

Item 5.     Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related
              Stockholder Matters..........................................   3
Item 6.     Selected Financial Data........................................   3
Items 7/7A. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
              and Results of Operations; Quantitative and Qualitative
              Disclosures about Market Risk ...............................   4
Item 8.     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data....................   6
Item 9.     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting
              and Financial Disclosure ....................................   6

PART III

Item 10.    Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.............   *
Item 11.    Executive Compensation.........................................   *
Item 12.    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.   *
Item 13.    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.................   *

PART IV

Item 14.    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on
              Form 8-K.....................................................   8
            Index to Financial Statements .................................   8
            Index to Financial Statement Schedules.........................   8
            Exhibit Index..................................................   8
Signatures ................................................................  10
Management Report ......................................................... F-1
Report of Independent Public Accountants................................... F-2
Consolidated Financial Statements.......................................... F-3
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements................................. F-7

- ----------
*     The information called for by Items 10, 11, 12 and 13, to the extent not
      included in this document, is incorporated herein by reference to the
      information to be included under the captions "Election of Directors,"
      "Management's Stock Ownership," "Director Compensation" and "Executive
      Compensation," in the Company's definitive proxy statement, which is
      expected to be filed by April 11, 2001.


                                     PART I

Introduction

      This report is both our 2000 annual report to shareholders and our 2000
annual report on Form 10K required under the federal securities laws. The
specific items of Form 10-K are set forth in the index and cross-reference sheet
appearing on the inside cover of this report.

      We are a holding company; our business is conducted through subsidiaries.
For convenience of reference, however, the terms "Omnicom," "we" or "us" mean
Omnicom Group Inc. and our subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.

      Statements of our beliefs or expectations regarding future events are
"forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the federal securities laws.
These statements are subject to various risks and uncertainties, including as a
result of the specific factors identified under the caption "Risks" on page 2
and elsewhere in this report. There can be no assurance that these beliefs or
expectations will not change or be affected by actual future events.

1. Business

      General. We are one of the largest marketing and corporate communications
companies in the world. Our company was formed through a 1986 combination of
three marketing and corporate communications networks, BBDO, Doyle Dane Bernbach
and Needham Harper. We have grown our holdings to over 1400 companies operating
in more than 100 countries. Our companies provide an extensive range of
marketing and corporate communications services, including advertising, media
planning and buying, promotional marketing, sports and event marketing, direct
marketing, database management, field marketing, digital and interactive
marketing, public relations, marketing research, custom publishing, brand
consultancy, directory and business-to-business advertising, healthcare
communications, recruitment communications and other specialty communications.

      Marketing and corporate communications services are provided to clients
through worldwide, national and regional independent agency brands. These brands
include, among others, BBDO Worldwide, DDB Worldwide, TBWA Worldwide, Abbott
Mead Vickers, Accel Healthcare, Adelphi Group Ltd., Alcone Marketing Group,
Bernard Hodes Group, BGM-FMJ Healthcomm, Brodeur Worldwide, Clark & Weinstock,
Claydon Heeley Jones Mason, Cline Davis & Mann, Cone, Corbett Healthcare Group,
CPM International, Direct Partners, Doremus, Eden Communications Group,
Fleishman-Hillard, Gavin Anderson & Company, GMR Marketing, Goodby, Silverstein
& Partners, Griffin Bacal, GSD&M, Harrison & Star Business Group, Harrison
Wilson & Associates, Horrow Sports Ventures, Integer Group, Interbrand, InterOne
Marketing Group, Kaleidoscope, Ketchum, Ketchum Directory Advertising, KPR,
Lieber Levett Koenig Farese Babcock, Lyons Lavey Nickel Swift, M/A/R/C Research,
MarketStar Corporation, Martin/Williams, Matthews Media Group, Merkley Newman
Harty, Millsport, Moss Dragoti, Optimum Media Direction, PhD, PentaMark
Worldwide, Porter Novelli International, Pauffley, PGC Advertising, Premier
Media Partners, Proximity Worldwide, QED Technologies, Rapp Collins Worldwide,
Russ Reid Company, Targetbase, TARGIS Healthcare Communications Worldwide,
Tequila, The Designory, The Marketing Arm, TicToc, TLP-Tracy Locke Partnership,
Tribal DDB, U.S. Marketing & Promotions, Washington Speakers Bureau, Zimmerman &
Partners Advertising and @tmosphere Interactive.

      Our total consolidated revenue is about evenly divided between U.S. and
non-U.S. operations. For financial information concerning domestic and foreign
operations and segment reporting, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements at pages F-13 to F-14 of this report. For Financial information
concerning acquisitions in 2000, see Note 2 to the Consolidated Financial
Statements at page F-10 of this report.

      Clients. We had over 5,000 clients in 2000, many of which were served by
more than one of our agency brands. Our 10 largest and 200 largest clients
accounted for 18% and 48%, respectively, of our 2000 consolidated revenue.
Fourteen of our agencies provided services to our largest client in 2000. This
client accounted for 5.2% of our 2000 consolidated revenue.

      Employees. We employed 56,000 people at December 31, 2000. About 38% of
these people were employed in our U.S. operations.




      Risks. We face risks typical of marketing and corporate communications
services companies and other services businesses generally, including risks
arising out of changes in general economic conditions, competitive factors,
client communication requirements, the hiring and retention of human resources
and other factors. In addition, our international operations are subject to the
risk of currency fluctuations, exchange controls and similar risks discussed in
Item 7 on page 5. For financial information on our operations by geographic
area, see Note 5 to the Consolidated Financial Statements at pages F-13 to F-14
of this report. Revenue is dependent upon marketing and corporate communication
requirements of clients and tends to be highest in the second and fourth
quarters of the calendar year.

      Government agencies and consumer groups have directly or indirectly
affected or attempted to affect the scope, content and manner of presentation of
advertising. We presently believe the total volume of advertising in general
media will not be materially affected by future legislation or regulation,
although the scope, content and manner of presentation of advertising will
continue to be affected.

2. Properties

      We maintain office space in many of the major cities around the world,
including our corporate headquarters in New York City. Certain of our leases are
subject to rent reviews under escalation clauses and require payment of
expenses. Our consolidated rent expense was $429.0 million in 2000, $341.6
million in 1999 and $311.5 million in 1998, after reduction for rents received
from subleases of $19.9 million, $17.4 million and $14.7 million, respectively.
Substantially all of these properties are leased. See Note 10 to the
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages F-18 to F-19 of this report for a
discussion of our lease commitments, including our leased properties.

3. Legal Proceedings

      We are involved from time to time in various legal proceedings in the
ordinary course of business. We do not presently expect that these proceedings
will have a material adverse effect on our financial position or results of
operations.

4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      No matters were submitted to a vote of our shareholders during the last
quarter of 2000.




                                     PART II

5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

      Our common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol "OMC". On March 15, 2001, we had 4,197 holders of record of our common
shares. The table below shows the range of quarterly high and low closing prices
reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for our common shares and
the dividends paid per share for these periods.

                                                                 Dividends Paid
Period                                           High       Low    Per Share
- ------                                           ----       ---    ---------
Q1 1999 ................................       $ 79.94    $56.50    $0.15
Q2 1999 ................................         85.13     67.00     0.15
Q3 1999 ................................         80.69     67.06     0.15
Q4 1999 ................................        107.13     71.63     0.175
Q1 2000 ................................       $ 99.63    $79.88    $0.175
Q2 2000 ................................         97.25     82.13     0.175
Q3 2000 ................................         90.44     70.00     0.175
Q4 2000 ................................         92.25     72.69     0.175
Q1 2001 (through March 15) .............       $ 94.51    $78.69    $0.175

      We are subject to a number of financial tests under the terms of our debt
and are in compliance with those tests as of December 31, 2000. We are not aware
of any restrictions on our ability to continue to pay dividends.

      In February 2001, we completed the issuance and sale to Merrill Lynch &
Co., as initial purchaser, of $850 million aggregate principal amount of Liquid
Yield Option Notes due 2031, or LYONs, for net cash proceeds of $830.2 million.
Merrill Lynch & Co. resold the LYONs to a limited number of qualified
institutional buyers. The sale of the LYONs was effected pursuant to the
exemption afforded by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933 and Rule 144A
under that Act in reliance upon the representations of Merrill Lynch.

6. Selected Financial Data

      The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with
our consolidated financial statements which begin on page F-1. Information below
and in the next section of this report has been restated to give effect to our
accounting for our 1999 acquisition of Abbott Mead Vickers ("AMV") under the
pooling of interests method of accounting. See Note 2 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements page F-10 of this report. Per share amounts for 1996 have
been restated to give effect to our two-for-one stock split completed in
December 1997.



- ----------
(a)   Includes $63.8 million after-tax gain on sale of Razorfish shares.




7/7A. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
      Operations; Quantitative and Qualitative Information about Market Risk

Results of Operations

      Revenue: In 2000, our consolidated worldwide revenue increased 20.0% to
$6,154.2 million from $5,130.5 million in 1999, reflecting the growth in both
domestic and international operations described below. In 1999, our consolidated
worldwide revenue increased 19.6% to $5,130.5 million from $4,290.9 million in
1998. These increases reflecting the growth in both our domestic and
international operations described below.

      Our 2000 domestic revenue increased 28.6% to $3,258.2 million from
$2,532.9 million in 1999. The effect of acquisitions, net of divestitures,
accounted for a 10.7% increase. The remaining 17.9% increase was due to net new
business wins and higher net revenue from existing clients. Our 1999 domestic
revenue increased 20.7% as compared to 1998. The effect of acquisitions, net of
divestitures, accounted for 6.1% increase. The remaining 14.6% increase was due
to net new business wins and higher net revenue from existing clients.

      Our 2000 international revenue increased 11.5% to $2,896.0 million from
$2,597.6 million in 1999. The effect of acquisitions, net of divestitures,
accounted for a 7.1% increase. Changes in translation of foreign currencies to
the US dollar decreased international revenue by 11.0% as compared to 1999,
driven primarily by decreases in the value of the Euro and the British pound
relative to the US dollar. The remaining 15.4% increase was due to net new
business wins and higher net revenue from existing clients. Our 1999
international revenue increased 18.4% as compared to 1998. The effect of
acquisitions, net of divestitures, accounted for a 10.9% increase in
international revenue. Changes in the translation of foreign currencies to the
U.S. dollar decreased international revenue by 6.0% as compared to 1998. The
remaining 13.5% increase was due to net new business wins and higher net revenue
from existing clients.

      Operating Expenses and Net Interest Expense: Our 2000 worldwide operating
expenses increased 19.7% to $5,276.1 million from $4,406.4 million in 1999,
primarily as a result of increased operating costs in support of our increased
revenue base. Net interest expense increased to $76.5 million from $50.4 million
in 1999, due principally to increased interest rates and higher average
borrowings as compared to 1999. Higher average borrowings related primarily to
acquisitions and share repurchases during the year. Changes in translation of
foreign currencies to the US dollar decreased worldwide expenses, including net
interest expense, by 5.6% as compared to 1999.

      Our 1999 worldwide operating expenses increased 18.2% to $4,406.4 million
from $3,728.7 million in 1998, primarily as a result of increased operating
expenses. Our net interest expense in 1999 increased to $50.4 million from $40.4
million in 1998. This increase primarily reflects higher average borrowings
during the year and higher interest rates. Changes in the translation of foreign
currencies to the U.S. dollar decreased worldwide expenses, including net
interest expense, by 2.8% as compared to 1998.

      Income Before Income Taxes ("Pretax Margin") and Operating Margin:
Operating margin, which excludes net interest expense, improved to 14.3% as
compared to 14.1% in 1999, reflecting improved operating leverage and continued
emphasis on cost controls and corporate purchasing efficiencies. Additionally,
we sold a portion of our investment in Razorfish, Inc. in the first quarter of
2000, resulting in a $110.0 million pretax gain ($63.8 million after tax).
Excluding the Razorfish gain, our pretax margin for the year 2000 was 13.0%
compared to 13.1% in 1999.

      Our operating margin increased to 14.1% in 1999 from 13.1% in 1998,
primarily as a result of improved operating leverage. In addition, 1998 included
transaction costs incurred by AMV. Our 1999 pretax margin was 13.1% compared to
12.2% in 1998.

      Income Taxes: Our consolidated effective income tax rate was 40.5% in 2000
as compared to 40.6% in 1999. The decrease was primarily attributable to lower
effective tax rates at our international operations, partially offset by an
increase in our domestic effective tax rate resulting from a higher marginal tax
rate on the sale of Razorfish shares. Our 1999 consolidated effective tax rate
decreased to 40.6% from 42.0% in 1998. The decrease reflects lower international
effective tax rates.

      Equity in Affiliates and Minority Interests: In 2000, equity in affiliates
decreased to $10.9 million from $15.4 million in 1999. The decrease resulted
from increased ownership positions in some of our affiliates that resulted in
the subsequent consolidation of their income in our 2000 financial statements
and non-cash losses from restructuring actions taken by one of our affiliated
companies.




      In 1999, equity in affiliates decreased to $15.4 million from $20.5
million in 1998, primarily as a result of increased ownership positions in some
of our affiliates that resulted in their subsequent consolidation in our 1999
financial statements. Lower aggregate profits by the remaining affiliate
companies accounted for by the equity method also contributed to the decrease.

      The increase in minority interest of $1.6 million in 2000 and $8.6 million
in 1999 was primarily due to acquisitions, including increased ownership
positions in some of our affiliates that resulted in their subsequent
consolidation and greater earnings by subsidiaries where minority interests are
held by third parties.

      Earnings Per Share (EPS): Including the gain on sale of Razorfish shares,
our consolidated net income increased 37.5% to $498.8 million from $362.9
million in 1999 and our diluted earnings per share increased 35.8% to $2.73.
Excluding the Razorfish gain, our net income increased 19.9% to $435 million and
our diluted EPS increased 19.4% to $2.40. The effect of translation of foreign
currency to the US dollar on diluted EPS was a decrease of $0.10 per share.

      Our 1999 consolidated net income increased 30.1% to $362.9 million from
$278.8 million in 1998. Diluted EPS increased 28.0% to $2.01 from $1.57 in 1998.
The effect of translation of foreign currency to the US dollar on diluted EPS
was a decrease of $0.06 per share.

      Changes in the translation of foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar
decreased our consolidated net income, including Razorfish, by 3.7%, and 3.2% in
2000 and 1999, respectively.

      Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures Regarding Market Risk: Our
results of operations are subject to the risk of currency exchange rate
fluctuations related to our international operations. This economic risk is
generally limited to the net income of the operations as the revenue and
expenses of the operations are generally denominated in the same currency. Our
major international markets are the United Kingdom, Euro currency countries,
Brazil, Canada and Japan. We are also subject to interest rate risk on our
commercial paper borrowings. In some cases we enter into hedging transactions to
mitigate the risk of adverse currency exchange and interest rate fluctuations.

      We periodically purchase derivative financial instruments as part of
managing exposures to currency exchange and market interest rates. Derivative
financial instruments are subject to market and counterparty risk. Market risk
is the potential for loss resulting from changes in market conditions. We
periodically determine the potential loss from market risk by performing a
value-at-risk computation. Value-at-risk analysis is a statistical model that
utilizes historic currency exchange and interest rate data to measure the
potential impact on future earnings of our existing portfolio of derivative
financial instruments. The value-at-risk analysis we performed on our December
31, 2000 portfolio of derivative financial instruments indicated that the risk
of loss was immaterial. Counterparty risk arises from the inability of a
counterparty to meet its obligations. To mitigate counterparty risk, we enter
into derivative contracts with major financial institutions that have credit
ratings at least equal to our own.

      Our derivative activities are limited in volume and confined to risk
management activities related to our worldwide operations. We have established a
reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in interest rates, currency
exchange rates and other relevant market risks. This system is designed to
enable us to initiate remedial action, if appropriate, and results are
periodically reviewed with our audit committee. See Note 12 to the Consolidated
Financial Statements on pages F-20 to F-21 of this report for disclosure of the
fair value of each type of derivative.

      At December 31, 2000, we had forward foreign exchange contracts
outstanding with an aggregate notional principal amount of $254 million, most of
which were denominated in our major international market currencies. These
contracts predominantly hedge certain intercompany receivables and payables
which are not recorded in the respective company's functional currency. The
terms of these contracts are generally three months or less. At December 31,
2000, we had Japanese yen 16.3 billion aggregate notional principal amount of
cross currency interest rate swaps. The swaps hedge our net investment in
Japanese yen denominated assets. At December 31, 2000, we had no other
derivative contracts outstanding.

Capital Resources and Liquidity

      We had cash and cash equivalents totalling $516.8 million and $576.4
million at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Net cash provided by our
operating activities was $685.9 million in 2000 compared to $972.6 million in
1999, reflecting revenue and net income growth offset by a decline in the
increase to accounts




payable and an increase in prepaid expenses related primarily to an increase in
current deferred tax assets. Our operating cash flows are impacted by the
spending patterns of clients.

      Cash flows used in our investing activities in 2000 were $1,034.6 million
and included $884.3 million used for acquisitions and investments, net of cash
acquired and proceeds from sales of investments, and $150.3 million used for
capital expenditures.

      Cash flows from our financing activities in 2000 were $282.1 million and
included net borrowings of $731.5 million and proceeds from employee stock plans
of $50.0 million, offset by dividends paid to shareholders, and net loans to
affiliates and minority interests totalling $262.3 million and payments to
repurchase stock totalling $237.1 million.

      In February 2001, we completed the issuance of $850 million aggregate
principal amount of Liquid Yield Option Notes ("LYONs") due February 7, 2031.
The net proceeds from the LYONs offering were $830.2 million. The LYONs are
unsecured, unsubordinated zero-coupon securities that may be converted into our
common shares, subject to specified conditions relating to the price of our
common shares. The initial conversion price is $110.01 per share subject to
antidilutive adjustment. We may be required to purchase the LYONs after February
7, 2002 using, at our election, cash or common stock or a combination of both
and we have the option of redeeming the LYONs after February 7, 2006 for cash.
In addition, we may be obligated to pay contingent cash interest after February
7, 2006, if our stock price reaches specified thresholds, equal to the amount of
dividends we pay to common shareholders during specified six-month periods.

      In the fourth quarter of 2000, we redeemed our 4 1/4% Convertible
Subordinate Debentures, which had a scheduled maturity in 2007. The debentures
were convertible into our common stock at a conversion price of $31.50 per
share, subject to adjustments in certain events. Prior to redemption,
substantially all of the bondholders exercised the conversion rights and 6.9
million of our common shares were issued. The conversion had no impact to
diluted earnings per share for the year. These debentures were issued in 1997.

      We maintain two revolving credit facilities with consortiums of banks. One
facility, for $500 million, expires June 30, 2003 and the other, for $1 billion,
expires April 26, 2001. We have the option at maturity to extend and convert the
$1 billion facility to a one-year term loan. We intend to renew this facility
for an additional year and we have notified the banks of our request, which we
believe will be accepted. Under the terms of these facilities, we may either
borrow directly or issue commercial paper. During 2000, we issued $13.4 billion
of commercial paper and we redeemed $12.6 billion of commercial paper. The
average term of the commercial paper was 21 days. At December 31, 2000, $831.5
million of commercial paper was outstanding at interest rates ranging from 6.65%
to 6.80%.

      From time to time we have completed other financings when we have felt
that conditions in the capital markets were favorable. Information about our
other debt is included in Notes 3 and 7 of our Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements at pages F-11 and F-16 to F-17 of this report. Last year, we
increased the amount of securities registered under shelf registration
statements with the SEC to $1 billion in the aggregate. The shelf filings
provide for the issuance of debt or equity securities from time to time, either
directly or in acquisitions.

      We believe that our operating cash flow combined with our access to the
capital markets and available lines of credit are sufficient to support our
foreseeable cash requirements, including dividends, capital expenditures,
acquisitions and working capital.

8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

      Our financial statements and supplementary data are included at the end of
this report beginning on page F-1 of this report. See the index appearing on
page 8 of this report.

9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
   Disclosure

      None




                                    PART III

Executive Officers Our executive officers are:



      All of the executive officers have held their present positions at Omnicom
for at least five years except as specified below.

      John Wren was appointed Chief Executive Officer of the Company effective
January 1, 1997, succeeding Bruce Crawford in the position. He had previously
been President of the Company and Chairman of our Diversified Agency Services
Division.

      Randall Weisenburger joined the Company in September 1998 and became
Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer on January 1, 1999. Mr.
Weisenburger was previously President and Chief Executive Officer of Wasserstein
Perella Management Partners, a merchant bank.

      Peter Mead was appointed Vice Chairman on May 16, 2000. He had previously
been Group Chief Executive of Abbot Mead Vickers plc and Joint Chairman of AMV
BBDO.

      Philip Angelastro was promoted to Controller February 1, 1999. Mr.
Angelastro joined the Company in June 1997 as Vice President of Finance of
Diversified Agency Services after being a Partner at Coopers & Lybrand LLP.

      Robert Profusek joined the Company on May 15, 2000 as Executive Vice
President and assumed oversight responsibilities for corporate administrative
matters in March 2001. He previously headed the transactional practice group of
Jones, Day, Reavis & Pogue, a global law firm.

      Thomas Harrison has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the
Diversified Agency Services since May 1998, having previously served as its
President since February 1997. He also has served as Chairman of the Diversified
Healthcare Communications Group since its formation in 1994.

      Additional information about our directors and executive officers appears
under the captions "Election of Directors," "Management's Stock Ownership,"
"Director Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" in our 2001 proxy
statement.




                                     PART IV

14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1) Financial Statements:
                                                                           Page
                                                                           ----
   Management Report ....................................................  F-1
   Report of Independent Public Accountants .............................  F-2
   Consolidated Statements of Income for the Three Years Ended
     December 31, 2000 ..................................................  F-3
   Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999 ............  F-4
   Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the
     Three Years Ended December 31, 2000 ................................  F-5
   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Three
     Years Ended December 31, 2000 ......................................  F-6
   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ...........................  F-7
   Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited) ..........................  F-23

(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules:

   Schedule II -- Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (for the
     three years ended December 31, 2000)................................  S-1

All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.

(a)(3) Exhibits:

Exhibit
Numbers      Description
- -------      -----------

(3)(i)       Certificate of Incorporation (Exhibit 4.1 to our Registration
             Statement No. 333-46303 and incorporated herein by reference).

   (ii)      Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation (Exhibit A to our 2000
             Proxy Statement filed on April 11, 2000 and incorporated herein by
             reference).

   (iii)     By-laws (incorporated by reference to our Annual Report on Form
             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987).

4.1          Subscription Agreement, dated December 14, 1994, in connection with
             our issuance of DM 200,000,000 Floating Rate Bonds due January 5,
             2000 of BBDO Canada Inc., including form of Guaranty by us (Exhibit
             4.2 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
             31, 1994 (the "1994 10-K") and incorporated herein by reference).

4.2          Paying Agency Agreement, dated January 4, 1995, in connection with
             the issuance of DM 200,000,000 Floating Rate Bonds due January 5,
             2000 by BBDO Canada Inc. (Exhibit 4.3 to the 1994 10-K and
             incorporated herein by reference).

4.3          Indenture, dated January 3, 1997, between The Chase Manhattan Bank,
             as trustee, and us in connection with the issuance of our 4 1/4%
             Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2007 (Exhibit 4.2 to our
             Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-22589 (the "4 1/4% Convert
             Registration Statement") and incorporated herein by reference).

4.4          Form of Debentures (included in Exhibit 4.3 above) (Exhibit 4.3 to
             our 4 1/4% Convert Registration Statement and incorporated herein
             by reference).

4.5          Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 3, 1997, related to
             our 4 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2007 (Exhibit
             4.4 to our 4 1/4% Convert Registration Statement and incorporated
             herein by reference).

4.6          Indenture, dated January 6, 1998, between The Chase Manhattan Bank,
             as trustee, and us in connection with our issuance of 21/4%
             Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2013 (Exhibit 4.1 to our
             Report on Form 8-K, dated January 20, 1998 (the "1-20-98 8-K") and
             incorporated herein by reference).

4.7          Form of Debentures (included in Exhibit 4.8 above) (Exhibit 4.2 to
             our 1-20-98 8-K and incorporated herein by reference).




4.8          Registration Rights Agreement, dated January 6, 1998, related to
             our 21/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures due 2013 (Exhibit 4.3
             to our 1-20-98 8-K and incorporated herein by reference).

4.9          Fiscal Agency Agreement, dated June 24, 1998, in connection with
             our issuance of 1,000,000,000 5.20% Notes due 2005 (the "5.20%
             Notes") (Exhibit 4.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended June 30, 1998 ("the 6-30-98 10Q") and incorporated
             herein by reference).

4.10         Subscription Agreement, dated June 22, 1998, in connection with our
             issuance of the 5.20% Notes (Exhibit 4.2 to our 6-30-98 10-Q and
             incorporated herein by reference).

4.11         Deed of Covenant, dated June 24, 1998, in connection with our
             issuance of the 5.20% Notes (Exhibit 4.3 to the 6-30-98 10-Q and
             incorporated herein by reference).

4.12         Indenture, dated February 7, 2001, between Chase Manhattan Bank, as
             trustee, and us in connection with our issuance of $850,000,000
             Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2031 (Exhibit 4.1 to our Registration
             Statement No. 333-55386 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.1         Amendment No. 1, dated July 7, 2000, to $500,000,000 Amended and
             Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of February 20, 1998, among
             Omnicom Finance Inc., Omnicom Finance PLC, Omnicom Capital Inc.,
             Omnicom Group Inc., ABN AMRO Bank N.V., New York Branch and the
             financial institutions party thereto (Exhibit 10-2 to our quarterly
             report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2000 (the
             "6-30-00 10-Q") and incorporated herein by reference).

10.2         Second Amendment and Restatement, dated as of July 31, 2000, of the
             364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of April 30, 1999, amended and
             restated as of April 27, 2000, among Omnicom Finance Inc., Omnicom
             Finance PLC, Omnicom Capital Inc., the financial institutions party
             thereto, Citibank, N.A., The Bank of Nova Scotia and San Paolo IMI
             SPA, as syndication agent (Exhibit 10-3 to our 6-30-00 10-Q and
             incorporated herein by reference).

10.3         List of Contents of Exhibits to the 364-Day Credit Agreement, dated
             as of April 30, 1999 (Exhibit 10.2 to our quarterly report on Form
             10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1999 (the "3-31-99 10-Q") and
             incorporated herein by reference).

10.4         Guaranty, dated as of April 30, 1999, made by Omnicom Group Inc.
             (Exhibit 10.3 to our 3-31-99 10-Q and incorporated herein by
             reference).

10.5         Amended and Restated 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan, (Exhibit B
             to our Proxy Statement, dated April 11, 2000, and incorporated
             herein by reference).

10.6         Restricted Stock Plan for Non-employee Directors (Exhibit 10.10 to
             our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
             1999).

10.7         Standard form of our Executive Salary Continuation Plan Agreement
             (Exhibit 10.24 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
             December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.8         Standard form of the our Director Indemnification Agreement
             (Exhibit 10.25 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
             December 31, 1989 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.9         Severance Agreement, dated July 6, 1993, between Keith Reinhard and
             DDB Worldwide Communications Group, Inc. (Exhibit 10.11 to our
             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 and
             incorporated herein by reference).

21.1         Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1         Consent of Arthur Andersen LLP.

24.1         Powers of Attorney from Richard I. Beattie, Bernard Brochand,
             Robert J. Callander, James A. Cannon, Leonard S. Coleman, Jr.,
             Bruce Crawford, Susan S. Denison, Peter Foy, Michael
             Greenlees,Thomas L. Harrison, John R. Murphy, John R. Purcell,
             Keith L. Reinhard, Linda Johnson Rice, Allen Rosenshine and Gary L.
             Roubos.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K:

      We did not file any reports on Form 8-K during the fourth quarter of 2000.




                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                           OMNICOM GROUP INC.
March 26, 2001
                                           By: /s/ RANDALL J. WEISENBURGER
                                               ----------------------------
                                                 Randall J. Weisenburger
                                               Executive Vice President and
                                                 Chief Financial Officer

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

           Signature                       Title                       Date
       -----------------                 --------                    ---------
    /s/ BRUCE CRAWFORD             Chairman and Director          March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
      (Bruce Crawford)

      /s/ JOHN D. WREN             Chief Executive Officer        March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------   and President and Director
       (John D. Wren)

 /s/ RANDALL J. WEISENBURGER    Executive Vice President and      March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------     Chief Financial Officer
  (Randall J. Weisenburger)

  /s/ PHILIP J. ANGELASTRO          Controller (Principal         March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------       Accounting Officer)
   (Philip J. Angelastro)

   /s/ RICHARD I. BEATTIE*                Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
    (Richard I. Beattie)

                                          Director
- ------------------------------
     (Bernard Brochand)

  /s/ ROBERT J. CALLANDER*                Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
    (Robert J. Callander)

    /s/ JAMES A. CANNON*                  Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
      (James A. Cannon)

/s/ LEONARD S. COLEMAN, JR.*              Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
  (Leonard S. Coleman, Jr.)

    /s/ SUSAN S. DENISON*                 Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
     (Susan S. Denison)

       /s/ PETER FOY*                     Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
         (Peter Foy)

   /s/ MICHAEL GREENLESS                  Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
     (Michael Greenless)

   /s/ THOMAS L. HARRISON*                Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
    (Thomas L. Harrison)

                                          Director
- ------------------------------
      (John R. Murphy)

    /s/ JOHN R. PURCELL*                  Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
      (John R. Purcell)

   /s/ KEITH L. REINHARD*                 Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
     (Keith L. Reinhard)

   /s/ LINDA JOHNSON RICE*                Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
    (Linda Johnson Rice)

    /s/ ALLEN ROSENSHINE*                 Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
     (Allen Rosenshine)

     /s/ GARY L. ROUBOS*                  Director                March 26, 2001
- ------------------------------
      (Gary L. Roubos)

*By  /s/ BARRY J. WAGNER                                          March 26, 2001
   ---------------------------
      Barry J. Wagner
     Attorney-in-fact




                                MANAGEMENT REPORT

      Omnicom Group Inc. management is responsible for the integrity of the
financial data reported by Omnicom. Management uses its best judgement to ensure
that the financial statements present fairly, in all material respects,
Omnicom's consolidated financial position and results of operations. These
financial statements have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States.

      Omnicom's system of internal controls, augmented by a program of internal
audits, is designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded
and records are maintained to substantiate the preparation of financial
information in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the
United States. Underlying this concept of reasonable assurance is the premise
that the cost of control should not exceed the benefits derived therefrom.

      The financial statements have been audited by independent public
accountants. Their report expresses the independent accountant's judgement as to
the fairness of management's reported operating results, cash flows and
financial position. This judgement is based on the procedures described in the
second paragraph of their report.

      Omnicom's Audit Committee meets periodically with representatives of
financial management, internal audit and the independent public accountants to
assure that each group believes they are properly discharging their
responsibilities. To aid in ensuring independence, the Audit Committee
communicates directly and separately with the independent public accountants,
internal audit and financial management to discuss the results of their audits,
the adequacy of internal accounting controls and the quality of financial
reporting.

          /s/ JOHN D. WREN                    /s/ RANDALL J. WEISENBURGER
- -------------------------------------   ----------------------------------------
            John D. Wren                         Randall J. Weisenburger
Chief Executive Officer and President          Executive Vice President and
                                                 Chief Financial Officer

February 15, 2001


                                      F-1


                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and
  Shareholders of Omnicom Group Inc.:

      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Omnicom
Group Inc. (a New York corporation) and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and
1999, and related consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity, and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000.
These consolidated financial statements and the schedule referred to below are
the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Omnicom Group Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2000 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States.

      Our audits were made for the purpose of forming an opinion on the basic
financial statements taken as a whole. The schedule on page S-1 is presented for
purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is
not part of the basic financial statements. This schedule has been subjected to
the auditing procedures applied in the audits of the basic financial statements
and, in our opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data
required to be set forth therein in relation to the basic financial statements
taken as a whole.

                                                             ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

New York, New York
February 15, 2001


                                      F-2


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
              are an integral part of these financial statements.


                                      F-3


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                                   A S S E T S


           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
              are an integral part of these financial statements.


                                      F-4


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                       Three Years Ended December 31, 2000
                             (Dollars in Thousands)



           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
              are an integral part of these financial statements.


                                      F-5


                      OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                            Years Ended December 31,


           The accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements
              are an integral part of these financial statements.


                                      F-6


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

      Business. Omnicom Group Inc., (the "Company") is one of the largest
Marketing and Corporate Communications companies in the world. The Company was
formed through a 1986 combination of three marketing and corporate
communications networks BBDO, Doyle Dane Bernbach and Needham Harper. The
Company has since grown its holdings to over 1400 companies operating in more
than 100 countries. The Company provides an extensive range of marketing and
corporate communications services, including advertising, media planning and
buying, promotional marketing, sports and event marketing, direct marketing,
database management, field marketing, digital and interactive marketing,
marketing research, public relations, custom publishing, brand consultancy,
directory and business-to-business advertising, healthcare communications and
recruitment communications and other specialty communications.

      Revenue Recognition. Substantially all revenue is derived from fees for
services and for production of advertisements. Additionally, revenue is derived
from commissions for placement of advertisements in various media. Revenue is
realized when the service is performed, in accordance with the terms of the
contractual arrangement, and collection is reasonably assured. Billings are
generally rendered upon completion of the earnings process, including upon
presentation date for media, when services are rendered, when costs are incurred
for radio and television production and when print production is completed.

      The Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin (SAB) 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial Statements, in December
1999. The SAB summarizes certain of the SEC staff's views in applying generally
accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements.
During the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company completed a comprehensive review
of its revenue recognition policies and determined that they are in compliance
with SAB 101.

      Principles of Consolidation. The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Omnicom Group Inc. and its domestic and
international subsidiaries. All significant intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated.

      Restatement and Reclassifications. As discussed in Note 2, on February 10,
1999, the Company completed the acquisition of Abbott Mead Vickers Group Limited
(formerly known as Abbott Mead Vickers plc ("AMV")). The AMV acquisition was
accounted for as a pooling of interests. Information prior to 1999 has been
restated to include the accounts of AMV. In addition, certain prior year amounts
have been reclassified to conform with the 2000 presentation.

      Investments Available for Sale. Investments available for sale are
comprised of the following three categories of investments.

      Short-term investments and time deposits with financial institutions,
which consist principally of investments with original maturity dates between 3
months and one year and are therefore classified as current assets.

      Long-term investments in public companies, which are comprised of minority
ownership interests in certain public marketing and corporate communications
services companies where the Company does not exercise significant influence
over the operating and financial policies of the investee. The Company accounts
for these investments under the cost method. The original cost of these
investments is adjusted and they are recorded on the balance sheet, in long-term
investments, at market value, with any unrealized gains or losses recorded to
comprehensive income. The Company periodically evaluates these investments to
determine if there have been any non-temporary declines in value. A variety of
factors are considered when determining if a decline in market value below book
value is non-temporary, including, among other things, the financial condition
and prospects of the investee, as well as the Company's investment intent.

      Long-term investments in private companies are primarily comprised of
preferred equity interests in non-public marketing and corporate communications
services companies where the Company does not exercise significant influence
over the operating and financial policies of the investee. These minority
interests are accounted for under the cost method and are included in other
assets. These investments are periodically


                                      F-7


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

evaluated to determine if there have been any non-temporary declines below book
value. A variety of factors are considered when determining if a decline in fair
value below book value is non-temporary, including among other things, the
preference position of our interest, the financial condition and prospects of
the investee, as well as the Company's investment intent.

      Billable Production. Billable production orders in process consist
principally of costs incurred in providing corporate communications services to
clients. Such amounts are generally billed to clients when services are
rendered, when costs are incurred for radio and television production and when
print production is completed.

      Common Stock. Wholly owned subsidiaries of the Company have issued
securities which are exchangeable into common stock of the Company at the
holders' option. Shares of common stock issuable on the exchange of these
securities are included in common stock issued at December 31, 2000. During
2000, the par value of common stock was decreased from $.50 to $.15 per share
and the authorized shares of common stock was increased from 300 million shares
to 1 billion shares.

      Treasury Stock. The Company accounts for treasury share purchases at cost.
The reissuance of treasury shares is accounted for at the average cost. Gains or
losses on the reissuance of treasury shares are accounted for as additional
paid-in capital.

      Foreign Currency Translation. The Company's financial statements were
prepared in accordance with the requirements of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 52, "Foreign Currency Translation." Under this
method, net transaction gains of $1.7 million, $9.9 million and $15.2 million
are included in 2000, 1999 and 1998 net income, respectively.

      Earnings Per Common Share. Basic earnings per share is based upon the
weighted average number of common shares outstanding during each year. Diluted
earnings per share is based on the above, plus, if dilutive, common share
equivalents which include outstanding options and restricted shares and, if
dilutive, adjustments for the assumed conversion of the Company's 21/4% and
4 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures (assumed to be converted for the full
year) and the assumed increase in net income for the after tax interest cost of
these debentures. For purposes of computing diluted earnings per share for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively, 2,688,589, 3,046,904
and 3,518,600 shares were assumed to have been outstanding related to common
share equivalents and 11,468,018, 11,551,936 and 6,936,500 shares in 2000 1999,
and 1998, respectively were assumed to have been converted related to the
Company's convertible subordinated debentures. Additionally, the assumed
increase in net income used in the computations was $17,939,255, $17,968,000 and
$9,627,900 for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.
The number of shares used in the computations were as follows:

                                  2000             1999             1998
                                ---------        ---------        ---------
Basic EPS computation.......   174,880,952      175,285,932       173,104,700
Diluted EPS computation.....   189,037,559      189,884,772       183,559,800

      The 4 1/4% Convertible Subordinate Debentures were redeemed in the fourth
quarter 2000 (see Note 7). For purposes of computing diluted earnings per share
for the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company's 21/4% Convertible
Subordinated Debentures were not reflected in the computation as inclusion would
have been anti-dilutive.

      Gains and Losses on Issuance of Stock in Affiliates and Subsidiaries.
Gains and losses on the issuance of stock in equity method affiliates and
consolidated subsidiaries are recognized directly in the Company's shareholder's
equity through an increase or decrease to additional paid-in capital in the
period in which the sale occurs.

      Severance Agreements. Arrangements with certain present and former
employees provide for continuing payments for periods up to 10 years after
cessation of their full-time employment in consideration for agreements by the
employees not to compete and to render consulting services in the
post-employment period. Such payments, which are determined, subject to certain
conditions and limitations, by earnings in subsequent periods, are expensed in
such periods.


                                      F-8


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      Depreciation of Furniture and Equipment and Amortization of Leasehold
Improvements. Depreciation charges are computed on a straight-line basis or
declining balance method over the estimated useful lives of furniture and
equipment, up to 10 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a
straight-line basis over the lesser of the terms of the related lease or the
useful life of these assets.

      Intangibles. The intangible values associated with the Company's business
consist predominantly of the value of the Company's existing worldwide agency
networks and agency brands and the value of the Company's existing ongoing
client relationships. Intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over a
period not to exceed 40 years. The intangibles are written down if, and to the
extent, they are determined to be impaired. Intangibles are considered to be
impaired if the future anticipated undiscounted cash flows arising from the use
of the intangibles is less than the net unamortized cost of the intangibles. The
Company's worldwide agency networks have been operating for an average of over
60 years. Client relationships in the corporate communications services industry
are typically long-term in nature and the Company's largest clients have on
average been clients for more than 30 years. From time to time the Company makes
acquisitions consistent with its strategy of enhancing the value of its
worldwide agency networks and brands and enhancing and expanding its current
ongoing client relationships. The intangibles that result from these
acquisitions represent acquisition costs in excess of fair value of tangible net
assets acquired and consist primarily of the know-how, reputation, experience
and geographic location of the purchased businesses.

      Deferred Taxes. Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary
difference between the financial reporting basis and tax basis of the Company's
assets and liabilities. Deferred tax benefits result principally from recording
certain expenses in the financial statements which are not currently deductible
for tax purposes and from differences between the tax and book basis of assets
and liabilities recorded in connection with acquisitions. Deferred tax
liabilities result principally from non-cash, unrealized financial statement
gains associated with investments and capital transactions including initial
public offerings of common stock by affiliates, and expenses which are currently
deductible for tax purposes, but have not yet been expensed in the financial
statements.

      Cash Flows. The Company's cash equivalents are primarily comprised of
investments in overnight interest-bearing deposits, commercial paper and money
market instruments with original maturity dates of three months or less.

      The following supplemental schedule summarizes the fair value of non-cash
assets acquired, cash paid, common shares issued, valued at the then market
value of the shares, (1999 excludes shares related to the AMV acquisition) and
the liabilities assumed in connection with the acquisition of equity interests
in subsidiaries and affiliates, for each of the three years ended December 31:

                                                 (Dollars in Thousands)
                                            2000          1999          1998
                                         ----------    ----------    ----------
Fair value of non-cash assets acquired   $1,122,385    $1,059,443    $1,586,331
Cash paid, net of cash acquired ......     (795,686)     (694,184)     (586,016)
Common shares issued .................      (16,031)       (7,200)     (175,180)
                                         ----------    ----------    ----------
Liabilities assumed ..................   $  310,668    $  358,059    $  825,135
                                         ==========    ==========    ==========

      Concentration of Credit Risk. The Company provides marketing and corporate
communications services to a wide range of clients who operate in many industry
sectors around the world. The Company grants credit to all qualified clients,
but does not believe it is exposed to any undue concentration of credit risk to
any material extent.

      Derivative Financial Instruments. Derivative financial instruments consist
principally of forward foreign exchange contracts and interest rate swaps. For
derivative financial instruments to qualify for hedge accounting the following
criteria must be met: (1) the hedging instrument must be designated as a hedge;
(2) the hedged exposure must be specifically identifiable and expose the Company
to risk; and (3) it must be highly probable that a change in fair value of the
derivative financial instrument and an opposite change in the fair value of the
hedged exposure will have a high degree of correlation. The majority of the
Company's derivative activity relates to forward foreign exchange contracts. The
Company executes these contracts in the same currency as the hedged exposure,
whereby 100% correlation is achieved. Gains and losses on derivative financial


                                      F-9


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

instruments which are hedges of existing assets or liabilities are included in
the carrying amount of those assets or liabilities and are ultimately recognized
in income as part of those carrying amounts. Interest received and/or paid
arising from swap agreements which qualify as hedges are recognized in income
when the interest is receivable or payable. Derivative financial instruments
which do not qualify as hedges are revalued to the current market rate and any
gains or losses are recorded in income in the current period.

      Use of Estimates. The preparation of financial statements in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of
the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during
the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2. Acquisitions

      During 2000, the Company made acquisitions whose aggregate cost, in cash
or by issuance of the Company's common stock and the assumption of net
liabilities, totaled $849.8 million for net assets, which included intangible
assets, of $790.6 million. Due to the nature of marketing and corporate
communications services companies, the companies acquired by the Company
generally have minimal tangible net assets. Valuations of these companies are
based on a number of factors, including geographic location, service offerings,
competitive position and reputation and fit within one of our existing strategic
platforms. Included in both figures are payments of $183.9 million made in 2000
related to acquisitions completed in prior years.

      Certain acquisitions completed in 2000 and prior years require payments in
future years if certain results are achieved by the companies that were
acquired. Formulas for these contingent future payments vary from acquisition to
acquisition.

      On February 10, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of AMV. AMV
provides marketing and corporate communications services to clients principally
in the United Kingdom. The Company issued 9.6 million shares of common stock in
exchange for the 92.3% of AMV ordinary shares not already owned by the Company,
at a fixed exchange ratio of .1347 common shares of the Company per AMV ordinary
share. The transaction was accounted for under the pooling-of-interests method
of accounting. Accordingly, the Company's financial statements have been
restated to include the operating results of AMV for all periods presented.

      Selected financial information for the combining entities included in the
consolidated statement of income for the year ended December 31, 1998 is as
follows (in thousands):
                                                                    ------------
Revenue
  Previously reported ................................              $ 4,092,042
  AMV ................................................                  198,904
                                                                    -----------
    Restated .........................................              $ 4,290,946
                                                                    ===========
Net income
  Previously reported ................................              $   285,068
  AMV ................................................                   (6,223)
                                                                    -----------
    Restated .........................................              $   278,845
                                                                    ===========

      The restated results reflect the impact of including the operating results
of AMV, net of adjustments to eliminate inter-company transactions between AMV
and the Company, and to conform AMV accounting methods to those used by the
Company.

      In January 1998, the Company completed the acquisitions of
Fleishman-Hillard, Inc., GPC International Holdings Inc. and Palmer Jarvis Inc.
These acquisitions were accounted for under the pooling-of-interests method of
accounting and, accordingly, the results of operations of Fleishman-Hillard
Inc., GPC International Holdings Inc. and Palmer Jarvis Inc. have been included
in the consolidated financial statements since January 1, 1998. Prior year
consolidated financial statements were not restated as the impact on such years
was not material. 3,550,366 shares of common stock were issued by the Company in
these acquisitions.


                                      F-10


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

3. Bank Loans and Lines of Credit

      Bank loans of $72.8 million and $47.7 million at December 31, 2000 and
1999, respectively, are primarily comprised of bank overdrafts of international
subsidiaries, which are treated as unsecured loans pursuant to bank agreements.
The weighted average interest rate on the borrowings outstanding as of December
31, 2000 and 1999 was 6.1% and 6.37%, respectively.

      At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company had committed unsecured lines
of credit aggregating $1,871.7 million and $1,420.9 million, respectively. The
unused portion of credit lines was $967.4 million and $1,293.8 million at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The lines of credit, including the
credit facilities discussed below, are generally extended at lending rates that
the banks grant to their most creditworthy borrowers.

      On April 27, 2000, the Company extended its $750 million revolving credit
facility (Facility), which was subsequently amended to $1 billion on July 31,
2000. The Facility, which is used primarily to support the issuance of
commercial paper, expires on April 26, 2001; however, the Company may elect to
convert all amounts outstanding under the Facility to a one-year term loan. The
Company had $831.5 million of commercial paper borrowings outstanding with
interest rates ranging from 6.65% to 6.8% as of December 31, 2000, with various
maturity dates through February 20, 2001. The gross amount of commercial paper
issued and redeemed, under this facility during the year ended December 31, 2000
was $11.9 billion and $11 billion, respectively. Commercial paper is included in
long-term debt in the consolidated balance sheet, as it is the Company's
intention to refinance these borrowings on a long-term basis through continued
commercial paper borrowings supported by available bank facilities (see Note 7)
or other long-term financing.

      On February 20, 1998, the Company established a $500 million revolving
credit agreement ($500 Million Credit Facility), expiring on June 30, 2003.
There were no borrowings under it at December 31, 2000 and 1999. The $500
Million Credit Facility also allows for the issuance of commercial paper backed
by a bank letter of credit issued under the facility. The Company had no
commercial paper outstanding under this facility as of December 31, 2000 and
1999. The gross amount of commercial paper issued and redeemed during the year
under this facility was $1,523 million, $2,046 million and $4,231 million in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

      The credit facilities contain certain financial covenants regarding the
ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated capitalization,
the ratio of debt to cash flow and a limitation on investments in and loans to
affiliates and unconsolidated subsidiaries. At December 31, 2000 the Company was
in compliance with these covenants.

4. Employee Stock Plans

      Stock Options and Restricted Stock. Under the terms of the Company's 1998
Incentive Compensation Plan, amended and restated on May 16, 2000 (the "1998
Plan"), 8,250,000 shares of common stock of the Company were reserved, 2,250,000
for restricted stock awards and 6,000,000 for stock option awards to key
employees of the Company. As of December 31, 2000, 2,250,000 restricted shares
and 5,860,000 non-qualified stock options were available for future grants.

      Pursuant to the 1998 Plan, the price of options awarded may not be less
than 100% of the market value of the stock at the date of the grant. Options
become exercisable 30% on each of the first two anniversary dates of the grant
date with the final 40% becoming exercisable three years from the grant date.


                                      F-11


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      A summary of the status of the 1998 Plan for the three years ended
December 31, 2000 is as follows:



      The following table summarizes information about options outstanding and
options exercisable at December 31, 2000:



      ESPP. Effective September 1, 1999 the Company adopted the Omnicom Group
Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the "ESPP"). The ESPP enables substantially
all domestic employees to purchase full or fractional shares of the Company's
common stock through payroll deductions of up to 10% of eligible compensation.
The price an employee pays is 85% of the fair market value on the purchase date
of that plan quarter. During 2000 and 1999 employees purchased 311,171 and
63,408 shares, respectively, all of which were treasury shares, for which $22.3
and $4.8 million was paid, respectively, to the Company. Under the ESPP,
2,625,421 shares remain reserved at December 31, 2000.

      Pro Forma. As permitted by SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock Based
Compensation," the Company intends to continue to apply the accounting
provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,"
and to make annual pro forma disclosures of the effect of adopting the fair
value method of accounting for employee stock options and similar instruments.
The pro forma effects on net income for 1999 and 1998 as so calculated were not
representative of the effects as calculated in accordance with SFAS 123 for the
year 2000 due to the transitional provisions included in SFAS No. 123.


                                      F-12


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The weighted average fair value of options granted during 2000, 1999 and
1998 was $24.85, $20.91 and $11.45 per option, respectively. The fair value of
each option grant has been estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model and with the following assumptions (without
adjusting for the risk of forfeiture and lack of liquidity):

                                  2000              1999              1998
                                ---------         ---------         ---------
Expected option lives......      5 years           5 years           5 years
Risk free interest rate....   4.96% - 6.67%     4.77% - 6.31%     4.66% - 5.75%
Expected volatility........  21.88% - 26.49%   18.25% - 21.2%    18.36% - 20.15%
Dividend yield.............    0.6% - 0.9%       0.7% - 0.8%       0.9% - 1.0%

      Using compensation cost for grants of the Company's stock options and
shares issued under the ESPP, determined based on the estimated fair value at
the grant or issuance date in 2000, 1999 and 1998, consistent with the
provisions of SFAS No. 123, the effect on the Company's net income and income
per share would have been as follows:

                                                     Dollars in Thousands
                                                    Except Per Share Data
                                             -----------------------------------
                                               2000         1999          1998
                                             --------     --------      --------
Net income, as reported...................   $498,795     $362,882      $278,845
Net income, pro forma.....................    475,650      347,643       271,031

Basic income per share, as reported.......       2.85         2.07          1.61
Basic income per share, pro forma.........       2.72         1.98          1.57

Diluted income per share, as reported.....       2.73         2.01          1.57
Diluted income per share, pro forma.......       2.62         1.93          1.53

       Restricted Shares. A summary of changes in outstanding shares of
restricted stock for the three years ended December 31, 2000 is as follows:

                                     2000             1999              1998
                                 ----------        ----------        ----------
Beginning balance ........        2,602,281         2,703,612         3,137,350
  Amount granted .........          904,429           935,263           783,419
  Amount vested ..........         (906,197)         (983,251)       (1,111,808)
  Amount forfeited .......         (107,008)          (53,343)         (105,349)
                                 ----------        ----------        ----------
Ending balance ...........        2,493,505         2,602,281         2,703,612
                                 ==========        ==========        ==========

      All restricted shares were sold at a price per share equal to their par
value. The difference between par value and market value on the date of the
grant is charged to shareholders' equity and then amortized to expense over the
period of restriction. The restricted shares vest in 20% annual increments
provided the employee remains in the employ of the Company.

      Restricted shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged or otherwise
encumbered until the restrictions lapse. Under most circumstances, the employee
must resell the shares to the Company at par value if the employee ceases
employment prior to the end of the period of restriction.

      The charge to operations in connection with these restricted stock awards
for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 amounted to $39.1 million,
$27.8 million and $21.5 million, respectively.

5. Segment Reporting

      The Company's wholly and partially owned businesses operate within the
marketing and corporate communications services operating segment. These
businesses provide a variety of communications services to clients under
worldwide, national and regional independent agency brands. The businesses
exhibit similar economic characteristics driven from their consistent efforts to
create customer driven marketing and corporate


                                      F-13


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

communications services that build their clients' businesses. A summary of the
Company's operations by geographic area as of December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
and for the years then ended is presented below:



6. Equity and Cost Based Investments

      Equity Investments in Marketing and Corporate Communications Companies.
The Company has in excess of 75 unconsolidated affiliates accounted for under
the equity method. The companies offer marketing and corporate communications
services similar to those offered by the Company. The equity method is used when
the Company has an ownership of less than 50% but exercises significant
influence over the operating and financial policies of the affiliate. The
following table summarizes the balance sheets and income statements of the
Company's unconsolidated affiliates, primarily in the United States, Europe and
Australia, as of December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 and for the years then ended:

                                                  (Dollars in Thousands)
                                          --------------------------------------
                                             2000          1999           1998
                                          --------       --------       --------
Current assets ....................       $926,792       $912,791       $773,661
Non-current assets ................        302,073        241,385        156,459
Current liabilities ...............        682,719        692,927        657,247
Non-current liabilities ...........         62,955         65,978         87,258
Minority interests ................          7,796          1,002          2,327
Gross revenue .....................        816,717        522,103        510,730
Costs and expenses ................        740,267        467,745        444,453
Net income ........................         45,076         23,662         33,183

      The Company's equity in the net income of these affiliates amounted to
$10.9 million, $15.4 million and $20.5 million for 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. The Company's equity in the net tangible assets of these
affiliated companies was $205.2 million, $174.0 million and $110.5 million at
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Included in the Company's
investments in affiliates is the excess of acquisition costs over the fair value
of tangible net assets acquired. These excess acquisition costs are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over a period not to exceed 40 years. In
2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company disposed of shares held in certain affiliates.
The resulting impact of these disposals was not material to the Company's
consolidated results of operations or financial position.

      The Company, through a wholly owned subsidiary, made an initial investment
in Agency.com Ltd. ("Agency") in September 1996. The Company owns 36% of Agency
and accounts for its investment under the equity method. In December 1999,
Agency issued shares of its common stock in an initial public offering. Based on
an offering price of $26 per share, an after tax gain of $17.6 million was
recognized by the Company in shareholders' equity as a direct increase to
additional paid-in capital. During the month of December 2000 and at December
31, 2000, for the first time the market value of the Company's investment of
$51.2 million was below its book value, including the effect of recording the
non-cash gain in shareholders equity described above. The market value has
fluctuated (both increasing and decreasing) since then and was below our book
value on March 15, 2001. Based on management's consideration of the factors
described in Footnote 1, Investments


                                      F-14


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Available for Sale, it was determined that there has not been a non-temporary
decline in the fair value of this investment below its book value. Accordingly,
no adjustment to the December 31, 2000 book value was recorded.

      Long-Term Investments Available for Sale. The Company's Long-Term
Investments Available for Sale consist of certain public marketing and corporate
communication companies. During the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company
sold a portion of its ownership interest in Razorfish Inc. ("Razorfish"), which
was recorded under the cost method of accounting and included in Long-Term
Investments at December 31, 2000 and 1999. As a result of the sale, the Company
realized a pre-tax gain of approximately $110 million. Included in net income
for the year ended December 31, 2000 is $63.8 million ($0.33 per diluted share)
related to this transaction and comprehensive income was adjusted to reflect the
reclassification of the gain from unrealized to realized.

      Razorfish issued shares of its common stock in an initial public offering
in April 1999. The Company owned 32.4% of Razorfish's equity immediately
following the initial public offering. Consistent with the Company's accounting
policy and based on an offering price of $16 per share, an after-tax gain of
$5.1 million was recognized by the Company in shareholders' equity as a direct
increase to additional paid-in capital. During the fourth quarter of 1999, the
Company's ownership interest in Razorfish was diluted below 20%. Given that the
Company no longer exercised significant influence and as a result of the
dilution of its ownership below 20%, the Company discontinued accounting for its
investment under the equity method. Substantially, all of the Company's
long-term investments at December 31, 1999 were comprised of shares of Razorfish
Inc., carried at market value.

      During 2000, certain other companies in which the Company had investments
completed initial public offerings of their equity securities. Accordingly, the
Company adjusted the carrying value of these holdings to reflect the market
value and recorded an unrealized gain to comprehensive income. During the
balance of the year, the market value of these companies declined thereby
reducing the total value of the Company's Long-Term Investments and Accumulated
Comprehensive Income. At December 31, 2000, the aggregate market value of these
investments was below their aggregate original cost. The aggregate market value
of these investments has fluctuated (both increasing and decreasing) since then
and was below our aggregate book value on March 15, 2001. Based on management's
consideration of the factors described in Footnote 1, Investments Available for
Sale, it was determined there has not been a non-temporary decline in the fair
value of these investments below its book value. Accordingly, no adjustment to
the December 31, 2000 book value was recorded.


                                      F-15


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

7. Long-Term Debt and Convertible Subordinated Debentures

      Long-term debt and convertible subordinated debentures outstanding as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999 consisted of the following:

                                                          (Dollars in Thousands)
                                                         -----------------------
                                                            2000          1999
                                                         ----------     --------
U.S. Dollar commercial paper with an average
  interest rate of 6.75% and 6.41% in 2000
  and 1999, respectively ...........................     $  831,486     $ 79,402
Deutsche Mark Floating Rate Bonds matured
  on January 5, 2000, interest at DM three
  month LIBOR, plus 0.65% ..........................             --       57,185
French Franc 5.20% Notes, with a scheduled
  maturity in 2005 .................................        143,714      153,394
Floating Rate Loan Notes, with a scheduled
  maturity in 2001 .................................              9        1,982
Other notes and loans payable to banks and
  others at rates from 4% to 26%, maturing
  at various dates through 2018 ....................         69,517       53,807
                                                         ----------     --------
                                                          1,044,726      345,770
Less current portion ...............................         29,307       82,621
                                                         ----------     --------
 Total long-term debt ..............................     $1,015,419     $263,149
                                                         ==========     ========
4 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures,
  redeemed on December 29, 2000 ....................             --     $218,483
2 1/4% Convertible Subordinated Debentures
  with a scheduled maturity in 2013 ................        229,968      230,000
                                                         ----------     --------
 Total convertible subordinated debentures .........     $  229,968     $448,483
                                                         ==========     ========

      For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the Company incurred
gross interest expense on its borrowings of $116.7 million, $84.9 million and
$74.5 million, respectively.

      Commercial paper is issued under the Company's credit facility described
in Note 3.

      On June 24, 1998, the Company issued French Franc 1 billion of 5.20%
Notes. The Notes are unsecured, unsubordinated obligations of the Company. The
Notes are subject to redemption in whole at their principal amount at the option
of the Company at any time in the event of certain changes affecting taxation in
the United States. Unless previously redeemed, or purchased and cancelled, the
Notes will be redeemed at their principal amount on June 24, 2005.

      In March 1998, the Company issued floating rate Loan Notes in connection
with the acquisition of the GGT Group plc. The Loan Notes are unsecured
obligations and bear interest at a yearly rate offered in the London Inter-Bank
Market for six-month sterling deposits. The Loan Notes are redeemable, at the
option of the holder, in whole or in part at their nominal amount, together with
accrued interest on any interest payment date after December 31, 1998. A
substantial portion of the Loan Notes were redeemed by the Company during 2000.
Unless previously repaid, redeemed, or purchased and cancelled, the remaining
balance will be repaid on June 30, 2001 at par.

      On January 6, 1998, the Company issued $230 million of 21/4% Convertible
Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity in 2013. The debentures are
convertible into common stock of the Company at a conversion price of $49.83 per
share subject to adjustment in certain events. Debenture holders have the right
to require the Company to redeem the debentures on January 6, 2004 at a price of
118.968%, or upon the occurrence of a Fundamental Change, as defined in the
indenture, at the prevailing redemption price. The Company may redeem the
debentures, as a whole or in part, on or after December 31, 2001 initially at
112.841% and at increasing prices thereafter to 118.968% until January 6, 2004,
and 100% thereafter. Unless the debentures are redeemed, repaid or converted
prior thereto, the debentures will mature on January 6, 2013 at their principal
amount.

      On January 3, 1997, the Company issued $218.5 million of 41/4 Convertible
Subordinated Debentures with a scheduled maturity in 2007. The debentures were
redeemed by the Company on December 29, 2000 at a conversion price of $31.50 per
share and approximately 6.9 million shares were issued.


                                      F-16


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      On January 4, 1995, a subsidiary of the Company issued Deutsche Mark 200
million Floating Rate Bonds. On August 18, 1997 and October 1, 1997, Deutsche
Mark 69 million and Deutsche Mark 20 million, respectively, of the Deutsche Mark
200 million Floating Rate Bonds were repurchased. The remaining bonds matured on
January 5, 2000 and were repaid at par.

      Aggregate maturities on long-term debt and convertible subordinated
debentures in the next five years are as follows:

                                                         (Dollars in Thousands)

       2001................................................     $ 29,307
       2002................................................      842,495
       2003................................................       12,509
       2004................................................          813
       2005................................................          807
       Thereafter..........................................      388,763

8. Income Taxes

      Income before income taxes and the provision for taxes on income consisted
of the amounts shown below:

                                                  Years Ended December 31,
                                                  (Dollars in Thousands)
                                            ------------------------------------
                                              2000          1999          1998
                                            --------      --------      --------
Income before incomes taxes:
  Domestic ...........................      $534,913      $314,338      $263,058
  International ......................       376,704       359,370       258,739
                                            --------      --------      --------
     Total ...........................      $911,617      $673,708      $521,797
                                            ========      ========      ========
Provision for taxes on income:
  Current:
     Federal .........................      $153,786      $ 80,401      $ 65,180
     State and local .................        36,391        30,577        21,292
     International ...................       159,389       144,228       121,367
                                            --------      --------      --------
                                             349,566       255,206       207,839
                                            ========      ========      ========
   Deferred:
     Federal .........................        16,326         9,499         7,943
     State and local .................         2,402           381         1,853
     International ...................           846         8,161         1,457
                                            --------      --------      --------
                                              19,574        18,041        11,253
                                            --------      --------      --------
     Total ...........................      $369,140      $273,247      $219,092
                                            ========      ========      ========

      The Company's effective income tax rate varied from the statutory federal
income tax rate as a result of the following factors:

                                                     2000       1999       1998
                                                     ----       ----       ----
Statutory federal income tax rate .............      35.0%      35.0%      35.0%
State and local taxes on income, net of
  federal  income tax benefit .................       3.0        3.0        2.9
International subsidiaries' tax rate
  differentials ...............................       1.1        1.3        2.2
Non-deductible amortization of goodwill .......       2.6        3.2        3.4
Other .........................................      (1.2)      (1.9)      (1.5)
                                                     ----       ----       ----
Effective rate ................................      40.5%      40.6%      42.0%
                                                     ====       ====       ====

      Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary difference between
the financial reporting basis and tax basis of the Company's assets and
liabilities. Deferred tax benefits result principally from recording certain
expenses in the financial statements which are not currently deductible for tax
purposes and from differences between the tax and book basis of assets and
liabilities recorded in connection with acquisitions. Deferred tax liabilities
result principally from non-cash, unrealized financial statement gains
associated with investments and


                                      F-17


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

capital transactions including initial public offerings of common stock by
affiliates, and expenses which are currently deductible for tax purposes, but
have not yet been expensed in the financial statements.

      Deferred tax benefits (liabilities) as of December 31, 2000 and 1999
consisted of the amounts shown below (dollars in millions):

                                                             2000        1999
                                                             ----        ----
   Unrealized gains on investments in and capital
      transactions of, affiliates ......................    $(37.8)    $(320.2)
   Compensation and severance reserves .................      73.3        52.7
   Acquisition liabilities .............................      76.2        43.1
   Deductible intangibles ..............................      18.7        37.1
   Lease reserves ......................................       3.1         4.9
   Financial instruments ...............................       6.5         7.3
   Other, net ..........................................       4.8         5.2
                                                            ------      ------
                                                            $144.8     $(169.9)
                                                            ======      ======

      Current deferred tax benefits as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 were $46.4
million and $30.0 million, respectively, and were included in prepaid expenses
and other current assets. Non-current deferred tax benefits as of December 31,
2000 and 1999 were $136.2 million and $120.3 million, respectively. The Company
has concluded that it is probable that it will be able to realize these deferred
tax benefits in future periods.

      A provision has been made for additional income and withholding taxes on
the earnings of international subsidiaries and affiliates that will be
distributed.

9. Employee Retirement Plans

      The Company's international and domestic subsidiaries provide retirement
benefits for their employees primarily through defined contribution plans.
Company contributions to the plans, which are determined by the board of
directors of the subsidiaries, have been in amounts up to 15% (the maximum
amount deductible for federal income tax purposes) of total eligible
compensation of participating employees. Expenses related to the Company's
contributions to these plans amounted to $82.0 million, $77.2 million and $72.7
million in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

      The Company's pension plans are primarily international. These plans are
not required to report to governmental agencies pursuant to the Employee
Retirement Income Security Act of 1974. Substantially all of these plans are
funded by fixed premium payments to insurance companies which undertake legal
obligations to provide specific benefits to the individuals covered. Pension
expense amounted to $11.1 million, $8.5 million and $5.2 million in 2000, 1999
and 1998, respectively.

      Certain subsidiaries of the Company have executive retirement programs
under which benefits will be paid to participants or to their beneficiaries over
15 years beginning at age 65 or death. In addition, other subsidiaries have
individual deferred compensation arrangements with certain executives which
provide for payments over varying terms upon retirement, cessation of employment
or death. Some of the Company's domestic subsidiaries provide life insurance and
medical benefits for retired employees. Eligibility requirements vary by
subsidiary, but generally include attainment of a specified combined age plus
years of service factor. The costs related to these benefits were not material
to the 2000, 1999 and 1998 consolidated results of operations or financial
position.

10. Commitments and Contingent Liabilities

      At December 31, 2000, the Company was committed under operating leases,
principally for office space. Certain leases are subject to rent reviews and
require payment of expenses under escalation clauses. Rent expense was $429.0
million in 2000, $341.6 million in 1999 and $311.5 million in 1998 after
reduction for rents received from subleases of $19.9 million, $17.4 million and
$14.7 million, respectively. Future minimum base rents under terms of
noncancellable operating leases, reduced by rents to be received from existing
noncancellable subleases, are as follows:


                                      F-18


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

                                            (Dollars in Thousands)
                                   Gross Rent     Sublease Rent     Net Rent
                                   ----------    --------------    ----------
   2001.........................   $  310,927       $12,356       $  298,571
   2002.........................      279,472        10,547          268,925
   2003.........................      243,391         8,831          234,560
   2004.........................      207,478         6,940          200,538
   2005.........................      186,323         4,912          181,411
   Thereafter...................    1,018,498        10,720        1,007,778

      The  present   value  of  the  gross  future   minimum  base  rents  under
noncancellable operating leases is $1,468 million.

      Where appropriate, management has established reserves for the difference
between the cost of leased premises that were vacated and anticipated sublease
income.

      The Company is involved in various routine legal proceedings incidental to
the ordinary course of its business. The Company does not presently expect that
these proceedings will have a material adverse effect on its consolidated
financial position or results of operations.

11. Fair Value of Financial Instruments

      The following table presents the carrying amounts and estimated fair
values of the Company's financial instruments at December 31, 2000 and 1999.
Amounts in parentheses represent liabilities.



      The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value
of each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate
that value:

Short-term investments:

      Short-term investments which consist primarily of short-term investments
and investments in short-term interest bearing instruments with original
maturity dates between three months and one year are carried at cost which
approximates fair value.

Long-term investments:

      Long-term investments consist of available-for-sale securities, primarily
in the Company's holdings in marketing and corporate communications companies
that are publicly traded. The investments are carried at market value and the
unrealized gains and losses on these securities are included in Shareholders'
Equity.

Other investments:

      Included in deferred charges and other assets are other long-term
investments carried at cost, which approximates estimated fair value.


                                      F-19


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Long-term debt:

      A portion of the Company's long-term debt included floating rate debt, the
carrying value of which approximates fair value. The Company's long-term debt
also included convertible subordinated debentures and fixed rate senior debt.
The fair value of these instruments was determined by reference to quotations
available in markets where these issues were traded. The quotations for the
subordinated debentures primarily reflected the conversion value of the
debentures into the Company's common stock.

Financial Commitments:

      The estimated fair values of derivative positions are based upon
quotations received from independent, third party banks and represent the net
amount required to terminate the position, taking into consideration market
rates and counterparty credit risk. The fair values of guarantees and letters of
credit were based upon the face value of the underlying instruments.

12. Financial Instruments and Market Risk

      The Company utilizes derivative financial instruments predominantly to
reduce certain market risks to which the Company is exposed. These market risks
primarily consist of the impact of changes in currency exchange rates on assets
and liabilities of non-U.S. operations and the impact of changes in interest
rates on debt. The Company's derivative activities are limited in volume and
confined to risk management activities. Senior management at the Company
actively participates in the quantification, monitoring and control of all
significant risks. A reporting system is in place which evaluates the impact on
the Company's earnings resulting from changes in interest rates, currency
exchange rates and other relevant market risks. This system is structured to
enable senior management to initiate prompt remedial action, if appropriate.
Additionally, senior management reports periodically to the Audit Committee of
the Board of Directors concerning derivative activities. In 1993, the Audit
Committee established limitations on derivative activities which are reviewed
annually.

      At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company had Japanese yen 16.3 billion
aggregate notional principal amount of cross currency interest rate swaps. The
swaps effectively hedge the Company's net investment in Japanese yen denominated
assets.


                                      F-20


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The Company enters into forward foreign exchange contracts predominately
to hedge intercompany receivables and payables which are recorded in a currency
different from that in which they will settle. Gains and losses on these
positions are deferred and included in the basis of the transaction upon
settlement. The terms of these contracts are generally three months or less. At
December 31, 2000 and 1999, the aggregate amount of intercompany receivables and
payables subject to this hedge program was $254 million and $773 million,
respectively. The table below summarizes by major currency the notional
principal amounts of the Company's forward foreign exchange contracts
outstanding at December 31, 2000 and 1999. The "buy" amounts represent the U.S.
dollar equivalent of commitments to purchase the respective currency, and the
"sell" amounts represent the U.S. dollar equivalent of commitments to sell the
respective currency.

                                        (Dollars in thousands)
                                      Notional Principal Amount
                        --------------------------------------------------------
                                    2000                        1999
                        ---------------------------  ---------------------------
        Currency        Company Buys  Company Sells  Company Buys  Company Sells
        --------        ------------  -------------  ------------  -------------
U.S. Dollar............   $35,714       $ 22,224        $140,704     $ 90,416
Euro...................    24,423         94,757         261,228      246,599
Canadian Dollar........        --         14,805          52,296       60,485
Swedish Krona..........     3,140          3,663           4,027        1,463
Hong Kong Dollar.......     5,783          3,929           3,870        2,669
Australian Dollar......       281          5,146           1,485          124
Swiss Franc............       807          3,811             618        3,902
Singapore Dollar.......     3,487          5,083           1,088        4,930
Greek Drachma..........     1,107          1,669              22        3,088
Norwegian Krone........        --         10,728              --        9,453
Danish Krone...........        --         12,686              --        4,177
Czech Republic Koruna..        --             --              --           68
Japanese Yen...........        --          1,057              --           --
                          -------       --------        --------     --------
  Total................   $74,742       $179,558        $465,338     $427,374
                          =======       ========        ========     ========

      The derivative financial instrument existing during the years ended
December 31, 2000 and 1999 were entered into for the purpose of hedging certain
specific currency and interest rate risks. As a result of these financial
instruments, the Company reduced financial risk in exchange for foregoing any
gain (reward) which might have occurred if the markets moved favorably. In using
derivative financial instruments, management exchanged the risks of the
financial markets for counterparty risk. To minimize counterparty risk the
Company only enters into derivative contracts with major well-known banks that
have credit ratings equal to or better than the Company's.

13. Adoption of New Accounting Pronouncements

      In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standard Board issued SFAS No. 133,
"Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" which the Company
was required to adopt effective January 1, 2001. SFAS No. 133 cannot be applied
retroactively. SFAS No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards
requiring that every derivative instrument (including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as
either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. SFAS No. 133 requires
that changes in the derivative's fair value be recognized currently in earnings
unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met. Special accounting for
qualifying hedges allows a derivative's gains and losses to offset related
results on the hedged item in the income statement, and requires that a company
must formally document, designate, and assess the effectiveness of transactions
that receive hedge accounting. SFAS No. 133 must be applied to (1) derivative
instruments and (2) certain derivative instruments embedded in hybrid contracts
that were issued, acquired, or substantively modified after December 31, 1997.


                                      F-21


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

      The Company has adopted SFAS No. 133 effective January 1, 2001. The impact
of SFAS No. 133 on the Company's financial statements is not material to the
Company's consolidated financial position or results of operations.

14. Subsequent Events

      In February 2001, the Company completed the issuance of $850 million of
aggregate principal amount of Liquid Yield Option Notes (LYONs) due February 7,
2031. The net proceeds from the LYONs offering were $830.2 million. The LYONs
are unsecured, unsubordinated zero-coupon securities that may be converted into
common shares, subject to specified conditions relating to the price of common
shares. The conversion price is $110.01 per share subject to antidilutive
adjustment. The Company may be required to purchase the LYONs after February 7,
2002 using, at the Company's election, cash or common stock or a combination of
both and the Company has the option of redeeming the LYONs after February 7,
2006 for cash. In addition, the Company may be obligated to pay contingent cash
interest, if the Company's stock price reaches specified thresholds, equal to
the amount of dividends it pays to common shareholders during the relevant
period.


                                      F-22


                       OMNICOM GROUP INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

      The following table sets forth a summary of the Company's unaudited
quarterly results of operations for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999,
in thousands of dollars except for per share amounts. During the first quarter
of 2000, the Company sold a portion of its ownership interest in Razorfish Inc.
As a result of the sale, the Company realized a pre-tax gain of $110 million.
Included in net income for the first quarter is $63,826,000 related to this
transaction.

                                First       Second        Third       Fourth
                                -----       ------        -----       ------
Revenue
    2000                     $1,379,014   $1,520,245   $1,452,523   $1,802,448
    1999                      1,146,877    1,270,369    1,210,880    1,502,419

Realized Gain on Sale of
    Razorfish Shares
    2000                        110,044           --           --           --
    1999                             --           --           --           --

Income Before Income Taxes
    2000                        262,410      237,624      158,755      252,828
    1999                        123,323      198,699      131,254      220,432

Income Taxes
    2000                        108,468       96,256       64,552       99,864
    1999                         50,515       80,573       53,851       88,308

Income After Income Taxes
    2000                        153,942      141,368       94,203      152,964
    1999                         72,808      118,126       77,403      132,124

Equity in Affiliates
    2000                            876        2,629        3,107        4,302
    1999                            929        2,849         (202)      11,792

Minority Interests
    2000                        (11,281)     (16,610)     (11,646)     (15,059)
    1999                         (8,175)     (13,833)      (6,916)     (24,023)

Net Income
    2000                        143,537      127,387       85,664      142,207
    1999                         65,562      107,142       70,285      119,893

Basic Earnings Per Share
    2000                           0.82(A)      0.73         0.49         0.81
    1999                           0.37         0.61         0.40         0.69

Diluted Earnings per Share
    2000                           0.78(A)      0.70         0.48         0.78
    1999                           0.37         0.59         0.39         0.66

- ----------
(A)   These amounts include the realized gain on sale of Razorfish shares.
      Excluding this gain, the basic and diluted earnings per share amounts in
      the first quarter of 2000 were $0.46 and $0.45, respectively.


                                      F-23

