10-K


e26283-10k.htm

ANNUAL REPORT

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES
AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

|X|

ANNUAL
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the
fiscal year ended: December 31, 2006

OR

|_|

TRANSITION
REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File
Number: 1-10551

OMNICOM GROUP INC.

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

New York

13-1514814

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

incorporation or organization)

437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600

Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each Exchange

on which Registered

Common Stock, $.15 Par Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.  Yes |X|  No |_|

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes |_|  No |X|

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and
(2) been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes |X|  No |_|

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405
of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  |_|

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  Large accelerated filer |X| Accelerated
filer |_|  Non-accelerated filer |_|

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act): |_|  No |X|

At
February 15, 2007, 167,100,000 shares of Omnicom Common Stock, $.15 par value, were
outstanding; the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates as of
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
was $15,076,000,000.

Certain
portions of Omnicom’s definitive proxy statement relating to its annual meeting of
shareholders scheduled to be held on May 22, 2007 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.

OMNICOM GROUP INC.

ANNUAL REPORT
  ON FORM 10-K FOR

THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2006


*

The
information regarding Executive Officers of the Registrant is included in Part I, Item 1,
“Business.” Additional     information called for by Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14 to the
extent not included in this document, is incorporated     herein by reference to the
information to be included under the captions “Corporate Governance,” “Certain
    Transactions,” “Executive Compensation” and “Stock Ownership” in Omnicom’s definitive
proxy statement, which is     expected to be filed by April 20, 2007.

FORWARD LOOKING
STATEMENTS

Certain
of the statements in this annual report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In
addition, from time to time, we or our representatives have made or may make
forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. These statements relate to future
events or future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks and other
factors that may cause our actual or our industry’s results, levels of activity or
achievement to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any
forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, including those resulting from
specific factors identified under the captions “Risk Factors” and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” include, but
are not limited to, our future financial condition and results of operations, changes in
general economic conditions, competitive factors, changes in client communication
requirements, the hiring and retention of personnel, our ability to attract new clients
and retain existing clients, changes in government regulations impacting our advertising
and marketing strategies, risks associated with assumptions we make in connection with
our critical accounting estimates, and our international operations, which are subject to
the risks of currency fluctuations and exchange controls. In some cases, forward-looking
statements can be identified by terminology such as “may,” “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or
“continue” or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. These
statements are our present expectations. Actual events or results may differ. We
undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our
internet address is www.omnicomgroup.com at which we make available, free of charge, our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file or furnish such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission
or the “SEC”. Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of
our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report
we file with or furnish to the SEC. Any document that we file with the SEC may also be
read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at Room 1580, 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information
on the public reference room. Our filings are also available from the SEC’s website at
http://www.sec.gov and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange.

PART I

Introduction

This
report is both our 2006 annual report to shareholders and our 2006 annual report on Form
10-K required under the federal securities laws.

We
are a strategic holding company. We provide professional services to clients through
multiple agencies operating in all major markets around the world. Our companies provide
advertising, marketing and corporate communications services. For simplicity, however,
the terms “Omnicom,” “we,” “our” and “us” each refer to Omnicom Group Inc. and our
subsidiaries unless the context indicates otherwise.

Item 1. Business

Our
Business:

Omnicom, a strategic holding company, was formed in 1986 by the merger of
several leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies. We are one
of the largest advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies in the
world. The proliferation of media channels, especially print and cable television, and
recently the internet, has effectively fragmented mass audiences. These developments make
it increasingly more difficult for marketers to reach their target audiences in a
cost-effective way, causing them to turn to marketing service providers such as Omnicom
for a customized mix of advertising and marketing communications services designed to
make the best use of their total marketing expenditures.

Our
agencies provide an extensive range of services which we group into four fundamental
disciplines: traditional media advertising; customer relationship management (“CRM”);
public relations; and specialty communications. The services included in these categories
are:

advertising

brand consultancy

crisis communications

custom publishing

database
management

digital and interactive marketing

direct marketing

directory
advertising

entertainment marketing

environmental design

experiential
marketing

field marketing

financial / corporate business-to-business
advertising

graphic arts

healthcare communications

instore design

investor relations

marketing research

media planning and buying

mobile marketing services

multi-cultural marketing

non-profit marketing

organizational communications

package design

product placement

promotional marketing

public affairs

public relations

recruitment
communications

reputation consulting

retail marketing

search engine
marketing

sports and event marketing

Although
the medium used to reach a given client’s target audience may be different across each of
these disciplines, the marketing message is developed and delivered in a similar way by
providing client-specific consulting services.

Omnicom’s
business model was built and evolves around its clients. While our companies operate
under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our
services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is to structure our
business offerings and allocate our resources based on the specific requirements of our
clients. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency,
they have tended to consolidate their business with larger, multi-disciplinary agencies
or integrated groups of agencies. Accordingly, our business model demands that multiple
agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual networks that cut
across internal organizational structures to execute against our clients’ specific
marketing requirements. We believe that this organizational philosophy, and our ability
to execute on it, helps to differentiate us from our competition.


Our
agency networks and our virtual networks, provide us with the ability to integrate
services across all disciplines. This means that the delivery of these services can, and
does, take place across agencies, networks and geographic regions simultaneously.

Further,
for the longer term, we believe that our virtual network strategy facilitates better
integration of services required by the demands of the marketplace for advertising and
marketing communications services. Our over-arching strategy for our business is to
continue to use our virtual networks to grow our business relationships with our clients.

The
various components of our business and material factors that affected us in 2006 are
discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) of this report. None of our acquisitions in 2006,
2005 or 2004 were material to our consolidated financial position or results of
operations. For information concerning our acquisitions, see Note 2 to our consolidated
financial statements.

Geographic
Regions and Segments:

Our total consolidated revenue is about evenly divided between U.S.
and non-U.S. operations. For financial information concerning domestic and foreign
operations and segment reporting, see our MD&A and Note 5 to our consolidated
financial statements.

Our
Clients:

Consistent with the fundamentals of our business strategy, our agencies serve
similar clients, in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients, across a
variety of geographic regions and locations. Our clients participate in virtually all
industry sectors of the global economy. Furthermore, in many cases, our agencies or
networks serve different product groups within the same clients served by other Omnicom
agencies or networks. For example, our largest client was served by more than 100 of our
agencies in 2006 and represented 3.6% of our 2006 consolidated revenue. No other client
accounted for more than 2.9% of our consolidated 2006 revenue. Each of our top 100
clients was served, on average, by more than 40 of our agencies in 2006 and represented
46.2% of our 2006 consolidated revenue.

Our
Employees:

At December 31, 2006, we employed approximately 66,000 people. We are not
party to any significant collective bargaining agreements. The skill-sets of our
workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is
the ability to understand a client’s brand, its selling proposition and the ability to
develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand to the client’s target
audience. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established
tailored training and education programs for our service professionals around this
competency. See our MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs
on our historical results of operations.

Executive
Officers of the Registrant:

Our executive officers as of February 15, 2007 are:

Name

Position

Age

Bruce Crawford

Chairman


John D. Wren

President and Chief Executive Officer


Randall J. Weisenburger

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer


Michael Birkin

Vice Chairman


Peter Mead

Vice Chairman


Philip J. Angelastro

Senior Vice President Finance and Controller


Charles Brymer

President and Chief Executive Officer of DDB Worldwide


Jean-Marie Dru

President and Chief Executive Officer of TBWA Worldwide


Thomas L. Harrison

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Diversified Agency Services


Michael J. O’Brien

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary


Andrew Robertson

President and Chief Executive Officer of BBDO Worldwide


Daryl D. Simm

Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Omnicom Media Group


All
of the executive officers have held their present positions at Omnicom for at least five
years except as specified below.

Michael
Birkin was appointed Vice Chairman, as well as President and CEO of Omnicom Asia-Pacific,
on March 1, 2005. From 1999 to 2005, he served as Worldwide President of DAS. Mr. Birkin
previously served as International President of DAS from 1997 to 1999 and European
Managing Director of DAS from 1995 to 1997.


Charles
Brymer was named President and CEO of DDB Worldwide in April 2006. Formerly, Mr. Brymer
was the Chairman and CEO of Interbrand Group. He joined Interbrand in 1985 and was named
Chairman and CEO of Interbrand in 1994. Mr. Brymer began his Omnicom career at BBDO in
Houston in 1982.

Michael
O’Brien joined Omnicom Group Inc. in November 2003 and was appointed Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary in December 2003. From April 2002 to December
2003, Mr. O’Brien was a partner in the law firm of Goodwin Procter LLP. Prior to that, he
was a partner in the law firm of O’Sullivan LLP.

Andrew
Robertson was named Chief Executive Officer of BBDO Worldwide in May of 2004, having been
made President of BBDO Worldwide in 2002. In 2001, Mr. Robertson was President and CEO of
BBDO North America and was subsequently elected to the Worldwide Board of Directors of
BBDO. He joined BBDO in 1995.

Daryl
Simm was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Omnicom Media Group in November
2005. Mr. Simm previously held the position of President and CEO of OMG.

Additional
information about our directors and executive officers appears under the captions “Corporate
Governance,” “Certain Transactions,” “Election of Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and
“Stock Ownership” in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed by
April 20, 2007.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Companies
periodically review and change their advertising, marketing and corporate communications
services business models and relationships. If we are unable to remain competitive or
retain key clients, our business and financial results may be materially adversely
affected.

The
businesses in which we participate are highly competitive. Key competitive considerations
for retaining existing business and winning new business include our ability to develop
creative solutions that meet client needs, the quality and effectiveness of the services
we offer, and our ability to efficiently serve clients, particularly large international
clients, on a broad geographic basis. While many of our client relationships are
long-standing, companies put their advertising, marketing and corporate communications
services business up for competitive review from time to time. We have won and lost
accounts in the past as a result of these reviews. To the extent that we are not able to
remain competitive, our revenue may be adversely affected, which could then affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

Government
regulations and consumer advocates may limit the scope of the content of our services,
which could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

Government
agencies and consumer groups have directly or indirectly from time to time affected or
attempted to affect the scope, content and manner of presentation of advertising,
marketing and corporate communications services, whether through regulations or other
governmental actions. Any such limitations on the scope of the content of our services
could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there has been
an increasing tendency on the part of businesses to resort to the judicial system to
challenge advertising practices. We cannot assure investors that such claims by
businesses or governmental agencies will not have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations and financial condition in the future.

The success of our
acquiring and retaining clients depends on our ability to avoid and manage conflicts of
interest arising out of other client relationships and retention of key personnel.

Our
ability to retain existing clients and to attract new clients may, in some cases, be
limited by clients’perceptions of, or policies concerning, conflicts of interest arising
out of other client relationships. If we are unable to maintain multiple agencies to
effectively manage multiple client relationships and avoid potential conflicts of
interests, our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected.

In
addition, we may lose or fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our employees are our
most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is an important
aspect of our competitiveness. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our
ability to provide our services in the manner our customers have come to expect may be
adversely affected, which could harm our reputation and result in a loss of clients,
which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition.


We receive
approximately 46% of our revenue from our 100 largest clients, and the loss of several of
these clients could adversely impact our prospects, our business and our results of
operations and financial condition.

Our
clients generally are able to reduce advertising and marketing spending or cancel
projects at any time for any reason. It is possible that our clients could reduce
spending in comparison with historical patterns, or they could reduce future spending. A
significant reduction in advertising and marketing spending by our largest clients, or
the loss of several of our largest clients, if not replaced by new client accounts or an
increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our revenue, which
could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

We are a global
service business and face certain risks of doing business abroad, including political
instability and exchange controls, which could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations.

We
face the risks normally associated with global services businesses. The operational and
financial performance of our businesses are typically tied to overall economic and
regional market conditions, competition for client assignments and talented staff, new
business wins and losses and the risks associated with extensive international
operations. There are some risks of doing business abroad, including those of political
instability and exchange controls, which do not affect domestic-focused firms. For
financial information on our operations by geographic area, see Note 5 to our
consolidated financial statements.

We are exposed to
risks from operating in developing countries.

We
conduct business in various developing countries around the world. The risks associated
with conducting business in developing countries can include slower payment of invoices;
nationalization; social, political and economic instability; and currency repatriation
restrictions, among other risks. In addition, commercial laws in many of these countries
can be vague, inconsistently administered and retroactively applied. If we are deemed not
to be in compliance with applicable laws in developing countries where we conduct
business, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations in those
countries could be harmed, which could then have an adverse impact on our results of
operations and financial condition.

Downgrades of our
debt credit ratings could adversely affect us.

Standard
and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt A-, Moody’s Investors
Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our
short-term debt ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Should our debt
credit ratings be downgraded, our outstanding senior notes, convertible notes and our
existing bank credit facility do not contain provisions that require acceleration of cash
payment upon a downgrade. The interest rates and fees on our bank credit facility,
however, would increase if our long-term debt credit rating is downgraded. Additionally,
our access to the capital markets could be adversely affected by adverse changes to the
short or long-term debt credit ratings assigned to us by independent rating agencies.

Holders of our
convertible notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to $2.0 billion, in whole
or in part, at specified dates in the future.

If
we are required to satisfy a put to repurchase our convertible notes, we expect to have
sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund the put. We also believe
that we will still have ample capacity under our existing credit commitments to meet our
cash requirements for the normal course of our business operations after the put event.
However, in the event that our existing credit commitments or our cash flow from
operations were decreased, we could experience difficulties in funding our business
operations and would have to seek additional funding alternatives as described more fully
in our MD&A.

We may be
unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future acquisitions.

We
regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses that are complementary to our
businesses and client needs. As part of the review we conduct business, legal and
financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks
involved in any particular transaction. Despite our efforts, we may be unsuccessful in
ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. As a result, we might not realize the intended
advantages of any given acquisition. If we fail to identify certain material risks from
one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be
adversely affected.


Goodwill may become
impaired.

We
have recorded a significant amount of goodwill in our consolidated financial statements
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP” or “GAAP”)
resulting from our prior acquisition activities, which principally represents the
specialized know-how of the workforce at the agencies we have acquired. We annually test
the carrying value of goodwill for impairment, as discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated
financial statements. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations
and cash flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future
actual results of operations and cash flows. While we have concluded, for each year
presented in our financial statements, that our goodwill is not impaired, future events
could cause us to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation may
become impaired. Any resulting impairment loss could materially adversely affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

Item 1B. Unresolved
Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties

We
maintain office space in many major cities around the world. The facility requirements of
our agencies are similar across geographic regions and disciplines and we believe that
our facilities are in suitable and well-maintained condition for our current operations.
This space is primarily used for office and administrative purposes by our employees in
performing professional services. Our principal corporate offices are at 437 Madison
Avenue, New York, New York and One East Weaver Street, Greenwich, Connecticut. We also
maintain executive offices in London, England and Tokyo, Japan.

Substantially
all of our office space is leased from third parties with varying expiration dates
ranging from one to 20 years. Certain of our leases are subject to rent reviews or
contain various escalation clauses and certain of our leases require us to pay various
operating expenses, which may also be subject to escalation. Leases are generally
denominated in the local currency of the operating entity. Our consolidated rent expense
was $351.9 million in 2006, $352.6 million in 2005 and $345.3 million in 2004, after
reduction for rents received from subleases of $22.3 million, $23.5 million and $26.3
million, respectively.

Our
obligations for future minimum base rents under terms of non-cancelable real estate
leases and other operating leases, which include primarily office furniture and computer
and technology equipment, reduced by rents receivable from non-cancelable subleases are
(in millions):

Net Rent


$412.9


347.5


280.5


237.5


186.2

Thereafter

708.4

See
Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our lease
commitments and our MD&A for the impact of leases on our operating expenses.

Item 3. Legal
Proceedings

Beginning
on June 13, 2002, several putative class actions were filed against us and certain senior
executives in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The
actions have since been consolidated under the caption

In re Omnicom Group Inc.
Securities Litigation

, No. 02-CV-4483 (RCC), on behalf of a proposed class of purchasers
of our common stock between February 20, 2001 and June 11, 2002. The consolidated
complaint alleges, among other things, that our public filings and other public
statements during that period contained false and misleading statements or omitted to
state material information relating to (1) our calculation of the organic growth
component of period-to-period revenue growth, (2) our valuation of and accounting for
certain internet investments made by our Communicade Group (“Communicade”), which we
contributed to Seneca Investments LLC (“Seneca”) in 2001, and (3) the existence and
amount of certain


contingent future obligations in
respect of acquisitions. The complaint seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory
damages plus costs and attorneys’ fees. Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint and on
March 28, 2005, the court dismissed portions (1) and (3) of the complaint detailed above.
The court’s decision denying the defendants’ motion to dismiss the remainder of the
complaint did not address the ultimate merits of the case, but only the sufficiency of
the pleading. Defendants have answered the complaint, and discovery is currently expected
to conclude in the first half of 2007. Plaintiffs have moved to have the proposed class
certified and the defendants have opposed that motion, which is now fully briefed.

In
addition, on June 28, 2002, a derivative action was filed on behalf of Omnicom in New
York state court. On February 18, 2005, a second shareholder derivative action, again
purportedly brought on behalf of the Company, was filed in New York state court. The
derivative actions have been consolidated before one New York State Justice and the
plaintiffs have filed an amended consolidated complaint. The consolidated derivative
complaint questions the business judgment of certain current and former directors of
Omnicom, by challenging, among other things, the valuation of and accounting for the
internet investments made by Communicade and the contribution of those investments to
Seneca. The consolidated complaint alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary
duties of good faith. The lawsuit seeks from the directors the amount of profits received
from selling Omnicom stock and other unspecified damages to be paid to the Company, as
well as costs and attorneys’ fees. The defendants moved to dismiss the derivative
complaint on the procedural ground that plaintiffs had failed to make a demand on the
board. On June 27, 2006, the trial court entered a decision denying the motion to
dismiss. The decision did not address the merits of the allegations, but rather accepted
the allegations as true for the purposes of the motion (as the Court was required to do)
and excused plaintiffs from making a demand on the board. The defendant filed an appeal
of the Court’s decision on the motion to dismiss. The appeal has been fully briefed and
oral argument before the Appellate Division, First Department occurred on February 9,
2007. Additionally, the defendants moved for a stay of the proceedings in this litigation
pending a decision being issued by the Appellate Division. The trial court granted the
motion staying the matter until February 28, 2007. The parties have jointly requested the trial court extend the stay to March 30, 2007 since the Appellate Division has not yet issued a decision.

The
defendants in both cases believe that the allegations against them are baseless and
intend to vigorously oppose the lawsuits. Currently, we are unable to determine the
outcome of these cases and the effect on our financial position or results of operations.
The outcome of any of these matters is inherently uncertain and may be affected by future
events. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate effect of these matters.

We
are also involved from time to time in various legal proceedings in the ordinary course
of business. We do not presently expect that these proceedings will have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

For
additional information concerning our legal proceedings, including the class action and
derivative action described above, see Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements
that is incorporated into this section by reference.

Item 4. Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Our
annual shareholders’ meeting has historically been held in the second quarter of the
year. No matters were submitted to a vote of our shareholders during the last quarter of
2006.


PART II

Item 5. Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities

Our
      common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol
      “OMC.” On February 15, 2007, we had 3,149 holders of record of
      our common shares. The table below shows the range of quarterly high and
      low sales prices reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape
      for our common shares and the dividends paid per share for these periods.

Period

High

Low

Dividends Paid

Per Share

Q1 2005

$  91.48

$82.83

$0.225

Q2 2005

89.00

76.10

0.225

Q3 2005

86.36

79.00

0.225

Q4 2005

88.80

75.75

0.225

Q1 2006

$  87.05

$78.75

$0.250

Q2 2006

96.64

81.84

0.250

Q3 2006

94.77

84.12

0.250

Q4 2006

106.06

93.01

0.250

The
following table presents information with respect to purchases of common stock made
during the three months ended December 31, 2006, by us or any of our “affiliated
purchasers.”

During the month:

(a)

Total

Number of

Shares Purchased

(b)

Average

Price Paid

Per Share

(c)

Total Number

of Shares Purchased

As Part of Publicly

Announced Plans

or Programs

(d)

Maximum Number

of Shares that May

Yet Be Purchased Under

Publicly Announced

Plans or Programs

October 2006

—

$       —

—

—

November 2006

1,105,800

101.50

—

—

December 2006

1,447,800

103.70

—

—

Total

2,553,600

$102.75

—

—

Item 6. Selected
Financial Data

The
following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated
financial statements and related notes that begin on page F-1 of this report, as well as
our MD&A.

In
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 123, Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS 123”), as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No.
123 (“SFAS 148”), we elected, effective January 1, 2004, to account for stock-based
employee compensation using the fair value method. As a result, the fair value of
stock-based employee compensation, including unvested employee stock options issued and
outstanding, was recorded as an expense in the current period and all prior periods
presented utilizing the retroactive restatement method as set forth in SFAS 148.
Accordingly, our results for the prior periods have been restated as if we had used the
fair value method to account for stock-based employee compensation.


(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

For the years ended December 31:






Revenue

$    11,376.9

$    10,481.1

$   9,747.2

$   8,621.4

$   7,536.3

Operating Profit

1,483.5

1,339.8

1,215.4

1,091.9

985.1

Income After Income Taxes

925.0

845.3

782.5

696.1

625.0

Net Income

864.0

790.7

723.5

631.0

570.5

Net Income Per Common
      Share:

Basic

5.04

4.38

3.90

3.37

3.07

Diluted

4.99

4.36

3.88

3.37

3.07

Dividends
      Declared Per

Common
      Share

1.000

0.925

0.900

0.800

0.800

(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)

As of December 31:






Cash, cash
      equivalents and

short-term
      investments

$  1,928.8

$  1,209.9

$  1,739.6

$  1,548.9

$     695.9

Total Assets

18,164.4

15,919.9

16,002.4

14,620.0

12,056.5

Long-Term Obligations:

Long-term
      debt

1,013.2

18.2

19.1

197.3

197.9

Convertible
      notes

2,041.5

2,339.3

2,339.3

2,339.3

1,747.0

Deferred
      compensation and

other
      liabilities

305.8

298.4

309.1

326.5

293.6


Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Executive Summary

We
are a strategic holding company. We provide professional services to clients through
multiple agencies around the world. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our
agencies provide these services in the following disciplines: traditional media
advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Our business model was
built and evolves around our clients. While our companies operate under different names
and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our
clients. The fundamental premise of our business is that our clients’specific
requirements should be the central focus in how we structure our business offerings and
allocate our resources. This client-centric business model results in multiple agencies
collaborating in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal
organizational structures to deliver consistent brand messages for a specific client and
execute against each of our client’s specific marketing requirements. We continually seek
to grow our business with our existing clients by maintaining our client-centric
approach, as well as expanding our existing business relationships into new markets and
with new clients. In addition, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary
companies with strong, entrepreneurial management teams that typically either currently
serve or have the ability to serve our existing client base.

In
prior years, our industry was affected by several factors, including geopolitical unrest
and lagging economic conditions that contributed to a difficult business environment and
industry-wide margin contraction. During this period, we continued to invest in our
businesses and our personnel and took action to reduce costs at some of our agencies to
address the changing economic circumstances. Recently, improving economic conditions,
coupled with the business trends described below, have had a positive impact on our
business and our industry.

Several
long-term trends continue to positively affect our business, including our clients
increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets to
pan-regional and global markets and from traditional marketing channels to
non-traditional channels and new media outlets. Additionally, in an effort to gain
greater efficiency and effectiveness from their marketing dollars, clients are
increasingly requiring greater coordination of their traditional advertising and
marketing activities and concentrating these activities with a smaller number of service
providers.

The
diversity and balance of our portfolio of companies and service offerings have enabled us
to continue to grow our revenue, operating income, net income and earnings per share. In
the United States, revenue grew at a rate of 7.8% in 2006, which is below our prior year’s
rate of 10.0%. On a constant currency basis, revenue growth for our international
business increased by 7.9% in 2006, which is an increase from our prior year’s rate of
3.5%. Overall, in the past year, we believe that our businesses have performed well
across our operating regions. In addition, we expect to continue to increase our
investment in an already improving Asian market. We also plan to focus on businesses that
will complement and enhance our existing strategic platforms and service capabilities to
better serve our clients in various regions.

In
2006, we experienced an increase in our operating margins over the previous year. This
improvement is the result of our new business initiatives and wins, as well as our cost
management actions. Our operating margin for 2006 was 13.0% compared to 12.8% in 2005. We
expect that we will be able to maintain operating margins at 2006 levels and we will continue to
pursue a strategy of optimizing our operating margins and maintaining a high level of  investment in our people and
our businesses.

Given
our size and breadth, we manage our business by monitoring several financial indicators.
The key indicators that we review focus on revenue and operating expenses.

We
analyze revenue growth by reviewing the components and mix of the growth, including
growth by major geographic location, growth by major marketing discipline, growth from
currency fluctuations, growth from acquisitions and growth from our largest clients.

In
recent years, our revenue has been divided almost evenly between domestic and
international operations. In 2006, our overall revenue growth was 8.5%, of which 0.7% was
related to changes in foreign exchange rates and 0.2% was related to the acquisition of
entities, net of entities disposed. The remainder, 7.6%, was organic growth.


In
2006, traditional media advertising represented about 43% of the total revenue and grew
by 6.0% over the prior year. CRM represented about 36% of the total revenue and grew by
13.0% over the previous year. Public relations represented about 10% of the total revenue
and grew by 10.0% over the previous year and specialty communications represented about
11% of total revenue and grew by 3.7% over the previous year.

We
measure operating expenses in two distinct cost categories, salary and service costs, and
office and general expenses. Salary and service costs are primarily comprised of employee
compensation related costs and office and general expenses are primarily comprised of
rent and occupancy costs, technology related costs and depreciation and amortization.
Each of our agencies requires service professionals with a skill set that is common
across our disciplines. At the core of this skill set is the ability to understand a
client’s brand and its selling proposition, and the ability to develop a unique message
to communicate the value of the brand to the client’s target audience. The facility
requirements of our agencies are similar across geographic regions and disciplines, and
their technology requirements are generally limited to personal computers, servers and
off-the-shelf software.

Because
we are a service business, we monitor these costs on a percentage of revenue basis.
Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in conjunction with changes in revenue,
whereas office and general expenses, which are not directly related to servicing clients,
tend to decrease as a percentage of revenue as revenue increases because a significant
portion of these expenses are relatively fixed in nature. During 2006, salary and service
costs increased to 71.1% of revenue from 70.7% of revenue in 2005. This increase is
primarily attributable to increased revenue levels and the necessary increases in direct
salaries, salary-related costs and freelance labor costs necessary to deliver our
services and pursue new business initiatives, as well as increases in incentive-based
compensation costs. Office and general expenses declined to 15.9% of revenue from 16.5%
in 2005 as a result of our continuing efforts to better align these costs with business
levels on a location-by-location basis.

Our
net income for 2006 increased by 9.3% to $864.0 million from $790.7 million in 2005 and
our diluted EPS increased by 14.4% to $4.99 from $4.36 in the prior year for the reasons
described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average shares
outstanding for the year. This reduction was the result of our purchases of treasury
shares net of option exercises and share issuances under our employee stock purchase plan.

Critical Accounting
Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements

Critical Accounting
Policies

We
have prepared the following summary of our accounting policies to assist the reader in
better understanding our financial statements and the related MD&A. We believe that
the following policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity in their
application and represent the critical accounting policies used in the preparation of our
financial statements. Readers are encouraged to consider this summary together with our
consolidated financial statements and the related notes to our consolidated financial
statements, including our discussion in Note 1 setting forth our accounting policies in
greater detail, for a more complete understanding of accounting policies discussed below.

Estimates:

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and require us to make
estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities including valuation allowances for receivables and deferred tax
assets, accruals for incentive compensation and the disclosure of contingent liabilities
at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during a reporting period. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis and
we base our estimates on historical experience, current conditions and various other
assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results can differ
from those estimates, and it is possible that the differences could be material.

A
fair value approach is used in testing goodwill for impairment under SFAS 142 and when
evaluating cost-based investments, which consist of ownership interests in non-public
companies, to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. We consider
and use several comparable market participant measurements to determine fair value,
including consideration of similar and recent transactions and when available and as
appropriate, we use comparative market multiples. We also use a discounted cash flow


methodology. Numerous estimates and
assumptions have to be made when completing a discounted cash flow valuation, including
estimates and assumptions regarding interest rates, appropriate discount rates and
capital structure. Additionally, estimates must be made regarding revenue growth,
operating margins, tax rates, working capital requirements and capital expenditures.
Judgment is required when determining fair value, including when we evaluate the
applicability of similar and recent transactions, and when determining the appropriate
comparative market multiples to be used. Actual results of operations, cash flows and
other factors used in a discounted cash flow valuation will likely differ from the
estimates used and it is possible that differences could be material. Additional
information about impairment testing under SFAS 142 and valuation of cost-based
investments appears in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements, as well as Note 6
with respect to cost-based investments.

A
fair value approach is used in determining the award value of stock-based employee
compensation in accordance with SFAS 123R. We utilize the Black-Scholes option valuation
model to determine the fair value of option awards. This valuation model uses several
assumptions and estimates such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility
and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used to determine the
fair value, our actual results of operations and cash flows would likely differ from the
estimates used and it is possible that differences and changes could be material.
Additional information about these assumptions and estimates appears in Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Acquisitions
and Goodwill:

We have historically made and expect to continue to make selective
acquisitions. In making acquisitions, the price we pay is determined by various factors,
including specialized know-how, reputation, competitive position, geographic coverage and
service offerings, as well as our experience and judgment. The amount we paid for
acquisitions, including cash, stock and assumption of net liabilities, totaled $311.4
million in 2006 and $327.2 million in 2005. Approximately 51% and 63%, respectively, of
these amounts related to contingent purchase price obligations paid during the respective
year related to acquisitions previously completed.

A
summary of our contingent purchase price obligations, sometimes referred to as earn-outs,
and obligations to purchase additional interests in certain subsidiary and affiliate
companies is set forth in the “Liquidity and Capital Resources” section of this MD&A.
The amount of contingent purchase price obligations and obligations to purchase
additional interests in certain subsidiary and affiliate companies are based on future
performance. Contingent purchase price obligations are accrued, in accordance with GAAP,
when the contingency is resolved and payment is certain.

Our
acquisition strategy has been focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled
workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various
strategic business platforms and agency brands through the expansion of their geographic
reach and/or their service capabilities to better serve our clients. Additional key
factors we consider include the competitive position and specialized know-how of the
acquisition targets. Accordingly, like most service businesses, a substantial portion of
the intangible asset value that we acquire is the know-how of the people, which is
treated as part of goodwill and, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations (“SFAS
141”), is not valued separately. For each of our acquisitions, we undertake a detailed
review to identify other intangible assets and a valuation is performed for all such
assets identified. The majority of the value of the identifiable intangible assets that
we acquire is derived from customer relationships. When making the necessary valuation
assumptions of these identified intangible assets, we typically use an income approach
and consider comparable market participant measurements. The expected benefits of our
acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies as they work together to
integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy.

We
evaluate goodwill for impairment annually. In accordance with paragraph 30 of SFAS 142,
we identified our regional reporting units as components of our operating segments, which
are our five agency networks. The regional reporting units of each agency network are
responsible for the agencies in their region. They report to the segment managers and
facilitate the administrative and logistical requirements of our client-centric strategy
for delivering services to clients in their regions. We then concluded, that for each of
our operating segments, their regional reporting units had similar economic
characteristics and should be aggregated for purposes of testing goodwill for impairment
at the operating segment level. Our conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the
aggregation criteria set forth in paragraph 17 of SFAS No.131, Disclosures about Segments
of an Enterprise and Related Information (“SFAS 131”), and the guidance set forth in EITF
D-101:


Clarification of Reporting Unit
Guidance in Paragraph 30 of FASB Statement No. 142. Consistent with the fundamentals of
our business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units serve similar
clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In addition, the
agencies within our regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics, as
the main economic components of each agency are the salary and service costs associated
with providing professional services, the office and general costs associated with office
space and occupancy, and the provision of technology requirements which are generally
limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. Finally, the expected
benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies and regions as
they work together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy.
Based on the results of our impairment testing, we concluded that the fair value of our
reporting units exceeded their book value and therefore, our goodwill was not impaired.

Additional
information about acquisitions and goodwill appears in Notes 1 and 2 to our consolidated
financial statements.

Revenue
Recognition:

Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services or a rate
per hour, or equivalent basis, and revenue is realized when the service is performed in
accordance with terms of each client arrangement, upon completion of the earnings process
and when collection is reasonably assured. We record revenue net of taxes, including
sales tax, use tax, value added tax and/or excise tax. Certain of our businesses earn a
portion of their revenue as commissions based upon performance in accordance with client
arrangements.

These
principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client
arrangements in each of our service disciplines — traditional media advertising, CRM,
public relations and specialty communications.

More
specifically, in compliance with Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 101 “Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements” (“SAB 101”), as updated by SAB 104 “Revenue
Recognition” (“SAB 104”), our policy requires the following key elements to be satisfied
prior to recognizing revenue: persuasive evidence of an arrangement must exist; the sales
price must be fixed or determinable; delivery, performance and acceptance in accordance
with the client arrangement; and collection is reasonably assured.

Because
the services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to
clients in similar ways, all of the key elements set forth above apply to client
arrangements in each of our four disciplines.

In
the majority of our businesses, we act as an agent and record revenue equal to the net
amount retained, when the fee or commission is earned. In certain cases, we contract
directly with suppliers for media payments and third-party production costs and are
responsible for their payment, recharging our clients for all costs incurred. Although we
may bear credit risk in respect of these activities, the arrangements with our clients
are such that, in effect, we act as an agent on their behalf. In these cases, costs
incurred with external suppliers are excluded from our revenue.

A
small portion of our contractual arrangements with clients include performance incentive
provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to both
quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize this portion of revenue when the
specific quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative
goals is determined by our clients. Additional information about our revenue recognition
appears in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

Employee
Stock-Based Compensation:

In accordance with SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148, we
elected, effective January 1, 2004, to account for stock-based employee compensation
using the fair value method. In determining the fair value of certain stock-based
compensation awards, we use certain estimates and assumptions such as expected life, rate
of risk free interest, volatility and dividend yield. If different assumptions and
estimates were used to determine the fair value at the date of grant, our actual results
could be different. As a result of our adoption of SFAS 123 as amended by SFAS 148, the
fair value of stock-based employee compensation was recorded as an expense in the current
and prior years. Accordingly, our results for years prior to 2004 have been restated as
if we had used the fair value method to account for stock-based employee compensation.
Pre-tax stock-based employee compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, was $71.1 million, $87.0 million and $117.2 million, respectively.
Information about our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements.


On
January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”)
that requires, among other things, that we record stock-based compensation expense net of
an estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. For all unvested awards
outstanding at January 1, 2006, we recorded an adjustment to reflect the cumulative
effect of this change in accounting principle. The adjustment in the first quarter of
2006 resulted in an increase in our operating profit and net income of $3.6 million and
$2.0 million, respectively. Because this adjustment did not have a material effect on our
results of operations and financial condition, we did not present this adjustment on an
after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of accounting change in our income statement.

SFAS
123R also requires that new stock-based compensation awards issued to individuals that
are, or will become, retirement-eligible during the vesting period of the award to be
expensed over the lesser of the period from the date of grant through the
retirement-eligible date or the vesting date. This differs from our previous policy for
awards that were issued prior to adoption of SFAS 123R with retirement eligibility
provisions. For those awards, we recognized compensation expense over the vesting period
and we accelerated compensation expense upon the triggering of a retirement event. For
the year ended December 31, 2006, $13.5 million of pre-tax amortization of stock-based
employee compensation expense was recorded related to unvested awards at December 31,
2005 that were issued prior to adoption of SFAS 123R to individuals that were retirement
eligible at December 31, 2005 and the awards included retirement eligibility provisions.
Had SFAS 123R been in effect when these awards were issued, stock-based compensation
expense in 2006 would have been reduced by $13.5 million.

SFAS
123R provides transition alternatives with respect to calculating the pool of windfall
tax benefits within our additional paid-in capital (the “APIC Pool”) that are available
on the adoption date to offset potential future shortfalls. The APIC Pool results from
the amount by which our prior year tax deductions for stock-based compensation exceed the
cumulative book stock-based compensation expense recognized in our financial statements.
We utilized the short-cut method as prescribed by FASB Statement of Position 123R-3 to
calculate the APIC Pool.

Finally,
SFAS 123R requires that the benefits associated with the tax deductions in excess of
recognized stock-based employee compensation expense be reported as a financing cash
flow, rather than as an operating cash flow, as previously required. For the year ended
December 31, 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was reduced by $26.6
million, which was recorded as an increase in cash provided by financing activities.

Additional
information regarding the changes required by SFAS 123R and its impact on our financial
statements can be found in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

In
addition to those discussed previously, additional information regarding new accounting
pronouncements can also be found in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements.
Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements also includes a summary of our
significant accounting policies.


Financial Results from
Operations — 2006 Compared with 2005

The
following year-over-year analysis gives further details and insight into the changes in
our financial performance.

Revenue:

When comparing performance between years, we discuss non-GAAP financial measures such as
the impact that foreign currency rate changes, acquisitions/dispositions and organic
growth have on reported revenue. We derive significant revenue from international
operations and changes in foreign currency rates between the years impact our reported
results. Our reported results are also impacted by our acquisition and disposition
activity and organic growth. Accordingly, we provide this information to supplement the
discussion of changes in revenue period-to-period.

Our
2006 consolidated worldwide revenue increased 8.5% to $11,376.9 million from $10,481.1
million in 2005. The effect of foreign exchange impacts increased worldwide revenue by
$72.3 million. Acquisitions, net of disposals, increased 2006 worldwide revenue by $25.9
million and organic growth increased worldwide revenue by $797.6 million. The components
of total 2006 revenue growth in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”)
are summarized below (dollars in millions):

Total

Domestic

International

$

%

$

%

$

%

December 31, 2005

$10,481.1

—

$5,743.9

—

$ 4,737.2

—

Components of revenue changes:

Foreign exchange impact

72.3

0.7

%

—

—

72.3

1.5

%

Acquisitions

25.9

0.2

%

34.6

0.6

%

(8.7

)

(0.2

)%

Organic

797.6

7.6

%

415.5

7.2

%

382.1

8.1

%

December 31, 2006

$11,376.9

8.5

%

$6,194.0

7.8

%

$ 5,182.9

9.4

%

The
components and percentages are calculated as follows:

•

The
foreign exchange impact component shown in the table is calculated by first converting
the current period’s        local currency revenue using the average exchange rates from
the equivalent prior period to arrive at a        constant currency revenue (in this case
$11,304.6 million for the Total column in the table).


The
foreign        exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue
in U.S. Dollars and the current period        revenue in constant currency (in this case
$11,376.9 million less $11,304.6 million for the Total column in the        table).

•

The
acquisition component shown in the table is calculated by aggregating the applicable
prior period revenue        of the acquired businesses. Netted against this number is the
revenue of any business included in the prior        period reported revenue that was
disposed of subsequent to the prior period.

•

The
organic component shown in the table is calculated by subtracting both the foreign
exchange and acquisition        revenue components from total revenue growth.

•

The
percentage change shown in the table of each component is calculated by dividing the
individual component        amount by the prior period revenue base of that component (in
this case $10,481.1 million for the Total column        in the table).

The
components of revenue for 2006 and revenue growth compared to 2005 in our primary
geographic markets are summarized below (dollars in millions):

Revenue

% Growth

United States

$  6,194.0

7.8

%

Euro Markets

2,313.5

7.3

%

United Kingdom

1,229.7

11.6

%

Other

1,639.7

10.9

%

Total

$11,376.9

8.5

%

As
indicated, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $72.3 million
for 2006. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening of the Canadian
Dollar, British Pound, Euro and Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar, which was offset
primarily by the decline of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar. Based on exchange
rates at January 31, 2007, we expect foreign exchange impacts to increase our full-year
2007 consolidated revenue by between 1.0% and 1.5%. Additional geographic information
relating to our business is contained in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Due
to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business
from clients each year. The net result in 2006, and historically each year for us as a
whole, was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to
broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest
client represented 3.6% of our worldwide revenue in 2006 and 4.0% in 2005. No other
client represented more than 2.9% in 2006 or 2005. Our ten largest and 100 largest
clients represented 18.3% and 46.2% of our 2006 worldwide revenue, respectively, and
18.5% and 44.6% of our 2005 worldwide revenue, respectively.

Driven
by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient branding activities,
we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate
communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to
meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy,
crisis communications, custom publishing, database management, digital and interactive
marketing, direct marketing, directory advertising, entertainment marketing,
environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial / corporate
business-to-business advertising, graphic arts, healthcare communications, instore
design, investor relations, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile
marketing services, multi-cultural marketing, non-profit marketing, organizational
communications, package design, product placement, promotional marketing, public affairs,
public relations, recruitment communications, reputation consulting, retail marketing,
search engine marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the
changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key
clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into the
following four categories as summarized below: traditional media advertising, CRM, public
relations and specialty communications.


Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions)



2006 vs 2005

Revenue

% of

Revenue

Revenue

% of

Revenue

$

Growth

%

Growth

Traditional media advertising

$  4,866.4

42.8

%

$  4,589.0

43.8

%

$277.4

6.0

%

CRM

4,081.1

35.9

%

3,613.0

34.5

%

468.1

13.0

%

Public relations

1,150.1

10.1

%

1,045.7

10.0

%

104.4

10.0

%

Specialty communications

1,279.3

11.2

%

1,233.4

11.7

%

45.9

3.7

%

$11,376.9

$10,481.1

$895.8

8.5

%

Operating
  Expenses:

Our 2006 worldwide operating expenses increased $752.1 million,
  or 8.2%, to $9,893.4 million from $9,141.3 million in 2005, as shown below.

Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions)



2006 vs 2005

$

% of

Revenue

% of

Total

Operating

Expenses

$

% of

Revenue

% of

Total

Operating

Expenses

$

Growth

%

Growth

Revenue

$11,376.9

$10,481.1

$895.8

8.5

%

Operating Expenses:

Salary and service costs

8,087.8

71.1

%

81.7

%

7,412.9

70.7

%

81.1

%

674.9

9.1

%

Office and general expenses

1,805.6

15.9

%

18.3

%

1,728.4

16.5

%

18.9

%

77.2

4.5

%

Total Operating Expenses

9,893.4

87.0

%

9,141.3

87.2

%

752.1

8.2

%

Operating Profit

$  1,483.5

13.0

%

$  1,339.8

12.8

%

$143.7

10.7

%

Because
we provide professional services, salary and service costs represent the largest part of
our operating expenses. During 2006, we continued to invest in our businesses and their
professional personnel. As a percentage of total operating expenses, salary and service
costs were 81.7% in 2006 and 81.1% in 2005. These costs are comprised of salary and
related costs and direct service costs. Most, or $674.9 million and 89.7%, of the $752.1
million increase in total operating expenses in 2006 resulted from increases in salary
and service costs. This increase was attributable to the increase in our revenue in 2006
and the necessary increases in the direct costs required to deliver our services and
pursue new business initiatives, including direct salaries, salary related costs and
direct service costs, including freelance labor costs and direct administrative costs,
such as travel, as well as increases in incentive-based compensation costs. This increase
was partially offset by reductions in severance and employee stock-based compensation
expense. As a result, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased
year-to-year from 70.7% in 2005 to 71.1% in 2006.

Office
and general expenses represented 18.3% and 18.9% of our operating expenses in 2006 and
2005, respectively. These costs are comprised of office and equipment rents, technology
costs and depreciation, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, professional fees
and other overhead expenses. As a percentage of revenue, office and general expenses
decreased in 2006 from 16.5% to 15.9% as a result of continuing efforts to better align
these costs with business levels on a location-by-location basis. These costs are less
directly linked to changes in our revenues than our salary and service costs. Although
they tend to increase as our revenues increase, the rate of increase could be more, or
less than the rate of increase in our revenues.

We
expect our efforts to control operating expenses will continue as we continuously look
for ways to increase the variability of our cost structure. We expect that we will be
able to maintain operating margins at 2006 levels and we will continue to pursue a
strategy of optimizing our operating margins and maintaining a high level of investment
in our people and our businesses.

Included
in office and general expense for 2006 operating margin is a pre-tax net loss of $0.5
million arising from the sale in the third quarter of a U.S.-based healthcare business
and several small businesses. The sale of the healthcare business resulted in a high book
tax rate primarily caused by the non-deductibility of goodwill. This increase in income
tax expense was more than offset by a one-time reduction of income tax expense from the
resolution of uncertainties related to changes in certain foreign tax laws. The aggregate
impact


of these events was a decrease in
profit before tax of $0.5 million, a decrease in tax expense of $1.8 million and an
increase in net income of $1.3 million. Excluding the net loss of $0.5 million, our 2006
operating margin was unchanged.

Included
in office and general expense for 2005 is a pre-tax net gain of $6.9 million arising from
the sale in the first quarter of a majority-owned business located in Australia and New
Zealand and the disposal of a non-strategic business located in the United States. Due to
the unusually high book tax rate caused by the non-deductibility of goodwill, the book
tax cost of the transactions was $6.1 million. After deducting minority interest expense,
the impact of these transactions increased net income in 2005 by $0.4 million. Excluding
the net gain of $6.9 million from investment activity, office and general expenses were
16.6% of revenue in 2005.

Net
Interest Expense:

Our net interest expense increased in 2006 to $91.6 million, as
compared to $59.2 million in 2005. Our gross interest expense increased by $46.9 million
to $124.9 million. This increase was primarily impacted by $45.5 million of additional
interest costs related to the issuance of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016 (“Senior
Notes”) and $23.9 million of additional interest costs associated with the amortization,
in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) No. 96-19, Debtor’s Accounting for
a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments (“EITF 96-19”), of supplemental interest
payments made with respect to our Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2031 (“2031 Notes”).

These
increases were partially offset by interest expense savings relative to the redemption at
maturity in June 2005 of our Euro-denominated (“€”) 152.4 million 5.20% Notes, as well as
interest expense savings under our commercial paper program compared to the prior year.
The increase in interest income is the result of increased levels of cash and short-term
investments on hand during the year as well as increases in short-term interest rates.

See
“Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our indebtedness and related
matters.

Income
Taxes:

Our 2006 consolidated effective income tax rate was 33.5%, which is lower than our
2005 rate of 34.0%. The 33.5% tax rate for 2006 was impacted by the following activity.
During the third quarter of 2006, we disposed of a U.S.-based healthcare business and
several small businesses as described above. The sale of the healthcare business resulted
in a high book tax rate primarily caused by the allocation of non-deductible goodwill in
accordance with SFAS 142. This increase in income tax expense was more than offset by a
one-time reduction of income tax expense resulting from the resolution of uncertainties
related to changes in foreign tax laws. Excluding this activity, our tax rate for 2006
would have been 33.7%. The 34.0% tax rate for 2005 was also high, as it was impacted by
the sale in the first quarter of 2005 of a majority-owned business in Australia and New
Zealand that resulted in a gain and an unusually high book tax rate on that gain.
Excluding the effect of the gain and the related tax impact, our 2005 tax rate would also
have been 33.7%.

Earnings
Per Share (EPS):

For the foregoing reasons, our net income in 2006 increased $73.3
million, or 9.3%, to $864.0 million from $790.7 million in 2005. Diluted earnings per
share increased 14.4% to $4.99 in 2006, as compared to $4.36 in the prior year for the
reasons described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average
shares outstanding for the year. This reduction in our weighted average common shares
outstanding was the result of our purchases of treasury shares net of option exercises
and share issuances under our employee stock purchase plan. A substantial portion of our
treasury share repurchases were made in connection with an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”)
program described in our Liquidity and Capital Resource discussion and in Note 11 to our
consolidated financial statements.


Financial Results from
Operations — 2005 Compared with 2004

The
following year-over-year analysis gives further details and insight into the changes in
our financial performance.

Revenue:

When comparing performance between years, we discuss non-GAAP financial measures such as
the impact that foreign currency rate changes, acquisitions/dispositions and organic
growth have on reported revenues. We derive significant revenue from international
operations and changes in foreign currency rates between the years impact our reported
results. Reported results are also impacted by our acquisition and disposition activity
and organic growth. Accordingly, we provide this information to supplement the discussion
of changes in revenue period-to-period.

Our
2005 consolidated worldwide revenue increased 7.5% to $10,481.1 million from $9,747.2
million in 2004. Foreign exchange impacts increased worldwide revenue by $53.3 million.
The effect of acquisitions, net of disposals, decreased 2005 worldwide revenue by $28.8
million. Organic growth increased worldwide revenue by $709.4 million. The components of
total 2005 revenue growth in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the world (“international”)
are summarized below (dollars in millions):

Total

Domestic

International

$

%

$

%

$

%

December 31, 2004

$   9,747.2

—

$5,223.4

—

$ 4,523.8

—

Components of revenue changes:

Foreign exchange impact

53.3

0.5

%

—

—

53.3

1.2

%

Acquisitions

(28.8

)

(0.3

)%

52.6

1.0

%

(81.4

)

(1.8

)%

Organic

709.4

7.3

%

467.9

9.0

%

241.5

5.3

%

December 31, 2005

$ 10,481.1

7.5

%

$5,743.9

10.0

%

$ 4,737.2

4.7

%

The
negative acquisition growth in international revenue is attributable to the disposition
of a CRM agency located in Australia and New Zealand in the first quarter of 2005.


The
components and percentages are calculated as follows:

•

The
foreign exchange impact component shown in the table is calculated by first converting
the current period’s         local currency revenue using the average exchange rates from
the equivalent prior period to arrive at a         constant currency revenue (in this
case $10,427.8 million for the Total column in the table). The foreign         exchange
impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S. Dollars and the
current period         revenue in constant currency (in this case $10,481.1 million less
$10,427.8 million for the Total column in the         table).

•

The
acquisition component shown in the table is calculated by aggregating the applicable
prior period revenue         of the acquired businesses. Netted against this number is
the revenue of any business included in the prior         period reported revenue that
was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.

•

The
organic component shown in the table is calculated by subtracting both the foreign
exchange and acquisition         revenue components from total revenue growth.

•

The
percentage change shown in the table of each component is calculated by dividing the
individual component         amount by the prior period revenue base of that component
(in this case $9,747.2 million for the Total column         in the table).

The
components of revenue for 2005 and revenue growth compared to 2004 in our primary
geographic markets are summarized below (dollars in millions):

Revenue

% Growth

United States

$  5,743.9

10.0

%

Euro Markets

2,156.5

4.8

%

United Kingdom

1,102.4

1.6

%

Other

1,478.3

7.1

%

Total

$10,481.1

7.5

%

As
indicated, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $53.3 million
for 2005. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening of the Canadian
Dollar and Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar, which was offset primarily by the
decline of the British Pound against the U.S. Dollar. Additional geographic information
relating to our business is contained in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Due
to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business
from clients each year. The net result in 2005, and historically each year for us as a
whole, was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to
broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest
client represented 4.0% of our worldwide revenue in 2005 and 4.3% in 2004. No other
client represented more than 2.9% in 2005 or 2004. Our ten largest and 100 largest
clients represented 18.5% and 44.6% of our 2005 worldwide revenue, respectively, and
18.3% and 45.1% of our 2004 worldwide revenue, respectively.

In
an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of
our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and
group them into the following four categories as summarized below: traditional media
advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications.

Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions)



2005 vs 2004

Revenue

% of

Revenue

Revenue

% of

Revenue

$

Growth

%

Growth

Traditional media advertising

$  4,589.0

43.8

%

$4,207.5

43.2

%

$381.5

9.1

%

CRM

3,613.0

34.5

%

3,382.6

34.7

%

230.4

6.8

%

Public relations

1,045.7

10.0

%

1,024.0

10.5

%

21.7

2.1

%

Specialty communications

1,233.4

11.7

%

1,133.1

11.6

%

100.3

8.9

%

$10,481.1

$9,747.2

$733.9

7.5

%


Operating
Expenses:

Our 2005 worldwide operating expenses increased $609.5 million, or 7.1%, to
$9,141.3 million from $8,531.8 million in 2004, as shown below.

Year Ended December 31, (Dollars in millions)



2005 vs 2004

$

% of

Revenue

% of

Total

Operating

Expenses

$

% of

Revenue

% of

Total

Operating

Expenses

$

Growth

%

Growth

Revenue

$10,481.1

$9,747.2

$733.9

7.5

%

Operating Expenses:

Salary and service costs

7,412.9

70.7

%

81.1

%

6,846.8

70.2

%

80.3

%

566.1

8.3

%

Office and general expenses

1,728.4

16.5

%

18.9

%

1,685.0

17.3

%

19.7

%

43.4

2.6

%

Total Operating Expenses

9,141.3

87.2

%

8,531.8

87.5

%

609.5

7.1

%

Operating Profit

$  1,339.8

12.8

%

$1,215.4

12.5

%

$124.4

10.2

%

Because
we provide professional services, salary and service costs represent the largest part of
our operating expenses. During 2005, we continued to invest in our businesses and their
professional personnel. As a percentage of total operating expenses, salary and service
costs were 81.1% in 2005 and 80.3% in 2004. These costs are comprised of salary and
related costs and direct service costs. Most, or $566.1 million and 92.9%, of the $609.5
million increase in total operating expenses in 2005 resulted from increases in salary
and service costs. This increase was attributable to the increase in our revenue in 2005
and the necessary increases in the direct costs required to deliver our services and
pursue new business initiatives, including direct salaries, salary related costs and
direct service costs, including freelance labor costs and direct administrative costs,
such as travel. In addition, cash-based incentive compensation, such as bonus and profit
sharing, increased in 2005 when compared to 2004. However, this increase was largely
offset by a reduction in the amortization of employee stock-based compensation. As a
result, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenues increased year-to-year from
70.2% in 2004 to 70.7% in 2005.

Office
and general expenses represented 18.9% and 19.7% of our operating expenses in 2005 and
2004, respectively. These costs are comprised of office and equipment rent, technology
costs and depreciation, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, professional fees
and other overhead expenses. As a percentage of revenue, office and general expenses
decreased in 2005 from 17.3% to 16.5% as a result of continuing efforts to better align
these costs with business levels on a location-by-location basis. These costs are less
directly linked to changes in our revenues than our salary and service costs. Although
they tend to increase as our revenues increase, the rate of increase could be more, or
less than the rate of increase in our revenues.

Included
in office and general expense for 2005 is a pre-tax net gain of $6.9 million arising from
the sale in the first quarter of a majority-owned business located in Australia and New
Zealand and the disposal of a non-strategic business located in the United States. Due to
the unusually high book tax rate caused by the non-deductibility of goodwill, the book
tax cost of the transactions was $6.1 million. After deducting minority interest expense,
the impact of these transactions increased net income in 2005 by $0.4 million.

Included
in office and general expense for 2004 was a net gain of $13.1 million related to
investment activity during the first quarter of 2004. In March 2004, in connection with
Seneca Investments LLC’s recapitalization, we agreed to exchange our remaining preferred
stock in Seneca for a $24.0 million senior secured note and 40% of Seneca’s outstanding
common stock. The note, due in March 2007, bears interest at a rate of 6.25% per
annum. The recapitalization transaction was required to be recorded at fair value and,
accordingly, we recorded a pre-tax net gain of $24.0 million. This gain was partially
offset by losses of $10.9 million on other cost-based investments unrelated to our
investment in Seneca. We received distributions from Seneca during 2005 and the first quarter of 2006 that
 reduced the outstanding balance of the note to zero.

Excluding
these net gains of $6.9 million and $13.1 million from investment activity, office and
general expenses were 16.6% of revenue in 2005, compared to 17.4% of revenue in 2004 and
operating margin increased to 12.7% of revenue in 2005 from 12.3% of revenue in 2004.

Net
Interest Expense:

Our net interest expense increased in 2005 to $59.2 million, as
compared to $36.6 million in 2004. Our gross interest expense increased by $26.9 million
to $78.0 million. This increase resulted from $24.4 million of additional interest costs
associated with the amortization, in accordance with EITF 96-19,


of supplemental interest payments we
made during 2005 and the fourth quarter of 2004 to holders of certain of our convertible
notes. In August 2005, we paid $33.5 million to holders of our 2032 Notes to not exercise
certain put rights and, in November 2004, we paid $14.8 million and $1.5 million in the
aggregate, respectively, to consenting holders of our 2031 Notes and Zero Coupon Zero
Yield Convertible Notes due 2033 (“2033 Notes”) as incentives to consent to certain
amendments to our indentures and not exercise certain put rights. Substantially all of
the year-over-year increase in these supplemental interest payments was due to market
increases in short-term interest rates. These increases were partially offset by interest
expense savings relative to the redemption at maturity in June 2005 of our €152.4 million
5.20% Notes.

Income
Taxes:

Our 2005 consolidated effective income tax rate was 34.0%. Excluding the impact
relating to an unusually high book tax rate on the 2005 net gain on the sale of certain
foreign businesses, as described above in our discussion on operating expenses, our tax
rate was 33.7% which is comparable to our 2004 year rate of 33.6%.

The
FASB issued two staff positions on accounting for income taxes to address recent changes
enacted by the United States Congress, Staff Position FAS 109-1, Application of FASB
Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, for the Tax Deduction Provided to U.S.
Based Manufacturers by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”) (“FSP No.
109-1”), and Staff Position FAS 109-2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign
Earnings Repatriation Provisions within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“FSP No.
109-2). We believe that FSP 109-1 does not apply to our business. In the fourth quarter
of 2005, we repatriated $47.9 million of foreign earnings utilizing the 85% dividend
received deduction provided by the Jobs Act and in accordance with FSP 109-2, we recorded
a $2.7 million domestic tax liability, which is included in our full year effective tax
rate of 34.0%.

Earnings
Per Share (EPS):

For the foregoing reasons, our net income in 2005 increased $67.2
million by 9.3%, to $790.7 million from $723.5 million in 2004. Diluted earnings per
share increased 12.4% to $4.36 in 2005, as compared to $3.88 in the prior year for the
reasons described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average
shares outstanding for the year. This reduction was the result of our purchases of
treasury shares net of option exercises and share issuances under our employee stock
purchase plan.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash Requirements,
Including Contractual Obligations

Historically,
substantially all of our non-discretionary cash requirements have been funded from
operating cash flow and cash on hand. Our principal non-discretionary funding requirement
is our working capital. In addition, as discussed below, we have contractual obligations
related to our debt, senior notes and convertible notes, our recurring business
operations primarily related to lease obligations, as well as certain contingent
acquisition obligations related to acquisitions made in prior years.

Our
principal discretionary cash requirements include dividend payments to our shareholders,
repurchases of our common stock, payments for strategic acquisitions and capital
expenditures. Our discretionary spending is funded from operating cash flow and cash on
hand and, in 2006, from our $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.90% Senior Notes
due April 15, 2016 (“Senior Notes”) offering. The gross proceeds from the Senior Notes
sold in March 2006 were $995.1 million. In addition, in any given year, depending on the
level of discretionary activity, we may use other sources of available funding, such as
the liquidation of short-term investments or the issuance of commercial paper to finance
these activities.

We
have a seasonal working capital cycle. Working capital requirements are lowest at
year-end. The fluctuation in working capital requirements between the lowest and highest
points during the course of the year can be more than $1.5 billion. This cycle occurs
because our businesses incur costs on behalf of our clients, including when we place
media and incur production costs. We generally require collection from our clients prior
to our payment for the media and production cost obligations. During the year, we manage
liquidity


through our credit facilities as
discussed below under “Cash Management.” At December 31, 2006, our cash and cash
equivalents increased by $903.7 million from December 31, 2005. The components of the
increase in 2006 are summarized below (dollars in millions):

The
Principal Cash Sources and Principal Discretionary Cash Uses numbers presented above are
non-GAAP financial measures. These amounts exclude changes in working capital and certain
other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and
redemptions, used to fund these working capital changes. This presentation reflects the
metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our
consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful
for understanding our primary sources and primary uses of that cash flow. Additional
information regarding our cash flows can be found in our consolidated financial
statements.

Contractual
Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments:

We enter into numerous contractual and
commercial undertakings in the normal course of our business. The following table
summarizes information about certain of our obligations as of December 31, 2006 and
should be read together with Note 3 (Bank loans and lines of credit), Note 4 (Long-term
debt and convertible notes), Note 10 (Commitments and contingent liabilities), Note 11
(Fair value of financial instruments) and Note 12 (Financial instruments and market risk)
to our consolidated financial statements.

Due in

Less than 1

Year

Due in

1 to 5

Years

Due

after 5

Years

Total

Contractual Obligations at

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in millions)

Long-term debt

$    1.1

$     17.7

$   995.5

$1,014.3

Convertible notes

—

—

2,041.5

2,041.5

Lease obligations

412.9

1,051.7

708.4

2,173.0

Other

12.9

7.4

—

20.3

Total

$426.9

$1,076.8

$3,745.4

$5,249.1

As
more fully described below under the heading “Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related
Covenants,” the holders of the convertible notes included in the table above have the
right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate face amount of the notes then
outstanding for par value at certain dates in the future. If these rights were exercised
at the earliest possible future date, as set forth in Note 4 to our consolidated
financial statements, $1,574.0 million of the $2,041.5 million of the convertible notes
could be due in less than one year.


Due in

Less than 1

Year

Due in

1 to 5

Years

Due

after 5

Years

Total

Other Commercial Commitments at

December 31, 2006

(Dollars in millions)

Lines of credit

$  —

$  —

$  —

$  —

Guarantees and letters of credit

0.4

0.9

0.1

1.4

Total

$ 0.4

$ 0.9

$ 0.1

$ 1.4

In
the normal course of business, our agencies enter into various contractual media
commitments on behalf of our clients at levels substantially exceeding our revenue. These
commitments are included in our accounts payable balance when the media services are
delivered by the providers. Historically, we have not experienced significant losses for
media commitments entered into on behalf of our clients and we believe that we do not
have substantial exposure to potential losses of this nature in the future as we monitor
closely the credit worthiness of our clients. In the event that we are committed to the
media services and our client has not paid us, we believe that the risk of material loss
is minimal because in the normal course of business we have reasonable options available
to us to substantially mitigate potential losses.

Contingent
Acquisition Obligations:

Certain of our acquisitions are structured with contingent
purchase price obligations, often referred to as earn-outs. We utilize contingent
purchase price structures in an effort to minimize the risk to us associated with
potential future negative changes in the performance of the acquired entity during the
post-acquisition transition period. These payments are not contingent upon future
employment. The amount of future contingent purchase price payments that we would be
required to pay for prior acquisitions, assuming that the businesses perform over the
relevant future periods at their current profit levels, is approximately $448 million as
of December 31, 2006. The ultimate amounts payable cannot be predicted with reasonable
certainty because they are dependent upon future results of operations of the subject
businesses and are subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In accordance
with U.S. GAAP, we have not recorded a liability for these items on our balance sheet
since the definitive amount is not determinable or distributable. Actual results can
differ from these estimates and the actual amounts that we pay are likely to be different
from these estimates. Our obligations change from period to period primarily as a result
of payments made during the current period, changes in the acquired entities’ performance
and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These differences could be significant.
The contingent purchase price obligations as of December 31, 2006, calculated assuming
that the acquired businesses perform over the relevant future periods at their current
profit levels, are as follows:

(Dollars in millions)





Thereafter

Total

$164

$108

$77

$83

$16

$448

In
addition, owners of interests in certain of our subsidiaries or affiliates have the right
in certain circumstances to require us to purchase additional ownership interests in
those companies. Assuming that the subsidiaries and affiliates perform over the relevant
periods at their current profit levels, the aggregate amount we could be required to pay
in future periods is approximately $283 million, $193 million of which relates to
obligations that are currently exercisable. If these rights are exercised, there would be
an increase in our net income as a result of our increased ownership and the reduction of
minority interest expense. The ultimate amount payable relating to these transactions
will vary because it is primarily dependent on the future results of operations of the
subject businesses, the timing of the exercise of these rights and changes in foreign
currency exchange rates. The actual amount that we pay is likely to be different from
this estimate and the difference could be significant. The obligations that exist for
these agreements as of December 31, 2006, calculated using the assumptions above, are as
follows:

(Dollars in millions)

Currently

Exercisable

Not Currently

Exercisable

Total

Subsidiary agencies

$145

$82

$227

Affiliated agencies




Total

$193

$90

$283


Sources and Uses of
Cash

Our
cash requirements have historically been funded by a combination of our operating cash
flow and cash on hand, as well as points in time when we have opportunistically accessed
the capital markets. Our capital market transactions have included issuing $1.0 billion
in ten-year fixed rate notes in 2006 and convertible notes in an aggregate principle
amount of $600.0 million, $900.0 million and $850.0 million in 2003, 2002 and 2001,
respectively. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including the
repurchase of our shares and the repayment of maturing debt. On March 31, 2006, we
entered into an agreement to purchase 5.5 million shares of our outstanding common stock
for $458.7 million. We repurchased the shares under an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”)
program with a financial institution at $83.41 per share with an initial settlement date
of April 3, 2006. The purchase was funded using a portion of the proceeds from our Senior
Notes offering. During the second quarter of 2006, the financial institution purchased
the 5.5 million shares of our common stock in the open market and we paid a settlement
amount of $45.1 million, referred to as the purchase price adjustment, based upon the
difference between the actual cost of the shares purchased by the financial institution
of $91.61 per share and the initial purchase price of $83.41 per share.

At
December 31, 2006, we had $1,739.5 million in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we
had $2.5 billion in unused committed credit facilities available for immediate use to
fund our cash needs. These credit facilities are more fully described in Note 3 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Our
operating cash flow and access to the capital markets could be impacted by macroeconomic
factors outside of our control. Additionally, access to the capital markets could be
impaired by adverse changes to the short and long-term debt credit ratings assigned to us
by independent rating agencies.

Standard
and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt A-, Moody’s Investors
Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our
short-term debt credit ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Our
outstanding Senior Notes, convertible notes and bank credit facilities do not contain
provisions that require acceleration of cash payments should our debt credit ratings be
downgraded. The interest rates and fees on our bank credit facilities, however, will
increase if our long-term debt credit rating is lowered.

As
described in Note 3, our committed bank facilities contain two financial covenants
relating to cash flow and interest coverage, which we met by a significant margin as of
December 31, 2006.

We
believe that our current financial condition provides us with the ability to readily
access the capital markets. Also, our cash balances combined with our liquidity of
short-term investments, operational cash flows and unused committed borrowing capacity
are sufficient to support our foreseeable cash requirements, arising from working
capital, outstanding debt, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and stock
repurchases.

Cash Management

We
manage our cash and liquidity centrally through treasury centers in North America and
Europe. Each day, operations with excess funds invest these funds with their regional
treasury center. Likewise, operations that require funding will borrow funds from their
regional treasury center. The treasury centers then aggregate the net position of the
operating companies. The net position is either invested with or borrowed from third
party providers. To the extent that our treasury centers require liquidity, they have the
ability to access local currency lines of credit, our $2.5 billion committed bank
facilities, or issue up to $1,500.0 million of U.S. Dollar-denominated commercial paper.
This enables us to reduce our consolidated debt levels and minimize interest expense as
well as centrally manage our exposure to foreign exchange.

Our
cash and cash equivalents increased by $903.7 million and our short-term investments
decreased by $184.8 million from the prior year. Short-term investments include
investments of our excess cash which we expect to convert into cash in our current
operating cycle, generally within one year.


We
manage our net debt position, which we define as total debt outstanding less cash and
short-term investments, centrally through our treasury centers as discussed above. Our
net debt outstanding at December 31, 2006 decreased by $26.2 million as compared to the
prior year-end, as summarized below (dollars in millions):



Debt:

Bank loans (due less than
      1 year)

$     10.5

$     15.0

Commercial paper issued
      under $2.5 billion

Revolver due
      June 23, 2011

—

—

Senior Notes due April
      15, 2016

995.5

—

Convertible notes due
      February 7, 2031

847.0

847.0

Convertible notes due
      July 31, 2032

727.0

892.3

Convertible notes due
      June 15, 2033

39.4

600.0

Convertible notes due
      July 1, 2038

428.1

—

Other debt

18.8

19.3

Total Debt

3,066.3

2,373.6

Cash and short-term investments

1,928.8

1,209.9

Net Debt

$1,137.5

$1,163.7

Net
Debt is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe this presentation is meaningful for
understanding our net debt position and it reflects one of the key metrics used by us to
assess our cash management.

Debt Instruments,
Guarantees and Related Covenants

We
maintain a credit facility with a consortium of banks providing borrowing capacity of up
to $2,500 million as described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. This
credit facility is available to provide credit support for issuances under our $1,500.0
million commercial paper program, as well as to provide back-up liquidity in the event
any of our convertible notes are put back to us. We typically fund our daily borrowing
needs by issuing commercial paper or by borrowing under our short-term uncommitted lines
of credit. Occasionally, we may draw down on our credit facility. During 2006, we issued
and redeemed $13.6 billion of commercial paper. The average term of the commercial paper
was 2.8 days. As of December 31, 2006, we had no commercial paper or bank loans
outstanding under these credit facilities. At December 31, 2006, we had short-term bank
loans of $10.5 million outstanding, which are comprised of bank overdrafts by our
international subsidiaries. These bank overdrafts are treated as unsecured loans pursuant
to the subsidiaries’ bank agreements.

Our
credit facility contains financial covenants that restrict our ability to incur
indebtedness as defined in the agreements. These financial covenants limit the ratio of
total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA (for these purposes, EBITDA
is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more
than 3.0 times. In addition, they require us to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to
interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2006, we were in compliance with
these covenants, as our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 1.8 times and our ratio of EBITDA to
interest expense was 13.4 times.

In
March 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.90% Senior Notes due
April 15, 2016. The gross proceeds from the issuance were $995.1 million. The gross
proceeds less fees resulted in a 6.05% yield to maturity. The Senior Notes were issued by
Omnicom Group Inc. and two of our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries, Omnicom Capital Inc.
and Omnicom Finance Inc., as co-obligors similar to our Convertible Notes. The Senior
Notes are senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment with all existing
and future unsecured indebtedness and as a joint and several liability of the issuer and
the co-obligors.

In
June 2005, upon maturity, we redeemed our Euro-denominated bonds for $185.1 million. The
bonds paid a fixed rate of 5.2% to maturity.

At
December 31, 2006, we had a total of $2,041.5 million aggregate principal amount of
convertible notes outstanding, including $847.0 million 2031 Notes that were issued in
February 2001, $727.0 million 2032 Notes that were issued in March 2002, $39.4 million
2033 Notes that were issued in June 2003 and $428.1 million Zero Coupon Zero Yield
Convertible Notes due 2038 (“2038 Notes”) that were originally issued in June 2003 as
2033 Notes and were subsequently amended in June 2006 to become the 2038 Notes.


The
holders of our 2031 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire
aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value in February of
each year. The holders of our 2032 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to
the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value in
August of each year. The holders of our 2033 Notes have the right to cause us to
repurchase up to the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for
par value on June 15, 2008, 2010, 2013, 2018, 2023 and on each June 15 annually
thereafter through June 15, 2032. The holders of our 2038 Notes have the right to cause
us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then
outstanding for par value on June 15, 2008, 2010, 2013, 2018, 2023 and on each June 15
annually thereafter through June 15, 2037. The 2031, 2032, 2033 and 2038 Notes are
convertible, at specified ratios, only upon the occurrence of certain events, including:
if our common shares trade above certain levels, if we effect extraordinary transactions
or, in the case of the 2031 Notes and the 2032 Notes, if our long-term debt credit
ratings are downgraded to BBB or lower by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, or Baa3
or lower by Moody’s Investors Service or in the case of the 2033 Notes and the 2038 Notes
to BBB- or lower by S&P, and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s. These events would not,
however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable upon conversion and
would not accelerate the holder’s right to cause us to repurchase the notes. For
additional information about the terms of these notes, see Note 4 to our consolidated
financial statements.

In
August 2005, we paid a supplemental interest payment of $33.5 million to qualified
noteholders of our 2032 Notes, equal to $37.50 per $1,000 principal amount of notes, that
did not put their notes back to us. The total supplemental interest payment is being
amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date ending in August 2006 in
accordance with EITF 96-19.

In
February 2006, we paid a supplemental interest payment of $39.2 million to qualified
noteholders of our 2031 Notes that did not put their notes back to us. The total
supplemental interest payment is being amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the
next put date in February 2007 in accordance with EITF 96-19.

In
June 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $27.50 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2033 Notes that did not put their notes back
to us and consented to the amendments to the notes and related indenture as of June 27,
2006. The principal amendment extended the maturity of the notes from June 15, 2033 to
July 1, 2038. The additional amendments conformed other terms of the notes for the
extension of the maturity date, as well as amending the comparable yield. On June 21,
2006, we repurchased $132.5 million of 2033 Notes that were put to us. With respect to
the remaining $467.5 million of 2033 Notes as of June 30, 2006, noteholders holding a
combined amount of $428.1 million consented to the amendments, were paid $27.50 per
$1,000 note and their notes were amended. The total supplemental interest payment of
$11.7 million is being amortized ratably over a 24-month period to the next put date in
accordance with EITF 96-19. The remaining noteholders of the 2033 Notes, comprising $39.4
million aggregate principal amount of notes, did not consent to the amendments. As a
result, these notes are still outstanding and were not amended and these noteholders were
not paid the supplemental interest payment. The next put date for these notes is June 15,
2008.

In
July 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $32.50 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2032 Notes as of August 1, 2006 that did not
put their notes back to us. On August 4, 2006, we repurchased $165.2 million of our 2032
Notes that were put to us. With respect to the remaining $727.0 million of notes,
noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $23.6 million on August 2, 2006 which is being amortized
ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in accordance with EITF 96-19.

In
February 2007, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to qualified noteholders of
our 2031 Notes. Additionally, none of the 2031 Notes were put back to us for repayment.


Our
outstanding debt and amounts available under these facilities as of December 31, 2006
(dollars in millions) were as follows:

Debt

Outstanding

Available

Credit

Bank loans (due in less than 1 year)

$     10.5

—

Commercial paper issued under

$2.5 billion Revolver due June 23,

—

$2,500.0

Senior Notes due April 15, 2016

995.5

—

Convertible notes due February 7, 2031

847.0

—

Convertible notes due July 31, 2032

727.0

—

Convertible notes due June 15, 2033

39.4

—

Convertible notes due July 1, 2038

428.1

—

Other debt

18.8

—

Total

$3,066.3

$2,500.0

Additional
information about our indebtedness is included in Notes 3 and 4 to our consolidated
financial statements.

Item 7A. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Foreign
Exchange:

Our results of operations are subject to risk from the translation to the U.S.
Dollar of the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations, which are generally
denominated in the local currency. The effects of currency exchange rate fluctuation on
the translation of our results of operations are discussed in Note 12 of our consolidated
financial statements. For the most part, our revenue and the expenses incurred related to
that revenue are denominated in the same currency. This minimizes the impact that
fluctuations in exchange rates will have on our net income.

While
our agencies conduct business in more than 70 different currencies, our major non-U.S.
currency markets are the European Monetary Union (EMU), the United Kingdom, Japan, Brazil
and Canada. As an integral part of our treasury operations, we enter into short-term
forward foreign exchange contracts which manage the foreign exchange risk of the
intercompany cash movements between subsidiaries operating in different currency markets
from that of our treasury centers from which they borrow or invest. In the limited number
of instances where operating expenses and revenue are not denominated in the same
currency, amounts are promptly settled or hedged in the foreign currency market with
forward contracts. At December 31, 2006, we had forward foreign exchange contracts
outstanding with an aggregate notional principal of $47.9 million mitigating the foreign
exchange risk of intercompany cash movement. The majority of the contracts were
denominated in our major international market currencies with maturities ranging from two
to 365 days with an average duration of just over 100 days.

In
addition to hedging intercompany cash movement, we enter into short-term forward foreign
exchange contracts which hedge U.S. Dollar commercial paper issued by our London treasury
center, whose functional currency is the British Pound. At December 31, 2006, we had no
forward contracts outstanding relating to this activity as there was no commercial paper
outstanding.

Additionally,
at December 31, 2006 we had cross-currency interest rate swaps in place with an aggregate
notional principal amount of €230.0 million (Euro) maturing in 2010 and Japanese
Yen-based cross-currency interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional principal amount
of Japanese Yen 22.0 billion maturing in 2013. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial
statements for information about the fair value of each type of derivative instrument.

The
forward foreign exchange and swap contracts discussed above were entered into for the
purpose of hedging certain specific currency risks. These risks are primarily the result
of the temporary movement of money from one local market to another as part of our cash
management program. As a result of these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk
in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) which might have occurred if the markets
moved favorably. In using these contracts, we exchanged the risks of the financial
markets for counterparty risk. To minimize counterparty risk, we only enter into these
contracts with major well-known banks and financial institutions that have debt credit
ratings equal to or better than our credit rating.


These
hedging activities are confined to risk management activities related to our
international operations. We have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate
the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant
market risks. We periodically determine the potential loss from market risk by performing
a value-at-risk computation. Value-at-risk analysis is a statistical model that utilizes
historic currency exchange and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on
future earnings of our existing portfolio of derivative financial instruments. The
value-at-risk analysis we performed on our December 31, 2006 portfolio of derivative
financial instruments indicated that the risk of loss was immaterial. This overall system
is designed to enable us to initiate remedial action, if appropriate.

Debt
Instruments:

In March 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our
Senior Notes due April 15, 2016. The gross proceeds from the issuance were $995.1
million. The gross proceeds less fees resulted in a 6.05% yield to maturity. The Senior
Notes were issued by Omnicom Group Inc. and two of our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries,
Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance Inc., as co-obligors, similar to our Convertible
Notes. The Senior Notes are senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment
with all existing and future unsecured indebtedness and as a joint and several liability
of the issuer and the co-obligors.

In
June 2006, we amended and extended our five-year credit facility to June 23, 2011 and
increased the amount available from $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion with substantially the
same bank consortium. In conjunction with this amendment and extension, we terminated our
$400.0 million 364-day revolving credit facility that was due to expire. Subsequently, in
September 2006, the facility was increased from $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion. We have the
ability to classify outstanding borrowings, if any, under our five-year credit facility
as long-term debt.

In
funding our day-to-day liquidity, we are an active participant in the commercial paper
market with a $1.5 billion program. As of December 31, 2006, we had no commercial paper
outstanding. Our credit facility provides credit support for commercial paper, as well as
providing back-up liquidity in the event any of our convertible notes are put back to us.

Our
bank syndicate includes large global banks such as Citibank, JP Morgan Chase, HSBC, ABN
Amro, Deutsche, Bank of America, Societe Generale and BBVA. We also include large
regional banks in the U.S. such as Wachovia, US Bancorp, Northern Trust, PNC and Wells
Fargo. We also include banks that have a major presence in countries where we conduct
business such as Sumitomo in Japan, Fortis in Belgium, Intesa San Paolo in Italy, Scotia
in Canada and Westpac in Australia.

Our
other long-term debt consists principally of convertible notes. As previously discussed,
the holders of these convertible notes have the right on specific dates to cause us to
repurchase up to the aggregate principal amount. We may offer the holders of our
convertible notes a supplemental interest payment or other incentives to induce them not
to put the convertible notes to us in advance of a put date. If we were to decide to pay
a supplemental interest payment, the amount incurred would be based on a combination of
market factors at the time of the applicable put date, including our stock price,
short-term interest rates and a factor for credit risk.

If
the convertible notes are put back to us, our interest expense could increase. The
extent, if any, of the increase in interest expense will depend on the portion of the
amount repurchased that was refinanced, when we refinance, the type of instrument we use
to refinance and the term of the instrument.

The
supplemental interest payments made in 2005 and 2006 to qualified noteholders, as
described above under “Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants,” are one
method of keeping the convertible notes outstanding. If we are required to satisfy a put,
based on our current financial condition and expectations, we expect to have sufficient
available cash and unused credit commitments to fund any put, while still preserving
ample capacity under these commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal
course of our business operations after the put event.

Our
credit commitments allow either the issuance of commercial paper or bank loans, and we
would likely fund the put initially using some combination of these instruments. We would
then evaluate all funding alternatives available to us to replenish our credit capacity
and liquidity. We believe the funding alternatives would include substantially all forms
of debt, equity and convertible instruments available to us by accessing the public or
private capital markets. Our evaluation would likely include the expected cash flows from
the normal course of our business operations and the credit capacity to fund additional
potential puts on the remaining outstanding convertible notes.


Currently,
we meet all of our debt covenant requirements. Our credit facilities contain financial
covenants limiting the ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated
EBITDA (for purposes of these covenants EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more than 3.0 times. At December 31, 2006,
our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 1.8 times. In addition, we are required to maintain a
minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2006,
our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was 13.4 times. We were in compliance with these
covenants. In addition, the credit facilities do not limit our ability to declare or pay
dividends.

Even
if we were to replace the convertible notes with another form of debt on a
dollar-for-dollar basis, it would have no impact on either our debt to capital ratios or
our debt to EBITDA ratio. If we were to replace our convertible notes with
interest-bearing debt at prevailing rates, this potential increase in interest expense
would negatively impact our coverage ratios, such as EBITDA to interest expense. However,
the coverage ratios applicable to our credit facilities and ratings levels are currently
well within the thresholds. If either our ratio of debt to EBITDA increased by 50%, or
our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense decreased by 50%, we would still be in compliance
with these covenants. Therefore, based on our current coverage ratios, our present
expectations of our future operating cash flows and expected access to debt and equity
capital markets, we believe any increase in interest expense and reduction in coverage
ratios would still place us comfortably above the coverage ratio requirements. Thus, we
do not expect any negative impact on our credit ratings if the convertible notes are put
to us.

Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

Our
financial statements and supplementary data are included at the end of this report
beginning on page F-1. See the index appearing on the following pages of this report.

Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Disclosure
Controls and Procedures

We
maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required
to be disclosed in our SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
applicable time periods. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation,
controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
us in our reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is accumulated and
communicated to management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2006. Based on that
evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that as of December 31, 2006, our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective to ensure that decisions can be made timely with
respect to required disclosures, as well as ensuring that the recording, processing,
summarization and reporting of information required to be included in our Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 is appropriate.

Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the
supervision of management and with the participation of our CEO, CFO and our agencies, we
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published in 1987. Based
on that evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006. KPMG LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm that audited our consolidated financial statements included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has issued an attestation report on management’s
assessment of Omnicom’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2006, dated February 26, 2007. There have not been any changes in our internal control
over financial reporting that occurred during our most recent fiscal quarter that have
materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our internal controls
over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other
Information

None.


PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits and
Financial Statement Schedules

(a)(1) Financial Statements:

Page

Management
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

F-1

Report of Independent
      Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-2

Report of Independent
      Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-3

Consolidated Statements
      of Income for the Three Years

Ended
      December 31, 2006

F-4

Consolidated Balance
      Sheets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005

F-5

Consolidated Statements
      of Shareholders’ Equity for the

Three
      Years Ended December 31, 2006

F-6

Consolidated Statements
      of Cash Flows for the Three Years

Ended
      December 31, 2006

F-7

Notes to Consolidated
      Financial Statements

F-8

Quarterly Results
      of Operations (Unaudited)

F-37

(a)(2) Financial Statement Schedules:

Schedule II —
      Valuation and Qualifying Accounts (for the

three
      years ended December 31, 2006)

S-1

All
other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.

(a)(3)  Exhibits:

Exhibit

Numbers

Description

(3)(i)

Restated Certificate
      of Incorporation (Exhibit 3.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
      quarter ended June 30, 2003 (the “6-30-03 10-Q”) and incorporated
      herein by reference).

(ii)

By-laws (Exhibit 3.2 to our 6-30-03 10-Q) and incorporated herein by reference
(File No. 1-10551).

4.1

Indenture,
dated February 7, 2001, between JPMorgan Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, and us in
                        connection with our issuance of $850,000,000 Liquid Yield Option
Notes due 2031 (the “2031                         Indenture”) (Exhibit 4.1 to our
Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-55386) and
                        incorporated herein by reference).

4.2

Form
of Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2031 (included in Exhibit 4.1 above).

4.3

First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2004, among us,
                        Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
Bank (Exhibit 4.3 to our Registration                         Statement on Form S-3
(Registration No. 333-112840) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.4

Second
Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture, dated November 4, 2004, among us, Omnicom
                        Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
trustee, to the 2031 Indenture, as                         amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture, dated February 13, 2004 (Exhibit
                        4.2 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
September 30, 2004 (the “9-30-04                         10-Q”) and incorporated herein
by reference).

4.5

Third
Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture, dated November 30, 2004, among us, Omnicom
                        Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc., and JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.S., as trustee, to the 2031                         Indenture, as amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture dated February 13,
                        2004, and the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2031
Supplemental Indenture dated November 4,                         2004 (Exhibit 4.1 to the
Form 8-K (File No. 1-10551) dated November 30, 2004 and incorporated
                        herein by reference).

4.6

Indenture,
dated March 6, 2002, between JPMorgan Chase Bank as trustee and us in connection with
                        our issuance of $900,000,000 Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible
notes due 2032 (the “2032                         Indenture”) (Exhibit 4.6 to our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001 and
                        incorporated herein by reference).


4.7

Form
of Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2032 (included in Exhibit 4.6 above).

4.8

First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2004, among us,
                        Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
Bank (Exhibit 4.3 to our Registration                         Statement on Form S-3
(Registration No. 333-112841) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.9

Second
Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated August 12, 2004, among us, Omnicom
                        Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc., and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
trustee, to the 2032 Indenture, as                         amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated February 13, 2004 (Exhibit
                        4.1 to our 9-30-04 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference).

4.10

Third
Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated November 4, 2004, among us, Omnicom
                        Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
trustee, to the 2032 Indenture, as                         amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2004,
                        and the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture,
dated August 12, 2004 (Exhibit 4.3 to                         our 9-30-04 10-Q and
incorporated herein by reference).

4.11

Indenture,
dated as of June 30, 2003, between JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, and us in connection
                        with our issuance of $600,000,000 Zero Coupon Zero Yield
Convertible Notes due 2033 (the “2033                         Indenture”) (Exhibit 4.1 to
our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-108611)
                        and incorporated herein by reference).

4.12

Form
of the Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2033 (included in Exhibit 4.11 above).

4.13

First
Supplemental Indenture, to the 2033 Indenture, dated as of November 5, 2003, among us,
                        Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, as trustee, (Exhibit 4.4 to our                         Registration Statement on
Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-108611) and incorporated herein by
                        reference).

4.14

Second
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated as of November 4, 2004, among us,
                        Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase
Bank, as trustee, as amended by the                         First Supplemental Indenture
to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 5, 2003 (Exhibit 4.4 to our
                        9-30-04 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference).

4.15

Third
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 10, 2004, among us, Omnicom
                        Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as
trustee, to the 2033 Indenture, as                         amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 5, 2003, and the
                        Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture dated
November 4, 2004 (Exhibit 4.1 to the Form                         8-K (File No. 1-10551)
dated November 10, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).

4.16

Fourth
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated June 30, 2006, among us, Omnicom
Capital                         Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
as trustee, to the 2033 Indenture, as                         amended by the First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 5, 2003, the
                        Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated
November 4, 2004, and the Third                         Supplemental Indenture to the
2033 Indenture, dated November 10, 2004 (Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K
                        (File No. 1-10551) dated July 7, 2006 and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.17

Form
of Senior Debt Securities Indenture (Exhibit 4.1 to our Registration Statement on Form
S-3                         (Registration No. 333-132625) and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.18

First
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 29, 2006, among us, Omnicom Capital Inc.,
Omnicom                         Finance Inc., and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee,
in connection with our issuance of $1.0                         billion 5.90% Notes due
2016 (Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K (File No. 1-10551) dated March 29, 2006
                        (the “3-29-06 8-K”) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.19

Form
of 5.90% Notes due 2016 (Exhibit 4.3 to the 3-29-06 8-K and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.1

Amended
and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement (the “Agreement”), dated as of June 23, 2006, by
                        and among us, Omnicom Finance Inc., Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom
Finance PLC, the banks, financial                         institutions and other
institutional lenders and initial issuing banks


listed on
the signature                         pages of the Agreement, Citigroup Global Markets
Inc. and J.P. Morgan Securities Inc., as lead                         arrangers and book
managers, ABN Amro Bank N.V., as syndication agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A.,
                        HSBC Bank USA, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Banco Bilbao
Vizcaya Argentaria SA, as documentation                         agents and Citibank,
N.A., as administrative agent for the lenders (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K
                        dated June 29, 2006 (File No. 1-10551) and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.2

Instrument
of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated as of October 5, 2006, among us,
                        Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank,
N.A. and Deutsche Bank Trust                         Company Americas (Exhibit 10.1 to
the Form 8-K dated October 11, 2006 (File No. 1-10551) and
                        incorporated herein by reference).

10.3

Amended
and Restated 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan (Exhibit B to our Proxy Statement filed on
                        April 10, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.4

Director
Equity Plan for Non-employee Directors (Appendix B to our Proxy Statement filed on April
                        23, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.5

Standard
form of our Executive Salary Continuation Plan Agreement (Exhibit 10.24 to our Annual
                        Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 and
incorporated herein by reference).

10.6

Standard
form of the Director Indemnification Agreement (Exhibit 10.25 to our Annual Report on
Form                         10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989 and incorporated
herein by reference).

10.7

Long-Term
Shareholder Value Plan (Exhibit 4.4 to our Registration Statement on Form S-8
                        (Registration No. 333-84498) and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.8

Equity
Incentive Plan (Exhibit 4.3 to our Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated August 18,
2003                         (File No. 333-108063) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.9

Employment
Agreement, dated as of April 22, 2005, among us, TBWA Worldwide Inc. and Jean-Marie Dru
                        (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated April 28, 2005 (File No.
1-10551) and incorporated herein by                         reference).

10.10

Senior
Management Incentive Plan (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 26, 2005 (File No.
                        1-10551) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.11

Senior
Executive Restrictive Covenant and Retention Plan of Omnicom Group Inc., dated December
7,                         2006 (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated December 13, 2006
(File No. 1-10551) and incorporated                         herein by reference).

10.12

Form
of Award Agreement under the Senior Executive Restrictive Covenant and Retention Plan
(Exhibit                         10.2 to the Form 8-K dated December 13, 2006 (File No.
1-10551) and incorporated herein by                         reference).

12.1

Ratio
of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

21.1

Subsidiaries
of the Registrant.

23.1

Consent
of KPMG LLP.

31.1

Certification
of Chief Executive Officer and President required by Rule 13a-14(a) under the
                        Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

31.2

Certification
of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a)
                        under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

32.1

Certification
of the Chief Executive Officer and President and the Executive Vice President and
                        Chief Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(b) under the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as                         amended, and 18 U.S.C §1350.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
  to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
  1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf
  by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

O

MNICOM

G

ROUP

I

NC

.

February 26, 2007

B

Y

:

R

ANDALL

J. W

EISENBURGER

Randall
        J. Weisenburger

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/
        B

RUCE

C

RAWFORD

(Bruce
        Crawford)

Chairman
        and Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        J

OHN

D. W

REN

(John
        D. Wren)

Chief
        Executive Officer

and President and Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        R

ANDALL

J. W

EISENBURGER

(Randall
        J. Weisenburger)

Executive
        Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        P

HILIP

J. A

NGELASTRO

(Philip
        J. Angelastro)

Senior
        Vice President Finance

and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        R

OBERT

C

HARLES

C

LARK

(Robert
        Charles Clark)

Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        L

EONARD

S. C

OLEMAN

, J

R

.

(Leonard
        S. Coleman, Jr.)

Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        E

RROL

M. C

OOK

(Errol
        M. Cook)

Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        S

USAN

S. D

ENISON

(Susan
        S. Denison)

Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        M

ICHAEL

A. H

ENNING

(Michael
        A. Henning)

Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        J

OHN

R. M

URPHY

(John
        R. Murphy)

Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        J

OHN

R. P

URCELL

(John
        R. Purcell)

Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        L

INDA

J

OHNSON

R

ICE

(Linda
        Johnson Rice)

Director

February
        26, 2007

/s/
        G

ARY

L. R

OUBOS

(Gary
        L. Roubos)

Director

February
        26, 2007


MANAGEMENT REPORT ON
INTERNAL CONTROL                                                   OVER FINANCIAL
REPORTING

Management
is responsible for the preparation of Omnicom’s consolidated financial statements and
related information. Management uses its best judgment to ensure that the consolidated
financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, Omnicom’s consolidated
financial position and results of operations in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.

The
financial statements have been audited by an independent registered public accounting
firm in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board.
Their report expresses the independent accountant’s judgment as to the fairness of
management’s reported operating results, cash flows and financial position. This judgment
is based on the procedures described in the second paragraph of their report.

Omnicom
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the
supervision of management and with the participation of our CEO, CFO and our agencies, we
conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial
reporting based on the framework in

Internal Control — Integrated Framework

issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published in 1987. Based
on that evaluation, our management concluded that our internal control over financial
reporting was effective as of December 31, 2006. KPMG LLP, an independent registered
public accounting firm that audited our consolidated financial statements included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has issued attestation reports on management’s
assessment of Omnicom’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006
and 2005, dated February 26, 2007 and February 24, 2006, respectively.

There
have not been any changes in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred
during our fourth fiscal quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely
to affect our internal control over financial reporting.

The
Board of Directors of Omnicom has an Audit Committee comprised of four non-management
directors. The Committee meets periodically with financial management, Internal Audit and
the independent auditors to review accounting, control, audit and financial reporting
matters.

F-1

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of

Omnicom Group Inc.:

We
have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Omnicom Group Inc. and
subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated statements of
income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2006. In connection with our audits of the consolidated
financial statements, we also have audited financial statement schedule II. These
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility
of the Company’s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our audits.

We
conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing
the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits
provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In
our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Omnicom Group Inc. and subsidiaries as
of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the results of their operations and their cash flows
for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2006, in conformity
with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related
financial statement schedule on page S-1, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the effectiveness of Omnicom Group Inc.’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria established
in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report dated February 26, 2007
expressed an unqualified opinion on management’s assessment of, and the effective
operation of, internal control over financial reporting.

As
discussed in Note 9 to the consolidated financial statements, Omnicom Group Inc. and
subsidiaries adopted SFAS No. 158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and
Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” on
December 31, 2006.

/s/ KPMG LLP

New York, New York

February 26, 2007

F-2

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of

Omnicom Group Inc.:

We
have audited management’s assessment, included in the accompanying management report on
internal control over financial reporting, that Omnicom Group Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Omnicom Group Inc.’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on management’s assessment and an
opinion on the effectiveness of the Company’s internal control over financial reporting
based on our audit.

We
conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over
financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining
an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, evaluating management’s
assessment, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal
control, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the
circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A
company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide
reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation
of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company’s internal control over financial reporting includes
those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in
reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the
assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as
necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are
being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the
company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of
unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a
material effect on the financial statements.

Because
of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future
periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in
conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may
deteriorate.

In
our opinion, management’s assessment that Omnicom Group Inc. maintained effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, is fairly stated, in
all material respects, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission
(COSO). Also, in our opinion, Omnicom Group Inc. maintained, in all material respects,
effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2006, based on
criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).

We
also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting
Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Omnicom Group Inc.
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2006 and 2005, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders’ equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 2006, and the related financial statement schedule on page S-1 and our report dated February 26, 2007
expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and the related financial statement schedule.

/s/ KPMG LLP

New York, New York

February 26, 2007

F-3

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF INCOME

The accompanying notes
to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

F-4

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE
SHEETS

The accompanying notes
to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

F-5

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Three Years Ended December 31, 2006

(Dollars
in millions)

The accompanying notes
to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

F-6

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED
STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

The accompanying notes
to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

F-7

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies

Basis
and Presentation.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of Omnicom Group Inc. and its domestic and international subsidiaries and are prepared in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”). Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

Revenue
Recognition.

Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services or a rate
per hour, or equivalent basis, and revenue is realized when the service is performed in
accordance with terms of each client arrangement, upon completion of the earnings process
and when collection is reasonably assured. We record revenue net of taxes, including
sales tax, use tax, value added tax and/or excise tax. Certain of our businesses earn a
portion of their revenue as commissions based upon performance in accordance with client
arrangements.

These
principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client
arrangements in each of our service disciplines — traditional media advertising, customer
relationship management, public relations and specialty communications. Because the
services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to
clients in similar ways, all of the key elements set forth above apply to client
arrangements in each of our four disciplines.

A
small portion of our contractual arrangements with clients includes performance incentive
provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to both
quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize this portion of revenue when specific
quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative goals is
determined by our clients.

Our
revenue recognition policies are in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
(“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements (“SAB 101”) as updated by SAB 104, Revenue Recognition (“SAB 104”). SAB 101
and SAB 104 summarize certain views of the SEC staff in applying generally accepted
accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. In July 2000, the
Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
released Issue 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent (“EITF
99-19”). This Issue summarized the EITF’s views on when revenue should be recorded at the
gross amount billed because revenue has been earned from the sale of goods or services,
or the net amount retained because revenue has been earned from a fee or commission.
Additionally, in January 2002, the EITF released Issue 01-14, Income Statement
Characterization of Reimbursements Received for “Out-of-Pocket” Expenses Incurred (“EITF
01-14”). EITF 01-14 summarized the EITF’s views on when out-of-pocket expenses should be
characterized as revenue. Our revenue recognition policies are in compliance with SAB
101, SAB 104, EITF 99-19 and EITF 01-14. In the majority of our businesses, we act as an
agent and record revenue equal to the net amount retained, when the fee or commission is
earned.

Billable
Production.

Billable production orders in process consist principally of costs incurred
on behalf of clients when providing advertising, marketing and corporate communications
services to clients. Such amounts are invoiced to clients at various times over the
course of the production process.

Cash
Equivalents.

Our cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in overnight
interest-bearing deposits, commercial paper and money market instruments and other
short-term investments with original maturity dates of three months or less at the time
of purchase.

Investments
Available for Sale.

Short-term investments and time deposits with financial institutions
consist principally of investments made with our excess cash which we expect to convert
into cash in our current operating cycle, generally within one year. Our short-term
investments principally consist of auction rate securities with auction reset periods of
less than 12 months. These investments are classified as available-for-sale securities
and are stated at market value. At each reset period, we account for the transaction in
our consolidated statement of cash flows as “Proceeds from sales of short-term investments” for
the securities

F-8

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

relinquished, and as a “Purchase of
short-term investments” for the securities purchased. There are no realized gains or
losses, or unrealized gains or losses from these short-term investments because market
approximates cost. Therefore, they are classified as current assets.

Cost-Based
Investments.

Cost-based long-term investments are primarily comprised of equity interests
in marketing and corporate communications services companies where we do not exercise
significant influence over the operating and financial policies of the investee. These
minority interests are accounted for under the cost method and are included in other
assets in our balance sheet. These investments are periodically evaluated to determine if
there has been other than temporary declines below carrying value. A variety of factors
are considered when determining if a decline in fair value below carrying value is other
than temporary, including, among others, the financial condition and prospects of the
investee, as well as our investment intent.

Equity
Method Investments.

The equity method is used to account for investments in entities in
which we have an ownership of less than 50% and have significant influence over the
operating and financial policies of the affiliate. The excess of the cost of our
ownership interest in the stock of those affiliates over our share of the fair value of
their net assets at the acquisition date is recognized as goodwill and included in the
carrying amount of our investment. Subsequent to the adoption of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”),
equity method goodwill is not amortized. We periodically evaluate these investments to
determine if there has been other than temporary declines below carrying value. A variety
of factors are considered when determining if a decline in fair value below carrying
value is other than temporary, including, among others, the financial condition and
prospects of the investee, as well as our investment intent.

Treasury
Stock.

We account for treasury share purchases at cost. The reissuance of treasury
shares, primarily in connection with employee stock-based compensation plans, is
accounted for at average cost. Gains or losses on the reissuance of treasury shares are
accounted for as additional paid-in capital and do not affect our reported results of
operations.

Foreign
Currency Translation.

Our financial statements were prepared in accordance with SFAS No.
52, Foreign Currency Translation (“SFAS 52”). All of our foreign subsidiaries use their
local currency as their functional currency in accordance with SFAS 52. Accordingly, the
currency impacts of the translation of the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries to
U.S. Dollar statements are included as translation adjustments in other accumulated
comprehensive income. The income statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated at
average exchange rates for the year. Net foreign currency transaction gains included in
pre-tax income were $2.1 million in 2006, $0.1 million in 2005, and $2.6 million in 2004.

Earnings
Per Common Share.

Basic earnings per share is based upon the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during each year. Diluted earnings per share is based on the
above, plus, if dilutive, common share equivalents which include outstanding options and
restricted shares. For purposes of computing diluted earnings per share for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively, 1.7 million shares, 1.4 million
shares, and 0.9 million shares were assumed to have been outstanding related to common
share equivalents. For the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively,
2.4 million shares, 4.6 million shares, and 10.3 million shares attributable to
outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per
share because the exercise price of the stock options were greater than or equal to the
average price of our common stock and therefore their inclusion would have been
anti-dilutive. The number of shares used in the computations were as follows (shares in
millions):




Basic EPS computation

171.4

180.4

185.7

Diluted EPS computation

173.1

181.8

186.6

We
adopted EITF No. 04-8, The Effect of Contingently Convertible Instruments on Diluted
Earnings per Share on  December 31, 2004. The adoption did not impact our historical
results or our December 31, 2004 quarter-to-date and  full-year diluted earnings per
share because we amended the indentures of our Convertible Notes due 2031, 2032 and 2033
 prior to December 31, 2004. The amendments require us, upon conversion, to settle the
principal amount of the Convertible  Notes in cash and any accretion in cash or shares of
our common

F-9

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

stock at our option. For additional
information, see Note 4 to these consolidated financial statements. The  amendments made
the notes compliant with EITF 90-19, Convertible Bonds with Issuer Options to Settle for
Cash Upon  Conversion, “Instrument C” treatment. Compliance with “Instrument C” treatment
did not result in additional dilution to  our Diluted EPS because our weighted average
share price was less than the conversion price of the Convertible Notes for  all of the
periods set forth above. In accordance with the transition provisions of EITF 04-8, it is
assumed that  “Instrument C” treatment occurred at the beginning of the first period
presented.

Gains
and Losses on Issuance of Stock by Affiliates and Subsidiaries.

Gains and losses on the
issuance of stock by equity method affiliates and consolidated subsidiaries are
recognized directly in our shareholders’ equity through an increase or decrease to
additional paid-in capital in the period in which the sale occurs and do not affect
reported results of operations.

Salary
Continuation Agreements.

Arrangements with certain present and former employees provide
for continuing payments for periods up to 10 years after cessation of their full-time
employment in consideration for agreements by the employee not to compete with us and to
render consulting services during the postemployment period. Such payments, the amounts
of which are also subject to certain limitations, including our operating performance
during the postemployment period, represent the fair value of the services rendered and
are expensed in such periods.

Depreciation
of Furniture and Equipment and Amortization of Leasehold Improvements.

Depreciation is
computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of furniture of seven
to ten years and equipment of three to five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized
on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the terms of the related lease or the
estimated useful life of the assets.

Goodwill
and Other Intangibles Assets.

In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill acquired resulting
from a business combination is not amortized, but is periodically tested for impairment.
Additionally, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations (“SFAS 141”), we
allocate the cost of an acquired entity to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their estimated fair values including other identifiable intangible assets, as
applicable, primarily customer relationships and trade names. See Note 2 for information
about our acquisitions.

Under
SFAS 142, we no longer amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives and
we are required to perform an annual impairment test on goodwill balances and intangible
assets with indefinite lives. In performing the impairment test for goodwill, SFAS 142
requires that we identify the components of our operating segments that are reporting
units and their respective carrying value, estimate the fair value of the reporting units
and compare the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting units to determine if
there is a potential impairment. We use several market participant measurements to
determine fair value. This approach utilizes a discounted cash flow methodology,
consideration of similar and recent transactions and when available and as appropriate,
we use comparative market participant measures to supplement our analysis. If there is a
potential impairment, SFAS 142 requires that additional analysis be performed to
determine the amount of the impairment, if any, to be recorded.

We
perform our impairment test during the second quarter of each year. In determining the
fair value of our operating segments, we perform a discounted cash flow analysis assuming
they could be sold in a nontaxable transaction between willing parties. When comparing
the fair value of our operating segments to their carrying value, we include deferred
taxes in the carrying value of each of our reporting units. We have concluded, for each
year presented in the financial statements, that the fair value of the reporting units
exceeded their carrying value and we have concluded that goodwill was not impaired. We
plan to continue to perform our impairment test during the second quarter of each year
unless certain events, as defined in SFAS 142, trigger the need for an earlier evaluation
for impairment.

In
accordance with paragraph 30 of SFAS 142, we identified our regional reporting units as
components of our operating segments, which are our five agency networks. The regional
reporting units of each agency network are responsible for the agencies in their region.
They report to the segment managers and facilitate the

F-10

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

administrative and logistical
requirements of our client-centric strategy for delivering services to clients in their
regions. We then concluded that for each of our operating segments, their regional
reporting units had similar economic characteristics and should be aggregated for
purposes of testing goodwill for impairment at the operating segment level. Our
conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the aggregation criteria set forth in
paragraph 17 of SFAS No.131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information (“SFAS 131”), and the guidance set forth in EITF D-101: Clarification of
Reporting Unit Guidance in Paragraph 30 of FASB Statement No. 142. Consistent with the
fundamentals of our business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units
serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In
addition, the agencies within our regional reporting units have similar economic
characteristics, as the main economic components of each agency are the salary and
service costs associated with providing professional services, the office and general
costs associated with office space and occupancy, and the provision of technology
requirements which are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf
software. Finally, the expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across
multiple agencies and regions as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into
our client service strategy.

Income
Taxes.

We file a consolidated U.S. income tax return and tax returns in various state and
local jurisdictions. Our subsidiaries also file tax returns in various foreign
jurisdictions. The principal foreign jurisdictions include the United Kingdom, France and
Germany. We have not provided U.S. deferred income taxes on cumulative earnings of
non-U.S. affiliates that have been reinvested indefinitely. A provision has been made for
income and withholding taxes on the earnings of international subsidiaries and affiliates
that will be distributed. Interest and penalties related to tax positions taken in our
tax returns are recorded in income tax expense in our consolidated statement of income.

We
account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, as
amended (“SFAS 109”). Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary difference
between the financial reporting basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities.
Deferred income taxes are measured using the enacted tax rates that are assumed to be in
effect when the differences reverse. Deferred tax assets result principally from
recording certain expenses in the financial statements which are not currently deductible
for tax purposes, including employee stock-based compensation expense and from
differences between the tax and book basis of assets and liabilities recorded in
connection with acquisitions, as well as tax loss and credit carryforwards. Deferred tax
liabilities result principally from expenses arising from financial instruments which are
currently deductible for tax purposes but have not been expensed in the financial
statements and basis differences arising from tangible and deductible intangible assets,
as well as investments and capital transactions.

We
maintain valuation allowances where it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a
deferred tax asset will not be realized. Changes in valuation allowances are included in
our tax provision in the period of change. In determining whether a valuation allowance
is warranted, we evaluate factors such as prior earnings history, expected future
earnings, carry-back and carry-forward periods and tax strategies that could potentially
enhance the likelihood of the realization of a deferred tax asset.

Employee
Stock Options.

Stock options are accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 123,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”), as amended by SFAS No. 148,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB
Statement No. 123 (“SFAS 148”). We elected, effective January 1, 2004, to account for
stock-based employee compensation using the fair value method. In determining the fair
value of certain stock based compensation awards, we use certain estimates and
assumptions such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility and dividend
yield. As a result of our adoption of SFAS 123 as amended by SFAS 148, the fair value of
stock-based employee compensation was recorded as an expense in the current and prior
years. Accordingly, our results for years prior to 2004 have been restated as if we had
used the fair value method to account for stock-based employee compensation in the prior
years. Pre-tax stock-based employee compensation expense for the years ended December 31,
2006, 2005 and 2004, was $71.1 million, $87.0 million, and $117.2 million, respectively.
Information about our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 7.

On
January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”)
which requires, among other things, that we record stock-based compensation expense net
of an estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. For all unvested awards
outstanding at January 1, 2006, we recorded an

F-11

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

adjustment to reflect the cumulative
effect of this change in accounting principle. The adjustment in the first quarter of
2006 resulted in an increase in our operating profit and net income of $3.6 million and
$2.0 million, respectively. Because this adjustment did not have a material effect on our
results of operations and financial condition, we did not present this adjustment on an
after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of accounting change in our income statement.

SFAS
123R also requires that new awards issued to individuals that are, or will become,
retirement eligible during the vesting period of the award to be expensed over the lesser
of the period from the date of grant through the retirement-eligible date or the vesting
date. This differs from our previous policy for awards that were issued prior to adoption
of SFAS 123R with retirement eligibility provisions. For those awards we recognized
compensation expense over the vesting period and we accelerated compensation expense upon
the triggering of a retirement event. We estimate that for the full-year of 2006, $13.5
million of pre-tax stock-based employee compensation expense will be recorded related to
unvested awards at December 31, 2005 that were issued prior to adoption of SFAS 123R to
individuals that were retirement eligible at December 31, 2005 and the awards included
retirement eligibility provisions. Had SFAS 123R been in effect when these awards were
issued, stock-based compensation expense in 2006 would have been less by $13.5 million.

SFAS
123R provides transition alternatives with respect to calculating the pool of windfall
tax benefits within our additional paid-in capital (the APIC Pool) that are available on
the adoption date to offset potential future shortfalls. The APIC Pool results from the
amount by which our prior year tax deductions for stock-based compensation exceed the
cumulative book stock-based compensation expense recognized in our financial statements.
We utilized the short-cut method as prescribed by FASB Statement of Position 123R-3 to
calculate the APIC Pool.

Finally,
SFAS 123R requires that the benefits associated with the tax deductions in excess of
recognized stock-based employee compensation expense be reported as a financing cash
flow, rather than as an operating cash flow as previously required. For the year ended
December 31, 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was reduced by $26.6 million
and recorded as an increase in cash provided by financing activities. These future
amounts cannot be estimated, because they depend on, among other things, when employees
exercise stock options and when restricted stock vests. However, the amount of operating
cash flows recognized in prior periods for such additional tax deductions, as shown in
our consolidated statements of cash flows, were $15.8 million and $26.2 million for 2005
and 2004, respectively.

Concentration
of Credit Risk.

We provide marketing and corporate communications services to thousands
of clients who operate in nearly every industry sector. We grant credit to qualified
clients in the ordinary course of business. Due to the diversified nature of our client
base, we do not believe that we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk as our
largest client accounted for 3.6% of our 2006 consolidated revenue and no other client
accounted for more than 2.9% of our 2006 consolidated revenue.

Derivative
Financial Instruments.

SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities (“SFAS 133”) establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that
every derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at
its fair value.

Our
derivative financial instruments consist principally of cross-currency interest rate
swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. For derivative financial instruments to
qualify for hedge accounting the following criteria must be met: (1) the hedging
instrument must be designated as a hedge; (2) the hedged exposure must be specifically
identifiable and expose us to risk; and (3) it must be highly probable that a change in
fair value of the derivative financial instrument and an opposite change in the fair
value of the hedged exposure will have a high degree of correlation.

If
the derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair
value of the derivative will either be offset against the change in fair value of the
hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective
portion of the change in fair value of a derivative used as hedge is required to be
immediately recognized in the statement of income.

F-12

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

We
execute forward foreign exchange contracts in the same currency as the related exposure,
whereby 100% correlation is achieved based on spot rates. Gains and losses on derivative
financial instruments which are hedges of foreign currency assets or liabilities are
recorded at market value and changes in market value are recognized in the statement of
income in the current period. Gains and losses on our cross-currency interest rate swaps
that are used to hedge our net investments are recorded to accumulated comprehensive
income as translation adjustments to the extent of change in the spot exchange rate. The
remaining difference is recorded in the statement of income in the current period.

Use
of Estimates.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2. Acquisitions

During
2006, we completed sixteen acquisitions of new subsidiaries for cash consideration and
made additional cash investments in companies in which we already had an ownership
interest, none of which were material to our consolidated financial position or results
of operations. In addition, we made contingent purchase price payments related to
acquisitions completed in prior years. The aggregate cost of these transactions,
including cash payments and the assumption of liabilities in 2006 was as follows (dollars
in millions):

New and existing subsidiaries

$152.8

Contingent purchase price payments

158.6

$311.4

Valuations
of these acquired companies were based on a number of factors, including specialized
know-how, reputation, geographic coverage, competitive position and service offerings.
Our acquisition strategy has been focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled
workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various
strategic business platforms through the expansion of their geographic area and/or their
service capabilities to better serve our clients. Consistent with our acquisition
strategy and past practice, most acquisitions completed in 2006 included an initial
payment at the time of closing and provide for future additional contingent purchase
price payments. Contingent payments for these transactions, as well as certain
acquisitions completed in prior years, are derived using the performance of the acquired
entity and are based on pre-determined formulas. These contingent purchase price
obligations are accrued when the contingency is resolved and payment is certain.

For
each of our acquisitions, we undertake a detailed review to identify other intangible
assets and a valuation is performed for all such assets identified. We use several market
participant measurements to determine fair value. This approach includes consideration of
similar and recent transactions, as well as utilizing discounted cash flow methodologies
and when available and as appropriate, we use comparative market multiples to supplement
our analysis. Like most service businesses, a substantial portion of the intangible asset
value that we acquire is the specialized know-how of the workforce, which is treated as
part of goodwill and is not required to be valued separately by SFAS 141. The majority of
the value of the identifiable intangible assets that we acquire is derived from customer
relationships and the related customer contracts. In executing our acquisition strategy,
one of the primary drivers in identifying and executing a specific transaction is the
existence of, or the ability to, expand our existing client relationships. The expected
benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies and regions.

F-13

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

As
of December 31, 2006 and 2005, the components of our intangible assets were as follows:

(Dollars in millions)



Gross

Carrying

Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net

Carrying

Value

Gross

Carrying

Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net

Carrying

Value

Intangible assets subject to

SFAS 142 impairment tests:

Goodwill

$7,457.2

$605.3

$6,851.9

$7,061.6

$568.5

$6,493.1

Other identifiable intangible assets

subject to amortization:

Purchased and internally

developed software

$   223.1

$163.1

$     60.0

$   204.8

$146.1

$     58.7

Customer related and other

127.9

44.7

83.2

92.9

30.2

62.7

Total

$   351.0

$207.8

$   143.2

$   297.7

$176.3

$   121.4

Substantially
all of our other identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis
ranging from 5 to 10 years.

During
the third quarter of 2006, we disposed of a U.S. based healthcare business and several
small businesses. The sale of the healthcare business resulted in a high book tax rate
primarily caused by the allocation of non-deductible goodwill in accordance with SFAS
142. This increase in income tax expense was more than offset by a one-time reduction of
income tax expense from the resolution of uncertainties related to changes in certain
foreign tax laws. The aggregate impact of these events was a decrease in profit before
tax of $0.5 million, a decrease in tax expense of $1.8 million and an increase in net
income of $1.3 million.

During
the first quarter of 2005, we disposed of a majority-owned business located in Australia
and New Zealand and a non-strategic business located in the United States. The proceeds
received from these transactions were $29.3 million and resulted in a pre-tax net gain of
$6.9 million. Due to an unusually high book tax rate caused by the allocation
non-deductible goodwill in accordance with SFAS 142, the book tax cost of the
transactions was $6.1 million. After deducting minority interest expense, the impact of
these transactions increased net income for the year ended December 31, 2005 by $0.4
million.

3. Bank Loans and
Lines of Credit

Bank
loans of $10.5 million and $15.0 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively, are
primarily comprised of the bank overdrafts of our international subsidiaries. These loans
are treated as unsecured loans pursuant to our bank agreements. The weighted average
interest rate on these bank loans as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was 6.2% and 8.5%,
respectively.

At
December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had committed and uncommitted lines of credit aggregating
$2,862.4 million and $2,848.7 million, respectively. The unused portion of these credit
lines was $2,851.9 million and $2,833.7 million at December 31, 2006 and 2005,
respectively.

In
June 2006, we amended and extended our five-year credit facility to June 23, 2011 and
increased the amount available from $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion with substantially the
same bank syndicate. In conjunction with this amendment and extension, we terminated our
$400.0 million 364-day revolving credit facility that was due to expire. Subsequently, in
September 2006, the facility was increased from $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion. We have the
ability to classify outstanding borrowings, if any, under our five-year credit facility
as long-term debt.

F-14

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Our
five-year credit facility is provided by a bank syndicate that includes large global
banks such as Citibank, JP Morgan Chase, HSBC, ABN Amro, Deutsche Bank, Bank of America,
Societe Generale and BBVA. We also include large regional banks in the U.S. such as
Wachovia, US Bancorp, Northern Trust, PNC and Wells Fargo. Additionally, we include banks
that have a major presence in countries where we conduct business such as Sumitomo in
Japan, Fortis in Belgium, Intesa San Paolo in Italy, Scotia in Canada and Westpac in
Australia.

Our
$2,500.0 million five-year revolving credit facility provides support for our $1,500.0
million commercial paper program. The gross amount of commercial paper issued and
redeemed under our commercial paper program during 2006 was $13.6 billion, with an
average term of 2.8 days. During 2005, $43.4 billion of commercial paper was issued and
redeemed with an average term of 3.0 days. As of December 31, 2006 and 2005, we had no
commercial paper borrowings outstanding.

The
credit facilities contain financial covenants limiting the ratio of total consolidated
indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA (for purposes of these covenants EBITDA is
defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more
than 3.0 times. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to
interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2006, our ratio of debt to EBITDA
was 1.8 times and our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was 13.4 times. We were in
compliance with these covenants. In addition, the credit facilities do not limit our
ability to declare or pay dividends.

4. Long-Term Debt and
Convertible Notes

Long-term
debt and convertible notes outstanding as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the
following:

In
February 2001, we issued $850.0 million aggregate principal amount of Liquid Yield Option
Notes due February 7, 2031 (“2031 Notes”). These notes are senior unsecured zero-coupon
securities that were convertible at issuance into 7.7 million shares of our common stock,
implying a conversion price of $110.01 per common share, subject to normal anti-dilution
adjustments. These notes are convertible at a specified ratio only upon the occurrence of
certain events, including; if our common shares trade above certain levels, if we effect
extraordinary transactions or if our long-term debt credit ratings are downgraded by at
least two notches from their December 31, 2006 level of A- to BBB or lower by Standard
& Poor’s Ratings Service (“S&P”), or from their December 31, 2006 level of Baa1
to Baa3 or lower by Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”). These events would not,
however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable upon conversion.
Holders of these notes have the right to put the notes back to us for cash in February of
each year and we have agreed not to redeem the notes for cash before February 7, 2009.
There are no events that accelerate the noteholders’ put rights. Beginning in February
2006 and every six months thereafter, if the market price of our common shares

F-15

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

exceeds certain thresholds, we may
be required to pay contingent cash interest for that period. Our initial calculation in
February 2006 and subsequent calculations thereafter did not require us to pay contingent
cash interest. In prior years, $3.0 million principal amount of notes were put back to us
reducing the total outstanding balance to $847.0 million.

In
March 2002, we issued $900.0 million aggregate principal amount of Zero Coupon Zero Yield
Convertible Notes due July 31, 2032 (“2032 Notes”). The notes are senior unsecured
zero-coupon securities that were convertible at issuance into 8.1 million shares of our
common stock, implying a conversion price of $110.01 per common share, subject to normal
anti-dilution adjustments. These notes are convertible at a specified ratio only upon the
occurrence of certain events, including; if our common shares trade above certain levels,
if we effect extraordinary transactions or if our long-term debt credit ratings are
downgraded at least two notches from their December 31, 2006 level of A- to BBB or lower
by S&P, or from their December 31, 2006 level of Baa1 to Baa3 or lower by Moody’s.
These events would not, however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable
upon conversion. Holders of these notes have the right to put the notes back to us for
cash in August of each year and we have agreed not to redeem the notes for cash before
July 31, 2009. There are no events that accelerate the noteholders’ put rights. Beginning
in August 2007, if the market price of our common shares exceeds certain thresholds, we
may be required to pay contingent cash interest. In prior years, $7.7 million principal
amount of notes were put back to us reducing the total outstanding balance at December
31, 2005 to $892.3 million and $165.3 million principal amount of notes were put back to
us in 2006 reducing the outstanding balance at December 31, 2006 to $727.0 million.

In
June 2003, we issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of Zero Coupon Zero Yield
Convertible Notes due June 15, 2033 (“2033 Notes”). The notes are senior unsecured
obligations that were convertible at issuance into 5.8 million shares of our common
stock, implying a conversion price of $103.00 per common share, subject to normal
anti-dilution adjustments. These notes are convertible at the specified ratio only upon
the occurrence of certain events, including; if our common shares trade above certain
levels, if we effect extraordinary transactions or if our long-term debt credit ratings
are downgraded from their current level to Ba1 or lower by Moody’s or BBB- or lower by S&P.
The occurrence of these events will not result in an adjustment of the number of shares
issuable upon conversion. Holders of these notes have the right to put the notes back to
us for cash on June 15, 2008, 2010, 2013, 2018, 2023 and on each June 15 annually
thereafter through June 15, 2032 and we have a right to redeem the notes for cash
beginning on June 15, 2010. There are no events that accelerate the noteholders’ put
rights. Beginning in June 2010, if the market price of our common shares exceeds certain
thresholds, we may be required to pay contingent cash interest. The majority of the 2033
Notes were amended in June 2006, as discussed below, and the amended notes are referred
to as our Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2038 (“2038 Notes”).

Our
2031, 2032, 2033 and 2038 Notes (collectively the “Notes”) provide the noteholders with
certain rights that we consider as embedded derivatives in accordance with SFAS 133.
Under SFAS 133, embedded derivatives could be required to be bifurcated and accounted for
separately from the underlying host instrument. The noteholders’ rights we considered for
bifurcation were: (1) an embedded conversion option to convert the bonds into shares of
our common stock; (2) the right to put the Notes back to us for repayment (noteholder’s
put right) and our agreement to not call the Notes up to specified dates (no call right);
and (3) the right to collect contingent cash interest from us if certain criteria are
met. As discussed below, the embedded derivatives were not required to be bifurcated or
had no impact on the carrying value of the Notes and accordingly, the Notes are carried
at their value due at maturity.

Specifically,
the embedded conversion options qualify for the exception in SFAS 133 covering
convertible bonds and we are not required to separately account for the embedded
conversion option. Under SFAS 133, the embedded options must meet the criteria of EITF
00-19, Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially
Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock (“EITF 00-19”) to qualify for the exception. EITF 00-19
required that certain criteria be met for a freestanding derivative in a company’s own
stock to be classified as an equity instrument. The embedded conversion options met the
criteria in EITF 00-19 and will, if converted, be accounted for in shareholders’ equity
had they been freestanding derivatives. We are not required to separately value and
account for the noteholders’ put right and the no call right under SFAS 133 and related interpretation

F-16

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

by the Derivatives
Implementation Group (DIG) No. B-16. These rights were considered to be clearly and
closely related to the underlying Notes and are not contingently exercisable.
Additionally, the debt was not issued with a substantial discount or premium. Lastly, the
noteholders’ right to collect contingent cash interest is a derivative and is required to
be marked to market value each reporting period with changes recorded in interest
expense. The value of this right is primarily linked to the price of our common stock and
not the debt host contract. Therefore, it is not clearly and closely related to our debt
and is required to be separately accounted for under SFAS 133. For each of the Notes at
issuance and through December 31, 2005, this right had nominal value. As of December 31,
2006, the value was $0.8 million, which we included in interest expense in 2006.

In
August 2004, we amended the indenture governing the 2032 Notes. In November 2004, we
amended the indentures governing the 2031 Notes and the 2033 Notes. The amendments added
two of our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries, Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance
Inc., as co-obligors to each convertible note. The amendments to all three indentures
were similar with respect to settlement of the notes on put or conversion. We amended the
provisions regarding payment to the noteholders in the event of a put. Previously, we
could satisfy the put obligation in cash, shares or a combination of both, at our option.
The amendments provide that we can only satisfy the put obligation in cash. We also
amended the provisions regarding payment to the noteholders in the event the noteholders
exercise their conversion right. Previously, we were required to satisfy the conversion
obligation of each note by delivering the underlying number of shares, as adjusted, into
which the note converts. The amendments provide that the conversion obligation is equal
to a conversion value determined on the day of conversion, calculated by multiplying the
share price at the close of business on that day by the underlying number of shares into
which the note converts. We then satisfy the conversion value by paying the initial
principal amount of the note in cash and the balance of the conversion value in cash or
shares, at our option. This amendment made the notes compliant with EITF 90-19,
Convertible Bonds with Issuer Options to Settle for Cash Upon Conversion — “Instrument C” treatment.
Further, the amended notes qualified for the exception in SFAS 133, covering convertible
bonds and we are not required to separately account for the fair value of the embedded
conversion option. The amendments did not change this accounting, accordingly, the notes
are carried at their face value. At the same time we amended the indenture provisions
governing settlement on put or conversion, we also amended the provisions of 2031 Notes
and the 2032 Notes governing the payment of contingent cash interest.

In
February 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $46.25 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2031 Notes as of February 2, 2006 to not put
their notes back to us. The noteholders were paid $39.2 million of February 8, 2006. This
payment is being amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in
accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) No. 96-19, Debtor’s Accounting for a
Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments (“EITF 96-19”). In February 2007, we did not
pay a supplemental interest payment to noteholders of our 2031 Notes and none of the 2031
Notes were put back to us for repayment.

In
June 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $27.50 per $1,000 of our
2033 Notes to holders that did not put their notes back to us and consented to the
amendments to the notes and related indenture as of June 27, 2006. The principal
amendment extended the maturity of the notes from June 15, 2033 to July 1, 2038. The
additional amendments conformed other terms of the notes for the extension of the
maturity date, as well as amending the comparable yield. On June 21, 2006, we repurchased
$132.5 million of notes that were put to us. With respect to the remaining $467.5 million
of notes as of June 30, 2006, noteholders holding a combined amount of $428.1 million of
notes consented to the amendments, were paid $27.50 per $1,000 note and their notes were
amended. The total supplemental interest payment of $11.7 million will be amortized
ratably over a twenty-four-month period to the next put date in accordance with EITF
96-19. The remaining noteholders, comprising $39.4 million aggregate principal amount of
notes, did not consent to the amendments. As a result, these notes are still outstanding
and were not amended and these noteholders were not paid the supplemental interest
payment. The next put date for the 2033 and 2038 notes is June 15, 2008.

In
July 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $32.50 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2032 Notes as of August 1, 2006 that did not
put their notes back to us. On August 4, 2006, we repurchased $165.2 million of our 2032
Notes that were put to us. With respect to the remaining $727.0 million of notes,
noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $23.6 million on August 2, 2006 which is being amortized
ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in accordance with EITF 96-19.

F-17

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

In
March 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due April
15, 2016 (“Senior Notes”). The gross proceeds from the issuance were $995.1 million. The
gross proceeds less fees resulted in a 6.05% yield to maturity. The Senior Notes were
issued by Omnicom Group Inc. and two of our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries,
Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance Inc., as co-obligors. The Senior Notes are
senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment with all existing future
unsecured indebtedness and as a joint and several liability of the issuer and the
co-obligors.

For
the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, our gross interest expense on our
borrowings was $124.9 million, $78.0 million and $51.1 million, respectively. Included in
our interest expense in 2006, 2005 and 2004, and described above was $71.5 million, $47.3
million and $23.0 million related to our convertible notes, respectively. Interest
expense relative to our Senior Notes was $45.5 million in 2006. In addition, interest
expense relative to our €152.4 million 5.20% Notes was $3.9 million and $10.4 million in
2005 and 2004, respectively. The remainder of our interest expense in these years was
related to our short-term borrowings.

The
aggregate stated maturities of long-term debt and convertible notes are as follows:

(Dollars in millions)


$       1.1


0.6


0.5


16.5


0.1


—

Thereafter

3,037.0

5. Segment Reporting

Our
wholly and partially owned agencies operate within the advertising, marketing and
corporate communications services industry. These agencies are organized into agency
networks, virtual client networks, regional reporting units and operating groups. During
2005, we completed the reorganization of our operating segments and the formation of a
fifth agency network. Consistent with the fundamentals of our business strategy, our
agencies serve similar clients, in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients
across a variety of geographic regions. In addition, our agency networks have similar
economic characteristics and similar long-term operating margins, as the main economic
components of each agency are the salary and service costs associated with providing
professional services, the office and general costs associated with office space and
occupancy, and the provision of technology requirements which are generally limited to
personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. Therefore, given these
similarities and in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 131, most specifically
paragraph 17, we aggregate our operating segments, which are our five agency networks,
into one reporting segment.

A
summary of our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area for the years then ended,
and as of December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 is presented below:

(Dollars in millions)

Americas

EMEA

Asia/Australia


Revenue

$6,789.2

$3,909.7

$678.0

Long-Lived Assets

379.1

211.7

49.0

Goodwill

5,636.7

1,157.8

57.4


Revenue

$6,261.6

$3,586.0

$633.5

Long-Lived Assets

415.9

149.8

43.0

Goodwill

5,508.4

932.2

52.5


Revenue

$5,626.5

$3,448.2

$672.5

Long-Lived Assets

408.7

181.2

46.5

Goodwill

5,283.4

1,081.3

46.7

F-18

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The
Americas is primarily composed of the U.S., Canada and Latin American countries. EMEA is
primarily composed of various Euro currency countries, the United Kingdom, the
Middle-East and Africa and other European countries that have not adopted the European
Union Monetary standard. Asia/Australia is primarily composed of China, Japan, Korea,
Singapore, Australia and other Asian countries.

6. Equity and
Cost-Based Investments

We
have investments in privately held unconsolidated affiliated companies accounted for
under the equity method. The affiliated companies offer marketing and corporate
communications services similar to those offered by our operating companies. The equity
method is used when we own less than 50% of the common stock but exercise significant
influence over the operating and financial policies of the affiliate. The following table
summarizes the balance sheets and income statements of our unconsolidated affiliates, as
of December 31, 2006 and 2005 and for the years then ended:

(Dollars in millions)



Total net assets

$239.8

$243.4

Gross revenue

533.2

535.3

Net income

54.7

52.0

Our
equity interest in the net income of these affiliated companies was $29.6 million and
$27.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Our equity
interest in the net assets of these affiliated companies was $132.8 million and $114.9
million at December 31, 2006 and 2005, respectively. Owners of interests in certain of
our affiliated companies have the right in certain circumstances to require us to
purchase additional ownership interests at fair value as defined in the applicable
agreements. The terms of these rights vary for each arrangement and the ultimate amount
payable in the future also varies based upon the future earnings of the affiliated
companies and changes in the applicable foreign currency exchange rates.

Our
cost-based investments at December 31, 2006 were primarily comprised of equity interests
of less than 20% in various privately held service companies. This method is used when we
own less than a 20% equity interest and do not exercise significant influence over the
operating and financial policies of the investee. The total cost basis of these
investments, which we evaluate for impairment, as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 was $47.2
million and $38.3 million, respectively and are included in other assets on our balance
sheet.

In
prior years, we held a non-voting, non-participating preferred stock interest in Seneca
Investments LLC (“Seneca”). Seneca was initially formed in 2001 from our contribution of
Communicade, our subsidiary that conducted e-services industry investment activities. All
of Communicade’s investments at that time were comprised of minority interests in
e-services industry businesses. Upon Seneca’s formation, the transaction was accounted
for in accordance with SFAS 140, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing Financial Assets
and Extinguishments of Liabilities, and resulted in no gain or loss being recognized by
us on Seneca’s formation. The preferred stock was non-voting and was entitled to
dividends at a rate of 8.5%, compounded semi-annually and was redeemable on the 10th
anniversary of issuance or earlier upon the occurrence of certain extraordinary events.
No cash dividends were paid by Seneca or accrued by us subsequent to Seneca’s formation.

In
December 2002, we acquired all of the common stock of Organic, Inc. from Seneca. The
transaction was effected by the redemption of $99.0 million of the preferred stock and
the assumption of $7.2 million of liabilities. In June 2003, we acquired all of the
common stock of AGENCY.com from Seneca. The transaction was effected by the redemption of
$181.0 million of the preferred stock and the assumption of $15.8 million of liabilities.

On
Seneca’s formation and for all subsequent periods, the fair value of our investment in
Seneca exceeded its carrying value. Because our preferred stock did not have a conversion
feature, we considered it similar to a debt instrument where it is not probable that the
contractual interest payments may be collected as scheduled in the loan agreement.
Accordingly, we applied the cost-recovery method, in accordance with the provisions of
SFAS 114, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan – an Amendment of FASB
Statement No. 5, and SFAS 118, Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a Loan-Income
Recognition and Disclosures – an

F-19

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Amendment of FASB Statement No. 114,
and we did not accrue any dividend income. Under the cost-recovery method, investment
income cannot be recorded until it is probable of realization. Consequently, we did not
record any investment income related to unpaid dividends and in connection with the
purchases of Organic, Inc. and AGENCY.com from Seneca, we applied the redemption of our
preferred stock against our remaining carrying value of our investment such that at
December 31, 2003, our remaining carrying value was reduced to zero.

In
March 2004, we exchanged our remaining shares of preferred stock in Seneca for a $24.0
million senior secured note due in 2007 that bears interest at a rate of 6.25% and 40% of
Seneca’s outstanding common stock which we are accounting for under the equity method.
The senior secured note was  recorded in our other assets. The restructuring was proposed
by the common stockholders of Seneca because the expected value of the assets that
remained in Seneca in early 2004 was insufficient to fund the preferred dividends that
had accrued to that date and were expected to accrue prior to potential realization
events in the future. The restructuring re-aligned the incentives of the common
shareholders with ours because it provided them with additional incentives to maximize
the value of the Seneca assets and to monetize the assets on an accelerated basis. The
exchange was accounted for at fair value in accordance with APB No. 29: Accounting for
Non-Monetary Transactions and Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) Issue 98-3: Determining
Whether a Nonmonetary Transaction Involves Receipt of Productive Assets or of a Business
and we recorded a net pre-tax gain of $24.0 million. The $24.0 million pre-tax gain,
which was included in our 2004 operating income, was partially offset by losses of $10.9
million from other investment activity unrelated to Seneca.

We
received distributions from Seneca during 2005 and the first quarter of 2006, which when
applied against the senior secured note reduced the balance to zero.

7. Employee Stock Plans

Our
equity incentive compensation plan was adopted in 2002 and was amended in 2003 (“Equity
Incentive Plan”) and reserved 9.2 million shares of our common stock for options and
other awards, of which 3.3 million were for restricted stock awards. The Equity Incentive
Plan also permits an additional 797,147 shares that were issued as restricted stock
awards and 577,649 option grants that were made prior to amendment of the Equity
Incentive Plan in 2003. Pursuant to the Equity Incentive Plan, the exercise price of
options awarded may not be less than 100% of the market price of the stock at the date of
grant and the option term cannot be longer than seven years from the date of grant. The
terms of each option and the times at which each option will be exercisable will be
determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. It is anticipated
that the full vesting period for options will generally be three years. Generally our
option grants become exercisable 30% on each of the first two anniversary dates of the
grant date with the final 40% becoming exercisable three years from the grant date.

Our
prior incentive compensation plan was adopted in 1998 (“1998 Plan”) and was amended in
2000. As a result of the adoption of the Equity Incentive Plan in 2002, no new awards may
be granted under the 1998 Plan. However, shares relating to awards that are forfeited or
cancelled may be reissued under the Equity Incentive Plan.

Under
the terms of our long-term shareholder value plan (“LTSV Plan”), common shares were
reserved for option awards to key employees of the Company at an exercise price that is
no less than 100% of the market price of the stock at the date of the grant. The options
become exercisable after the sixth anniversary of the date of grant. The options can
become exercisable prior to this anniversary date in increments of one-third if the
market value of our common stock increases compared to the market price on the date of
grant by at least 50%, 75% and 100%, respectively. As a result of the adoption of the
Equity Incentive Plan in 2002, no new awards may be granted under the LTSV Plan. Awards
that are forfeited or cancelled may be reissued under the Equity Incentive Plan.

The
plans described above do not permit the holder of an award to elect cash settlement under
any circumstances.

F-20

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock Options:

Options
included under all incentive compensation plans, all of which were approved by our
shareholders, for the past three years are:




Shares

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Shares

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Shares

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Shares under option, beginning

of year

15,702,835

$74.05

17,304,047

$73.05

18,677,095

$70.62

Options granted under:

1998 Plan

—

—

—

—

—

—

LTSV Plan

—

—

—

—

—

—

Equity Incentive Plan

50,000

88.79

20,000

80.50

50,000

77.37

Options exercised

(3,799,863

)

71.64

(1,452,939

)

62.33

(1,376,837

)

40.52

Options forfeited

(12,167

)

76.45

(168,273

)

72.90

(46,211

)

67.41

Shares under option, end of year

11,940,805

$74.88

15,702,835

$74.05

17,304,047

$73.05

Options exercisable at year-end

7,930,489

11,294,439

11,822,997

The
  following table summarizes the information above about options outstanding and
  options exercisable at December 31, 2006:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of Exercise

Prices (in dollars)

Options

Outstanding

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Options

Exercisable

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

$24.28

250,000

1 year

$24.28

250,000

$24.28

39.75 to 42.69

335,000

1-2 years

42.03

335,000

42.03

65.50 to 91.22

1,955,000

2-3 years

82.07

1,955,000

82.07

47.74 to 81.38

1,016,000

3-4 years

77.97

1,016,000

77.97

62.35 to 87.16

7,017,553

4-5 years

72.45

3,071,237

76.96

80.50 to 93.55

1,317,252

5-6 years

92.15

1,303,252

92.28

85.91 to 90.72

50,000

6-7 years

88.79

—

—

11,940,805

7,930,489

F-21

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The
weighted average fair value, calculated on the basis summarized below, of each option
granted was $16.11, $16.87 and $20.65 for 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. The fair
value of each option grant has been determined as of the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option valuation model and with the following assumptions (without
adjusting for the risk of forfeiture and lack of liquidity):




Expected option lives

3.5 years

3.5 years

3.5 years

Risk free interest rate

4.9% – 5.1%

3.8%

2.2% – 3.4%

Expected volatility

16.4% – 16.7%

24.1%

33.4% – 36.2%

Dividend yield

1.1%

1.1%

1.1% – 1.2%

Restricted
  Shares:

Changes
  in outstanding shares of restricted stock for the three years ended December
  31, 2006 were as follows:




Restricted shares at beginning of year

2,178,335

2,412,413

2,369,348

Number granted

725,353

723,557

1,078,230

Number vested

(703,965

)

(846,138

)

(900,454

)

Number forfeited

(118,364

)

(111,497

)

(134,711

)

Restricted shares at end of year

2,081,359

2,178,335

2,412,413

All
restricted shares were sold at a price per share equal to their par value. The difference
between par value and market value on the date of the grant is charged to shareholders’ equity
and then amortized to expense over the restriction period. The restricted shares
typically vest in 20% annual increments provided the employee remains in our employ. The
weighted average grant date fair value of restricted  shares was $80.60 at the end of 2006,
$74.30 at the end of 2005 and $71.54 at the end of 2004.

Restricted
shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered until the forfeiture
restrictions lapse. Under most circumstances, the employee must resell the shares to us
at par value if the employee ceases employment prior to the end of the restriction period.

ESPP:

We
have an employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”) that enables employees to purchase our
common stock through payroll deductions over each plan quarter at 85% of the market price
on the last trading day of the plan quarter. Purchases are limited to 10% of eligible
compensation as defined by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”).
During 2006, 2005 and 2004, employees purchased 275,852 shares, 285,426 shares and
288,181 shares, respectively, all of which were treasury shares, for which $21.1 million,
$20.4 million and $19.0 million, respectively, was paid to us. At December 31, 2006,
787,946 shares remain reserved for the ESPP.

Total
pre-tax stock-based employee compensation cost for the years ended December 31, 2006,
2005 and 2004, was $71.1million, $87.0 million and $117.2 million, respectively. Total
unamortized stock-based compensation at December 31, 2006 was $139.3 million which will
be expensed over the remaining vesting periods of the shares over the next four and one-half years.

SFAS 123R:

On
January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”)
which requires, among other things, that we record stock-based compensation expense net
of an estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. For all unvested awards
outstanding at January 1, 2006, we recorded an adjustment to reflect the cumulative
effect of this change in accounting principle. The adjustment in the first quarter of
2006 resulted in an increase in our operating profit and net income of $3.6 million and
$2.0 million, respectively. Because this adjustment did not have a material effect on our
results of operations and financial condition, we did not present this adjustment on an
after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of accounting change in our income statement.

F-22

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

8. Income Taxes

We
file a consolidated U.S. income tax return and tax returns in various state and local
jurisdictions. Our subsidiaries also file tax returns in various foreign jurisdictions.
The principal foreign jurisdictions include the United Kingdom, France and Germany.
Income before income taxes and the provision for taxes on income consisted of the amounts
shown below:

Our
  effective income tax rate varied from the statutory federal income tax rate
  as a result of the following factors:




Statutory federal income tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes on income,

net of federal income tax benefit

0.9

0.6

0.7

International subsidiaries’ tax rate differentials

(2.3

)

(0.7

)

(2.6

)

Other

(0.1

)

(0.9

)

0.5

Effective rate

33.5

%

34.0

%

33.6

%

Included
in income tax expense is $1.6 million, $(1.8) million and $3.4 million of interest and
penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns for the years ended December
31, 2006, 2005 and 2004, respectively. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the combined amount
of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was
$5.6 million and $4.9 million, respectively.

Deferred
income taxes are provided for the temporary differences between the financial reporting
basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities. Deferred tax assets result principally
from recording certain expenses in the financial statements which are not currently
deductible for tax purposes, including employee stock-based compensation expense and from
differences between the tax and book basis of assets and liabilities recorded in
connection with acquisitions, as well as tax loss and credit carryforwards. Deferred tax
liabilities result principally from expenses arising from financial instruments which are
currently deductible for tax purposes but have not been expensed in the financial
statements, and basis differences arising from tangible and deductible intangible assets,
as well as investments and capital transactions.

F-23

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Deferred
tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 consisted of the amounts
shown below (dollars in millions):

Net
current deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2006 and 2005 were $141.9 million and
$133.3 million, respectively, and were included in prepaid expenses and other current
assets. At December 31, 2006, we had non-current deferred tax assets of $408.5 million
and long-term deferred tax liabilities of $437.7 million. At December 31, 2005, we had
non-current deferred tax assets of $309.1 million and long-term deferred tax liabilities
of $442.0 million. We have concluded that it is more likely than not that we will be able
to realize our net deferred tax assets in future periods.

In 2006, we reduced our valuation allowance by $33.1 million principally
relating to prior tax loss carryforwards at entities that were previously
acquired. As a result of tax elections made in 2006, we concluded that the
valuation allowance was no longer required. Because the valuation allowance was
established with respect to entities with tax loss carryforwards that were
previously acquired, the reduction in 2006 was allocated to reduce goodwill.
Accordingly, the change in our valuation allowance did not impact our effective
tax rate for the year ended December 31, 2006.

Our
tax loss and credit carryforwards are available to us for in excess of 15 years from
December 31, 2006. Upon
recognition of the tax benefits of certain of these tax loss carryforwards in the future,
approximately $10 million of our valuation allowance at December 31, 2006 would be
allocated to reduce goodwill.

We
have not provided U.S. deferred income taxes on cumulative earnings of non-U.S.
affiliates that have been reinvested indefinitely. A provision has been made for income
and withholding taxes on the earnings of international subsidiaries and affiliates that
will be distributed.

The
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”), enacted on October 22, 2004, created
a temporary incentive for U.S. multinational corporations to repatriate accumulated
income earned outside the United States by providing an 85% dividends received deduction
on certain foreign earnings repatriated prior to December 31, 2005. The deduction results
in a 5.25% federal tax rate on the identified extraordinary dividend (as defined in the
Jobs Act). As required by the Jobs Act, our CEO and Board of Directors approved a
domestic reinvestment plan to repatriate $47.9 million in foreign earnings in 2005, and
we repatriated this amount. We

F-24

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

recorded tax expense in 2005 of $2.7 million related to
this $47.9 million extraordinary dividend under the Jobs Act. The additional tax expense
consists of federal taxes of $2.5 million, and state taxes, net of federal benefits, of
$0.2 million.

In
June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes — an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (“FIN 48”), that clarifies the
accounting and recognition for income tax positions taken or expected to be taken in our
tax returns. We will adopt FIN 48 on January 1, 2007, and will record the cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle by recording a decrease in the liability for
unrecognized tax benefits of $1.3 million, that will be accounted for as a credit to
opening retained earnings.

9. Employee Retirement
Plans

Defined
Contribution Plans

Our
domestic and international subsidiaries primarily provide retirement benefits for their
employees through defined contribution plans. Company contributions to the plans, which
are determined by the boards of directors of the subsidiaries, vary by subsidiary and
have generally been in amounts up to the maximum percentage of total eligible
compensation of participating employees that is deductible for income tax purposes.
Expenses related to the Company’s contributions to these plans were $87.3 million in
2006, $85.6 million in 2005 and $82.6 million in 2004.

Defined Benefit Plans — Overview

Certain
of our subsidiaries sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans, including two
pension plans related to our U.S. businesses and 29 plans related to our non-U.S.
businesses. These plans provide benefits to employees based on formulas recognizing
length of service and earnings. The U.S. pension plans, which cover approximately 1,700
participants, have been closed to new participants. The non-U.S. pension plans, which
cover approximately 5,500 participants, are not covered by ERISA. We account for our
defined benefit pension plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for
Pensions (“SFAS 87”).

In
December 2006, we adopted a Senior Executive Restrictive Covenant and Retention Plan (the
“Retention Plan”) for certain executive officers of Omnicom selected to participate by
the Compensation Committee (“the Committee”) of the Board of Directors. The Retention
Plan was adopted to secure non-competition, non-solicitation, non-disparagement and
ongoing consulting services from such executive officers, and to strengthen the retention
aspect of executive officer compensation. The Retention Plan provides for annual payments
to its participants upon termination following at least seven years of service with
Omnicom or its subsidiaries. A participant’s annual benefit is payable for the 15
consecutive calendar years following termination, and is equal to the lesser of (i) the
participant’s final average pay times an applicable percentage, which is based upon the
executive’s years of service as an executive officer, not to exceed 35% and (ii) $1.25
million. The Retention Plan is accounted for in accordance with SFAS 87.

Postemployment
Arrangements — Overview

We
have executive retirement agreements under which benefits will be paid to participants or
to their beneficiaries over periods up to 10 years beginning after cessation of full-time
employment. We have applied SFAS No. 112, Employers’Accounting for Postemployment
Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (“SFAS 112”) and the recognition
and measurement provisions of SFAS 87 to these agreements.

In
addition, certain of our subsidiaries have individual deferred compensation arrangements
with certain executives that provide for payments over varying terms upon retirement,
cessation of employment or death. The cost related to these arrangements is accrued
during the employee’s service period.

F-25

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Adoption of SFAS
No. 158

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106,
and 132(R) (“SFAS 158”). SFAS 158, which became effective December 31, 2006, requires
plan sponsors to recognize on their balance sheet the funded status of their defined
benefit and postemployment plans. The funded status is measured by comparing the
projected benefit obligation (the “benefit obligation”) of each individual plan to the
fair value of assets of each individual plan at the year-end balance sheet date.
Additionally, actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs that, in accordance with
SFAS No. 87, were not previously recognized on the balance sheet, will be recognized upon
adoption with the offset recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax
effects. Accordingly, SFAS 158 did not and will not change the amounts recognized in our
consolidated statement of income as net periodic benefit cost.

On
December 31, 2006, we adopted SFAS 158 and recognized the funded status of our defined
benefit plans and postemployment arrangements in our December 31, 2006 consolidated
balance sheet, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income
of $51.4 million, $31.0 million net of tax. The adoption of SFAS 158 did not have any
effect on our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006.

As
presented below, the adjustment of $51.4 million, $31.0 million net of tax, represents
the net unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, and unrecognized prior service cost that
were, in accordance with SFAS 87, previously netted against the plan’s funded status in
our balance sheet. Also, in accordance with SFAS 87, these amounts will continue to be
recognized as part of our net periodic benefit cost. Such amounts are amortized over the
expected average future service of active employees. Actuarial gains and losses that
arise in subsequent periods will be recognized as a component of other comprehensive
income prior to being amortized as part of our net periodic benefit cost.

The
incremental effect of adopting SFAS 158 in our consolidated balance sheets at December
31, 2006 was (dollars in millions):

Before

Adoption of

SFAS 158

SFAS 158

Adjustment

After Adoption

of SFAS 158,

As Reported

Assets:

Other assets

$     267.4

$  (7.3

)

$     260.1

Deferred tax benefits

388.1

20.4

408.5

Total assets

18,151.3

13.1

18,164.4

Liabilities:

Deferred compensation and other liabilities

261.7

44.1

305.8

Shareholders’ equity:

Accumulated other comprehensive income

298.9

(31.0

)

267.9

Total shareholders’ equity

3,902.3

(31.0

)

3,871.3

Included
in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2006, are unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses, and unrecognized prior service cost of $51.4 million, $31.0
million net of tax, that has not yet been recognized in the net periodic benefit cost.
The unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized prior service cost included
in accumulated other comprehensive income, and expected to be recognized in net periodic
benefit cost during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2007, is $5.0 million.

F-26

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Defined Benefit
Plans

The
components of net periodic benefit cost for the three years ended December 31, 2006 are
as follows (dollars in millions):




Service cost

$ 6.8

$ 5.5

$ 10.0

Interest cost

4.8

4.9

4.1

Expected return on plan assets

(4.8

)

(5.6

)

(4.9

)

Amortization of prior service cost

0.1

—

—

Amortization of actuarial (gains) losses

1.4

2.4

1.2

Other

0.1

—

—

Total cost

$ 8.4

$ 7.2

$ 10.4

The
  weighted average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost
  for our U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit plans for the three years ended December
  31, 2006 were:




Discount rate

4.67

%

4.44

%

4.41

%

Compensation increases

3.17

%

3.18

%

3.22

%

Expected return on assets

6.50

%

6.67

%

5.97

%

These
assumptions represent the weighted average for the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit
plans and are based on the economic environment of each applicable country. In
determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the current
and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various
categories of plan assets.

We
amortize experience gains and losses and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions
over a period no longer than the expected average future service of active employees.

Our
funding policy is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements
as set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax laws that the plans are subject
to, plus such additional amounts as we may determine to be appropriate. In 2006, we
contributed $9.5 million to our defined benefit plans. We do not expect our 2007
contributions to differ materially from 2006.

The
weighted average asset allocations at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were:



Target

Allocation

Actual

Allocation

Actual

Allocation

U.S. equity securities


%


%


%

Non-U.S. equity securities




Debt securities




Other




Total


%


%


%

Our
  investment policies and strategies for our defined benefit plans are to maximize
  returns subject to risk management policies.

The
  estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid are as follows (dollars
  in millions):






2012-2016

$7.5

$4.7

$5.4

$6.8

$6.1

$37.5

F-27

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

At
December 31, 2006 and 2005, the benefit obligations, fair value of assets and the funded
status of our defined benefit plans were (dollars in millions):

At
  December 31, 2006 and 2005, the amounts related to our defined benefit plans
  recognized in our consolidated balance sheets were (dollars in millions):



Other assets

$   6.5

$ 22.9

Intangible assets

—

0.2

Other current liabilities

(0.6

)

—

Deferred compensation and other liabilities

(62.0

)

(36.0

)

Net liability

$(56.1

)

$(12.9

)

At
  December 31, 2006 and 2005, our defined benefit plans with benefit obligations
  in excess of plan assets were (dollars in millions):



Benefit obligation

$98.4

$69.1

Plan assets

35.8

31.1

Net liability

$62.6

$38.0

We
  use a December 31 measurement date to determine the plan assets and benefit
  obligation for a majority of our defined benefit plans.

The
  weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation for our
  U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit plans at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were:



Discount rate

4.77

%

4.39

%

Compensation increases

3.19

%

3.26

%

F-28

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Postemployment
Arrangements

The
components of net periodic benefit cost, calculated by applying SFAS 112 and the
recognition and measurement provisions of SFAS 87, for the three years ended December 31,
2006 are as follows (dollars in millions):




Service cost

$ 2.4

$ 2.2

$2.0

Interest cost

4.0

3.6

2.8

Expected return on plan assets

N/A

N/A

N/A

Amortization of prior service cost

0.4

0.3

0.3

Amortization of actuarial (gains) losses

0.8

0.4

0.4

Other

(0.1

)

(0.5

)

1.3

Total cost

$ 7.5

$ 6.0

$6.8

The
  weighted average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost
  for our postemployment arrangements for the three years ended December 31, 2006
  were:




Discount rate

5.50

%

5.75

%

6.25

%

Compensation increases

3.50

%

3.50

%

3.50

%

Expected return on assets

N/A

N/A

N/A

We
  amortize experience gains and losses and effects of changes in actuarial assumptions
  over a period no longer than the expected average future service of active employees.

The
  estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid are as follows (dollars
  in millions):






2012-2016

$8.6

$8.2

$7.9

$6.9

$7.0

$29.9

Our
  postemployment arrangements are unfunded and benefits are paid when due. The
  benefit obligation is recognized as a liability in our consolidated balance
  sheets. At December 31, 2006 and 2005, the benefit obligation for postemployment
  arrangements was (dollars in millions):



Benefit Obligation

Benefit obligation at January 1

$ 69.6

$ 63.5

Service cost

2.4

2.2

Interest cost

4.0

3.6

Actuarial (gains) losses

7.9

6.9

Benefits paid

(7.3

)

(6.6

)

Benefit obligation at December 31

$ 76.6

$ 69.6

At
  December 31, 2006 and 2005, the liability for postemployment arrangements was
  classified as follows (dollars in millions):



Other current liabilities

$  8.6

$    —

Deferred compensation and other liabilities

68.0

69.6

Benefit obligation at December 31

$76.6

$69.6

The
  weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation for our
  postemployment arrangements at December 31, 2006 and 2005 were:



Discount rate

5.75

%

5.50

%

Compensation increases

3.50

%

3.50

%

F-29

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

10. Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities

Leases:

We
lease substantially all our office facilities and certain of our equipment under
operating leases that expire at various dates. Certain leases provide us with the option
to renew for additional periods. Where leases contain escalation clauses, rent
abatements, and/or concessions, such as rent holidays and landlord or tenant incentives
or allowances, we apply them in the determination of straight-line rent expense over the
lease term. Leasehold improvements made at inception or during the lease term are
amortized over the shorter of the asset life or the lease term, which may include renewal
periods where the renewal is reasonably assured, as defined in SFAS No. 13, Accounting
for Leases, as amended by SFAS No. 98, and is included in the determination of
straight-line rent expense. Certain leases require the payment of real estate taxes or
other occupancy costs, which may be subject to escalation. Rent expense for the years
ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was:

(Dollars in millions)




Office rent

$ 374.2

$ 376.1

$ 371.6

Third party sublease

(22.3

)

(23.5

)

(26.3

)

Total office rent

351.9

352.6

345.3

Equipment rent

113.8

120.1

137.6

Total rent

$ 465.7

$ 472.7

$ 482.9

Future
  minimum office and equipment base rents under terms of non-cancelable operating
  leases, reduced by rents to be received from existing non-cancelable subleases,
  are as follows:

(Dollars in millions)

Gross

Rent

Sublease

Rent

Net

Rent


$426.3

$13.4

$412.9


357.4

9.9

347.5


288.7

8.2

280.5


243.7

6.2

237.5


189.4

3.2

186.2

Thereafter

716.7

8.3

708.4

Legal Proceedings:

Beginning
on June 13, 2002, several putative class actions were filed against us and certain senior
executives in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The
actions have since been consolidated under the caption

In re Omnicom Group Inc.
Securities Litigation

, No. 02-CV-4483 (RCC), on behalf of a proposed class of purchasers
of our common stock between February 20, 2001 and June 11, 2002. The consolidated
complaint alleges, among other things, that our public filings and other public
statements during that period contained false and misleading statements or omitted to
state material information relating to (1) our calculation of the organic growth
component of period-to-period revenue growth, (2) our valuation of and accounting for
certain internet investments made by our Communicade Group (“Communicade”), which we
contributed to Seneca Investments LLC (“Seneca”) in 2001, and (3) the existence and
amount of certain contingent future obligations in respect of acquisitions. The complaint
seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory damages plus costs and attorneys’ fees.
Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint and on March 28, 2005, the court dismissed
portions (1) and (3) of the complaint detailed above. The court’s decision denying the
defendants’ motion to dismiss the remainder of the complaint did not address the ultimate
merits of the case, but only the sufficiency of the pleading. Defendants have answered
the complaint, and discovery is currently expected to conclude in the first half of 2007.
Plaintiffs have moved to have the proposed class certified and the defendants have
opposed that motion, which is now fully briefed.

In
addition, on June 28, 2002, a derivative action was filed on behalf of Omnicom in New
York state court. On February 18, 2005, a second shareholder derivative action, again
purportedly brought on behalf of the Company, was filed in New York state court. The
derivative actions have been consolidated before one New

F-30

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

York State Justice and the
plaintiffs have filed an amended consolidated complaint. The consolidated derivative
complaint questions the business judgment of certain current and former directors of
Omnicom, by challenging, among other things, the valuation of and accounting for the
internet investments made by Communicade and the contribution of those investments to
Seneca. The consolidated complaint alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary
duties of good faith. The lawsuit seeks from the directors the amount of profits received
from selling Omnicom stock and other unspecified damages to be paid to the Company, as
well as costs and attorneys’ fees. The defendants moved to dismiss the derivative
complaint on the procedural ground that plaintiffs had failed to make a demand on the
board. On June 27, 2006, the trial court entered a decision denying the motion to
dismiss. The decision did not address the merits of the allegations, but rather accepted
the allegations as true for the purposes of the motion (as the Court was required to do)
and excused plaintiffs from making a demand on the board. The defendants filed an appeal
of the Court’s decision on the motion to dismiss. The appeal has been fully briefed and
oral argument before the Appellate Division, First Department occurred on February 9,
2007. Additionally, the defendants moved for a stay of the proceedings in this litigation
pending a decision being issued by the Appellate Division. The trial court granted the
motion staying the matter until February 28, 2007. The parties have jointly requested the trial court extend the stay to March 30, 2007 since the Appellate Division has not yet issued a decision.

The
defendants in both cases believe that the allegations against them are baseless and
intend to vigorously oppose the lawsuits. Currently, we are unable to determine the
outcome of these cases and the effect on our financial position or results of operations.
The outcome of any of these matters is inherently uncertain and may be affected by future
events. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate effect of these matters.

We
are also involved from time to time in various legal proceedings in the ordinary course
of business. We do not presently expect that these proceedings will have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

11. Fair Value of
Financial Instruments

The
following table presents the carrying amounts and fair values of our financial
instruments at December 31, 2006 and 2005 (dollars in millions). Amounts in parentheses
represent liabilities.



Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Cash and cash equivalents

$ 1,739.5

$ 1,739.5

$    835.8

$    835.8

Short-term investments

189.3

189.3

374.1

374.1

Other investments

47.2

47.2

38.3

38.3

Long-term debt and convertible notes

(3,055.8

)

(3,138.2

)

(2,358.6

)

(2,320.4

)

Financial commitments:

Cross-currency interest rate swaps

(29.3

)

(29.3

)

(0.7

)

(0.7

)

Forward foreign exchange contracts

(0.2

)

(0.2

)

(0.4

)

(0.4

)

Guarantees

—

(1.4

)

—

(0.2

)

Letters of credit

—

—

—

—

The
following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of
financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.

Short-term investments:

Short-term
investments consist primarily of investments made with our excess cash which we expect to
convert into cash in our current operating cycle, generally within one year. They are
carried at quoted market prices which approximates cost.

Other investments:

Other
investments are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. See Note 6 for additional
information about these investments.

F-31

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Long-term debt and
convertible notes:

A
portion of our long-term debt includes floating rate debt, the carrying value of which
approximates fair value. Our long-term debt includes convertible notes and fixed rate
debt. The fair value of these instruments was determined by reference to quoted market
prices.

Financial commitments:

The
estimated fair values of derivative positions in cross-currency interest rate swaps and
forward foreign exchange contracts are based upon quotations received from independent,
third party banks and represent the net amount required to terminate the positions,
taking into consideration market rates and counterparty credit risk. The fair values of
guarantees and letters of credit are based upon the stated value of the underlying
instruments. The guarantees, which relate to real estate leases, were issued by us for
affiliated companies. Letters of credit, when issued, represent guarantees issued by us
on behalf of our operating companies for activities in the normal course of business.

Accelerated share
repurchase:

On
March 31, 2006, we entered into an agreement to purchase 5.5 million shares of our
outstanding common stock for $458.7 million. We repurchased the shares under an
accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) program with a financial institution at $83.41 per
share with an initial settlement date of April 3, 2006. The purchase was funded using a
portion of the proceeds from our Senior Notes offering, as discussed above. During the
second quarter of 2006, the financial institution purchased the 5.5 million shares of our
common stock in the open market and we paid a settlement amount of $45.1 million,
referred to as the purchase price adjustment, based upon the difference between the
actual cost of the shares purchased by the financial institution of $91.61 per share and
the initial purchase price of $83.41 per share.

12. Financial
Instruments and Market Risk

SFAS
No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that derivative
instruments which meet the SFAS 133 definition of a derivative (including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as
either an asset or liability measured at its fair value.

Derivatives
that do not qualify for hedge accounting must be adjusted to fair value through earnings.
If the derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair
value of derivatives will either be offset against the change in fair value of the hedged
assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective
portion of the change in fair value of a derivative used as a hedge is required to be
immediately recognized in our statement of income.

Our
derivative activities are confined to risk management activities related to our
international operations. We enter into short-term forward foreign exchange contracts
which mitigate the foreign exchange risk of our intercompany cash movements between
subsidiaries operating in different currency markets from that of our treasury centers
from which they borrow or invest. In the limited number of instances where operating
expenses and revenues are not denominated in the same currency, amounts are promptly
settled in the foreign currency market with forward contracts. Changes in market value of
the forward contracts are included in the income statement and are offset by the
corresponding change in value of the underlying asset or liability being hedged. The
terms of these contracts are generally 90 days or less. At December 31, 2006 and 2005,
the aggregate amount of intercompany receivables and payables subject to this hedge
program was $47.9 million and $50.4 million, respectively. The table below summarizes by
major currency the notional principal amounts of the Company’s forward foreign exchange
contracts outstanding at December 31, 2006 and 2005. The “buy” amounts represent the U.S.
Dollar equivalent of commitments to purchase the respective currency, and the “sell” amounts
represent the U.S. Dollar equivalent of commitments to sell the respective currency. See
Note 11 for a discussion of the value of these instruments.

F-32

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

(Dollars in millions)

Notional Principal Amount



Company

Buys

Company

Sells

Company

Buys

Company

Sells

U.S. Dollar

$    —

$  7.0

$  3.2

$10.0

British Pound

8.8

7.5

13.2

7.8

Euro

11.3

3.7

8.6

0.2

Japanese Yen

2.1

0.7

—

0.2

Other

1.8

5.0

—

7.2

Total

$24.0

$23.9

$25.0

$25.4

We
manage the foreign exchange fluctuations that may be caused by our intercompany cash
movements, by entering into short-term forward foreign exchange contracts which mitigate
the foreign exchange risk of the U.S. Dollar commercial paper issued by our London
treasury center, whose functional currency is the British Pound. At December 31, 2006, we
had no forward contracts outstanding relating to this activity as there was no commercial
paper outstanding.

At
December 31, 2006, we had Japanese Yen 22.0 billion aggregate notional principal amount
of cross-currency interest rate swaps that mature in 2013 and we had €230.0 million
(Euro) aggregate notional principal amount cross-currency interest rate swaps that mature
in 2010. These swaps effectively hedge our net investment in certain Yen-denominated and
Euro-denominated assets.

We
have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in
interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. We periodically
determine the potential loss from market risk by performing a value-at-risk computation.
Value-at-risk analysis is a statistical model that utilizes historic currency exchange
and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on future earnings of our existing
portfolio of derivative financial instruments. The value-at-risk analysis we performed on
our December 31, 2006 portfolio of derivative financial instruments indicated that the
risk of loss was immaterial. Counterparty risk arises from the inability of a
counterparty to meet its obligations. To mitigate counterparty risk, we entered into
derivative contracts with major well-known banks and financial institutions that have
credit ratings at least equal to our credit rating. This system is designed to enable us
to initiate remedial action, if appropriate.

The
foreign currency and swap contracts existing during the years ended December 31, 2006 and
2005 were entered into for the purpose of seeking to mitigate the risk of certain
specific adverse currency risks. As a result of these financial instruments, we reduced
financial risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) that might have occurred if
the markets moved favorably. In using these contracts, management exchanged the risks of
the financial markets for counterparty risk. To minimize counterparty risk, we only enter
into these contracts with major well-known banks and financial institutions that have
credit ratings equal to or better than our credit rating.

13. New Accounting
Pronouncements

The
following pronouncements were either issued by the FASB or adopted by us in 2004, 2005
and 2006, and impacted our financial statements as discussed below:

•

SFAS
No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS 123”), as amended by SFAS 148,
Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure — An Amendment of
FASB No. 123 (“SFAS 148”) and as subsequently revised by SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004) — Share
Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”),

•

SFAS
No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections — a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20
and FASB Statement No. 3 (“SFAS 154”),

•

SFAS
No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”), and

F-33

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

•

SFAS
No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (“SFAS 158”).

In
accordance with SFAS No. 123, as amended by SFAS No. 148, we elected, effective January
1, 2004, to account for stock-based employee compensation using the fair value method. As
a result, the fair value of stock-based employee compensation, including unvested
employee stock options issued and outstanding, were recorded as an expense in the current
year utilizing the retroactive restatement method as set forth in SFAS 148. Accordingly,
our results for the prior years have been restated as if we had used the fair value
method to account for stock-based employee compensation. Pre-tax stock-based employee
compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2006, 2005 and 2004 was $71.1
million, $87.0 million and $117.2 million, respectively. Also in connection with the
restatement, our December 31, 2003 balance sheet reflects an increase in deferred tax
benefits of $120.5 million, an increase in additional paid-in capital of $434.7 million,
an increase in unamortized stock-based compensation of $92.6 million and a decrease in
retained earnings of $221.6 million.

On
January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”)
that requires, among other things, that we record stock-based compensation expense net of
an estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. For all unvested awards
outstanding at January 1, 2006, we recorded an adjustment to reflect the cumulative
effect of this change in accounting principle. The adjustment in the first quarter of
2006 resulted in an increase in our operating profit and net income of $3.6 million and
$2.0 million, respectively. Because this adjustment did not have a material effect on our
results of operations and financial condition, we did not present this adjustment on an
after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of accounting change in our income statement.

SFAS
123R also requires new awards issued to individuals that are, or will become,
retirement-eligible during the vesting period of the award to be expensed over the lesser
of the period from the date of grant through the retirement-eligible date or the vesting
date. This differs from our previous policy for awards that were issued prior to adoption
of SFAS 123R with retirement eligibility provisions. For those awards, we recognized
compensation expense over the vesting period and we accelerated compensation expense upon
the triggering of a retirement event. We estimate that for the full year of 2006, $13.5
million of pre-tax amortization of stock-based employee compensation expense will be
recorded related to unvested awards at December 31, 2005 that were issued prior to
adoption of SFAS 123R to individuals that were retirement eligible at December 31, 2005
and the awards included retirement eligibility provisions. Had SFAS 123R been in effect
when these awards were issued, stock-based compensation expense in 2006 would have been
reduced by $13.5 million.

SFAS
123R provides transition alternatives with respect to calculating the pool of windfall
tax benefits within our additional paid-in capital (the “APIC Pool”) that are available
on the adoption date to offset potential future shortfalls. The APIC Pool results from
the amount by which our prior year tax deductions for stock-based compensation exceed the
cumulative book stock-based compensation expense recognized in our financial statements.
We utilized the short-cut method as prescribed by FASB Statement of Position 123R-3 to
calculate the APIC Pool.

Finally,
SFAS 123R requires that the benefits associated with the tax deductions in excess of
recognized stock-based employee compensation expense be reported as a financing cash
flow, rather than as an operating cash flow, as previously required. For the year ended
December 31, 2006, net cash provided by operating activities was reduced by $26.6 million
which was recorded as an increase in cash provided by financing activities.

SFAS
154 provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error
corrections. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and error corrections made in
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a
material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.

In
September 2006, the FASB released SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”). SFAS
157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and
expands disclosure about fair

F-34

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

value measurement. In February 2007,
the FASB released SFAS No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial
Liabilities (“SFAS 159”). SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure many financial
instruments and certain other items at fair value that are not currently required to be
measured at fair value. We will adopt SFAS 157 and SFAS 159 in the first quarter of 2008
and have begun the process of evaluating the expected impact of SFAS 157 and SFAS 159 on
our consolidated financial statements. However, we are not yet in a position to assess
the full impact and related disclosure.

SFAS
158 was adopted as of December 31, 2006 and is discussed in Note 9 to our consolidated
financial statements.

The
FASB issued two staff proposals on accounting for income taxes to address recent changes
enacted by the United States Congress. Staff Position FAS 109-1, Application of FASB
Statement No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, for the Tax Deduction Provided to U.S.
Based Manufacturers by the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”) (“FSP No.
109-1”), and Staff Position FAS 109-2, Accounting and Disclosure Guidance for the Foreign
Earnings Repatriation Provisions within the American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (“FSP No.
109-2”). We believe that FSP 109-1 does not apply to our business. In the fourth quarter
of 2005, we repatriated $47.9 million of foreign earnings utilizing the 85% dividend
received deduction provided by the Jobs Act and in accordance with FSP 109-2, we recorded
a $2.7 million domestic tax liability, which is included in our 2005 full year effective
tax rate of 34.0%.

The
FASB Interpretation (“FIN”) 46, Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities — An
Interpretation of ARB No. 51 (“FIN 46”) addresses the consolidation by business
enterprises of variable interest entities, as defined in FIN 46, and is based on the
concept that companies that control another entity through interests, other than voting
interests, should consolidate the controlled entity. The consolidation requirements apply
immediately to FIN 46 interests held in variable interest entities created after January
31, 2003 and to interests held in variable interest entities that existed prior to
February 1, 2003 and remain in existence as of July 1, 2003. The FASB subsequently issued
FIN 46R in December 2003, which modified certain provisions of FIN 46. The effective date
of FIN 46R applies to the first reporting period after March 15, 2004. The application of
FIN 46 as originally issued and as revised by the issuance of FIN 46R did not have an
impact on, or result in additional disclosure in, our consolidated results of operations
or financial condition.

The
FASB issued FIN 47, Accounting for Conditional Asset Retirement Obligations — An
Interpretation of FASB Statement No. 143 (“FIN 47”). FIN 47 clarifies the timing of
liability recognition for legal obligations associated with the retirement of a tangible
long-lived asset when the timing and/or method of settlement are conditional on a future
event. We adopted FIN 47 during the fourth quarter of 2005. The adoption did not have a
material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.

In
July 2006, the FASB released FIN 48 which is discussed in Note 8 to our consolidated
financial statements.

The
FASB issued several FASB Staff Positions (“FSP”) during 2005 and 2006, covering several
topics that impact our financial statements. These topics include:

•

other-than-temporary
impairment of certain investments (“FSP FAS 115-1” and “FSP FAS 124-1”),

•

the
classification of freestanding instruments (“FSP FAS 123(R)-1”),

•

the
clarification and definition of grant date (“FSP FAS 123(R)-2”),

•

the
transition election related to the tax effects of share-based awards (“FSP FAS 123(R)-3”),

•

the
classification of options with cash settlement features (“FSP FAS 123(R)-4”),

•

changes
or projected changes in the timing of cash flows related to income taxes generated by
leverage lease transactions (“FSP FAS 13-2”),

F-35

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

•

the
clarification of current requirements for fair value measurement (“FSP FAS 141-b”, “FSP
FAS 142-e” and “FSP FAS 144-b”),

•

guidance
in implementing variable accounting in a lease transaction (“FSP FIN 46(R)-4” and “FSP
FIN 46(R)-5”),

•

guidance
in determining the variability to be considered in applying FASB 46R (“FSP FIN 46(R)-6”),

•

accounting
for freestanding financial instruments issued as employee compensation (“FSP EITF 00-19-1”),

•

accounting
for registration payment arrangements (“FSP EITF 00-19-2”),

•

accounting
for other-than-temporary impairment on certain investments (“FSP EITF Issue 03-1-1”),

•

determining
if instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities (“FSP
EITF 03-6-a”), and

•

accounting
for other comprehensive income of an investee (“FSP APB 18-1”).

The
application of these FSPs did not have a material impact on our consolidated result of
operations or financial condition.

The
Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the FASB released interpretive guidance in 2004,
2005 and 2006 covering several topics that impact our financial statements. These topics
include:

•

revenue
arrangements with multiple deliverables (“EITF 00-21”),

•

application
of equity method accounting to investments other than common stock (“EITF 02-14”),

•

vendor
rebates (“EITF 02-16”),

•

customer
relationship intangible assets acquired (“EITF 02-17”),

•

other-than-temporary
impairment related to certain investments (“EITF 03-1”),

•

participating
securities and the two-class method (“EITF 03-6”),

•

reporting
impairment or disposal of long-lived assets (“EITF 03-13”),

•

accounting
for investments in limited liability companies (“EITF 03-16”),

•

accounting
for pre-existing relationships with a business combination (“EITF 04-1”),

•

the
effect of contingently convertible debt on diluted earnings per share (“EITF 04-8”),

•

aggregation
of operating segments (“EITF 04-10”),

•

accounting
for certain derivative instruments (“EITF 05-2”),

•

determining
amortization periods for leasehold improvement (“EITF 05-6”),

•

accounting
for modifications to conversion options embedded in debt instruments (“EITF 05-7”),

•

income
tax consequences of issuing convertible debt with beneficial conversion features (“EITF
05-8”),

•

accounting
for sabbatical leave and similar benefits (“EITF 06-2”),

•

accounting
for taxes collected from customers and remitted (“EITF 06-3”), and

•

accounting
for a modification (or exchange) of convertible debt instruments (“EITF 06-06”).

The
application of these guidance topics did not have a material impact on our consolidated
results of operations or financial condition.

Additionally,
in 2006, the SEC Staff issued SAB 108 which expresses the Staff’s views regarding the
process of quantifying financial statement misstatements. The application of SAB 108 did
not have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial
condition.

F-36

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

Quarterly Results of
Operations (Unaudited)

The
following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s unaudited quarterly results of
operations for the years ended December 31, 2006 and 2005, in millions of dollars, except
for per share amounts.

Quarter

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Revenue


$  2,562.9

$  2,823.4

$  2,774.3

$  3,216.2


2,403.0

2,615.8

2,522.9

2,939.4

Operating Profit


284.4

417.4

307.4

474.2


257.3

382.0

274.5

426.1

Income After Income Taxes


178.4

260.2

187.8

298.7


159.1

243.4

171.3

271.7

Net Income


165.7

244.1

177.1

277.2


150.5

225.8

161.7

252.6

Net Income Per Share — Basic


0.94

1.43

1.05

1.64


0.82

1.24

0.90

1.42

Net Income Per Share — Diluted


0.93

1.42

1.04

1.62


0.82

1.24

0.90

1.41

F-37

Schedule II

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION
AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Three Years
Ended December 31, 2006

(Dollars in millions)

Column A

Column B

Column C

Column D

Column D

Column E

Description

Balance at

Beginning

of Period

Charged

to Costs

and Expenses

Removal of

Uncollectible

Receivables (1)

Translation

Adjustments

(Increase)

Decrease

Balance

at End of

Period

Valuation accounts deducted from

assets to which they apply —

Allowance for doubtful accounts:

December 31, 2006

$53.9

$10.7

$16.6

$(2.5

)

$50.5

December 31, 2005

67.8

10.0

19.7

4.2

53.9

December 31, 2004

69.7

19.3

24.0

(2.8

)

67.8

(1)

Net
of  acquisition  date balances in allowance  for doubtful  accounts of companies
 acquired of $0.1  million,  $0.7       million and $0.1 million in 2006, 2005 and 2004,
respectively.

S-1