10-K


e30407-10k.htm

FORM 10-K

UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C.

FORM 10-K

[X]

ANNUAL
      REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF

For fiscal year ended December 31, 2007

Commission File
Number: 1-10551

OMNICOM GROUP INC.

(Exact name of
registrant as specified in its charter)

New York

13-1514814

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

incorporation or organization)

437 Madison Avenue, New York, NY


(Address of principal executive offices)

(Zip Code)

Registrant’s
telephone number, including area code: (212) 415-3600

Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange

on which Registered

Common Stock, $.15 Par
      Value

New York Stock Exchange

Securities
Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405
of the Securities Act.  Yes |X|  No |_|

Indicate
by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes |_|  No |X|

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports) and
(2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes |X|  No |_|

Indicate
by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K (§ 229.405
of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of
registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.  |_|

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,
or a non-accelerated filer. See definition of “accelerated filer and large accelerated
filer” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):  Large accelerated filer |X|  Accelerated
filer |_|  Non-accelerated filer |_|

Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Exchange Act):  Yes |_|  No |X|

At
February 11, 2008, 320,600,000 shares of Omnicom Common Stock, $.15 par value, were
outstanding; the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates as of
the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter
was $17,252,000,000.

Certain
portions of Omnicom’s definitive proxy statement relating to its annual meeting of
shareholders scheduled to be held on May 16, 2008 are incorporated by reference into Part
III of this report.

OMNICOM GROUP INC.

ANNUAL REPORT ON
FORM 10-K FOR

THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2007


Page

PART I

Item 1.

Business


Item 1A.

Risk Factors


Item 1B.

Unresolved
      Staff Comments


Item 2.

Properties


Item 3.

Legal Proceedings


Item 4.

Submission
      of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders


PART II

Item 5.

Market for
      Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases

of Equity Securities


Item 6.

Selected
      Financial Data


Item 7.

Management’s
      Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations


Item 7A.

Quantitative
      and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk


Item 8.

Financial
      Statements and Supplementary Data


Item 9.

Changes in
      and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure


Item 9A.

Controls
      and Procedures


Item 9B.

Other Information


PART III

Item 10.

Directors,
      Executive Officers and Corporate Governance

*

Item 11.

Executive
      Compensation

*

Item 12.

Security
      Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder
      Matters

*

Item 13.

Certain Relationships
      and Related Transactions, and Director Independence

*

Item 14.

Principal
      Accounting Fees and Services

*

PART IV

Item 15.

Exhibits,
      Financial Statement Schedules


Index to
      Financial Statements


Index to
      Financial Statements Schedules


Exhibits


Signatures


Management
      Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting

F-1

Report of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-2

Report of
      Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

F-3

Consolidated
      Financial Statements

F-4

Notes to
      Consolidated Financial Statements

F-8

*

The
information regarding Executive Officers of the Registrant is included in Part I, Item 1,
“Business.” Additional information     called for by Items 10, 11, 12, 13 and 14, to the
extent not included in this document, is incorporated herein by reference to     the
information to be included under the captions “Corporate Governance,” “Certain
Transactions,” “Executive Compensation” and     “Stock Ownership” in our definitive proxy
statement, which is expected to be filed by April 4, 2008.

FORWARD LOOKING
STATEMENTS

Certain
of the statements in this annual report on Form 10-K constitute forward-looking
statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. In
addition, from time to time, we or our representatives have made or may make
forward-looking statements, orally or in writing. These statements relate to future
events or future financial performance and involve known and unknown risks and other
factors that may cause our actual or our industry’s results, levels of activity or
achievement to be materially different from those expressed or implied by any
forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, including those resulting from
specific factors identified under the captions “Risk Factors” and “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,” include, but
are not limited to, our future financial condition and results of operations, changes in
general economic conditions, competitive factors, changes in client communication
requirements, the hiring and retention of personnel, our ability to attract new clients
and retain existing clients, changes in government regulations impacting our advertising
and marketing strategies, risks associated with assumptions we make in connection with
our critical accounting estimates, legal proceedings, settlements, investigations and
claims, and our international operations, which are subject to the risks of currency
fluctuations and exchange controls. In some cases, forward-looking statements can be
identified by terminology such as “may,”  “will,” “could,” “would,” “should,” “expect,” “plan,” “anticipate,” “intend,” “believe,” “estimate,” “predict,” “potential” or
“continue” or the negative of those terms or other comparable terminology. These
statements are our present expectations. Actual events or results may differ. We
undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, except as
required by law.

AVAILABLE INFORMATION

Our
internet address is www.omnicomgroup.com at which we make available, free of charge, our
annual report on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K
and any amendments to those reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we
electronically file or furnish such material with the Securities and Exchange Commission
or the “SEC.” Our SEC reports can be accessed through the investor relations section of
our website. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report
we file with or furnish to the SEC. Any document that we file with the SEC may also be
read and copied at the SEC’s Public Reference Room located at Room 1580, 100 F Street,
N.E., Washington, DC 20549. Please call the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330 for further information
on the public reference room. Our filings are also available from the SEC’s website at
http://www.sec.gov and at the offices of the New York Stock Exchange.

PART I

Introduction

This
report is both our 2007 annual report to shareholders and our 2007 annual report on Form
10-K required under the federal securities laws.

We
are a strategic holding company. We provide professional services to clients through
multiple agencies operating in all major markets around the world. Our companies provide
advertising, marketing and corporate communications services. For simplicity, the terms “Omnicom,” “we,” “our” and
“us” each refer to Omnicom Group Inc. and our subsidiaries unless the context indicates
otherwise.

Item 1. Business

Our
Business:

Omnicom, a strategic holding company, was formed in 1986 by the merger of
several leading advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies. We are one
of the largest advertising, marketing and corporate communications companies in the world
and we operate in a highly competitive industry. The proliferation of media channels,
including the rapid development of interactive technologies and mediums along with their
integration within all offerings, have effectively fragmented mass audiences. These
developments make it increasingly more difficult for marketers to reach their target
audiences in a cost-effective way, causing them to turn to marketing service providers
such as Omnicom for a customized mix of advertising and marketing communications services
designed to make the best use of their total marketing expenditures.

Our
agencies, which operate in all major markets around the world, provide an extensive range
of services which we group into four fundamental disciplines: traditional media
advertising; customer relationship management (“CRM”); public relations; and specialty
communications. The services included in these categories are:

advertising

brand consultancy

corporate social responsibility consulting

crisis communications

custom publishing

database management

digital and interactive marketing

direct marketing

directory advertising

entertainment marketing

environmental design

experiential marketing

field marketing

financial / corporate business-to-business advertising

graphic arts

healthcare communications

instore design

investor relations

marketing research

media planning and buying

mobile marketing services

multi-cultural marketing

non-profit marketing

organizational communications

package design

product placement

promotional marketing

public affairs

public relations

recruitment communications

reputation consulting

retail marketing

search engine marketing

sports and event marketing

Although
the medium used to reach a given client’s target audience may be different across each of
these disciplines, the marketing message is developed and delivered in a similar way by
providing client-specific consulting services.

Our
business model was built and evolves around our clients. While our companies operate
under different names and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our
services around our clients. The fundamental premise of our business is to structure our
business offerings and allocate our resources based on the specific requirements of our
clients. As clients increase their demands for marketing effectiveness and efficiency,
they have tended to consolidate their business with larger, multi-disciplinary agencies
or integrated groups of agencies. Accordingly, our business model demands that multiple
agencies within Omnicom collaborate in formal and informal virtual networks that cut
across internal organizational structures to execute against our clients’specific
marketing requirements. We believe that this organizational philosophy, and our ability
to execute it, helps to differentiate us from our competition.


Our
agency networks and our virtual networks, provide us with the ability to integrate
services across all disciplines. This means that the delivery of these services can, and
does, take place across agencies, networks and geographic regions simultaneously.

Further,
for the longer term, we believe that our virtual network strategy facilitates better
integration of services required by the demands of the marketplace for advertising and
marketing communications services. Our over-arching strategy for our business is to
continue to use our virtual networks to grow our business relationships with our clients.

The
various components of our business and material factors that affected us in 2007 are
discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations” (“MD&A”) of this report. None of our acquisitions in 2007,
2006 or 2005 were material to our consolidated financial position or results of
operations. For information concerning our acquisitions, see Note 2 to our consolidated
financial statements.

Geographic
Regions and Segments:

Our total consolidated revenue is about evenly divided between U.S.
and non-U.S. operations. For financial information concerning domestic and foreign
operations and segment reporting, see our MD&A and Note 5 to our consolidated
financial statements.

Our
Clients:

Consistent with the fundamentals of our business strategy, our agencies serve
similar clients, in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients, across a
variety of geographic regions and locations. Our clients participate in virtually all
industry sectors of the global economy. Furthermore, in many cases, our agencies or
networks serve different product groups within the same clients served by other Omnicom
agencies or networks. For example, our largest client was served by more than 100 of our
agencies in 2007 and represented 2.8% of our 2007 consolidated revenue. No other client
accounted for more than 2.4% of our consolidated 2007 revenue. Each of our top 100
clients was served, on average, by more than 40 of our agencies in 2007 and represented
46.2% of our 2007 consolidated revenue.

Our
Employees:

At December 31, 2007, we employed approximately 70,000 people. We are not
party to any significant collective bargaining agreements. The skill-sets of our
workforce across our agencies and within each discipline are similar. Common to all is
the ability to understand a client’s brand, its selling proposition and the ability to
develop a unique message to communicate the value of the brand to the client’s target
audience. Recognizing the importance of this core competency, we have established
tailored training and education programs for our service professionals around this
competency. See our MD&A for a discussion of the effect of salary and related costs
on our historical results of operations.

Executive
Officers of the Registrant:

Our executive officers as of February 15, 2008 are:

Name

Position

Age

Bruce Crawford

Chairman


John D. Wren

President and Chief Executive
      Officer


Randall J. Weisenburger

Executive Vice President
      and Chief Financial Officer


Michael Birkin

Vice Chairman


Peter Mead

Vice Chairman


Philip J. Angelastro

Senior Vice President Finance
      and Controller


Charles Brymer

President and Chief Executive
      Officer of DDB Worldwide


Thomas Carroll

President and Chief Executive
      Officer of TBWA Worldwide


Thomas L. Harrison

Chairman and Chief Executive
      Officer of Diversified Agency Services (“DAS”)


Michael J. O’Brien

Senior Vice President,
      General Counsel and Secretary


Andrew Robertson

President and Chief Executive
      Officer of BBDO Worldwide


Daryl D. Simm

Chairman and Chief Executive
      Officer of Omnicom Media Group


All
of the executive officers have held their present positions at Omnicom for at least five
years except as specified below.

Michael
Birkin was appointed Vice Chairman, as well as President and CEO of Omnicom Asia-Pacific,
on March 1, 2005. From 1999 to 2005, he served as Worldwide President of DAS. Mr. Birkin
previously served as International President of DAS from 1997 to 1999 and European
Managing Director of DAS from 1995 to 1997.


Charles
Brymer was named President and CEO of DDB Worldwide in April 2006. Formerly, Mr. Brymer
was the Chairman and CEO of Interbrand Group, a global brand consultancy firm.

Thomas
Carroll was named Chief Executive Officer of TBWA Worldwide on December 17, 2007, having
been made President of TBWA Worldwide in September 2006. From August 2004 until September
2006, Mr. Carroll served as Vice Chairman of TBWA Worldwide. Before that, he was
President of TBWA Americas.

Michael
O’Brien joined Omnicom Group Inc. in November 2003 and was appointed Senior Vice
President, General Counsel and Secretary in December 2003. Before that, Mr. O’Brien was a
partner in the law firm of Goodwin Procter LLP.

Andrew
Robertson was named Chief Executive Officer of BBDO Worldwide in May of 2004, having been
made President of BBDO Worldwide in 2002. In 2001, Mr. Robertson was President and CEO of
BBDO North America and was subsequently elected to the Worldwide Board of Directors of
BBDO. He joined BBDO in 1995.

Daryl
Simm was named Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Omnicom Media Group in November
2005. Mr. Simm previously held the position of President and CEO of OMG.

Additional
information about our directors and executive officers appears under the captions “Corporate
Governance,” “Certain Transactions,” “Election of Directors,” “Executive Compensation” and
“Stock Ownership” in our definitive proxy statement, which is expected to be filed by
April 4, 2008.

Item 1A. Risk Factors

Companies
periodically review and change their advertising, marketing and corporate communications
services business models and relationships. If we are unable to remain competitive or
retain key clients, our business and financial results may be materially adversely
affected.

The
businesses in which we participate are highly competitive. Key competitive considerations
for retaining existing business and winning new business include our ability to develop
creative solutions that meet client needs, the quality and effectiveness of the services
we offer, and our ability to efficiently serve clients, particularly large international
clients, on a broad geographic basis. While many of our client relationships are
long-standing, companies put their advertising, marketing and corporate communications
services business up for competitive review from time to time. We have won and lost
accounts in the past as a result of these reviews. To the extent that we are not able to
remain competitive, our revenue may be adversely affected, which could then affect our
results of operations and financial condition.

The success of our
acquiring and retaining clients depends on our ability to avoid and manage conflicts of
interest arising out of other client relationships and retention of key personnel.

Our
ability to retain existing clients and to attract new clients may, in some cases, be
limited by clients’perceptions of, or policies concerning, conflicts of interest arising
out of other client relationships. If we are unable to maintain multiple agencies to
effectively manage multiple client relationships and avoid potential conflicts of
interests, our business and financial results may be materially adversely affected.

In
addition, we may lose or fail to attract and retain key personnel. Our employees are our
most important assets. Our ability to attract and retain key personnel is an important
aspect of our competitiveness. If we are unable to attract and retain key personnel, our
ability to provide our services in the manner our customers have come to expect may be
adversely affected, which could harm our reputation and result in a loss of clients,
which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial
condition.

Government
regulations and consumer advocates may limit the scope of the content of our services,
which could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material
adverse effect on our business.

Government
agencies and consumer groups have directly or indirectly from time to time affected or
attempted to affect the scope, content and manner of presentation of advertising,
marketing and corporate communications services, whether through regulations or other
governmental actions. Any such limitations on the scope of the content of our services
could affect our ability to meet our clients’ needs, which could have a material adverse
effect on our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, there has been
an


increasing tendency on the part of
businesses to resort to the judicial system to challenge advertising practices. We cannot
assure investors that such claims by businesses or governmental agencies will not have a
material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition in the
future.

We receive
approximately 46% of our revenue from our 100 largest clients, and the loss of several of
these clients could adversely impact our prospects, our business and our results of
operations and financial condition.

Our
clients generally are able to reduce advertising and marketing spending or cancel
projects at any time for any reason. It is possible that our clients could reduce
spending in comparison with historical patterns, or they could reduce future spending. A
significant reduction in advertising and marketing spending by our largest clients, or
the loss of several of our largest clients, if not replaced by new client accounts or an
increase in business from existing clients, would adversely affect our revenue, which
could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations and financial condition.

We may be impacted
during periods of economic recession.

Our
business may be adversely affected by downturns in general economic conditions or during
periods of economic recession due to potential reductions in client advertising,
marketing and corporate communications budgets and overall spending levels. The effect of
a reduction in any of these items could have a material adverse effect on our results of
operations and financial condition.

We are a global
service business and face certain risks of doing business abroad, including political
instability and exchange controls, which could have a material adverse effect on our
results of operations.

We
face the risks normally associated with global services businesses. The operational and
financial performance of our businesses are typically tied to overall economic and
regional market conditions, competition for client assignments and talented staff, new
business wins and losses and the risks associated with extensive international
operations. There are some risks of doing business abroad, including those of political
instability and exchange controls, which do not affect domestic-focused firms. For
financial information on our operations by geographic area, see Note 5 to our
consolidated financial statements.

We are exposed to
risks from operating in developing countries.

We
conduct business in various developing countries around the world. The risks associated
with conducting business in developing countries can include slower payment of invoices;
nationalization; social, political and economic instability; and currency repatriation
restrictions, among other risks. In addition, commercial laws in many of these countries
can be vague, inconsistently administered and retroactively applied. If we are deemed not
to be in compliance with applicable laws in developing countries where we conduct
business, our prospects, business, financial condition and results of operations in those
countries could be harmed, which could then have an adverse impact on our results of
operations and financial condition.

Holders of our
convertible notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to $2.0 billion, in whole
or in part, at specified dates in the future.

If
we are required to satisfy a put to repurchase our convertible notes, we expect to have
sufficient available cash and unused credit commitments to fund the put. We also believe
that we will still have ample capacity under our existing credit commitments to meet our
cash requirements for the normal course of our business operations after any put event.
However, in the event that our existing credit commitments or our cash flow from
operations were decreased, we could experience difficulties in funding our business
operations and would have to seek additional funding alternatives as described more fully
in our MD&A. Furthermore, the 2031, 2032, 2033 and 2038 Notes are convertible, at
specified ratios if, in the case of the 2031 Notes and the 2032 Notes, our long-term debt
credit ratings are downgraded to BBB or lower by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service,
or Baa3 or lower by Moody’s Investors Service or in the case of the 2033 and 2038 Notes
to BBB- or lower by S&P, and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s. These events would not,
however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable upon conversion and
would not accelerate the holder’s right to cause us to repurchase the notes.

Downgrades of our
debt credit ratings could adversely affect us.

Standard
and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt A-, Moody’s Investors
Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our
short-term debt ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Our outstanding
senior notes, convertible notes and our existing bank credit facility do not contain
provisions that require acceleration of cash payment upon a downgrade. The interest rates
and fees on our bank credit facility, however, would increase if our long-term debt
credit rating is downgraded. Additionally, our access to the capital markets could be
adversely affected by adverse changes to the short- or long-term debt credit ratings
assigned to us by independent rating agencies.


We may be
unsuccessful in evaluating material risks involved in completed and future acquisitions.

We
regularly review potential acquisitions of businesses we believe may be complementary to
our businesses and client needs. As part of the review we conduct business, legal and
financial due diligence with the goal of identifying and evaluating material risks
involved in any particular transaction. Despite our efforts, we may be unsuccessful in
ascertaining or evaluating all such risks. As a result, we might not realize the intended
advantages of any given acquisition. If we fail to identify certain material risks from
one or more acquisitions, our results of operations and financial condition could be
adversely affected.

Goodwill may become
impaired.

We
have recorded a significant amount of goodwill in our consolidated financial statements
in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (“U.S. GAAP” or “GAAP”)
resulting from our acquisition activities, which principally represents the specialized
know-how of the workforce at the agencies we have acquired. We annually test the carrying
value of goodwill for impairment, as discussed in Note 1 to our consolidated financial
statements. The estimates and assumptions about future results of operations and cash
flows made in connection with the impairment testing could differ from future actual
results of operations and cash flows. While we have concluded, for each year presented in
our financial statements, that our goodwill is not impaired, future events could cause us
to conclude that the asset values associated with a given operation may become impaired.
Any resulting impairment loss could materially adversely affect our results of operations
and financial condition.

Item 1B. Unresolved
Staff Comments

None.

Item 2. Properties

We
maintain office space in many major cities around the world. The facility requirements of
our agencies are similar across geographic regions and disciplines and we believe that
our facilities are in suitable and well-maintained condition for our current operations.
Our facilities are primarily used for office and administrative purposes by our employees
in performing professional services. Our principal corporate offices are at 437 Madison
Avenue, New York, New York and One East Weaver Street, Greenwich, Connecticut. We also
maintain executive offices in London, England, Shanghai, China and Tokyo, Japan.

Substantially
all of our office space is leased from third parties with varying expiration dates
ranging from one to 20 years. Certain of our leases are subject to rent reviews or
contain various escalation clauses and certain of our leases require us to pay various
operating expenses, which may also be subject to escalation. Leases are generally
denominated in the local currency of the operating entity. Our consolidated office rent
expense was $384.7 million in 2007, $351.9 million in 2006 and $352.6 million in 2005,
after reduction for rents received from subleases of $22.4 million, $22.3 million and
$23.5 million, respectively.

Our
obligations for future minimum base rents under terms of non-cancelable real estate
leases reduced by rents receivable from non-cancelable subleases are (in millions):

Net Rent


$356.7


324.7


287.3


243.2


208.0

Thereafter

760.3

See
Note 10 to our consolidated financial statements for a discussion of our lease
commitments and our MD&A for the impact of leases on our operating expenses.


Item 3. Legal
Proceedings

Beginning
on June 13, 2002, several putative class actions were filed against us and certain senior
executives in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The
actions have since been consolidated under the caption

In re Omnicom Group Inc.
Securities Litigation

, No. 02-CV-4483 (RCC), on behalf of a proposed class of purchasers
of our common stock between February 20, 2001 and June 11, 2002. The consolidated
complaint alleges, among other things, that our public filings and other public
statements during that period contained false and misleading statements or omitted to
state material information relating to (1) our calculation of the organic growth
component of period-to-period revenue growth, (2) our valuation of and accounting for
certain internet investments made by our Communicade Group (“Communicade”), which we
contributed to Seneca Investments LLC (“Seneca”) in 2001, and (3) the existence and
amount of certain contingent future obligations in respect of acquisitions. The complaint
seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory damages plus costs and attorneys’ fees.
Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint and on March 28, 2005, the court dismissed
portions (1) and (3) of the complaint detailed above. The court’s decision denying the
defendants’ motion to dismiss the remainder of the complaint did not address the ultimate
merits of the case, but only the sufficiency of the pleading. Defendants have answered
the complaint. Discovery concluded in the second quarter of 2007. On April 30, 2007, the
court granted plaintiff’s motion for class certification, certifying the class proposed
by plaintiffs. In the third quarter of 2007 defendants filed a motion for summary
judgment on plaintiff’s remaining claim. On January 28, 2008, the court granted defendants’ motion
in its entirety, dismissing all claims and directing the court to close the case. On
February 4, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a notice of intent to appeal that decision to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

In
addition, on June 28, 2002, a derivative action was filed on behalf of Omnicom in New
York state court. On February 18, 2005, a second shareholder derivative action, again
purportedly brought on behalf of the Company, was filed in New York state court. The
derivative actions have been consolidated before one New York State Justice and the
plaintiffs have filed an amended consolidated complaint. The consolidated derivative
complaint questions the business judgment of certain current and former directors of
Omnicom, by challenging, among other things, the valuation of and accounting for the
internet investments made by Communicade and the contribution of those investments to
Seneca. The consolidated complaint alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary
duties of good faith. The lawsuit seeks from the directors the amount of profits received
from selling Omnicom stock and other unspecified damages to be paid to the Company, as
well as costs and attorneys’ fees. The defendants moved to dismiss the derivative
complaint on the procedural ground that plaintiffs had failed to make a demand on the
board. On June 27, 2006, the trial court entered a decision denying the motion to
dismiss. The decision did not address the merits of the allegations, but rather accepted
the allegations as true for the purposes of the motion (as the Court was required to do)
and excused plaintiffs from making a demand on the board. In the first quarter of 2007,
defendants appealed the trial court’s decision. On September 25, 2007, the New York
Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department issued a decision reversing the trial
court and dismissing the derivative claims. Plaintiffs served defendants with a motion
seeking reargument of the appeal or, in the alternative, for permission to appeal the
decision to the Court of Appeals, New York’s highest court. On January 31, 2008, the
court denied the plaintiff’s motion.

The
defendants in both cases believe that the allegations against them are baseless and
intend to vigorously oppose the lawsuits. Currently, we are unable to determine the
outcome of these cases and the effect on our financial position or results of operations.
The outcome of any of these matters is inherently uncertain and may be affected by future
events. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate effect of these matters.

We
are also involved from time to time in various legal proceedings in the ordinary course
of business. We do not presently expect that these proceedings will have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

Item 4. Submission of
Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Our
annual shareholders’ meeting has historically been held in the second quarter of the
year. No matters were submitted to a vote of our shareholders during the last quarter of
2007.


PART II

Item 5. Market for
Registrant’s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity
Securities

Our
common shares are listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the symbol “OMC.” On
February 11, 2008, we had 2,995 holders of record of our common shares. On June 25, 2007,
pursuant to a two-for-one stock split which was effected in the form of a 100% stock
dividend, each shareholder received one additional share of Omnicom Group Inc. common
stock for each share held on June 6, 2007. In connection with the stock split, quarterly
high and low common share sales prices, dividends paid, dividends declared, all current
and prior period earnings per share data, share amounts and other per share data have
been adjusted to reflect the stock split in accordance with Statement of Financial
Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 128, “Earnings per Share.”

The
table below shows the range of quarterly high and low sales prices reported on the New
York Stock Exchange Composite Tape for our common shares and the dividends paid per share
for these periods.

Period

High

Low

Dividends Paid

Per Share

Q1 2006

$43.53

$39.38

$0.125

Q2 2006

48.32

40.92

0.125

Q3 2006

47.39

42.06

0.125

Q4 2006

53.03

46.51

0.125

Q1 2007

$53.45

$50.29

$0.125

Q2 2007

54.68

50.56

0.125

Q3 2007

55.45

47.41

0.150

Q4 2007

53.07

45.82

0.150

The
following table presents information with respect to purchases of common stock made
during the three months ended December 31, 2007, by us or any of our “affiliated
purchasers.”

During the month:

(a)

Total

Number of

Shares Purchased(1)

(b)

Average

Price Paid

Per Share

(c)

Total Number

of Shares Purchased

As Part of Publicly

Announced Plans

or Programs

(d)

Maximum Number

of Shares that May

Yet Be Purchased Under

Publicly Announced

Plans or Programs

October 2007

100,000

$49.50

—

—

November 2007

670,000

49.91

—

—

December 2007

293,900

48.33

—

—

Total

1,063,900

$49.43

—

—

(1)

The
shares were purchased in the open market for general corporate purchases.

Item 6. Selected
Financial Data

The
following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with our consolidated
financial statements and related notes that begin on page F-1 of this report, as well as
our MD&A.

In
accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (“SFAS 123”), as
amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation - Transition and
Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No. 123 (“SFAS 148”), we elected, effective
January 1, 2004, to account for stock-based employee compensation using the fair value
method. As a result, the fair value of stock-based employee compensation, including
unvested employee stock options issued and outstanding, was recorded as an expense in the
current period and all prior periods presented utilizing the retroactive restatement
method as set forth in SFAS 148. Accordingly, our results for the prior periods have been
restated as if we had used the fair value method to account for stock-based employee
compensation.


(Dollars in millions, except
      per share amounts)

For the years
      ended December 31:






Revenue

$12,694.0

$11,376.9

$10,481.1

$9,747.2

$8,621.4

Operating Profit

1,659.1

1,483.5

1,339.8

1,215.4

1,091.9

Income After Income Taxes

1,048.2

925.0

845.3

782.5

696.1

Net Income

975.7

864.0

790.7

723.5

631.0

Net Income Per Common Share:

Basic

2.99

2.52

2.19

1.95

1.68

Diluted

2.95

2.50

2.18

1.94

1.68

Dividends
      Declared Per

Common
      Share

0.575

0.500

0.4625

0.450

0.400

(Dollars in millions, except
      per share amounts)

As of December
      31:






Cash, cash equivalents
      and

short-term
      investments

$  1,841.0

$  1,928.8

$  1,209.9

$  1,739.6

$  1,548.9

Total Assets

19,271.7

17,804.7

15,919.9

16,002.4

14,620.0

Long-Term Obligations:

Long-term
      debt

1,013.2

1,013.2

18.2

19.1

197.3

Convertible
      notes

2,041.5

2,041.5

2,339.3

2,339.3

2,339.3

Deferred
      compensation and

other
      liabilities

481.2

305.8

298.4

309.1

326.5

On
June 25, 2007, pursuant to a two-for-one stock split which was effected in the form of a
100% stock dividend, each shareholder received one additional share of Omnicom Group Inc.
common stock for each share held on June 6, 2007. In connection with the stock split,
dividends declared and all current and prior period earnings per share data have been
adjusted to reflect the stock split in accordance with SFAS No. 128 “Earnings per Share.”


Item 7. Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations

Executive Summary

We
are a strategic holding company. We provide professional services to clients through
multiple agencies around the world. On a global, pan-regional and local basis, our
agencies provide these services in the following disciplines: traditional media
advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications. Our business model was
built and evolves around our clients. While our companies operate under different names
and frame their ideas in different disciplines, we organize our services around our
clients. The fundamental premise of our business is that our clients’ specific
requirements should be the central focus in how we structure our business offerings and
allocate our resources. This client-centric business model results in multiple agencies
collaborating in formal and informal virtual networks that cut across internal
organizational structures to deliver consistent brand messages for a specific client and
execute against each of our client’s specific marketing requirements. We continually seek
to grow our business with our existing clients by maintaining our client-centric
approach, as well as expanding our existing business relationships into new markets and
with new clients. In addition, we pursue selective acquisitions of complementary
companies with strong, entrepreneurial management teams that typically either currently
serve or have the ability to serve our existing client base.

Improving
economic conditions in recent years, combined with business trends that include our
clients increasingly expanding the focus of their brand strategies from national markets
to pan-regional and global markets and migrating from traditional marketing channels to
non-traditional channels, as well as the emergence of new media outlets utilizing
interactive technologies, have positively affected our business and our industry.
Additionally, in an effort to gain greater efficiency and effectiveness from their total
marketing dollars, clients are increasingly requiring greater coordination of marketing
activities and concentrating these activities with a smaller number of service providers.

In
prior years, our industry was negatively affected during periods of economic downturn and
geopolitical unrest. During these times, our industry experienced slower growth rates and
industry-wide margin contraction. However, during these periods, we continued to invest
in our businesses and our personnel and took action to reduce costs at some of our
agencies to address these changing economic circumstances. Although future economic
conditions are uncertain, as a result of these previous actions, our past experience
during a slowing economy and the diversification of our businesses geographically and by
service offering, we believe we can continue to invest in our business if future periods
of economic slowdown occur.

The
diversity and balance of our portfolio of companies and service offerings have enabled us
to continue to grow our revenue, operating income, net income and earnings per share. In
the United States, revenue grew at a rate of 8.2% in 2007, which is above our prior year’s
rate of 7.8%. On a constant currency basis, revenue growth for our international business
increased by 7.2% in 2007, which is a decrease from our prior year’s rate of 7.9%.
Overall, in the past year, we believe that our businesses have performed well across our
operating regions. In addition, we expect to continue to increase our investment in the
Asian market which we believe will grow rapidly in the future. We also plan to focus on
businesses that will complement and enhance our existing strategic platforms and service
capabilities to better serve our clients in various regions.

In
2007, we experienced an increase in our operating margins over the previous year. This
improvement is the result of our new business initiatives and wins, as well as our cost
management actions. Our operating margin for 2007 was 13.1% compared to 13.0% in 2006. We
will continue our efforts to align our costs with business levels on a
location-by-location basis and pursue a strategy of optimizing our operating margins
while maintaining a high level of investment in our people and our businesses.

Given
our size and breadth, we manage our business by monitoring several financial indicators.
The key indicators that we review are revenue and operating expenses.

We
analyze revenue growth by reviewing the components and mix of the growth, including
growth by major geographic location, growth by major marketing discipline, growth from
currency fluctuations, growth from acquisitions and growth from our largest clients.


In
recent years, our revenue has been divided almost evenly between domestic and
international operations. In 2007, our overall revenue growth was 11.6%, of which 3.8%
was related to changes in foreign exchange rates and 0.7% was related to the acquisition
of entities, net of entities disposed. The remainder, 7.1%, was organic growth.

In
2007, traditional media advertising represented about 43% of the total revenue and grew
by 12.0% over the prior year. CRM represented about 37% of the total revenue and grew by
14.1% over the previous year. Public relations represented about 10% of the total revenue
and grew by 11.1% over the prior year and specialty communications represented about 10%
of total revenue and grew by 2.5% over the prior year.

We
measure operating expenses in two distinct cost categories, salary and service costs, and
office and general expenses. Salary and service costs are primarily comprised of employee
compensation related costs and office and general expenses are primarily comprised of
rent and occupancy costs, technology related costs and depreciation and amortization.
Each of our agencies requires service professionals with a skill set that is common
across our disciplines. At the core of this skill set is the ability to understand a
client’s brand and its selling proposition, and the ability to develop a unique message
to communicate the value of the brand to the client’s target audience. The facility
requirements of our agencies are similar across geographic regions and disciplines, and
their technology requirements are generally limited to personal computers, servers and
off-the-shelf software.

Because
we are a service business, we monitor salary and service costs and office and general
costs as a percentage of revenue. Salary and service costs tend to fluctuate in
conjunction with changes in revenue. Office and general expenses, which are not directly
related to servicing clients, are less directly linked to changes in our revenues than
salary and service costs. These costs tend to increase as revenue increases, however, the
rate of increase in these expenses could be more, or less than the rate of increase in
our revenues. During 2007, salary and service costs were relatively stable at 71.0% of
revenue versus 71.1% of revenue in 2006. This level of expense corresponds with increased
revenue levels and the necessary increases in direct salaries, salary-related costs and
freelance labor costs necessary to deliver our services and pursue new business
initiatives, as well as increases in incentive-based compensation costs. Office and
general expenses increased slightly during 2007 to 16.0% of revenue from 15.9% in 2006,
but remained flat year-over-year on a constant currency basis.

Our
net income for 2007 increased by 12.9% to $975.7 million from $864.0 million in 2006 and
our diluted EPS increased by 18.0% to $2.95 from $2.50 in the prior year for the reasons
described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average shares
outstanding for the year. This reduction was the result of our purchases of treasury
shares net of option exercises and share issuances under our employee stock purchase plan.

Critical Accounting
Policies and New Accounting Pronouncements

Critical Accounting
Policies

We
have prepared the following summary of our critical accounting policies to assist the
reader in better understanding our financial statements and the related MD&A. We
believe that the following policies may involve a higher degree of judgment and
complexity in their application and represent the critical accounting policies used in
the preparation of our financial statements. Readers are encouraged to consider this
summary together with our consolidated financial statements and the related notes to our
consolidated financial statements, including our discussion in Note 1 setting forth our
accounting policies in greater detail, for a more complete understanding of critical
accounting policies discussed below.

Estimates:

Our financial statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. GAAP and require us to make
estimates and assumptions. These estimates and assumptions affect the reported amounts of
assets and liabilities including valuation allowances for receivables and deferred tax
assets, accruals for incentive compensation and the disclosure of contingent liabilities
at the date of the financial statements, as well as the reported amounts of revenue and
expenses during a reporting period. We evaluate these estimates on an ongoing basis and
we base our estimates on historical experience, current conditions and various other
assumptions we believe are reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results can differ
from those estimates, and it is possible that the differences could be material.


A
fair value approach is used in testing goodwill for impairment under SFAS 142 and when
evaluating cost-based investments, which consist of ownership interests in non-public
companies, to determine if an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred. We consider
and use several comparable market participant measurements to determine fair value,
including consideration of similar and recent transactions and when available and as
appropriate, we use comparative market multiples. We also use a discounted expected cash
flow methodology. Numerous estimates and assumptions have to be made when completing a
discounted expected cash flow valuation, including estimates and assumptions regarding
interest rates, appropriate discount rates and capital structure. Additionally, estimates
must be made regarding revenue growth, operating margins, tax rates, working capital
requirements and capital expenditures. Judgment is required when determining fair value,
including when we evaluate the applicability of similar and recent transactions, and when
determining the appropriate comparative market multiples to be used. Actual results of
operations, cash flows and other factors used in a discounted expected cash flow
valuation will likely differ from the estimates used and it is possible that differences
could be material. Additional information about impairment testing under SFAS 142 and
valuation of cost-based investments appears in Note 1 to our consolidated financial
statements, as well as Note 6 with respect to our cost-based investments.

A
fair value approach is used in determining the award value of stock-based employee
compensation in accordance with SFAS 123R. We utilize the Black-Scholes option valuation
model to determine the fair value of option awards. This valuation model uses several
assumptions and estimates such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility
and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used to determine the
fair value, our actual results of operations and cash flows would likely differ from the
estimates used and it is possible that differences and changes could be material.
Additional information about these assumptions and estimates appears in Note 7 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Acquisitions
and Goodwill:

We have historically made and expect to continue to make selective
acquisitions. In making acquisitions, the price we pay is determined by various factors,
including specialized know-how, reputation, competitive position, geographic coverage and
service offerings, as well as our experience and judgment. The amount we paid for
acquisitions, including cash, stock and assumption of net liabilities, totaled $378.3
million in 2007 and $311.4 million in 2006. Approximately 42% and 51%, respectively, of
these amounts related to contingent purchase price obligations, sometimes referred to as
earn-outs, paid during the respective year related to acquisitions previously completed.

A
summary of our contingent purchase price obligations and obligations to purchase
additional interests in certain subsidiary and affiliate companies is set forth in the “Liquidity
and Capital Resources” section of this MD&A. The amount of contingent purchase price
obligations and obligations to purchase additional interests in certain subsidiary and
affiliate companies are based on future performance. Contingent purchase price
obligations are accrued, in accordance with GAAP, when the contingency is resolved and
payment is certain.

Our
acquisition strategy has been focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled
workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various
strategic business platforms and agency brands through the expansion of their geographic
reach and/or their service capabilities to better serve our clients. Additional key
factors we consider include the competitive position and specialized know-how of the
acquisition targets. Accordingly, like most service businesses, a substantial portion of
the intangible asset value that we acquire is the know-how of the people, which is
treated as part of goodwill and, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations (“SFAS
141”), is not valued separately. For each of our acquisitions, we undertake a detailed
review to identify other intangible assets and a valuation is performed for all such
assets identified. The majority of the value of the identifiable intangible assets that
we acquire is derived from customer relationships. When making the necessary valuation
assumptions of these identified intangible assets, we typically use an income approach
and consider comparable market participant measurements. The expected benefits of our
acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies as they work together to
integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy.

We
evaluate goodwill for impairment annually. In accordance with paragraph 30 of SFAS 142,
we identified our regional reporting units as components of our operating segments, which
are our five agency networks. The regional reporting units of each agency network are
responsible for the agencies in their region. They report to the segment managers and
facilitate the administrative and logistical requirements of our client-centric strategy
for delivering services to clients in their regions. We then concluded that for each of
our


operating segments, their regional
reporting units had similar economic characteristics and should be aggregated for
purposes of testing goodwill for impairment at the operating segment level. Our
conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the aggregation criteria set forth in
paragraph 17 of SFAS No.131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information (“SFAS 131”), and the guidance set forth in EITF D-101: Clarification of
Reporting Unit Guidance in Paragraph 30 of FASB Statement No. 142. Consistent with the
fundamentals of our business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units
serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In
addition, the agencies within our regional reporting units have similar economic
characteristics, as the main economic components of each agency are the salary and
service costs associated with providing professional services, the office and general
costs associated with office space and occupancy, and the provision of technology
requirements which are generally limited to personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf
software. Finally, the expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across
multiple agencies and regions as they work together to integrate the acquired agency into
our client service strategy. Based on the results of our impairment testing, we concluded
that the fair value of our reporting units exceeded their book value and therefore, our
goodwill was not impaired.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS 141R”).
SFAS 141R will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early
adoption is prohibited and SFAS 141R will apply to business combinations entered into
after January 1, 2009. We will adopt SFAS 141R on January 1, 2009. SFAS 141R will
require, among other things that: the acquirer record 100% of the assets acquired and
liabilities assumed even when less than 100% of the target is acquired; all transaction
costs and expenses be expensed as incurred; and, a liability for contingent purchase
price obligations (earn-outs), if any, be recorded at the acquisition date and remeasured
at fair value and included in earnings in each subsequent reporting period.

Additional
information about acquisitions and goodwill appears in Notes 1 and 2 to our consolidated
financial statements.

Revenue
Recognition:

Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services or a rate
per hour, or equivalent basis, and revenue is realized when the service is performed in
accordance with terms of each client arrangement, upon completion of the earnings process
and when collection is reasonably assured. We record revenue net of sales tax, use tax
and value added tax. Certain of our businesses earn a portion of their revenue as
commissions based upon performance in accordance with client arrangements.

These
principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client
arrangements in each of our service disciplines – traditional media advertising, CRM,
public relations and specialty communications.

More
specifically, in compliance with Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 101 “Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements” (“SAB 101”), as updated by SAB 104 “Revenue
Recognition” (“SAB 104”), our policy requires the following key elements to be satisfied
prior to recognizing revenue: persuasive evidence of an arrangement must exist; the sales
price must be fixed or determinable; delivery, performance and acceptance must be in
accordance with the client arrangement and collection is reasonably assured.

Because
the services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to
clients in similar ways, all of the key elements set forth above apply to client
arrangements in each of our four disciplines.

In
the majority of our businesses, we act as an agent and record revenue equal to the net
amount retained, when the fee or commission is earned. In certain cases, we contract
directly with suppliers for media payments and third-party production costs and are
responsible for their payment, recharging our clients for all costs incurred. Although we
may bear credit risk in respect of these activities, the arrangements with our clients
are such that, in effect, we act as an agent on their behalf. In these cases, costs
incurred with external suppliers are excluded from our revenue.

A
small portion of our contractual arrangements with clients include performance incentive
provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to both
quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize this portion of revenue when the
specific quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative
goals is determined by our clients. Additional information about our revenue recognition
appears in Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements.


Employee
Stock-Based Compensation:

On January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004),
Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”). Our outstanding stock-based compensation awards are
principally stock options and restricted stock. In accordance with SFAS 123R, because our
awards are share settled, we record employee stock-based compensation at fair value on
the date of grant. On January 1, 2004, we had elected to adopt SFAS 123, as amended by
SFAS 148 and, as provided by SFAS 148, we elected to apply it retroactively. Accordingly,
our Net Income for all years presented includes a compensation charge for the grant date
fair value of all stock-based compensation awards in the respective year the award was
earned.

As
a result of our election in 2004 to adopt SFAS 123, as amended by SFAS 148, the adoption
of SFAS 123R in 2006 did not have a significant effect on our financial statements. SFAS
123R requires, among other things, that we record stock-based compensation net of an
estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. On January 1, 2006, we recorded an
increase to our Operating Income and Net Income of $3.6 million and $2.0 million,
respectively, as a result of the cumulative effect of this change in accounting for
forfeitures. However, because this adjustment was not significant, we did not present it
on an after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of an accounting change on our income
statement.

In
estimating the grant date of fair value stock option awards, we use certain assumptions
and estimates to derive fair value, such as expected term, rate of risk free interest,
volatility and dividend yield. If different assumptions and estimates were used, the
amounts charged to compensation expense would be different. However, due to limited stock
option award activity in the past several years and given that most stock option awards
that are outstanding have been fully expensed in our financial statement, the impact of
using different assumptions and estimates would not be material on our current results of
operations.

Pre-tax
stock-based employee compensation expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and
2005, was $68.7 million, $71.1 million and $87.0 million, respectively. Information about
our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 7 to our consolidated financial
statements.

Additional
information regarding the changes required by SFAS 123R and its impact on our financial
statements can be found in Note 1 and Note 7 to our consolidated financial statements.

New Accounting
Pronouncements

In
addition to those discussed previously, additional information regarding new accounting
pronouncements can also be found in Note 13 to our consolidated financial statements.
Note 1 to our consolidated financial statements also includes a summary of our
significant accounting policies.


Financial Results from
Operations — 2007 Compared with 2006

The
following year-over-year analysis gives further details and insight into the changes in
our financial performance.

Revenue:

When comparing performance between years, we discuss non-GAAP financial measures such as
the impact that foreign currency rate changes, acquisitions/dispositions and organic
growth have on reported revenue. We derive significant revenue from international
operations and changes in foreign currency rates between the years impact our reported
results. Our reported results are also impacted by our acquisition and disposition
activity and organic growth. Accordingly, we provide this information to supplement the
discussion of changes in revenue period-to-period.

Our
2007 consolidated worldwide revenue increased 11.6% to $12,694.0 million from $11,376.9
million in 2006. The effect of foreign exchange impacts increased worldwide revenue by
$436.8 million. Acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased 2007 worldwide revenue by
$77.7 million and organic growth increased worldwide revenue by $802.6 million. The
components of total 2007 revenue growth in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the
world (“international”) are summarized below (dollars in millions):

Total

Domestic

International

$

%

$

%

$

%

December 31,

$11,376.9

—

$6,194.0

—

$5,182.9

—

Components of revenue changes:

Foreign exchange impact

436.8

3.8

%

—

—

436.8

8.4

%

Acquisitions, net of dispositions

77.7

0.7

%

42.5

0.7

%

35.2

0.7

%

Organic

802.6

7.1

%

467.7

7.6

%

334.9

6.5

%

December 31, 2007

$12,694.0

11.6

%

$6,704.2

8.2

%

$5,989.8

15.6

%

The
components and percentages are calculated as follows:

•

The
foreign exchange impact component shown in the table is calculated by first converting
the current            period’s local currency revenue using the average exchange rates
from the equivalent prior period to            arrive at a constant currency revenue (in
this case $12,257.2 million for the Total column in the            table).


The
foreign exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S.
           Dollars and the current period revenue in constant currency (in this case
$12,694.0 million less            $12,257.2 million for the Total column in the table).

•

The
acquisition component shown in the table is calculated by aggregating the applicable
prior period            revenue of the acquired businesses. Netted against this number is
the revenue of any business included            in the prior period reported revenue that
was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.

•

The
organic component shown in the table is calculated by subtracting both the foreign
exchange and            acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.

•

The
percentage change shown in the table of each component is calculated by dividing the
individual            component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component
(in this case $11,376.9 million for            the Total column in the table).

The
components of 2007 revenue and revenue growth compared to 2006 in our primary geographic
markets are summarized and discussed below (dollars in millions):

Revenue

% Growth

United States

$  6,704.2

8.2

%

Euro Markets

2,709.7

16.9

%

United Kingdom

1,393.8

13.3

%

Other

1,886.3

15.3

%

Total

$12,694.0

11.6

%

As
indicated, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $436.8 million
for 2007. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening of the Euro,
British Pound, Australian Dollar and Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar, which was
offset primarily by the decline of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar. Assuming
exchange rates at January 31, 2008 remain unchanged, we expect foreign exchange impacts
to increase our full-year 2008 consolidated revenue by between 1.5% and 2.5%. Additional
geographic information relating to our business is contained in Note 5 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Due
to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business
from clients each year. The net result in 2007, and historically each year for us as a
whole, was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to
broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest
client represented 2.8% of our worldwide revenue in 2007 and 3.6% in 2006. No other
client represented more than 2.4% in 2007 or more than 2.9% in 2006. Our ten largest and
100 largest clients represented 16.7% and 46.2% of our 2007 worldwide revenue,
respectively, and 18.3% and 46.2% of our 2006 worldwide revenue, respectively.

Driven
by our clients’ continuous demand for more effective and efficient branding activities,
we strive to provide an extensive range of advertising, marketing and corporate
communications services through various client-centric networks that are organized to
meet specific client objectives. These services include advertising, brand consultancy,
crisis communications, custom publishing, database management, digital and interactive
marketing, direct marketing, directory advertising, entertainment marketing,
environmental design, experiential marketing, field marketing, financial / corporate
business-to-business advertising, graphic arts, healthcare communications, instore
design, investor relations, marketing research, media planning and buying, mobile
marketing services, multi-cultural marketing, non-profit marketing, organizational
communications, package design, product placement, promotional marketing, public affairs,
public relations, recruitment communications, reputation consulting, retail marketing,
search engine marketing and sports and event marketing. In an effort to monitor the
changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of our services to key
clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and group them into the
following four categories as summarized below: traditional media advertising, CRM, public
relations and specialty communications.


Year Ended December 31,
      (Dollars in millions)



2007 vs 2006

Revenue

% of

Revenue

Revenue

% of

Revenue

$

Growth

%

Growth

Traditional media
      advertising

$  5,463.7

43.0

%

$  4,879.2

42.9

%

$   584.5

12.0

%

CRM

4,645.7

36.6

%

4,072.6

35.8

%

573.1

14.1

%

Public relations

1,273.1

10.0

%

1,145.8

10.1

%

127.3

11.1

%

Specialty communications

1,311.5

10.4

%

1,279.3

11.2

%

32.2

2.5

%

$12,694.0

$11,376.9

$1,317.1

11.6

%

Operating
  Expenses:

Our 2007 worldwide operating expenses increased $1,141.5 million,
  or 11.5%, to $11,034.9 million from $9,893.4 million in 2006, as shown below.

Year Ended December 31,
      (Dollars in millions)



2007 vs 2006

$

% of

Revenue

% of

Total

Operating

Expenses

$

% of

Revenue

% of

Total

Operating

Expenses

$

Growth

%

Growth

Revenue

$12,694.0

$11,376.9

$1,317.1

11.6

%

Operating Expenses:

Salary
      and service costs

9,008.2

71.0

%

81.6

%

8,087.8

71.1

%

81.7

%

920.4

11.4

%

Office
      and general expenses

2,026.7

16.0

%

18.4

%

1,805.6

15.9

%

18.3

%

221.1

12.2

%

Total Operating Expenses

11,034.9

86.9

%

9,893.4

87.0

%

1,141.5

11.5

%

Operating Profit

$  1,659.1

13.1

%

$  1,483.5

13.0

%

$   175.6

11.8

%

Because
we provide professional services, salary and service costs represent the largest part of
our operating expenses. During 2007, we continued to invest in our businesses and their
professional personnel. As a percentage of total operating expenses, salary and service
costs were 81.6% in 2007 and 81.7% in 2006. These costs are comprised of salary and
related costs and direct service costs. Most, or $920.4 million and 80.6%, of the
$1,141.5 million increase in total operating expenses in 2007 resulted from increases in
salary and service costs. This increase was attributable to the increase in our revenue
in 2007 and the necessary increases in the direct costs required to deliver our services
and pursue new business initiatives, including direct salaries, salary related costs and
direct service costs, including freelance labor costs and direct administrative costs,
such as travel, as well as increases in incentive-based compensation costs. This increase
was partially offset by reductions in employee stock-based compensation expense. As a
result, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue were relatively stable
year-to-year at 71.1% in 2006 compared to 71.0% in 2007.

Office
and general expenses represented 18.4% and 18.3% of our operating expenses in 2007 and
2006, respectively. These costs are comprised of office and equipment rents, technology
costs and depreciation, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, professional fees
and other overhead expenses. As a percentage of revenue, office and general expenses
increased marginally in 2007 from 15.9% to 16.0%, but remained flat year-over-year on a
constant currency basis. These costs are less directly linked to changes in our revenues
than our salary and service costs. Although they tend to increase as our revenues
increase, the rate of increase could be more, or less than the rate of increase in our
revenues.

We
expect we will continue our efforts to align our costs with business levels on a
location-by-location basis and pursue a strategy of optimizing our operating margins and
maintaining a high level of investment in our people and our businesses as we look for
ways to increase the variability of our cost structure.

Included
in office and general expense for 2006 operating margin is a pre-tax net loss of $0.5
million arising from the sale in the third quarter of a U.S.-based healthcare business
and several small businesses. The sale of the healthcare business resulted in a high book
tax rate primarily caused by the non-deductibility of goodwill. This increase in income
tax expense was more than offset by a one-time reduction of income tax expense from the
resolution of uncertainties related to changes in certain foreign tax laws. The aggregate
impact of these events was a decrease in profit before tax of $0.5 million, a decrease in
tax expense of $1.8 million and an increase in net income of $1.3 million.


Net
Interest Expense:

Our net interest expense decreased by $17.6 million in 2007 to $74.0
million, as compared to $91.6 million in 2006. Our gross interest expense decreased by
$18.0 million to $106.9 million. The decrease was primarily impacted by interest expense
savings associated with the amortization in accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”)
No. 96-19, Debtor’s Accounting for a Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments (“EITF
96-19”), of supplemental interest payments made with respect to our 2031 and 2032 Notes
that were made in 2006, but not in 2007. This reduction was offset by $14.7 million of
additional interest costs in the first quarter of 2007, compared to the first quarter of
2006, related to the issuance in late March 2006 of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15,
2006 (“Senior Notes”). During the third quarter of 2007, volatility in the financial
markets resulted in an increase in borrowing spreads in the commercial paper markets. To
mitigate the effect of these increased spreads, we arranged for $300 million in unsecured
uncommitted lines of credit and shifted funding a portion of our daily needs to these
lines from our commercial paper program. There were no borrowings outstanding under these
lines at December 31, 2007, as these lines were terminated during the fourth quarter of
2007.

In
February 2008, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $9.00 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2031 Notes as of February 4, 2008 who did not
put their notes back to us. None of the 2031 Notes were put back to us and on February 8,
2008, noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $7.6 million that
will be amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in accordance with
EITF 96-19. Because we made a supplemental interest payment on our 2031 Notes in 2008,
but we did not make a similar interest payment in 2007, interest expense will increase by
$7.0 million in 2008.

See
“Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our indebtedness and related
matters.

Income
Taxes:

Our 2007 consolidated effective income tax rate was 33.9%, which is up slightly
from our 2006 rate of 33.5%. Excluding the net reduction in income tax expense in 2006
resulting from the resolution of uncertainties in the third quarter related to changes in
certain tax laws, that was somewhat offset by a high book tax rate related to
dispositions in the third quarter of 2006, the tax rate in 2006 would have been 33.7%
which is more in line with the 2007 rate. In connection with our adoption of FIN 48,
there was no significant change to our effective tax rate in 2007.

Earnings
Per Share (EPS):

For the foregoing reasons, our net income in 2007 increased $111.7
million, or 12.9%, to $975.7 million from $864.0 million in 2006. Diluted earnings per
share increased 18.0% to $2.95 in 2007, as compared to $2.50 in the prior year for the
reasons described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average
shares outstanding for the year. The reduction in our weighted average common shares
outstanding was the result of our purchases throughout 2006 and 2007 of treasury shares,
net of shares issued upon option exercises and shares issued under our employee stock
purchase plan.


Financial Results from
Operations — 2006 Compared with 2005

The
following year-over-year analysis gives further details and insight into the changes in
our financial performance.

Revenue:

When comparing performance between years, we discuss non-GAAP financial measures such as
the impact that foreign currency rate changes, acquisitions/dispositions and organic
growth have on reported revenue. We derive significant revenue from international
operations and changes in foreign currency rates between the years impact our reported
results. Our reported results are also impacted by our acquisition and disposition
activity and organic growth. Accordingly, we provide this information to supplement the
discussion of changes in revenue period-to-period.

Our
2006 consolidated worldwide revenue increased 8.5% to $11,376.9 million from $10,481.1
million in 2005. The effect of foreign exchange impacts increased worldwide revenue by
$72.3 million. Acquisitions, net of dispositions, increased 2006 worldwide revenue by
$25.9 million and organic growth increased worldwide revenue by $797.6 million. The
components of total 2006 revenue growth in the U.S. (“domestic”) and the remainder of the
world (“international”) are summarized below (dollars in millions):

Total

Domestic

International

$

%

$

%

$

%

December 31,

$10,481.1

—

$5,743.9

—

$ 4,737.2

—

Components of revenue changes:

Foreign
      exchange impact

72.3

0.7

%

—

—

72.3

1.5

%

Acquisitions,
      net of dispositions

25.9

0.2

%

34.6

0.6

%

(8.7

)

(0.2

)%

Organic

797.6

7.6

%

415.5

7.2

%

382.1

8.1

%

December 31, 2006

$11,376.9

8.5

%

$6,194.0

7.8

%

$ 5,182.9

9.4

%

The
components and percentages are calculated as follows:

•

The
foreign exchange impact component shown in the table is calculated by first converting
the current           period’s local currency revenue using the average exchange rates
from the equivalent prior period to           arrive at a constant currency revenue (in
this case $11,304.6 million for the Total column in the           table).


The
foreign exchange impact equals the difference between the current period revenue in U.S.
          Dollars and the current period revenue in constant currency (in this case
$11,376.9 million less           $11,304.6 million for the Total column in the table).

•

The
acquisition component shown in the table is calculated by aggregating the applicable
prior period           revenue of the acquired businesses. Netted against this number is
the revenue of any business included           in the prior period reported revenue that
was disposed of subsequent to the prior period.

•

The
organic component shown in the table is calculated by subtracting both the foreign
exchange and           acquisition revenue components from total revenue growth.

•

The
percentage change shown in the table of each component is calculated by dividing the
individual           component amount by the prior period revenue base of that component
(in this case $10,481.1 million for           the Total column in the table).

The
components of 2006 revenue and revenue growth compared to 2005 in our primary geographic
markets are summarized and discussed below (dollars in millions):

Revenue

% Growth

United States

$  6,194.0

7.8

%

Euro Markets

2,313.5

7.3

%

United Kingdom

1,229.7

11.6

%

Other

1,639.7

10.9

%

Total

$11,376.9

8.5

%

As
indicated, foreign exchange impacts increased our international revenue by $72.3 million
for 2006. The most significant impacts resulted from the strengthening of the Canadian
Dollar, British Pound, Euro and Brazilian Real against the U.S. Dollar, which was offset
primarily by the decline of the Japanese Yen against the U.S. Dollar. Based on exchange
rates at January 31, 2007, we expect foreign exchange impacts to increase our full-year
2007 consolidated revenue by between 1.0% and 1.5%. Additional geographic information
relating to our business is contained in Note 5 to our consolidated financial statements.

Due
to a variety of factors, in the normal course, our agencies both gain and lose business
from clients each year. The net result in 2006, and historically each year for us as a
whole, was an overall gain in new business. Under our client-centric approach, we seek to
broaden our relationships with our largest clients. Revenue from our single largest
client represented 3.6% of our worldwide revenue in 2006 and 4.0% in 2005. No other
client represented more than 2.9% in 2006 or 2005. Our ten largest and 100 largest
clients represented 18.3% and 46.2% of our 2006 worldwide revenue, respectively, and
18.5% and 44.6% of our 2005 worldwide revenue, respectively.

In
an effort to monitor the changing needs of our clients and to further expand the scope of
our services to key clients, we monitor revenue across a broad range of disciplines and
group them into the following four categories as summarized below: traditional media
advertising, CRM, public relations and specialty communications.

Year Ended December 31,
      (Dollars in millions)



2006 vs 2005

Revenue

% of

Revenue

Revenue

% of

Revenue

$

Growth

%

Growth

Traditional media
      advertising

$  4,866.4

42.8

%

$  4,589.0

43.8

%

$277.4

6.0

%

CRM

4,081.1

35.9

%

3,613.0

34.5

%

468.1

13.0

%

Public relations

1,150.1

10.1

%

1,045.7

10.0

%

104.4

10.0

%

Specialty communications

1,279.3

11.2

%

1,233.4

11.7

%

45.9

3.7

%

$11,376.9

$10,481.1

$895.8

8.5

%


Operating
Expenses:

Our 2006 worldwide operating expenses increased $752.1 million, or 8.2%, to
$9,893.4 million from $9,141.3 million in 2005, as shown below.

Year Ended December 31,
      (Dollars in millions)



2006 vs 2005

$

% of

Revenue

% of

Total

Operating

Expenses

$

% of

Revenue

% of

Total

Operating

Expenses

$

Growth

%

Growth

Revenue

$11,376.9

$10,481.1

$895.8

8.5

%

Operating Expenses:

Salary
      and service costs

8,087.8

71.1

%

81.7

%

7,412.9

70.7

%

81.1

%

674.9

9.1

%

Office
      and general expenses

1,805.6

15.9

%

18.3

%

1,728.4

16.5

%

18.9

%

77.2

4.5

%

Total Operating Expenses

9,893.4

87.0

%

9,141.3

87.2

%

752.1

8.2

%

Operating Profit

$  1,483.5

13.0

%

$  1,339.8

12.8

%

$143.7

10.7

%

Because
we provide professional services, salary and service costs represent the largest part of
our operating expenses. During 2006, we continued to invest in our businesses and their
professional personnel. As a percentage of total operating expenses, salary and service
costs were 81.7% in 2006 and 81.1% in 2005. These costs are comprised of salary and
related costs and direct service costs. Most, or $674.9 million and 89.7%, of the $752.1
million increase in total operating expenses in 2006 resulted from increases in salary
and service costs. This increase was attributable to the increase in our revenue in 2006
and the necessary increases in the direct costs required to deliver our services and
pursue new business initiatives, including direct salaries, salary related costs and
direct service costs, including freelance labor costs and direct administrative costs,
such as travel, as well as increases in incentive-based compensation costs. This increase
was partially offset by reductions in severance and employee stock-based compensation
expense. As a result, salary and service costs as a percentage of revenue increased
year-to-year from 70.7% in 2005 to 71.1% in 2006.

Office
and general expenses represented 18.3% and 18.9% of our operating expenses in 2006 and
2005, respectively. These costs are comprised of office and equipment rents, technology
costs and depreciation, amortization of identifiable intangible assets, professional fees
and other overhead expenses. As a percentage of revenue, office and general expenses
decreased in 2006 from 16.5% to 15.9% as a result of continuing efforts to better align
these costs with business levels on a location-by-location basis. These costs are less
directly linked to changes in our revenues than our salary and service costs. Although
they tend to increase as our revenues increase, the rate of increase could be more, or
less than the rate of increase in our revenues.

Included
in office and general expense for 2006 operating margin is a pre-tax net loss of $0.5
million arising from the sale in the third quarter of a U.S.-based healthcare business
and several small businesses. The sale of the healthcare business resulted in a high book
tax rate primarily caused by the non-deductibility of goodwill. This increase in income
tax expense was more than offset by a one-time reduction of income tax expense from the
resolution of uncertainties related to changes in certain foreign tax laws. The aggregate
impact of these events was a decrease in profit before tax of $0.5 million, a decrease in
tax expense of $1.8 million and an increase in net income of $1.3 million. Excluding the
net loss of $0.5 million, our 2006 operating margin was unchanged.

Included
in office and general expense for 2005 is a pre-tax net gain of $6.9 million arising from
the sale in the first quarter of a majority-owned business located in Australia and New
Zealand and the disposal of a non-strategic business located in the United States. Due to
the unusually high book tax rate caused by the non-deductibility of goodwill, the book
tax cost of the transactions was $6.1 million. After deducting minority interest expense,
the impact of these transactions increased net income in 2005 by $0.4 million. Excluding
the net gain of $6.9 million from investment activity, office and general expenses were
16.6% of revenue in 2005.

Net
Interest Expense:

Our net interest expense increased in 2006 to $91.6 million, as
compared to $59.2 million in 2005. Our gross interest expense increased by $46.9 million
to $124.9 million. This increase was primarily impacted by $45.5 million of additional
interest costs related to the issuance of our 5.90% Senior Notes due April 15, 2016 (“Senior
Notes”) and $23.9 million of additional interest costs associated with the


amortization, in accordance with
Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) No. 96-19, Debtor’s Accounting for a Modification or
Exchange of Debt Instruments (“EITF 96-19”), of supplemental interest payments made with
respect to our Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2031 (“2031 Notes”).

These
increases were partially offset by interest expense savings relative to the redemption at
maturity in June 2005 of our Euro-denominated (“€”) 152.4 million 5.20% Notes, as well as
interest expense savings under our commercial paper program compared to the prior year.
The increase in interest income is the result of increased levels of cash and short-term
investments on hand during the year as well as increases in short-term interest rates.

See
“Liquidity and Capital Resources” for a discussion of our indebtedness and related
matters.

Income
Taxes

: Our 2006 consolidated effective income tax rate was 33.5%, which is lower than our
2005 rate of 34.0%. The 33.5% tax rate for 2006 was impacted by the following activity.
During the third quarter of 2006, we disposed of a U.S.-based healthcare business and
several small businesses as described above. The sale of the healthcare business resulted
in a high book tax rate primarily caused by the allocation of non-deductible goodwill in
accordance with SFAS 142. This increase in income tax expense was more than offset by a
one-time reduction of income tax expense resulting from the resolution of uncertainties
related to changes in foreign tax laws. Excluding this activity, our tax rate for 2006
would have been 33.7%. The 34.0% tax rate for 2005 was also high, as it was impacted by
the sale in the first quarter of 2005 of a majority-owned business in Australia and New
Zealand that resulted in a gain and an unusually high book tax rate on that gain.
Excluding the effect of the gain and the related tax impact, our 2005 tax rate would also
have been 33.7%.

Earnings
Per Share (EPS):

For the foregoing reasons, our net income in 2006 increased $73.3
million, or 9.3%, to $864.0 million from $790.7 million in 2005. Diluted earnings per
share increased 14.7% to $2.50 in 2006, as compared to $2.18 in the prior year for the
reasons described above, as well as the impact of the reduction in our weighted average
shares outstanding for the year. This reduction in our weighted average common shares
outstanding was the result of our purchases of treasury shares net of shares issued upon
option exercises and share issuances under our employee stock purchase plan. A
substantial portion of our treasury share repurchases were made in connection with an
accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”) program described in our Liquidity and Capital
Resource discussion.

Liquidity and Capital
Resources

Cash Requirements,
Including Contractual Obligations

Historically,
substantially all of our non-discretionary cash requirements have been funded from
operating cash flow and cash on hand. Our principal non-discretionary funding requirement
is our working capital. In addition, as discussed below, we have contractual obligations
related to our debt, senior notes and convertible notes, our recurring business
operations primarily related to lease obligations, as well as certain contingent
acquisition obligations related to acquisitions made in prior years.

Our
principal discretionary cash requirements include dividend payments to our shareholders,
repurchases of our common stock, payments for strategic acquisitions and capital
expenditures. Our discretionary spending is funded from operating cash flow, cash on hand
and short-term investments. In addition, in any given year, depending on the level of
discretionary activity, we may use other sources of available funding, such as the
liquidation of short-term investments or the issuance of commercial paper to finance
these activities.

We
have a seasonal working capital cycle. Working capital requirements are lowest at
year-end. The fluctuation in working capital requirements between the lowest and highest
points during the course of the year can be more than $1.5 billion. This cycle occurs
because our businesses incur costs on behalf of our clients, including when we place
media and incur production costs. We generally require collection from our clients prior
to our payment for the media and production cost obligations. During the year, we manage
liquidity


through our credit facilities as
discussed below under “Cash Management.” At December 31, 2007, our cash and cash
equivalents increased by $53.7 million from December 31, 2006. The components of the
increase in 2007 are summarized below (dollars in millions):

The
Principal Cash Sources and Principal Discretionary Cash Uses numbers presented above are
non-GAAP financial measures. These amounts exclude changes in working capital and certain
other investing and financing activities, including commercial paper issuances and
redemptions, used to fund these working capital changes. This presentation reflects the
metrics used by us to assess our sources and uses of cash and was derived from our
consolidated statements of cash flows. We believe that this presentation is meaningful
for understanding our primary sources and primary uses of that cash flow. Additional
information regarding our cash flows can be found in our consolidated financial
statements.

Contractual
Obligations and Other Commercial Commitments:

We enter into numerous contractual and
commercial undertakings in the normal course of our business. The following table
summarizes information about certain of our obligations as of December 31, 2007 and
should be read together with Note 3 (Bank loans and lines of credit), Note 4 (Long-term
debt and convertible notes), Note 8 (Income taxes), Note 10 (Commitments and contingent
liabilities), Note 11 (Fair value of financial instruments) and Note 12 (Financial
instruments and market risk) to our consolidated financial statements.

Due in

Less than 1

Year

Due in

1 to 3

Years

Due in

3 to 5

Years

Due in more

than 5

Years

Total

Contractual Obligations
      at

December 31, 2007

(Dollars in millions)

Long-term debt

$    2.6

$  16.8

$    0.4

$   996.0

$1,015.8

Convertible notes

—

—

—

2,041.5

2,041.5

Lease obligations

442.7

694.4

468.8

763.9

2,369.8

Uncertain tax positions

3.3

—

63.9

—

67.2

Other

5.5

—

—

—

5.5

Total

$454.1

$711.2

$533.1

$3,801.4

$5,499.8

As
more fully described below under the heading “Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related
Covenants,” the holders of the convertible notes included in the table above have the
right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire aggregate face amount of the notes then
outstanding for par value at certain dates in the future. If these rights were exercised
at the earliest possible future date, as set forth in Note 4 to our consolidated
financial statements, $2,041.5 million of convertible notes could be due in less than one
year.


Our
liability for uncertain tax positions is subject to uncertainty as to when or if the
liability will be paid. We have assigned the liability to the period(s) presented based
on our judgment as to when these liabilities will be resolved by the appropriate taxing
authorities.

Due in

Less than 1

Year

Due in

1 to 3

Years

Due in

3 to 5

Years

Due in more

than 5

Years

Total

Other Contractual
      Obligations at

December 31, 2007

(Dollars in millions)

Lines of credit

$ —

$ —

$—

$ —

$ —

Guarantees and letters
      of credit

0.6

0.2

—

0.1

0.9

Total

$0.6

$0.2

$—

$0.1

$0.9

As
discussed above, in the normal course of business, our agencies enter into various
contractual media commitments on behalf of our clients at levels substantially exceeding
our revenue. These commitments are included in our accounts payable balance when the
media services are delivered by the providers. Historically, we have not experienced
significant losses for media commitments entered into on behalf of our clients and we
believe that we do not have substantial exposure to potential losses of this nature in
the future as we monitor closely the credit worthiness of our clients. In the event that
we are committed to the media services and our client has not paid us, we believe that
the risk of material loss is minimal because in the normal course of business we have
reasonable options available to us to substantially mitigate potential losses.

Contingent
Acquisition Obligations:

Certain of our acquisitions are structured with contingent
purchase price obligations, often referred to as earn-outs. We utilize contingent
purchase price structures in an effort to minimize the risk to us associated with
potential future negative changes in the performance of the acquired entity during the
post-acquisition transition period. These payments are not contingent upon future
employment. The amount of future contingent purchase price payments that we would be
required to pay for prior acquisitions, assuming that the businesses perform over the
relevant future periods at their current profit levels, is approximately $378 million as
of December 31, 2007. The ultimate amounts payable cannot be predicted with reasonable
certainty because they are dependent upon future results of operations of the subject
businesses and are subject to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. In accordance
with U.S. GAAP, we have not recorded a liability for these items on our balance sheet
since the definitive amount is not determinable or distributable. Actual results can
differ from these estimates and the actual amounts that we pay are likely to be different
from these estimates. Our obligations change from period to period primarily as a result
of payments made during the current period, changes in the acquired entities’ performance
and changes in foreign currency exchange rates. These differences could be significant.
The contingent purchase price obligations as of December 31, 2007, calculated assuming
that the acquired businesses perform over the relevant future periods at their current
profit levels, are as follows:

(Dollars in millions)





Thereafter

Total

$173

$88

$90

$26

$1

$378

In
addition, owners of interests in certain of our subsidiaries or affiliates have the right
in certain circumstances to require us to purchase additional ownership interests in
those companies. Assuming that the subsidiaries and affiliates perform over the relevant
periods at their current profit levels, the aggregate amount we could be required to pay
in future periods is approximately $314 million, $208 million of which relates to
obligations that are currently exercisable. If these rights are exercised, there would
likely be an increase in our net income as a result of our increased ownership and the
reduction of minority interest expense. The ultimate amount payable relating to these
transactions will vary because it is primarily dependent on the future results of
operations of the subject businesses, the timing of the exercise of these rights and
changes in foreign currency exchange rates. The actual amount that we pay is likely to be
different from this estimate and the difference could be significant. The obligations
that exist for these agreements as of December 31, 2007, calculated using the assumptions
above, are as follows:

(Dollars in millions)

Currently

Exercisable

Not Currently

Exercisable

Total

Subsidiary agencies

$169

$  93

$262

Affiliated agencies




Total

$208

$106

$314


Sources and Uses of
Cash

Our
cash requirements have historically been funded by a combination of our operating cash
flow and cash on hand, as well as points in time when we have opportunistically accessed
the capital markets. Our capital market transactions have included issuing $1.0 billion
in ten-year fixed rate notes Senior Notes in 2006 and convertible notes in an aggregate
principle amount of $600.0 million, $900.0 million and $850.0 million in 2003, 2002 and
2001, respectively. The proceeds were used for general corporate purposes, including the
repurchase of our shares and the repayment of maturing debt. On March 31, 2006, we
entered into an agreement to purchase 11.0 million shares of our outstanding common stock
for $458.7 million. We repurchased the shares under an accelerated share repurchase (“ASR”)
program with a financial institution at $41.705 per share with an initial settlement date
of April 3, 2006. The purchase was funded using a portion of the proceeds from our Senior
Notes offering. During the second quarter of 2006, the financial institution purchased
the 11.0 million shares of our common stock in the open market and we paid a settlement
amount of $45.1 million, referred to as the purchase price adjustment, based upon the
difference between the actual cost of the shares purchased by the financial institution
of $45.805 per share and the initial purchase price of $41.705 per share.

At
December 31, 2007, we had $1,793.2 million in cash and cash equivalents. In addition, we
had $2.5 billion in unused committed credit facilities available for immediate use to
fund our cash needs. These credit facilities are more fully described in Note 3 to our
consolidated financial statements.

Our
operating cash flow and access to the capital markets could be impacted by macroeconomic
factors outside of our control. Additionally, access to the capital markets could be
impaired by adverse changes to the short and long-term debt credit ratings assigned to us
by independent rating agencies.

Standard
and Poor’s Rating Service currently rates our long-term debt A-, Moody’s Investors
Service rates our long-term debt Baa1 and Fitch Ratings rates our long-term debt A-. Our
short-term debt credit ratings are A2, P2 and F2 by the respective agencies. Our
outstanding Senior Notes, convertible notes and bank credit facilities do not contain
provisions that require acceleration of cash payments should our debt credit ratings be
downgraded. The interest rates and fees on our bank credit facilities, however, will
increase if our long-term debt credit rating is lowered.

As
described in Note 3, our committed bank facilities contain two financial covenants
relating to cash flow and interest coverage, which we met by a significant margin as of
December 31, 2007.

We
believe that our current financial condition provides us with the ability to readily
access the capital markets. Also, our cash balances combined with our liquidity of
short-term investments, operational cash flows and unused committed borrowing capacity
are sufficient to support our foreseeable cash requirements, arising from working
capital, outstanding debt, capital expenditures, dividends, acquisitions and stock
repurchases.

Cash Management

We
manage our cash and liquidity centrally through treasury centers in North America and
Europe. Each day, operations with excess funds invest these funds with their regional
treasury center. Likewise, operations that require funding will borrow funds from their
regional treasury center. The treasury centers then aggregate the net position of the
operating companies. The net position is either invested with or borrowed from third
party providers. To the extent that our treasury centers require liquidity, they have the
ability to access local currency lines of credit, our $2,500.0 million committed bank
facilities, or issue up to $1,500.0 million of U.S. Dollar-denominated commercial paper.
This enables us to reduce our consolidated debt levels and minimize interest expense as
well as centrally manage our exposure to foreign exchange.

Our
cash and cash equivalents increased by $53.7 million and our short-term investments
decreased by $141.5  million from the prior year. Short-term investments include
investments of our excess cash which we expect to convert into cash in our current
operating cycle, generally within one year. The majority of our short-term investments
represent time deposits that mature in 2008. At December 31, 2007, our short-term
investments did not include any auction rate securities.


We
manage our net debt position, which we define as total debt outstanding less cash and
short-term investments, centrally through our treasury centers as discussed above. Our
net debt outstanding at December 31, 2007 increased by $90.8 million as compared to the
prior year-end, as summarized below (dollars in millions):



Debt:

Bank
      loans (due less than 1 year)

$     12.0

$     10.5

Commercial
      paper issued under $2.5 billion

5-Year
      Revolver due June 23, 2011

—

—

10-Year
      Notes due April 15, 2016

996.0

995.5

Convertible
      notes due February 7, 2031

847.0

847.0

Convertible
      notes due July 31, 2032

727.0

727.0

Convertible
      notes due June 15, 2033

0.2

39.4

Convertible
      notes due July 1, 2038

467.3

428.1

Other
      debt

19.8

18.8

Total Debt

3,069.3

3,066.3

Cash
      and short-term investments

1,841.0

1,928.8

Net Debt

$1,228.3

$1,137.5

Net
Debt is a non-GAAP financial measure. We believe this presentation is meaningful for
understanding our net debt position and it reflects one of the key metrics used by us to
assess our cash management.

Debt Instruments,
Guarantees and Related Covenants

We
maintain a credit facility with a consortium of banks providing borrowing capacity of up
to $2,500 million as described in Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements. This
credit facility is available to provide credit support for issuances under our $1,500.0
million commercial paper program, as well as to provide back-up liquidity in the event
any of our convertible notes are put back to us. We typically fund our daily borrowing
needs by issuing commercial paper or by borrowing under our short-term uncommitted lines
of credit. Occasionally, we may draw down on our credit facility. During 2007, we issued
and redeemed $20.0 billion of commercial paper. The average term of the commercial paper
was 3.2 days. As of December 31, 2007, we had no commercial paper or bank loans
outstanding under these credit facilities. At December 31, 2007, we had short-term bank
loans of $12.0 million outstanding, which are comprised of bank overdrafts by our
international subsidiaries. These bank overdrafts are treated as unsecured loans pursuant
to the subsidiaries’ bank agreements.

Our
credit facility contains financial covenants that restrict our ability to incur
indebtedness as defined in the agreements. These financial covenants limit the ratio of
total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA (for these purposes, EBITDA
is defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more
than 3.0 times. In addition, they require us to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to
interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2007, we were in compliance with
these covenants, as our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 1.6 times and our ratio of EBITDA to
interest expense was 17.5 times.

In
March 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of 5.90% Senior Notes due
April 15, 2016. The gross proceeds from the issuance were $995.1 million. The gross
proceeds less fees resulted in a 6.05% yield to maturity. The Senior Notes were issued by
Omnicom Group Inc. and two of our wholly owned finance subsidiaries, Omnicom Capital Inc.
and Omnicom Finance Inc., as co-obligors similar to our Convertible Notes. The Senior
Notes are senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment with all existing
and future unsecured indebtedness and as a joint and several liability of the issuer and
the co-obligors.

At
December 31, 2007, we had a total of $2,041.5 million aggregate principal amount of
convertible notes outstanding, including $847.0 million 2031 Notes that were issued in
February 2001, $727.0 million 2032 Notes that were issued in March 2002, $0.2 million
Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2033 that were issued in June 2003 and
$467.3  million Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2038 (“2038 Notes”) that were
originally issued in June 2003 as 2033 Notes that were subsequently amended in June 2006
to become the 2038 Notes.


The
holders of our 2031 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to the entire
aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value in February of
each year. The holders of our 2032 Notes have the right to cause us to repurchase up to
the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for par value in
August of each year. The holders of our 2038 Notes have the right to cause us to
repurchase up to the entire aggregate principal amount of the notes then outstanding for
par value on June 15, 2008, 2010, 2013, 2018, 2023 and on each June 15 annually
thereafter through June 15, 2037. The 2031, 2032, 2033 and 2038 Notes are convertible, at
specified ratios, only upon the occurrence of certain events, including: if our common
shares trade above certain levels, if we effect extraordinary transactions or, in the
case of the 2031 Notes and the 2032 Notes, if our long-term debt credit ratings are
downgraded to BBB or lower by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service, or Baa3 or lower by
Moody’s Investors Service or in the case of the 2033 and 2038 Notes to BBB- or lower by S&P,
and Ba1 or lower by Moody’s. These events would not, however, result in an adjustment of
the number of shares issuable upon conversion and would not accelerate the holder’s right
to cause us to repurchase the notes. For additional information about the terms of these
notes, see Note 4 to our consolidated financial statements.

In
August 2005, we paid a supplemental interest payment of $33.5 million to qualified
noteholders of our 2032 Notes, equal to $37.50 per $1,000 principal amount of notes, that
did not put their notes back to us. The total supplemental interest payment was amortized
ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date ending in August 2006 in accordance
with EITF 96-19.

In
February 2006, we paid a supplemental interest payment of $39.2 million to qualified
noteholders of our 2031 Notes that did not put their notes back to us. The total
supplemental interest payment was amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next
put date in February 2007 in accordance with EITF 96-19.

In
June 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $27.50 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2033 Notes that did not put their notes back
to us and consented to the amendments to the notes and related indenture as of June 27,
2006. The principal amendment extended the maturity of the notes from June 15, 2033 to
July 1, 2038. The additional amendments conformed other terms of the notes for the
extension of the maturity date, as well as amending the comparable yield. On June 21,
2006, we repurchased $132.5 million of 2033 Notes that were put to us. With respect to
the remaining $467.5 million of 2033 Notes as of June 30, 2006, noteholders holding a
combined amount of $428.1 million consented to the amendments, were paid $27.50 per
$1,000 note and their notes were amended. The total supplemental interest payment of
$11.7 million is being amortized ratably over a 24-month period to the next put date in
accordance with EITF 96-19. The remaining noteholders of the 2033 Notes, comprising $39.4
million aggregate principal amount of notes, did not consent to the amendments and were
not paid the supplemental interest payment. During 2007, substantially all of the
remaining holders of the 2033 Notes exchanged their 2033 Notes for 2038 Notes, reducing
the aggregate principal amount of our 2033 Notes to $0.2 million. No supplemental
interest payment or fee was paid to noteholders for this exchange.

In
July 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $32.50 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2032 Notes as of August 1, 2006 that did not
put their notes back to us. On August 4, 2006, we repurchased $165.2 million of our 2032
Notes that were put to us. With respect to the remaining $727.0 million of notes,
noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $23.6 million on August 2,
2006 which was amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in
accordance with EITF 96-19.

In
February 2007, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to qualified noteholders of
our 2031 Notes. Additionally, none of the 2031 Notes were put back to us for repayment.

In
July 2007, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment to qualified noteholders of our
2032 Notes. Additionally, none of the 2032 Notes were put back to us for repayment.

In
February 2008, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $9.00 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2031 Notes as of February 4, 2008 who did not
put their notes back to us. None of the 2031 Notes were put back to us and on February 8,
2008, noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $7.6 million that
will be amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in accordance with
EITF 96-19.


Our
outstanding debt and amounts available under these facilities as of December 31, 2007
(dollars in millions) were as follows:

Debt

Outstanding

Available

Credit

Bank loans (due
      in less than 1 year)

$     12.0

—

Commercial paper issued
      under

$2.5 billion
      Revolver due June 23, 2011

—

$2,500.0

Senior Notes due April
      15, 2016

996.0

—

Convertible notes due February
      7, 2031

847.0

—

Convertible notes due July
      31, 2032

727.0

—

Convertible notes due June
      15, 2033

0.2

—

Convertible notes due July
      1, 2038

467.3

—

Other debt

19.8

—

Total

$3,069.3

$2,500.0

Additional
information about our indebtedness is included in Notes 3 and 4 to our consolidated
financial statements.

Item 7A. Quantitative
and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

Foreign
Exchange:

Our results of operations are subject to risk from the translation to the U.S.
Dollar of the revenue and expenses of our foreign operations, which are generally
denominated in the local currency. The effects of currency exchange rate fluctuation on
the translation of our results of operations are discussed in Note 12 of our consolidated
financial statements. For the most part, our revenue and the expenses incurred related to
that revenue are denominated in the same currency. This minimizes the impact that
fluctuations in exchange rates will have on our net income.

While
our agencies conduct business in more than 70 different currencies, our major non-U.S.
currency markets are the European Monetary Union (EMU), the United Kingdom, Japan, Brazil
and Canada. As an integral part of our treasury operations, we enter into short-term
forward foreign exchange contracts which manage the foreign exchange risk of the
intercompany cash movements between subsidiaries operating in different currency markets
from that of our treasury centers from which they borrow or invest. In the limited number
of instances where operating expenses and revenue are not denominated in the same
currency, amounts are promptly settled or hedged in the foreign currency market with
forward contracts. At December 31, 2007, we had forward foreign exchange contracts
outstanding with an aggregate notional principal of $246.9 million mitigating the foreign
exchange risk of intercompany borrowings and investments. The majority of the contracts
were denominated in our major international market currencies with maturities ranging
from two to 365 days with an average duration of just over 100 days.

In
addition to hedging intercompany cash movement, we enter into short-term forward foreign
exchange contracts which hedge U.S. Dollar commercial paper issued by our London treasury
center, whose functional currency is the British Pound. At December 31, 2007, we had no
forward contracts outstanding relating to this activity as there was no commercial paper
outstanding.

Additionally,
at December 31, 2007 we had cross-currency interest rate swaps in place with an aggregate
notional principal amount of €230.0 million (Euro) maturing in 2010 and Japanese
Yen-based cross-currency interest rate swaps with an aggregate notional principal amount
of Japanese Yen 22.0 billion maturing in 2013. See Note 12 to our consolidated financial
statements for information about the fair value of each type of derivative instrument.

The
forward foreign exchange and swap contracts discussed above were entered into for the
purpose of hedging certain specific currency risks. These risks are primarily the result
of the temporary movement of money from one local market to another as part of our cash
management program. As a result of these financial instruments, we reduced financial risk
in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) which might have occurred if the markets
moved favorably. In using these contracts, we exchanged the risks of the financial
markets for counterparty risk. To minimize counterparty risk, we only enter into these
contracts with major well-known banks and financial institutions that have debt credit
ratings equal to or better than our credit rating.


These
hedging activities are confined to risk management activities related to our
international operations. We have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate
the effects of changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant
market risks. We periodically determine the potential loss from market risk by performing
a value-at-risk computation. Value-at-risk analysis is a statistical model that utilizes
historic currency exchange and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on
future earnings of our existing portfolio of derivative financial instruments. The
value-at-risk analysis we performed on our December 31, 2007 portfolio of derivative
financial instruments indicated that the risk of loss was immaterial. This overall system
is designed to enable us to initiate remedial action, if appropriate.

Debt
Instruments:

In March 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of our
Senior Notes due April 15, 2016. The gross proceeds from the issuance were $995.1
million. The gross proceeds less fees resulted in a 6.05% yield to maturity. The Senior
Notes were issued by Omnicom Group Inc. and two of our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries,
Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance Inc., as co-obligors, similar to our Convertible
Notes. The Senior Notes are senior unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment
with all existing and future unsecured indebtedness and as a joint and several liability
of the issuer and the co-obligors.

In
June 2006, we amended and extended our five-year credit facility to June 23, 2011 and
increased the amount available from $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion with substantially the
same bank consortium. In conjunction with this amendment and extension, we terminated our
$400.0 million 364-day revolving credit facility that was due to expire. Subsequently, in
September 2006, the facility was increased from $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion. We have the
ability to classify outstanding borrowings, if any, under our five-year credit facility
as long-term debt.

In
funding our day-to-day liquidity, we are an active participant in the commercial paper
market with a $1.5 billion program. As of December 31, 2007, we had no commercial paper
outstanding. Our credit facility provides credit support for commercial paper, as well as
providing back-up liquidity in the event any of our convertible notes are put back to us.

Our
bank syndicate includes large global banks such as Citibank, JPMorgan Chase, HSBC, ABN
Amro, Deutsche, Bank of America, Societe Generale and BBVA. We also include large
regional banks in the U.S. such as Wachovia, US Bancorp, Northern Trust, PNC and Wells
Fargo. We also include banks that have a major presence in countries where we conduct
business such as Sumitomo in Japan, Fortis in Belgium, Intesa San Paolo in Italy, Scotia
in Canada and ANZ in Australia.

Our
other long-term debt consists principally of convertible notes. As previously discussed,
the holders of these convertible notes have the right on specific dates to cause us to
repurchase up to the aggregate principal amount. We may offer the holders of our
convertible notes a supplemental interest payment or other incentives to induce them not
to put the convertible notes to us in advance of a put date. If we were to decide to pay
a supplemental interest payment, the amount incurred would be based on a combination of
market factors at the time of the applicable put date, including our stock price,
short-term interest rates and a factor for credit risk.

If
the convertible notes are put back to us, our interest expense could increase. The
extent, if any, of the increase in interest expense will depend on the portion of the
amount repurchased that was refinanced, when we refinance, the type of instrument we use
to refinance and the term of the instrument.

Supplemental
interest payments such as those made in 2005 and 2006 to qualified noteholders, as
described above under “Debt Instruments, Guarantees and Related Covenants,” are one
method of keeping the convertible notes outstanding. If we are required to satisfy a put,
based on our current financial condition and expectations, we expect to have sufficient
available cash and unused credit commitments to fund any put, while still preserving
ample capacity under these commitments to meet our cash requirements for the normal
course of our business operations after the put event.

Our
credit commitments allow either the issuance of commercial paper or bank loans, and we
would likely fund the put initially using some combination of these instruments. We would
then evaluate all funding alternatives available to us to replenish our credit capacity
and liquidity. We believe the funding alternatives would include substantially all forms
of debt, equity and convertible instruments available to us by accessing the public or
private capital markets. Our evaluation would likely include the expected cash flows from
the normal course of our business operations and the credit capacity to fund additional
potential puts on the remaining outstanding convertible notes.


Currently,
we meet all of our debt covenant requirements. Our credit facilities contain financial
covenants limiting the ratio of total consolidated indebtedness to total consolidated
EBITDA (for purposes of these covenants EBITDA is defined as earnings before interest,
taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more than 3.0 times. At December 31, 2007,
our ratio of debt to EBITDA was 1.6 times. In addition, we are required to maintain a
minimum ratio of EBITDA to interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2007,
our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was 17.5 times. We were in compliance with these
covenants. In addition, the credit facilities do not limit our ability to declare or pay
dividends.

Even
if we were to replace the convertible notes with another form of debt on a
dollar-for-dollar basis, it would have no impact on either our debt to capital ratios or
our debt to EBITDA ratio. If we were to replace our convertible notes with
interest-bearing debt at prevailing rates, this potential increase in interest expense
would negatively impact our coverage ratios, such as EBITDA to interest expense. However,
the coverage ratios applicable to our credit facilities and ratings levels are currently
well within the thresholds. If either our ratio of debt to EBITDA increased by 50%, or
our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense decreased by 50%, we would still be in compliance
with these covenants. Therefore, based on our current coverage ratios, our present
expectations of our future operating cash flows and expected access to debt and equity
capital markets, we believe any increase in interest expense and reduction in coverage
ratios would still place us comfortably above the coverage ratio requirements. Thus, we
do not expect any negative impact on our credit ratings if the convertible notes are put
to us.

Credit
Markets:

During the third quarter of 2007, volatility in the financial markets resulted
in an increase in borrowing spreads in the commercial paper market. To mitigate the
effect of these increased spreads, we arranged for $300.0 million in unsecured
uncommitted lines of credit and shifted the funding of a portion of our daily borrowing
needs to these lines from our commercial paper program. At December 31, 2007 there were
no borrowings outstanding under these unsecured uncommitted lines of credit, as these
lines were terminated during the fourth quarter of 2007. At December 31, 2007, the
volatility in the credit markets did not have any impact on our debt instruments and
credit ratings.

Item 8. Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data

Our
financial statements and supplementary data are included at the end of this report
beginning on page F-1. See the index appearing on the following pages of this report.

Item 9. Changes in and
Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure

None.

Item 9A. Controls and
Procedures

We
maintain disclosure controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required
to be disclosed in our SEC reports is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within
applicable time periods. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation,
controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by
us in our reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act is accumulated
and communicated to management, including our CEO and CFO, as appropriate to allow timely
decisions regarding required disclosure. We conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness
of our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2007. Based on that
evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that as of December 31, 2007, our disclosure
controls and procedures are effective to ensure that decisions can be made timely with
respect to required disclosures, as well as ensuring that the recording, processing,
summarization and reporting of information required to be included in our Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007 is appropriate.

Our
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over
financial reporting, as such term is defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f).
Under the supervision of management and with the participation of our CEO, CFO and our
agencies, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over
financial reporting based on the framework in

Internal Control – Integrated Framework

issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published
in 1987. Based on that evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that our internal control
over


financial reporting was effective as
of December 31, 2007. KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm that
audited our consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K, has issued an attestation report on Omnicom’s internal control over financial
reporting as of December 31, 2007, dated February 22, 2008. There have not been any
changes in our internal control over financial reporting during our most recent fiscal
quarter that have materially affected or are reasonably likely to materially affect our
internal controls over financial reporting.

Item 9B. Other
Information

None.


PART IV

Item 15. Exhibits,
Financial Statement Schedules

(a)(1)

Financial
      Statements:

Page

Management Report on Internal Control Over
      Financial Reporting

F-1

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm

F-2

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting
      Firm

F-3

Consolidated Statements of Income for the
      Three Years Ended December 31, 2007

F-4

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December
      31, 2007 and 2006

F-5

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders’
      Equity for the Three Years Ended December 31, 2007

F-6

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for
      the Three Years Ended December 31, 2007

F-7

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

F-8

Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

F-37

(a)(2)

Financial Statement
      Schedules:

Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
      (for the three years ended December 31, 2007)

S-1

All
other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable.

(a)(3)  Exhibits:

Exhibit

Numbers

Description

(3)(i)

Restated
Certificate of Incorporation (Exhibit 3.1 to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
quarter ended June 30, 2003 (the “6-30-03 10-Q”) and incorporated herein by reference).

(ii)

By-laws
(Exhibit 3.2 to our 6-30-03 10-Q, File No. 1-10551and incorporated herein by reference).

4.1

Indenture,
dated February 7, 2001, between JPMorgan Chase Manhattan Bank, as trustee, and us in
connection with our issuance of $850,000,000 Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2031 (the “2031
Indenture”) (Exhibit 4.1 to our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No.
333-55386) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.2

Form
of Liquid Yield Option Notes due 2031 (included in Exhibit 4.1 above).

4.3

First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2004, among us,
Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, (Exhibit
4.3 to our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-112841) and
incorporated herein by reference).

4.4

Second
Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture, dated November 4, 2004, among us, Omnicom
Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, as amended by the
First Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture, dated February 13, 2004 (Exhibit 4.2
to our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2004 (the “9-30-04
10-Q”) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.5

Third
Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture, dated November 30, 2004, among us, Omnicom
Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc., and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.S., as trustee, as amended
by the First Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Indenture dated February 13, 2004, and
the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2031 Supplemental Indenture dated November 4,
2004 (Exhibit 4.1 to the Form 8-K (File No. 1-10551) dated November 30, 2004 and
incorporated herein by reference).

4.6

Indenture,
dated March 6, 2002, between JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, and us in connection with
our issuance of $900,000,000 Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible notes due 2032 (the “2032
Indenture”) (Exhibit 4.6 to our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2001 and incorporated herein by reference).


4.7

Form
of Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2032 (included in Exhibit 4.6 above).

4.8

First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2004, among us,
Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, (Exhibit
4.3 to our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-112840) and
incorporated herein by reference).

4.9

Second
Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated August 12, 2004, among us, Omnicom
Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc., and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, as amended by
the First Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated February 13, 2004 (Exhibit
4.1 to our 9-30-04 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference).

4.10

Third
Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated November 4, 2004, among us, Omnicom
Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, as amended by the
First Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated as of February 13, 2004, and
the Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2032 Indenture, dated August 12, 2004 (Exhibit
4.3 to our 9-30-04 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference).

4.11

Indenture,
dated as of June 30, 2003, between JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, and us in connection
with our issuance of $600,000,000 Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2033 (the “2033
Indenture”) (Exhibit 4.1 to our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No.
333-108611) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.12

Form
of the Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2033 (included in Exhibit 4.11 above).

4.13

First
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated as of November 5, 2003, among us,
Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, (Exhibit
4.4 to our Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Registration No. 333-108611) and
incorporated herein by reference).

4.14

Second
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated as of November 4, 2004, among us,
Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, as
amended by the First Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 5, 2003
(Exhibit 4.4 to our 9-30-04 10-Q and incorporated herein by reference).

4.15

Third
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 10, 2004, among us, Omnicom
Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, as trustee, as amended by the
First Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 5, 2003, and the
Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 4, 2004 (Exhibit 4.1
to the Form 8-K (File No. 1-10551) dated November 10, 2004 and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.16

Fourth
Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated June 30, 2006, among us, Omnicom
Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc. and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee, as amended
by the First Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 5, 2003, the
Second Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 4, 2004, and the
Third Supplemental Indenture to the 2033 Indenture, dated November 10, 2004 (Exhibit 4.1
to the Form 8-K (File No. 1-10551) dated July 7, 2006 and incorporated herein by
reference).

4.17

Form
of Senior Debt Securities Indenture (Exhibit 4.1 to our Registration Statement on Form
S-3 (Registration No. 333-132625) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.18

First
Supplemental Indenture, dated as of March 29, 2006, among us, Omnicom Capital Inc.,
Omnicom Finance Inc., and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as trustee, in connection with our
issuance of $1.0 billion 5.90% Notes due 2016 (Exhibit 4.2 to the Form 8-K (File No.
1-10551) dated March 29, 2006 (the “3-29-06 8-K”) and incorporated herein by reference).

4.19

Form
of 5.90% Notes due 2016 (Exhibit 4.3 to the 3-29-06 8-K and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.1

Amended
and Restated Five Year Credit Agreement (the “Agreement”), dated as of June 23, 2006, by
and among us, Omnicom Finance Inc., Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance PLC, the banks,
financial institutions and other institutional lenders and initial issuing banks listed
on the signature pages of the Agreement, Citigroup Global Markets Inc. and J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc., as lead arrangers and book managers, ABN Amro Bank N.V., as


syndication
agent, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., HSBC Bank USA, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and Banco
Bilbao Vizcaya Argentaria SA, as documentation agents and Citibank, N.A., as
administrative agent for the lenders (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated June 29, 2006
(File No. 1-10551) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.2

Instrument
of Resignation, Appointment and Acceptance, dated as of October 5, 2006, among us,
Omnicom Capital Inc., Omnicom Finance Inc., JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. and Deutsche Bank
Trust Company Americas (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated October 11, 2006 (File No.
1-10551) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.3

Amended
and Restated 1998 Incentive Compensation Plan (Exhibit B to our Proxy Statement filed on
April 10, 2000 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.4

Director
Equity Plan for Non-employee Directors (Appendix B to our Proxy Statement filed on April
23, 2004 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.5

Standard
form of our Executive Salary Continuation Plan Agreement (Exhibit 10.24 to our Annual
Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998 and incorporated herein by
reference).

10.6

Standard
form of the Director Indemnification Agreement (Exhibit 10.25 to our Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.7

Long-Term
Shareholder Value Plan (Exhibit 4.4 to our Registration Statement on Form S-8
(Registration No. 333-84498) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.8

Equity
Incentive Plan (Exhibit 4.3 to our Registration Statement on Form S-8 dated August 18,
2003 (File No. 333-108063) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.9

Employment
Agreement, dated as of April 22, 2005, among us, TBWA Worldwide Inc. and Jean-Marie Dru
(Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated April 28, 2005 (File No. 1-10551) and incorporated
herein by reference).

10.10

Senior
Management Incentive Plan (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated May 26, 2005 (File No.
1-10551) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.11

Senior
Executive Restrictive Covenant and Retention Plan of Omnicom Group Inc., dated December
7, 2006 (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 8-K dated December 13, 2006 (File No. 1-10551) and
incorporated herein by reference).

10.12

Form
of Award Agreement under the Senior Executive Restrictive Covenant and Retention Plan
(Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 8-K dated December 13, 2006 (File No. 1-10551) and incorporated
herein by reference).

10.13

Omnicom
Group Inc. 2007 Incentive Award Plan (Appendix A to our Proxy Statement filed on April
23, 2007 (File No. 1-10551) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.14

Form
of Indemnification Agreement (Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed on July 26, 2007 (File
No. 1-10551) and incorporated herein by reference).

12.1

Ratio
of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

21.1

Subsidiaries
of the Registrant.

23.1

Consent
of KPMG LLP.

31.1

Certification
of Chief Executive Officer and President required by Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

31.2

Certification
of Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(a) under
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.

32.1

Certification
of the Chief Executive Officer and President and the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer required by Rule 13a-14(b) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended, and 18 U.S.C §1350.


SIGNATURES

Pursuant
to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the
Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

O

MNICOM

G

ROUP

I

NC.

February 22, 2008

By:

/s/ R

ANDALL

J. W

EISENBURGER

Randall J. Weisenburger

Executive Vice
      President and Chief Financial Officer

Pursuant
to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature

Title

Date

/s/ B

RUCE

C

RAWFORD

(Bruce
      Crawford)

Chairman and Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ J

OHN

D. W

REN

(John D. Wren)

Chief Executive Officer

and President and Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ R

ANDALL

J. W

EISENBURGER

(Randall J. Weisenburger)

Executive Vice President
      and

Chief Financial Officer

February 22, 2008

/s/ P

HILIP

J. A

NGELASTRO

(Philip J. Angelastro)

Senior Vice President
      Finance

and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

February 22, 2008

/s/ R

OBERT

C

HARLES

C

LARK

(Robert Charles Clark)

Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ L

EONARD

S. C

OLEMAN

, J

R

.

(Leonard S. Coleman, Jr.)

Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ E

RROL

M. C

OOK

(Errol
      M. Cook)

Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ S

USAN

S. D

ENISON

(Susan S. Denison)

Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ M

ICHAEL

A. H

ENNING

(Michael
      A. Henning)

Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ J

OHN

R. M

URPHY

(John
      R. Murphy)

Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ J

OHN

R. P

URCELL

(John R. Purcell)

Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ L

INDA

J

OHNSON

R

ICE

(Linda Johnson Rice)

Director

February 22, 2008

/s/ G

ARY

L. R

OUBOS

(Gary L. Roubos)

Director

February 22, 2008


MANAGEMENT REPORT ON
INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING

Management is responsible for the
preparation of Omnicom’s consolidated financial statements and related information.
Management uses its best judgment to ensure that the consolidated financial statements
present fairly, in all material respects, Omnicom’s consolidated financial position and
results of operations in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.

The financial statements have been
audited by an independent registered public accounting firm in accordance with the
standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board. Their report expresses the
independent accountant’s judgment as to the fairness of management’s reported operating
results, cash flows and financial position. This judgment is based on the procedures
described in the second paragraph of their report.

Omnicom management is responsible
for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as
such term is defined in Securities Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Under the supervision of
management and with the participation of our CEO, CFO and our agencies, we conducted an
evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on
the framework in Internal Control — Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission published in 1987. Based on that
evaluation, our CEO and CFO concluded that our internal control over financial reporting
was effective as of December 31, 2007. KPMG LLP, an independent registered public
accounting firm that audited our consolidated financial statements included in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, has issued an attestation report on Omnicom’s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, dated February 22, 2008.

There have not been any changes in
our internal control over financial reporting during our fourth fiscal quarter that have
materially affected or are reasonably likely to affect our internal control over
financial reporting.

The Board of Directors of Omnicom
has an Audit Committee comprised of four non-management directors. The Committee meets
periodically with financial management, Internal Audit and the independent auditors to
review accounting, control, audit and financial reporting matters.

F-1

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of

Omnicom Group Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets of Omnicom Group Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2007 and 2006, and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity,
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007. In
connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited
financial statement schedule II. These consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in
accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United
States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable
assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and
disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the
overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable
basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of Omnicom Group Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2007 and
2006, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended December 31, 2007, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule on
page S-1, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.

We also have audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States),
Omnicom Group Inc.’s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007,
based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the
Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO), and our report
dated February 22, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the
Company’s internal control over financial reporting.

As discussed in Note 9 to the
consolidated financial statements, Omnicom Group Inc. and subsidiaries adopted SFAS No.
158, “Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement Plans,
an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106, and 132(R)” on December 31, 2006.

/s/ KPMG LLP

New York, New York

February 22, 2008

F-2

REPORT OF
INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

The Board of Directors and
Stockholders of

Omnicom Group Inc.:

We have audited Omnicom Group Inc.’s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria
established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of
Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Omnicom Group Inc.’s
management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial
reporting,  and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting,  included in the accompanying Management Report on Internal Control over
Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company’s
internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).
Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance
about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all
material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over
financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We
believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over
financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the
reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for
external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company’s
internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly
reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide
reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of
financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and
that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with
authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable
assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or
disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the financial
statements.

Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also,
projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk
that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree
of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Omnicom Group Inc.
maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting
as of December 31, 2007, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated
Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.

We also have audited, in accordance
with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the
consolidated balance sheets of Omnicom Group Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,
2007 and 2006,  and the related consolidated statements of income, shareholders’ equity,
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2007,
and our report dated February 22, 2008 expressed an unqualified opinion on those
consolidated financial statements.

/s/ KPMG LLP

New York, New York

February 22, 2008

F-3

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME

The accompanying notes
to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

F-4

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

The accompanying notes
to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

F-5

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Three Years Ended
December 31, 2007

(Dollars in millions)

The accompanying notes
to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

F-6

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

The accompanying notes
to the consolidated financial statements are an integral part of these statements.

F-7

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies

Basis
and Presentation.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts
of Omnicom Group Inc. and its domestic and international subsidiaries and are prepared in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States of America (“U.S.
GAAP”). Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated.

Revenue
Recognition.

Substantially all of our revenue is derived from fees for services or a rate
per hour, or equivalent basis, and revenue is realized when the service is performed in
accordance with terms of each client arrangement, upon completion of the earnings process
and when collection is reasonably assured. We record revenue net of sales tax, use tax
and value added tax. Certain of our businesses earn a portion of their revenue as
commissions based upon performance in accordance with client arrangements.

These
principles are the foundation of our revenue recognition policy and apply to all client
arrangements in each of our service disciplines – traditional media advertising, customer
relationship management, public relations and specialty communications. Because the
services that we provide across each of our disciplines are similar and delivered to
clients in similar ways, all of the key elements set forth above apply to client
arrangements in each of our four disciplines.

A
small portion of our contractual arrangements with clients includes performance incentive
provisions designed to link a portion of our revenue to our performance relative to both
quantitative and qualitative goals. We recognize this portion of revenue when specific
quantitative goals are achieved, or when our performance against qualitative goals is
determined by our clients.

Our
revenue recognition policies are in compliance with the Securities and Exchange Commission’s
(“SEC”) Staff Accounting Bulletin (“SAB”) 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements (“SAB 101”) as updated by SAB 104, Revenue Recognition (“SAB 104”). SAB 101
and SAB 104 summarize certain views of the SEC staff in applying generally accepted
accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements. In July 2000, the
Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board (“FASB”)
released Issue 99-19, Reporting Revenue Gross as a Principal versus Net as an Agent (“EITF
99-19”). This Issue summarized the EITF’s views on when revenue should be recorded at the
gross amount billed because revenue has been earned from the sale of goods or services,
or the net amount retained because revenue has been earned from a fee or commission.
Additionally, in January 2002, the EITF released Issue 01-14, Income Statement
Characterization of Reimbursements Received for “Out-of-Pocket” Expenses Incurred (“EITF
01-14”). EITF 01-14 summarized the EITF’s views on when out-of-pocket expenses should be
characterized as revenue. Our revenue recognition policies are in compliance with SAB
101, SAB 104, EITF 99-19 and EITF 01-14. In the majority of our businesses, we act as an
agent and record revenue equal to the net amount retained, when the fee or commission is
earned.

Billable
Production.

Billable production orders in process consist principally of costs incurred
on behalf of clients when providing advertising, marketing and corporate communications
services to clients. Such amounts are invoiced to clients at various times over the
course of the production process.

Cash
Equivalents.

Our cash equivalents are primarily comprised of investments in overnight
interest-bearing deposits, commercial paper and money market instruments and other
short-term investments with original maturity dates of three months or less at the time
of purchase.

Investments
Available for Sale.

Short-term investments and time deposits with financial institutions
consist principally of investments made with our excess cash which we expect to convert
into cash in our current operating cycle, generally within one year. Therefore, they are
classified as current assets. Investments in publicly traded securities are classified as
available-for-sale securities and are included in other long-term assets and are stated
at market value. There are no significant realized gains or losses or unrealized gains or
losses from our short-term investments and investments available for sale, because market
approximates cost.

Cost-Based
Investments.

Cost-based long-term investments are primarily comprised of equity interests
in privately held service companies where we do not exercise significant influence over
the operating and financial policies of the investee. These minority interests are
accounted for under the cost method and are included in

F-8

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

other assets in our balance sheet.
These investments are periodically evaluated to determine if there has been other than
temporary declines below carrying value. A variety of factors are considered when
determining if a decline in fair value below carrying value is other than temporary,
including, among others, the financial condition and prospects of the investee, as well
as our investment intent.

Equity
Method Investments.

The equity method is used to account for investments in entities in
which we have an ownership of less than 50% and have significant influence over the
operating and financial policies of the affiliate. The excess of the cost of our
ownership interest in the stock of those affiliates over our share of the fair value of
their net assets at the acquisition date is recognized as goodwill and included in the
carrying amount of our investment. Subsequent to the adoption of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (“SFAS”) No. 142, Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets (“SFAS 142”),
equity method goodwill is not amortized. We periodically evaluate these investments to
determine if there has been other than temporary declines below carrying value. A variety
of factors are considered when determining if a decline in fair value below carrying
value is other than temporary, including, among others, the financial condition and
prospects of the investee, as well as our investment intent. Further, owners of interests
in certain of our affiliates have the right in certain circumstances to require us to
purchase additional ownership interests at fair value as defined in the applicable
agreement. The intent of the parties is to approximate fair value at the time of
redemption by using a multiple of earnings, which is consistent with generally accepted
valuation practices used by market participants in our industry. The ultimate amount payable is uncertain because it is based on future earnings of the
affiliate, changes in the applicable foreign currency exchange rate and if exercised, the
timing of the exercise of these rights.

Treasury
Stock.

We account for treasury share purchases at cost. The reissuance of treasury
shares, primarily in connection with employee stock-based compensation plans, is
accounted for at average cost. Gains or losses on the reissuance of treasury shares are
accounted for as additional paid-in capital and do not affect our reported results of
operations.

Foreign
Currency Translation.

Our financial statements were prepared in accordance with SFAS No.
52, Foreign Currency Translation (“SFAS 52”). All of our foreign subsidiaries use their
local currency as their functional currency in accordance with SFAS 52. Accordingly, the
currency impacts of the translation of the balance sheets of our foreign subsidiaries to
U.S. Dollar statements are included as translation adjustments in accumulated other
comprehensive income. The income statements of foreign subsidiaries are translated at
average exchange rates for the year. Net foreign currency transaction gains included in
pre-tax income were $5.6 million in 2007, $2.1 million in 2006, and $0.1 million in 2005.

Earnings
Per Common Share.

On June 25, 2007, pursuant to a two-for-one stock split which was
effected in the form of a 100% stock dividend, each shareholder received one additional
share of Omnicom Group Inc. common stock for each share held on June 6, 2007. In
connection with the stock split, all current and prior period earnings per share data,
share amounts and other per share data have been adjusted to reflect the stock split in
accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standard (“SFAS”) No. 128, “Earnings
per Share,”except for the prior year’s consolidated balance sheet and statements of
shareholders’ equity. Basic earnings per share is based upon the weighted average number
of common shares outstanding during each year. Diluted earnings per share is based on the
above, plus, if dilutive, common share equivalents which include outstanding options and
restricted shares. For purposes of computing diluted earnings per share for the years
ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively, 4.4 million shares, 3.2 million
shares, and 2.9 million shares were assumed to have been outstanding related to common
share equivalents. For the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively,
0.1 million shares, 4.8 million shares, and 9.2 million shares attributable to
outstanding stock options were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per
share because the exercise price of the stock options were greater than or equal to the
average price of our common stock and therefore their inclusion would have been
anti-dilutive. The number of shares used in the computations were as follows (shares in
millions):




Basic EPS computation

326.0

342.9

360.7

Diluted EPS computation

330.4

346.1

363.6

F-9

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Gains
and Losses on Issuance of Stock by Affiliates and Subsidiaries.

Gains and losses on the
issuance of stock by equity method affiliates and consolidated subsidiaries are
recognized directly in our shareholders’ equity, net of applicable taxes, through an
increase or decrease to additional paid-in capital in the period in which the issuance
occurs and do not affect reported results of operations.

Salary
Continuation Agreements.

Arrangements with certain present and former employees provide
for continuing payments for periods up to 10 years after cessation of their full-time
employment in consideration for agreements by the employee not to compete with us and to
render consulting services during the postemployment period. Such payments, the amounts
of which are also subject to certain limitations, including our operating performance
during the postemployment period, represent the fair value of the services rendered and
are expensed in such periods.

Depreciation
of Furniture and Equipment and Amortization of Leasehold Improvements.

Depreciation is
computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of furniture of seven
to ten years and equipment of three to five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized
on a straight-line basis over the lesser of the terms of the related lease or the
estimated useful life of the assets.

Goodwill
and Other Intangibles Assets.

In accordance with SFAS 142, goodwill acquired resulting
from a business combination is not amortized, but is periodically tested for impairment.
Additionally, in accordance with SFAS No. 141, Business Combinations (“SFAS 141”), we
allocate the cost of an acquired entity to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on their estimated fair values including other identifiable intangible assets, as
applicable, primarily customer relationships and trade names. See Note 2 for information
about our acquisitions.

Under
SFAS 142, we no longer amortize goodwill and intangible assets with indefinite lives and
we are required to perform an annual impairment test on goodwill balances and intangible
assets with indefinite lives. In performing the impairment test for goodwill, SFAS 142
requires that we identify the components of our operating segments that are reporting
units and their respective carrying value, estimate the fair value of the reporting units
and compare the fair value to the carrying value of the reporting units to determine if
there is a potential impairment. We use several market participant measurements to
determine fair value. This approach utilizes a discounted expected cash flow methodology,
consideration of similar and recent transactions and when available and as appropriate,
we use comparative market participant measures to supplement our analysis. If there is a
potential impairment, SFAS 142 requires that additional analysis be performed to
determine the amount of the impairment, if any, to be recorded.

We
perform our impairment test during the second quarter of each year. In determining the
fair value of our reporting units, we perform a discounted expected cash flow analysis
assuming they could be sold in a nontaxable transaction between willing parties. When
comparing the fair value of our reporting units to their carrying value, we include
deferred taxes in the carrying value of each of our reporting units. We have concluded,
for each year presented in the financial statements, that the fair value of the reporting
units exceeded their carrying value and we have concluded that goodwill was not impaired.
We plan to continue to perform our impairment test during the second quarter of each year
unless certain events, as defined in SFAS 142, trigger the need for an earlier evaluation
for impairment.

In
accordance with paragraph 30 of SFAS 142, we identified our regional reporting units as
components of our operating segments, which are our five agency networks. The regional
reporting units of each agency network are responsible for the agencies in their region.
They report to the segment managers and facilitate the administrative and logistical
requirements of our client-centric strategy for delivering services to clients in their
regions. We then concluded that for each of our operating segments, their regional
reporting units had similar economic characteristics and should be aggregated for
purposes of testing goodwill for impairment at the operating segment level. Our
conclusion was based on a detailed analysis of the aggregation criteria set forth in
paragraph 17 of SFAS No.131, Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related
Information (“SFAS 131”), and the guidance set forth in EITF D-101: Clarification of
Reporting Unit Guidance in Paragraph 30 of FASB Statement No. 142. Consistent with the
fundamentals of our business strategy, the agencies within our regional reporting units
serve similar clients in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients. In

F-10

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

addition, the agencies within our
regional reporting units have similar economic characteristics, as the main economic
components of each agency are the salary and service costs associated with providing
professional services, the office and general costs associated with office space and
occupancy, and the provision of technology requirements which are generally limited to
personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. Finally, the expected benefits of
our acquisitions are typically shared across multiple agencies and regions as they work
together to integrate the acquired agency into our client service strategy.

Income
Taxes.

We file a consolidated U.S. income tax return and tax returns in various state and
local jurisdictions. Our subsidiaries also file tax returns in various foreign
jurisdictions. The principal foreign jurisdictions include the United Kingdom, France and
Germany. We have not provided U.S. deferred income taxes on cumulative earnings of
non-U.S. affiliates that have been reinvested indefinitely. A provision has been made for
income and withholding taxes on the earnings of international subsidiaries and affiliates
that have been distributed. Interest and penalties related to tax positions taken in our
tax returns are recorded in income tax expense in our consolidated statement of income.

We
account for income taxes in accordance with SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, as
amended (“SFAS 109”). Deferred income taxes are provided for the temporary difference
between the financial reporting basis and tax basis of our assets and liabilities.
Deferred income taxes are measured using the enacted tax rates that are assumed to be in
effect when the differences reverse. Deferred tax assets result principally from
recording certain expenses in the financial statements which are not currently deductible
for tax purposes, including employee stock-based compensation expense and from
differences between the tax and book basis of assets and liabilities recorded in
connection with acquisitions, as well as tax loss and credit carryforwards. Deferred tax
liabilities result principally from expenses arising from financial instruments which are
currently deductible for tax purposes but have not been expensed in the financial
statements and basis differences arising from tangible and deductible intangible assets.

We
maintain valuation allowances where it is more likely than not that all or a portion of a
deferred tax asset will not be realized. In determining whether a valuation allowance is
warranted, we evaluate factors such as prior earnings history, expected future earnings,
carry-back and carry-forward periods and tax strategies that could potentially enhance
the likelihood of the realization of a deferred tax asset.

Employee
Stock Compensation.

Employee stock compensation, consisting primarily of stock options
and restricted stock, is accounted for in accordance with SFAS No. 123, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation” (“SFAS 123”), as amended by SFAS No. 148, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation — Transition and Disclosure, an amendment of FASB Statement No.
123 (“SFAS 148”). We elected, effective January 1, 2004, to account for stock-based
employee compensation using the fair value method. The fair value of stock-based employee
compensation is recorded in our consolidated statement of income. In determining the fair
value of certain stock based compensation awards, we use certain estimates and
assumptions such as expected life, rate of risk free interest, volatility and dividend
yield. Pre-tax stock-based employee compensation expense for the years ended December 31,
2007, 2006 and 2005, was $68.7 million, $71.1 million, and $87.0 million, respectively.
Information about our specific awards and stock plans can be found in Note 7.

On
January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”)
which requires, among other things, that we record stock-based compensation expense net
of an estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. For all unvested awards
outstanding at January 1, 2006, we recorded an adjustment to reflect the cumulative
effect of this change in accounting principle. The adjustment in the first quarter of
2006 resulted in an increase in our operating profit and net income of $3.6 million and
$2.0 million, respectively. Because this adjustment did not have a material effect on our
results of operations and financial condition, we did not present this adjustment on an
after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of accounting change in our income statement.

SFAS
123R also requires that new awards issued to individuals that are, or will become,
retirement-eligible during the vesting period of the award to be expensed over the lesser
of the period from the date of grant through the retirement-eligible date or the vesting
date. This differs from our previous policy for awards that were issued prior to adoption
of SFAS 123R with retirement eligibility provisions. For those awards we

F-11

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

recognized compensation expense over
the vesting period and we accelerated compensation expense upon the triggering of a
retirement event. We estimate that for the full-years of 2007 and 2006, $6.0 million and
$13.5 million, respectively, of pre-tax stock-based employee compensation expense was
recorded related to unvested awards at December 31, 2005 that were issued prior to
adoption of SFAS 123R to individuals that were retirement-eligible at December 31, 2005
and the awards included retirement eligibility provisions. Had SFAS 123R been in effect
when these awards were issued, stock-based compensation expense in 2007 and 2006 would
have been less by $6.0 million and $13.5 million, respectively.

SFAS
123R provided transition alternatives with respect to calculating the pool of tax
benefits within our additional paid-in capital (the “APIC” Pool) that are available on
the adoption date to offset potential future shortfalls. The APIC Pool results from the
amount by which cumulative year tax deductions for stock-based compensation exceed the
cumulative book stock-based compensation expense recognized in our financial statements.
We utilized the short-cut method as prescribed by FASB Statement of Position 123R-3 to
calculate the APIC Pool.

Concentration
of Credit Risk.

We provide marketing and corporate communications services to thousands
of clients who operate in nearly every industry sector. We grant credit to qualified
clients in the ordinary course of business. Due to the diversified nature of our client
base, we do not believe that we are exposed to a concentration of credit risk as our
largest client accounted for 2.8% of our 2007 consolidated revenue and no other client
accounted for more than 2.4% of our 2007 consolidated revenue.

Derivative
Financial Instruments.

SFAS No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging
Activities (“SFAS 133”) establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that
every derivative instrument (including certain derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as either an asset or liability measured at
its fair value.

Our
derivative financial instruments consist principally of cross-currency interest rate
swaps and forward foreign exchange contracts. For derivative financial instruments to
qualify for hedge accounting the following criteria must be met: (1) the hedging
instrument must be designated as a hedge; (2) the hedged exposure must be specifically
identifiable and expose us to risk; and (3) it is expected that a change in fair value of
the derivative financial instrument and an opposite change in the fair value of the
hedged exposure will have a high degree of correlation.

If
the derivative is a hedge, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in the fair
value of the derivative will either be offset against the change in fair value of the
hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or recognized in other
comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective
portion of the change in fair value of a derivative used as hedge is required to be
immediately recognized in the statement of income.

We
execute forward foreign exchange contracts in the same currency as the related exposure,
whereby 100% correlation is achieved based on spot rates. Gains and losses on derivative
financial instruments which are hedges of foreign currency assets or liabilities are
recorded at market value and changes in market value are recognized in the statement of
income in the current period. Gains and losses on our cross-currency interest rate swaps
that are used to hedge our net investments in foreign subsidiaries are recorded to
accumulated comprehensive income as translation adjustments to the extent of changes in
the spot exchange rate. The remaining difference is recorded in the statement of income
in the current period.

Use
of Estimates.

The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP
requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets
and liabilities and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the
financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

2. Acquisitions

During
2007, we completed 13 acquisitions of new subsidiaries for cash consideration and made
additional cash investments in companies in which we already had an ownership interest,
none of which were material to our consolidated financial position or results of
operations. In addition, we made contingent

F-12

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

purchase price payments related to
acquisitions completed in prior years. The aggregate cost of these transactions,
including cash payments and the assumption of liabilities in 2007 was as follows (dollars
in millions):

New and existing
      subsidiaries

$219.0

Contingent purchase price
      payments

159.3

$378.3

Valuations
of these acquired companies were based on a number of factors, including specialized
know-how, reputation, geographic coverage, competitive position and service offerings.
Our acquisition strategy has been focused on acquiring the expertise of an assembled
workforce in order to continue to build upon the core capabilities of our various
strategic business platforms through the expansion of their geographic area and/or their
service capabilities to better serve our clients. Consistent with our acquisition
strategy and past practice, most acquisitions completed in 2007 included an initial
payment at the time of closing and provide for future additional contingent purchase
price payments. Contingent payments for these transactions, as well as certain
acquisitions completed in prior years, are derived using the performance of the acquired
entity and are based on pre-determined formulas. These contingent purchase price
obligations are accrued when the contingency is resolved and payment is certain.

For
each of our acquisitions, we undertake a detailed review to identify other intangible
assets and a valuation is performed for all such assets identified. We use several market
participant measurements to determine fair value. This approach includes consideration of
similar and recent transactions, as well as utilizing discounted expected cash flow
methodologies and when available and as appropriate, we use comparative market multiples
to supplement our analysis. Like most service businesses, a substantial portion of the
intangible asset value that we acquire is the specialized know-how of the workforce,
which is treated as part of goodwill and is not required to be valued separately by SFAS
141. The majority of the value of the identifiable intangible assets that we acquire is
derived from customer relationships and the related customer contracts. In executing our
acquisition strategy, one of the primary drivers in identifying and executing a specific
transaction is the existence of, or the ability to, expand our existing client
relationships. The expected benefits of our acquisitions are typically shared across
multiple agencies and regions.

As
of December 31, 2007 and 2006, the components of our intangible assets were as follows:

(Dollars in millions)



Gross

Carrying

Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net

Carrying

Value

Gross

Carrying

Value

Accumulated

Amortization

Net

Carrying

Value

Intangible assets
      subject to

SFAS
      142 impairment tests:

Goodwill

$7,946.5

$628.0

$7,318.5

$7,457.2

$605.3

$6,851.9

Other identifiable intangible
      assets

subject
      to amortization:

Purchased and internally

developed
      software

$   249.9

$187.8

$     62.1

$   223.1

$163.1

$     60.0

Customer related and other

197.4

63.8

133.6

127.9

44.7

83.2

Total

$   447.3

$251.6

$   195.7

$   351.0

$207.8

$   143.2

Substantially
all of our other identifiable intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis
ranging from 5 to 10 years.

F-13

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

During
the third quarter of 2006, we disposed of a U.S. based healthcare business and several
small businesses. The sale of the healthcare business resulted in a high book tax rate
primarily caused by the allocation of non-deductible goodwill in accordance with SFAS
142. This increase in income tax expense was more than offset by a one-time reduction of
income tax expense from the resolution of uncertainties related to changes in certain
foreign tax laws. The aggregate impact of these events was a decrease in profit before
tax of $0.5 million, a decrease in tax expense of $1.8 million and an increase in net
income of $1.3 million.

3. Bank Loans and
Lines of Credit

Bank
loans of $12.0 million and $10.5 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, are
primarily comprised of the bank overdrafts of our international subsidiaries. These loans
are treated as unsecured loans pursuant to our bank agreements. The weighted average
interest rate on these bank loans as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was 5.9% and 6.2%,
respectively.

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had committed and uncommitted lines of credit aggregating
$2,954.9 million and $2,862.4 million, respectively. The unused portion of these credit
lines was $2,942.9 million and $2,851.9 million at December 31, 2007 and 2006,
respectively. During the third quarter of 2007, volatility in the financial markets
related to the credit crisis resulted in an increase in borrowing spreads in the
commercial paper markets. We arranged for $300.0 million in unsecured uncommitted lines
of credit and shifted funding a portion of our daily needs to these lines from our
commercial paper program. These lines were subsequently terminated during the fourth
quarter of 2007. Accordingly, at December 31, 2007, there were no borrowings outstanding
under these lines.

In
June 2006, we amended and extended our five-year credit facility to June 23, 2011 and
increased the amount available from $2.1 billion to $2.4 billion with substantially the
same bank syndicate. In conjunction with this amendment and extension, we terminated our
$400.0 million 364-day revolving credit facility that was due to expire. Subsequently, in
September 2006, the facility was increased from $2.4 billion to $2.5 billion. We have the
ability to classify outstanding borrowings, if any, under our five-year credit facility
as long-term debt.

Our
five-year credit facility is provided by a bank syndicate that includes large global
banks such as Citibank, JP Morgan Chase, HSBC, ABN Amro, Deutsche Bank, Bank of America,
Societe Generale and BBVA. We also include large regional banks in the U.S. such as
Wachovia, US Bancorp, Northern Trust, PNC and Wells Fargo. Additionally, we include banks
that have a major presence in countries where we conduct business such as Sumitomo in
Japan, Fortis in Belgium, Intesa San Paolo in Italy, Scotia in Canada and ANZ in
Australia.

Our
$2,500.0 million five-year revolving credit facility provides support for our $1,500.0
million commercial paper program, as well as provide back-up liquidity in the event any
of our convertible notes are put back to us. The gross amount of commercial paper issued
and redeemed under our commercial paper program during 2007 was $20.0 billion, with an
average term of 3.2 days. During 2006, $13.6 billion of commercial paper was issued and
redeemed with an average term of 2.8 days. We issue commercial paper to manage changes in
our working capital during the year that arise principally because in the normal course
of business, our agencies incur costs on behalf of our clients at levels substantially
exceeding our revenues, including when we place media and incur production cost
obligations. As of December 31, 2007 and 2006, we had no commercial paper borrowings
outstanding.

The
credit facilities contain financial covenants limiting the ratio of total consolidated
indebtedness to total consolidated EBITDA (for purposes of these covenants EBITDA is
defined as earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization) to no more
than 3.0 times. In addition, we are required to maintain a minimum ratio of EBITDA to
interest expense of at least 5.0 times. At December 31, 2007, our ratio of debt to EBITDA
was 1.6 times and our ratio of EBITDA to interest expense was 17.5 times. We were in
compliance with these covenants. In addition, the credit facilities do not limit our
ability to declare or pay dividends.

F-14

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

4. Long-Term Debt and
Convertible Notes

Long-term
debt and convertible notes outstanding as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the
following:

In
February 2001, we issued $850.0 million aggregate principal amount of Liquid Yield Option
Notes due February 7, 2031 (“2031 Notes”). These notes are senior unsecured zero-coupon
securities that were convertible at issuance into 15.5 million shares of our common
stock, implying a conversion price of $55.01 per common share, subject to normal
anti-dilution adjustments. These notes are convertible at a specified ratio only upon the
occurrence of certain events, including; if our common shares trade above certain levels,
if we effect extraordinary transactions or if our long-term debt credit ratings are
downgraded by at least two notches from their December 31, 2007 level of A- to BBB or
lower by Standard & Poor’s Ratings Service (“S&P”), or from their December 31,
2007 level of Baa1 to Baa3 or lower by Moody’s Investors Service (“Moody’s”). These
events would not, however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable upon
conversion. Holders of these notes have the right to put the notes back to us for cash in
February of each year and we have agreed not to redeem the notes for cash before February
7, 2009. There are no events that accelerate the noteholders’ put rights. Beginning in
February 2006 and every six months thereafter, if the market price of our common shares
exceeds certain thresholds, we may be required to pay contingent cash interest for that
period. Our initial calculation in February 2006 and subsequent calculations thereafter
did not require us to pay contingent cash interest. In prior years, $3.0 million
principal amount of notes were put back to us reducing the total outstanding balance to
$847.0 million.

In
March 2002, we issued $900.0 million aggregate principal amount of Zero Coupon Zero Yield
Convertible Notes due July 31, 2032 (“2032 Notes”). The notes are senior unsecured
zero-coupon securities that were convertible at issuance into 16.4 million shares of our
common stock, implying a conversion price of $55.01 per common share, subject to normal
anti-dilution adjustments. These notes are convertible at a specified ratio only upon the
occurrence of certain events, including; if our common shares trade above certain levels,
if we effect extraordinary transactions or if our long-term debt credit ratings are
downgraded at least two notches from their December 31, 2007 level of A- to BBB or lower
by S&P, or from their December 31, 2007 level of Baa1 to Baa3 or lower by Moody’s.
These events would not, however, result in an adjustment of the number of shares issuable
upon conversion. Holders of these notes have the right to put the notes back to us for
cash in August of each year and we have agreed not to redeem the notes for cash before
July 31, 2009. There are no events that accelerate the noteholders’ put rights. Beginning
in August 2007 and every six months thereafter, if the market price of our common shares
exceeds certain thresholds, we may be required to pay contingent cash interest for that
period. Our initial calculation in August 2007 did not require us to pay contingent
interest. In

F-15

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

prior years, $7.7 million principal
amount of notes were put back to us reducing the total outstanding balance at December
31, 2005 to $892.3 million and $165.3 million principal amount of notes were put back to
us in 2006 reducing the outstanding balance at December 31, 2006 to $727.0 million.

In
June 2003, we issued $600.0 million aggregate principal amount of Zero Coupon Zero Yield
Convertible Notes due June 15, 2033 (“2033 Notes”). The notes are senior unsecured
obligations that were convertible at issuance into 11.7 million shares of our common
stock, implying a conversion price of $51.50 per common share, subject to normal
anti-dilution adjustments. These notes are convertible at the specified ratio only upon
the occurrence of certain events, including; if our common shares trade above certain
levels, if we effect extraordinary transactions or if our long-term debt credit ratings
are downgraded from their current level to Ba1 or lower by Moody’s or BBB- or lower by S&P.
The occurrence of these events will not result in an adjustment of the number of shares
issuable upon conversion. Holders of these notes have the right to put the notes back to
us for cash on June 15, 2008, 2010, 2013, 2018, 2023 and on each June 15 annually
thereafter through June 15, 2032 and we have a right to redeem the notes for cash
beginning on June 15, 2010. There are no events that accelerate the noteholders’ put
rights. Beginning in June 2010, if the market price of our common shares exceeds certain
thresholds, we may be required to pay contingent cash interest. The majority of the 2033
Notes were amended in June 2006, as discussed below, and the amended notes are referred
to as our Zero Coupon Zero Yield Convertible Notes due 2038 (“2038 Notes”).

Our
2031, 2032, 2033 and 2038 Notes (collectively the “Notes”) provide the noteholders with
certain rights that we consider to be embedded derivatives in accordance with SFAS 133.
Under SFAS 133, embedded derivatives could be required to be bifurcated and accounted for
separately from the underlying host instrument. The noteholders’ rights we considered for
bifurcation were: (1) an embedded conversion option to convert the bonds into shares of
our common stock; (2) the right to put the Notes back to us for repayment (noteholder’s
put right) and our agreement to not call the Notes up to specified dates (no call right);
and (3) the right to collect contingent cash interest from us if certain criteria are
met. As discussed below, the embedded derivatives were not required to be bifurcated or
had no impact on the carrying value of the Notes and accordingly, the Notes are carried
at their value due at maturity.

Specifically,
the embedded conversion options qualify for the exception in SFAS 133 covering
convertible bonds and we are not required to separately account for the embedded
conversion option. Under SFAS 133, the embedded options must meet the criteria of EITF
00-19, Accounting for Derivative Financial Instruments Indexed to, and Potentially
Settled in, a Company’s Own Stock (“EITF 00-19”) to qualify for the exception. EITF 00-19
required that certain criteria be met for a freestanding derivative in a company’s own
stock to be classified as an equity instrument. The embedded conversion options met the
criteria in EITF 00-19 and would, if converted, be accounted for in shareholders’equity
as if they were freestanding derivatives. We are not required to separately value and
account for the noteholders’ put right and the no call right under SFAS 133 and related
interpretation by the Derivatives Implementation Group (DIG) No. B-16. These rights were
considered to be clearly and closely related to the underlying Notes and are not
contingently exercisable. Additionally, the debt was not issued with a substantial
discount or premium. Lastly, the noteholders’ right to collect contingent cash interest
is a derivative and is required to be marked to market value each reporting period with
changes recorded in interest expense. The value of this right is primarily linked to the
price of our common stock and not the debt host contract. Therefore, it is not clearly
and closely related to our debt and is required to be separately accounted for under SFAS
133. For each of the Notes at issuance and through December 31, 2005, this right had
nominal value. For the periods ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, the value was $0.7
million and $0.8 million, respectively.

In
August 2004, we amended the indenture governing the 2032 Notes. In November 2004, we
amended the indentures governing the 2031 Notes and the 2033 Notes. The amendments added
two of our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries, Omnicom Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance
Inc., as co-obligors to each convertible note. The amendments to all three indentures
were similar with respect to settlement of the notes on put or conversion. We amended the
provisions regarding payment to the noteholders in the event of a put. Previously, we
could satisfy the put obligation in cash, shares or a combination of both, at our option.
The amendments provide that we can only satisfy the put obligation in cash. We also
amended the provisions regarding payment

F-16

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

to the noteholders in the event the
noteholders exercise their conversion right. Previously, we were required to satisfy the
conversion obligation of each note by delivering the underlying number of shares, as
adjusted, into which the note converts. The amendments provide that the conversion
obligation is equal to a conversion value determined on the day of conversion, calculated
by multiplying the share price at the close of business on that day by the underlying
number of shares into which the note converts. We then satisfy the conversion value by
paying the initial principal amount of the note in cash and the balance of the conversion
value in cash or shares, at our option. This amendment made the notes compliant with EITF
90-19, Convertible Bonds with Issuer Options to Settle for Cash Upon Conversion — “Instrument
C” treatment. Further, the amended notes qualified for the exception in SFAS 133,
covering convertible bonds and we are not required to separately account for the fair
value of the embedded conversion option. The amendments did not change this accounting,
accordingly, the notes are carried at their face value. At the same time we amended the
indenture provisions governing settlement on put or conversion, we also amended the
provisions of 2031 Notes and the 2032 Notes governing the payment of contingent cash
interest.

In
February 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $46.25 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2031 Notes as of February 2, 2006 to not put
their notes back to us. The noteholders were paid $39.2 million on February 8, 2006. This
payment is being amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in
accordance with Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) No. 96-19, Debtor’s Accounting for a
Modification or Exchange of Debt Instruments (“EITF 96-19”). In February 2007, we did not
pay a supplemental interest payment to noteholders of our 2031 Notes and none of the 2031
Notes were put back to us for repayment.

In
June 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $27.50 per $1,000 of our
2033 Notes to holders that did not put their notes back to us and consented to the
amendments to the notes and related indenture as of June 27, 2006. The principal
amendment extended the maturity of the notes from June 15, 2033 to July 1, 2038. The
additional amendments conformed other terms of the notes for the extension of the
maturity date, as well as amending the comparable yield. On June 21, 2006, we repurchased
$132.5 million of notes that were put to us. With respect to the remaining $467.5 million
of notes as of June 30, 2006, noteholders holding a combined amount of $428.1 million of
notes consented to the amendments, were paid $27.50 per $1,000 note and their notes were
amended. The total supplemental interest payment of $11.7 million will be amortized
ratably over a twenty-four-month period to the next put date in accordance with EITF
96-19. During the first quarter of 2007, substantially all of the remaining holders of
the 2033 Notes exchanged their notes for 2038 Notes reducing the aggregate principal
amount of the 2033 Notes outstanding to $0.2 million. No supplemental interest payment or
fee was paid to the noteholders. The next put date for the 2033 and 2038 notes is June
15, 2008.

In
July 2006, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $32.50 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2032 Notes as of August 1, 2006 that did not
put their notes back to us. On August 4, 2006, we repurchased $165.2 million of our 2032
Notes that were put to us. With respect to the remaining $727.0 million of notes,
noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $23.6 million on August 2,
2006 which is being amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in
accordance with EITF 96-19. In July 2007, we did not pay a supplemental interest payment
to noteholders of our 2032 Notes and none of the 2032 Notes were put back to us for
repayment.

In
March 2006, we issued $1.0 billion aggregate principal amount of Senior Notes due April
15, 2016 (“Senior Notes”). The gross proceeds from the issuance were $995.1 million. The
gross proceeds less fees resulted in a 6.05% yield to maturity. The Senior Notes were
issued by Omnicom Group Inc. and two of our wholly-owned finance subsidiaries, Omnicom
Capital Inc. and Omnicom Finance Inc., as co-obligors. The Senior Notes are senior
unsecured notes that rank in equal right of payment with all existing future unsecured
indebtedness and as a joint and several liability of the issuer and the co-obligors.

F-17

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

In
February 2008, we offered to pay a supplemental interest payment of $9.00 per $1,000
principal amount of notes to holders of our 2031 Notes as of February 4, 2008 who did not
put their notes back to us. None of the 2031 Notes were put back to us and on February 8,
2008, noteholders were paid a total supplemental interest payment of $7.6 million that
will be amortized ratably over a 12-month period to the next put date in accordance with
EITF 96-19.

For
the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, our gross interest expense on our
borrowings was $106.9 million, $124.9 million and $78.0 million, respectively. Included
in our interest expense in 2007, 2006 and 2005, and described above was $23.9 million,
$71.5 million and $47.3 million related to our convertible notes, respectively. Interest
expense relative to our Senior Notes was $60.2 million and $45.5 million in 2007 and
2006. In addition, interest expense relative to our €152.4 million 5.20% Notes was $3.9
million in 2005. The remainder of our interest expense in these years was related to our
short-term borrowings.

The
aggregate stated maturities of long-term debt and convertible notes as of December 31,
2007, are as follows:

(Dollars in millions)


$       2.6


0.5


16.3


0.3


0.1


—

Thereafter

3,037.5

5. Segment Reporting

Our
wholly and partially owned agencies operate within the advertising, marketing and
corporate communications services industry. These agencies are organized into agency
networks, virtual client networks, regional reporting units and operating groups. During
2005, we completed the reorganization of our operating segments and the formation of a
fifth agency network. Consistent with the fundamentals of our business strategy, our
agencies serve similar clients, in similar industries, and in many cases the same clients
across a variety of geographic regions. In addition, our agency networks have similar
economic characteristics and similar long-term operating margins, as the main economic
components of each agency are the salary and service costs associated with providing
professional services, the office and general costs associated with office space and
occupancy, and the provision of technology requirements which are generally limited to
personal computers, servers and off-the-shelf software. Therefore, given these
similarities and in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 131, most specifically
paragraph 17, we aggregate our operating segments, which are our five agency networks,
into one reporting segment.

A
summary of our revenue and long-lived assets by geographic area for the years then ended,
and as of December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 is presented below:

(Dollars in millions)

Americas

EMEA

Asia/Australia


Revenue

$7,392.8

$4,543.7

$757.5

Long-Lived
      Assets

420.5

233.9

52.3

Goodwill

6,061.9

1,196.4

60.2


Revenue

$6,789.2

$3,909.7

$678.0

Long-Lived
      Assets

379.1

211.7

49.0

Goodwill

5,636.7

1,157.8

57.4


Revenue

$6,261.6

$3,586.0

$633.5

Long-Lived
      Assets

415.9

149.8

43.0

Goodwill

5,508.4

932.2

52.5

F-18

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The
Americas is primarily composed of the U.S., Canada and Latin American countries. EMEA is
primarily composed of various Euro currency countries, the United Kingdom, the
Middle-East and Africa and other European countries that have not adopted the European
Union Monetary standard. Asia/Australia is primarily composed of China, Japan, Korea,
Singapore, Australia and other Asian countries.

6. Equity and
Cost-Based Investments

We
have investments in privately held unconsolidated affiliated companies accounted for
under the equity method. The affiliated companies offer marketing and corporate
communications services similar to those offered by our operating companies. The equity
method is used when we own less than 50% of the common stock but exercise significant
influence over the operating and financial policies of the affiliate.

Our
total equity investments did not exceed 3.0% of our total assets, our proportionate share
of our affiliates’ total assets did not exceed 3.0% of our total assets, and individually
and in the aggregate, our proportionate share of our affiliates’ profit before incomes
taxes did not exceed 5.0% of our total profit before income taxes. Accordingly,
summarized financial information of our affiliates is not required to be disclosed as
these affiliates are not material to our financial position or results of operations.

Our
equity interest in the net income of these affiliated companies was $38.4 million and
$29.6 million for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Our equity
interest in the net assets of these affiliated companies was $165.8 million and $132.8
million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively. Owners of interests in certain of
our affiliated companies have the right in certain circumstances to require us to
purchase additional ownership interests at fair value as defined in the applicable
agreements. The intent of the parties is to approximate fair value at the time of
redemption by using a multiple of earnings, which is consistent with generally accepted
valuation practices used by market participants in our industry. The terms of these
rights vary for each arrangement and the ultimate amount payable in the future also
varies based upon the future earnings of the affiliated companies, changes in the
applicable foreign currency exchange rates and if exercised, the timing of the exercise
of these rights.

Our
cost-based investments at December 31, 2007 were primarily comprised of equity interests
of less than 20% in various privately held service companies. This method is used when we
own less than a 20% equity interest and do not exercise significant influence over the
operating and financial policies of the investee. The total cost basis of these
investments as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 was $41.2 million and $47.2 million,
respectively and are included in other assets on our balance sheet.

7. Employee Stock
Compensation Plans

Our
current equity incentive compensation plan was adopted in 2007 (“2007 Equity Incentive
Award Plan”) and reserved 37.0 million shares of our common stock for options, restricted
stock and other awards. The 2007 Equity Incentive Award Plan also permits reissuance of
forfeited shares that were issued as restricted stock awards and option grants under the
current and previous plans prior to the adoption of the 2007 Equity Incentive Award Plan.
Pursuant to the 2007 Equity Incentive Award Plan, the exercise price of options awarded
may not be less than 100% of the market price of the stock at the date of grant and the
option term cannot be longer than ten years from the date of grant. The terms of each
option and the times at which each option will be exercisable will be determined by the
Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors. It is anticipated that the full vesting
period for options will generally be three years. Generally our option grants become
exercisable 30% on each of the first two anniversary dates of the grant date with the
final 40% becoming exercisable three years from the grant date.

As
a result of the adoption of the 2007 Equity Incentive Award Plan in 2007, no new awards
may be granted under our previous award plans.

Our
current and previous equity award plans do not permit the holder of an award to elect
cash settlement under any circumstances.

F-19

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Stock Options:

Options
included under all incentive compensation plans, all of which were approved by our
shareholders, for the past three years are:




Shares

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Shares

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Shares

Weighted

Average

Exercise

Price

Shares under option, beginning of year

23,881,610

$37.44

31,405,670

$37.03

34,608,094

$36.53

Options granted under:

2007 Equity Incentive Award Plan

120,000

52.83

—

—

—

—

Previous Equity Incentive Plans

—

—

100,000

44.40

40,000

40.25

Options exercised

(2,097,251

)

29.43

(7,599,726

)

35.82

(2,905,878

)

31.17

Options forfeited / repurchased

(192,824

)

41.63

(24,334

)

38.23

(336,546

)

36.45

Shares under option, end of year

21,711,535

$38.26

23,881,610

$37.44

31,405,670

$37.03

Options exercisable at year-end

21,591,535

15,860,978

22,588,878

The
following table summarizes the information above about options outstanding and options
exercisable at December 31, 2007:

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Range of Exercise

Prices (in dollars)

Options

Outstanding

Weighted Average

Remaining

Contractual Life

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

Options

Exercisable

Weighted Average

Exercise Price

$

19.88 to 21.34

570,000

1 year

$20.96

570,000

$20.96

32.75 to 45.61

3,810,000

1-2 years

41.19

3,810,000

41.19

39.16

1,704,000

2-3 years

39.16

1,704,000

39.16

31.18 to 43.58

13,154,731

3-4 years

36.47

13,154,731

36.47

43.04 to 46.77

2,352,804

4-5 years

46.31

2,352,804

46.31

52.83

120,000

6-7 years

52.83

—

—

21,711,535

21,591,535

The
weighted average fair value, calculated on the basis summarized below, of each option
granted was $8.01, $8.06 and $8.44 for 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. The fair value
of each option grant has been determined as of the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option valuation model and are typically amortized to expense over the vesting period.
The Black-Scholes assumptions (without adjusting for the risk of forfeiture and lack of
liquidity) were as follows:




Expected option lives

3.5 years

3.5 years

3.5 years

Risk free interest rate

4.0%

4.9% - 5.1%

3.8%

Expected volatility

14.7%

16.4% - 16.7%

24.1%

Dividend yield

1.1%

1.1%

1.1%

F-20

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Restricted Shares:

Changes
in outstanding shares of restricted stock for the three years ended December 31, 2007
were as follows:




Restricted shares at beginning of year

4,162,718

4,356,670

4,824,826

Number granted

1,639,761

1,450,706

1,447,114

Number vested

(1,243,605

)

(1,407,930

)

(1,692,276

)

Number forfeited

(260,907

)

(236,728

)

(222,994

)

Restricted shares at end of year

4,297,967

4,162,718

4,356,670

The
weighted average per share grant date fair value of restricted shares was $44.94 at the
end of 2007, $40.30 at the end of 2006 and $37.15 at the end of 2005.

All
restricted shares were sold at a price per share equal to their par value. The difference
between par value and market value on the date of the grant is charged to shareholders’ equity
and then amortized to expense over the restriction period. The restricted shares
typically vest in 20% annual increments provided the employee remains in our employ.

Restricted
shares may not be sold, transferred, pledged or otherwise encumbered until the forfeiture
restrictions lapse. Under most circumstances, the employee must resell the shares to us
at par value if the employee ceases employment prior to the end of the restriction period.

ESPP:

We
have an employee stock purchase plan (“ESPP”) that enables employees to purchase our
common stock through payroll deductions over each plan quarter at 85% of the market price
on the last trading day of the plan quarter. Purchases are limited to 10% of eligible
compensation as defined by the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 (“ERISA”).
During 2007, 2006 and 2005, employees purchased 513,429 shares, 551,704 shares and
570,852 shares, respectively, all of which were treasury shares, for which $22.2 million,
$21.1 million and $20.4 million, respectively, was paid to us. At December 31, 2007,
1,062,463 shares remain reserved for the ESPP.

Total
pre-tax stock-based employee compensation cost for the years ended December 31, 2007,
2006 and 2005, was $68.7 million, $71.1 million and $87.0 million, respectively. Total
unamortized stock-based compensation at December 31, 2007 was $151.2 million that will be
expensed over the next four years.

SFAS 123R:

On
January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”)
which requires, among other things, that we record stock-based compensation expense net
of an estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. For all unvested awards
outstanding at January 1, 2006, we recorded an adjustment to reflect the cumulative
effect of this change in accounting principle. The adjustment in the first quarter of
2006 resulted in an increase in our operating profit and net income of $3.6 million and
$2.0 million, respectively. Because this adjustment did not have a material effect on our
results of operations and financial condition, we did not present this adjustment on an
after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of accounting change in our income statement.

8. Income Taxes

We
file a consolidated U.S. income tax return and tax returns in various state and local
jurisdictions. Our subsidiaries also file tax returns in various foreign jurisdictions.
The principal foreign jurisdictions include the United Kingdom, France and Germany. The
Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) has completed its examination of our federal tax returns
through 2002 and has commenced an examination of our federal tax returns for 2003 and
2004. In addition, our subsidiaries’ tax returns in the United Kingdom, France and
Germany have been examined through 2001, 2003 and 2000, respectively.

F-21

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Income
before income taxes and the provision for taxes on income consisted of the amounts shown
below:

Our
effective income tax rate varied from the statutory federal income tax rate as a result
of the following factors:




Statutory federal income tax rate

35.0

%

35.0

%

35.0

%

State and local taxes on income,

net of federal income tax benefit

0.8

0.9

0.6

International subsidiaries’ tax rate differentials

(2.8

)

(2.3

)

(0.7

)

Other

0.9

(0.1

)

(0.9

)

Effective rate

33.9

%

33.5

%

34.0

%

Included
in income tax expense is $2.8 million, $1.6 million and $(1.8) million of interest, net of tax benefit and
penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns for the years ended December
31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively. At December 31, 2007 and 2006, the combined amount
of accrued interest and penalties related to tax positions taken on our tax returns was
$14.0 million and $9.3  million, respectively.

F-22

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Deferred
tax assets and liabilities as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 consisted of the amounts
shown below (dollars in millions):

Net
current deferred tax assets as of December 31, 2007 and 2006 were $146.0 million and
$141.3  million, respectively, and were included in prepaid expenses and other current
assets. At December 31, 2007, we had net international long-term deferred tax assets of
$40.5 million and net U.S. long-term deferred tax liabilities of $174.8  million. At
December 31, 2006, we had net international long-term deferred tax assets of $49.4
million and net U.S. long-term deferred tax liabilities of $78.0 million. We have
reclassified our December 31, 2006 long-term deferred tax assets and long-term deferred
tax liabilities in a manner consistent with our 2007 presentation to present amounts that
are offset in particular tax jurisdictions in accordance with paragraph 42 of SFAS 109.

We
have concluded that it is more likely than not that we will be able to realize our net
deferred tax assets in future periods because results of future operations are expected
to generate sufficient taxable income. The valuation allowance of $74.4 million and $72.2
million at December 31, 2007 and 2006, respectively, relates to tax loss and credit
carryforwards in the U.S. and international jurisdictions. None of the components of the
$2.2 million net increase in our 2007 valuation allowance had a material impact on our
effective tax rate. Our tax loss and credit carryforwards are available to us for periods
generally in a range of 5 to 20 years which is in excess of the forecasted utilization of
such carryforwards.

We
have not provided U.S. deferred income taxes on cumulative earnings of non-U.S.
subsidiaries and affiliates that have been reinvested indefinitely. Determination of the
amount of this deferred tax liability is not practicable because of the complexities
associated with its hypothetical calculations.

The
American Jobs Creation Act of 2004 (the “Jobs Act”), enacted on October 22, 2004, created
a temporary incentive for U.S. multinational corporations to repatriate accumulated
income earned outside the United States by providing an 85% dividends received deduction
on certain foreign earnings repatriated prior to December 31, 2005. The deduction results
in a 5.25% federal tax rate on the identified extraordinary dividend (as defined in the
Jobs Act). As required by the Jobs Act, our CEO and Board of Directors approved a
domestic reinvestment plan to repatriate $47.9 million in foreign earnings in 2005, and
we repatriated this amount. We recorded tax expense in 2005 of $2.7 million related to
this $47.9 million extraordinary dividend under the Jobs Act. The additional tax expense
consists of federal taxes of $2.5 million, and state taxes, net of federal benefits, of
$0.2 million.

In
June 2006, the FASB issued FASB Interpretation No. 48, Accounting for Uncertainty in
Income Taxes  —  an interpretation of FASB Statement No. 109 (“FIN 48”), that clarifies the
accounting and recognition for income tax positions taken or expected to be taken in our
tax returns. We adopted FIN 48 on January 1, 2007,

F-23

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

and recorded the cumulative effect
of a change in accounting principle by recording a decrease in the liability for
uncertain tax positions of $1.3 million, that was accounted for as a credit to opening
retained earnings. At January 1, 2007, the total liability for uncertain tax positions
recorded in our balance sheet in Deferred Compensation and Other Liabilities was $62.5
million.

A
year-over-year reconciliation of our liability for uncertain tax positions is as follows
(dollars in millions):

Balance January 1, 2007

$ 62.5

Additions:

Current year tax positions

10.3

Prior year tax positions

3.4

Reduction of prior year tax positions

—

Settlements

(8.3

)

Lapse of statue of limitations

(1.3

)

Foreign currency exchange rates

0.6

Balance at December 31, 2007

$ 67.2

Approximately
$49.9 million of the consolidated worldwide liability for uncertain tax positions
recorded in our balance sheet would affect our effective tax rate upon resolution of the
uncertain tax positions.

9. Employee Retirement
Plans

Defined
Contribution Plans

Our
domestic and international subsidiaries primarily provide retirement benefits for their
employees through defined contribution plans. Company contributions to the plans, which
are determined by the boards of directors of the subsidiaries, vary by subsidiary and
have generally been in amounts up to the maximum percentage of total eligible
compensation of participating employees that is deductible for income tax purposes.
Expenses related to the Company’s contributions to these plans were $99.8 million in
2007, $87.3 million in 2006 and $85.6 million in 2005.

Defined Benefit
Plans  —  Overview

Certain
of our subsidiaries sponsor noncontributory defined benefit pension plans, including two
pension plans related to our U.S. businesses and 30 plans related to our non-U.S.
businesses. These plans provide benefits to employees based on formulas recognizing
length of service and earnings. The U.S. pension plans, which cover approximately 1,600
participants, have been closed to new participants. The non-U.S. pension plans, which
cover approximately 5,400 participants, are not covered by ERISA. We account for our
defined benefit pension plans in accordance with SFAS No. 87, Employers’ Accounting for
Pensions (“SFAS 87”).

In
December 2006, we adopted a Senior Executive Restrictive Covenant and Retention Plan (the
“Retention Plan”) for certain executive officers of Omnicom selected to participate by
the Compensation Committee (“the Committee”) of the Board of Directors. The Retention
Plan was adopted to secure non-competition, non-solicitation, non-disparagement and
ongoing consulting services from such executive officers, and to strengthen the retention
aspect of executive officer compensation. The Retention Plan provides for annual payments
to its participants upon termination following at least seven years of service with
Omnicom or its subsidiaries. A participant’s annual benefit is payable for the 15
consecutive calendar years following termination, and is equal to the lesser of (i) the
participant’s final average pay times an applicable percentage, which is based upon the
executive’s years of service as an executive officer, not to exceed 35% or (ii) $1.25
million. The Retention Plan is accounted for in accordance with SFAS 87.

F-24

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Postemployment
Arrangements  —  Overview

We
have executive retirement agreements under which benefits will be paid to participants or
to their beneficiaries over periods up to 10 years beginning after cessation of full-time
employment. We have applied SFAS No. 112, Employers’ Accounting for Postemployment
Benefits, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 5 and 43 (“SFAS 112”) and the recognition
and measurement provisions of SFAS 87 to these agreements.

In
addition, certain of our subsidiaries have individual deferred compensation arrangements
with certain executives that provide for payments over varying terms upon retirement,
cessation of employment or death. The cost related to these arrangements is accrued
during the employee’s service period.

Adoption of SFAS
No. 158

In
September 2006, the FASB issued SFAS No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit
Pension and Other Postretirement Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No. 87, 88, 106,
and 132(R) (“SFAS 158”). SFAS 158, which became effective December 31, 2006, requires
plan sponsors to recognize on their balance sheet the funded status of their defined
benefit and postemployment plans. The funded status is measured by comparing the
projected benefit obligation (the “benefit obligation”) of each individual plan to the
fair value of assets of each individual plan at the year-end balance sheet date.
Additionally, actuarial gains and losses and prior service costs that, in accordance with
SFAS No. 87, were not previously recognized on the balance sheet, were recognized upon
adoption with the offset recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income, net of tax
effects. Accordingly, SFAS 158 did not and will not change the amounts recognized in our
consolidated statement of income as net periodic benefit cost.

On
December 31, 2006, we adopted SFAS 158 and recognized the funded status of our defined
benefit plans and postemployment arrangements in our December 31, 2006 consolidated
balance sheet, with a corresponding adjustment to accumulated other comprehensive income
of $51.4 million, $31.0 million net of tax. The adoption of SFAS 158 did not have any
effect on our consolidated results of operations for the year ended December 31, 2006.

As
presented below, the adjustment of $51.4 million, $31.0 million net of tax, represents
the net unrecognized actuarial gains and losses, and unrecognized prior service cost that
were, in accordance with SFAS 87, previously netted against the plan’s funded status in
our balance sheet. Also, in accordance with SFAS 87, these amounts will continue to be
recognized as part of our net periodic benefit cost. Such amounts are amortized over the
expected average future service of active employees. Actuarial gains and losses that
arise in subsequent periods will be recognized as a component of other comprehensive
income prior to being amortized as part of our net periodic benefit cost.

The
incremental effect of adopting SFAS 158 in our consolidated balance sheets at December
31, 2006 was (dollars in millions):

Before

Adoption of

SFAS 158

SFAS 158

Adjustment

After Adoption

of SFAS 158,

As Reported

Assets:

Other assets

$     267.4

$  (7.3

)

$     260.1

Deferred tax benefits

29.0

20.4

49.4

Total assets

17,791.6

13.1

17,804.7

Liabilities:

Deferred compensation and other liabilities

261.7

44.1

305.8

Shareholders’ equity:

Accumulated other comprehensive income

298.9

(31.0

)

267.9

Total shareholders’ equity

3,902.3

(31.0

)

3,871.3

F-25

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Included
in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2006, are unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized prior service cost of $51.4 million, $31.0
million net of tax, that has not yet been recognized in the net periodic benefit cost.

Defined Benefit
Plans

The
components of net periodic benefit cost for the three years ended December 31, 2007 are
as follows (dollars in millions):




Service cost

$   6.4

$ 6.8

$ 5.5

Interest cost

6.5

4.8

4.9

Expected return on plan assets

(5.3

)

(4.8

)

(5.6

)

Amortization of prior service cost

2.4

0.1

—

Amortization of actuarial (gains) losses

1.2

1.4

2.4

Other

—

0.1

—

Total cost

$ 11.2

$ 8.4

$ 7.2

Included
in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses, and unrecognized prior service cost of $37.0 million, $22.1
million net of tax and $44.6 million, $26.9 million net of tax, respectively, that has
not yet been recognized in the net periodic benefit cost related to our defined benefit
plans.

The
unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized prior service cost included in
accumulated other comprehensive income, and expected to be recognized in net periodic
benefit cost during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, is $3.3 million.

The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for our U.S.
and non-U.S. defined benefit plans for the three years ended December 31, 2007 were:




Discount rate

5.17%

4.67%

4.44%

Compensation increases

3.17%

3.17%

3.18%

Expected return on assets

6.01%

6.50%

6.67%

These
assumptions represent the weighted average for the U.S. and non-U.S. defined benefit
plans and are based on the economic environment of each applicable country. In
determining the expected long-term rate of return on plan assets, we consider the current
and expected asset allocations, as well as historical and expected returns on various
categories of plan assets.

We
amortize experience gains and losses and the effects of changes in actuarial assumptions
over a period no longer than the expected average future service of active employees.

Our
funding policy is to contribute amounts sufficient to meet minimum funding requirements
as set forth in the applicable employee benefit and tax laws that the plans are subject
to, plus such additional amounts as we may determine to be appropriate. In 2007 and 2006,
we contributed $11.6 million and $9.5 million, respectively, to our defined benefit
plans. We do not expect our 2008 contributions to differ materially from 2007.

The
weighted average asset allocations at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were:



Target

Allocation

Actual

Allocation

Actual

Allocation

U.S. equity securities


%


%


%

Non-U.S. equity securities




Debt securities




Other




Total


%


%


%

F-26

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Our
investment policies and strategies for our defined benefit plans are to maximize returns
subject to risk management policies.

The
estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid are as follows (dollars in
millions):






2013-2017

$ 5.8

$ 5.8

$ 6.2

$ 6.4

$ 6.1

$42.8

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, the benefit obligations, fair value of assets and the funded
status of our defined benefit plans were (dollars in millions):

The
accumulated benefit obligations for our defined benefit plans at December 31, 2007 and
2006 were $119.2 million and $118.3 million, respectively.

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, the amounts related to our defined benefit plans recognized
in our consolidated balance sheets were (dollars in millions):



Other assets

$ 10.3

$   6.5

Other current liabilities

(0.5

)

(0.6

)

Deferred compensation and other liabilities

(61.5

)

(62.0

)

Net liability

$(51.7

)

$(56.1

)

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, our defined benefit plans with benefit obligations in excess
of plan assets were (dollars in millions):



Benefit obligation

$101.7

$98.4

Plan assets

39.7

35.8

Net liability

$  62.0

$62.6

We
use a December 31 measurement date to determine the plan assets and benefit obligation
for a majority of our defined benefit plans.

F-27

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation for our U.S. and
non-U.S. defined benefit plans at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were:



Discount rate

5.14%

4.77%

Compensation increases

3.64%

3.19%

Postemployment
Arrangements

The
components of net periodic benefit cost, calculated by applying SFAS 112 and the
recognition and measurement provisions of SFAS 87, for the three years ended December 31,
2007 are as follows (dollars in millions):




Service cost

$

2.0

$

2.4

$

2.2

Interest cost

4.2

4.0

3.6

Expected return on plan assets

N/A

N/A

N/A

Amortization of prior service cost

0.4

0.4

0.3

Amortization of actuarial (gains) losses

0.1

0.8

0.4

Other

—

(0.1

)

(0.5

)

Total cost

$

6.7

$

7.5

$

6.0

Included
in accumulated other comprehensive income at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were unrecognized
actuarial gains and losses, and unrecognized prior service cost of $16.0 million, $9.6
million net of tax and $6.8 million, $4.1 million net of tax, respectively, that has not
yet been recognized in the net periodic benefit cost related to our postemployment
arrangements.

The
unrecognized actuarial gains and losses and unrecognized prior service cost included in
accumulated other comprehensive income, and expected to be recognized in net periodic
benefit cost during the fiscal year ended December 31, 2008, is $0.9 million.

The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the net periodic benefit cost for our
postemployment arrangements for the three years ended December 31, 2007 were:




Discount rate

5.75

%

5.50

%

5.75

%

Compensation increases

3.50

%

3.50

%

3.50

%

Expected return on assets

N/A

N/A

N/A

We
amortize experience gains and losses and effects of changes in actuarial assumptions over
a period no longer than the expected average future service of active employees.

The
estimated future benefit payments expected to be paid are as follows (dollars in
millions):






2013-2017

$ 9.6

$10.2

$ 8.6

$ 8.2

$ 8.3

$31.7

Our
postemployment arrangements are unfunded and benefits are paid when due. The benefit
obligation is recognized as a liability in our consolidated balance sheets. At December
31, 2007 and 2006, the benefit obligation for postemployment arrangements was (dollars in
millions):



Benefit Obligation

Benefit obligation at January 1

$

76.6

$

69.6

Service cost

2.0

2.4

Interest cost

4.2

4.0

Plan amendment

1.4

—

Actuarial (gains) losses

8.3

7.9

Benefits paid

(8.7

)

(7.3

)

Benefit obligation at December 31

$

83.8

$

76.6

F-28

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

At
December 31, 2007 and 2006, the liability for postemployment arrangements was classified
as follows (dollars in millions):



Other current liabilities

$  9.6

$  8.6

Deferred compensation and other liabilities

74.2

68.0

Benefit obligation at December 31

$83.8

$76.6

The
weighted average assumptions used to determine the benefit obligation for our
postemployment arrangements at December 31, 2007 and 2006 were:



Discount rate

5.75%

5.75%

Compensation increases

3.50%

3.50%

10. Commitments and
Contingent Liabilities

Leases:

We
lease substantially all our office facilities and certain of our equipment under
operating and capital leases that expire at various dates. Certain operating leases
provide us with the option to renew for additional periods. Where operating leases
contain escalation clauses, rent abatements, and/or concessions, such as rent holidays
and landlord or tenant incentives or allowances, we apply them in the determination of
straight-line rent expense over the lease term. Leasehold improvements made at inception
or during the lease term are amortized over the shorter of the asset life or the lease
term, which may include renewal periods where the renewal is reasonably assured, as
defined in SFAS No. 13, Accounting for Leases, as amended by SFAS No. 98, and is included
in the determination of straight-line rent expense. Certain operating leases require the
payment of real estate taxes or other occupancy costs, which may be subject to
escalation. Rent expense for the years ended December 31, 2007, 2006 and 2005 was:

(Dollars in millions)




Office rent

$407.1

$374.2

$376.1

Third party sublease

(22.4

)

(22.3

)

(23.5

)

Total office rent

384.7

351.9

352.6

Equipment rent

110.3

113.8

120.1

Total rent

$495.0

$465.7

$472.7

Future
minimum office and equipment base rents under terms of non-cancelable operating and
capital leases, reduced by rents to be received from existing non-cancelable subleases,
are as follows:

Operating Leases

(Dollars in millions)

Gross

Rent

Sublease

Rent

Net

Rent


$  456.6

$16.4

$  440.2


391.3

12.8

378.5


321.1

9.3

311.8


260.1

6.3

253.8


218.2

3.9

214.3

Thereafter

769.9

6.4

763.5

Total

$2,417.2

$55.1

$2,362.1

F-29

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Capital Leases

(Dollars in millions)

Lease Payment


$2.5


2.3


1.8


0.4


0.3

Thereafter

0.4

Total minimum lease payments

$7.7

After
deducting $0.5 million, which represents the interest component of the minimum lease
payments, from our capital lease payments of $7.7 million, the present obligation of the
minimum lease payments at December 31, 2007 was $7.2 million. At December 31, 2007, the
current and long-term portions of our capital lease obligation were $2.1 million and $5.1
million, respectively.

Contingently
Redeemable Minority Interests:

Owners
of interests in certain of our subsidiaries have the right in certain circumstances to
require us to purchase additional ownership interests at fair values as defined in the
applicable agreements. The intent of the parties is to approximate fair value at the time
of redemption by using a multiple of earnings, which is consistent with generally
accepted valuation practices by market participants in our industry.

The
redemption features are embedded in the shares owned by the minority shareholders and are
not freestanding. As a result, SFAS No. 150, Accounting for Certain Financial Instruments
with Characteristics of Both Liabilities and Equity, does not apply. Additionally, the
embedded redemption features do not fall within the scope of EITF Issue No. 00-4,
Majority Owners Accounting for a Transaction in the Shares of a Consolidated Subsidiary
and a Derivative Indexed to the Minority Interest in That Subsidiary, because they do not
represent a de facto financing. Consistent with Accounting Research Bulletin No. 51,
Consolidated Financial Statements, minority interests have been recorded on the balance
sheet at historical cost plus an allocation of subsidiary earnings based on ownership
interests, less dividends paid to the minority shareholders.

Historically,
we have provided a description and an estimate of the redemption features. Although EITF
Topic No. D-98, Classification and Measurement of Redeemable Securities (“EITF D-98”),
does not specifically address contingently redeemable minority interests, we considered
applying it by analogy to our redeemable minority interests. Had we applied EITF D-98, we
would have reported our minority interests at the higher of their carrying value or their
redemption fair value by recording the accretion to fair value through a direct
adjustment to shareholders equity with no impact on earnings. Further, had we applied
EITF D-98 upon redemption, any prior adjustments to accrete minority interests to their
redemption value, had we recorded them, would have been reversed as a direct adjustment
to shareholders equity with no impact on earnings.

Assuming
that the subsidiaries perform over the relevant future periods at the profit levels at
which they performed in the previous twelve months, the aggregate amount we could be
required to pay in future periods is approximately $262 million, $169 million of which
relates to obligations that are currently exercisable. The ultimate amount payable
relating to these transactions will vary because it is primarily dependent on the future
results of operations of the subject businesses, changes in the applicable foreign
currency exchange rates and if exercised, the timing of the exercise of these rights. The
actual amount that we pay is likely to be different from this estimate and the difference
could be significant. If these rights are exercised, there would likely be an increase in
our net income subsequent to the exercise as a result of our increased ownership and the
reduction of minority interest expense. The obligations that exist for these agreements
as of December 31, 2007, calculated using the assumptions above, are as follows:

(Dollars in millions)

Currently

Exercisable

Not Currently

Exercisable

Total

Subsidiary agencies

$169

$93

$262

F-30

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

As
described in Note 13, in December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 160 that will change the
current accounting and financial reporting for non-controlling (minority) interests. SFAS
160 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. We will adopt
SFAS 160 on January 1, 2009. SFAS 160 will require that non-controlling (minority)
interests be reported in the consolidated statement of financial position within equity.
It also will require that any increases, or decreases in ownership interests in a
subsidiary that do not result in a loss of control be accounted for as equity
transactions and as a result any difference between the amount by which the
non-controlling (minority) interest is adjusted and the fair value of the consideration
paid or received, if any, would be recognized directly in equity attributable to the
controlling interest. We are not yet in a position to assess the full impact and related
disclosure of adopting SFAS 160 on our minority interest liabilities and our contingently
redeemable minority interests.

Legal Proceedings:

Beginning
on June 13, 2002, several putative class actions were filed against us and certain senior
executives in the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York. The
actions have since been consolidated under the caption

In re Omnicom Group Inc.
Securities Litigation

, No. 02-CV-4483 (RCC), on behalf of a proposed class of purchasers
of our common stock between February 20, 2001 and June 11, 2002. The consolidated
complaint alleges, among other things, that our public filings and other public
statements during that period contained false and misleading statements or omitted to
state material information relating to (1) our calculation of the organic growth
component of period-to-period revenue growth, (2) our valuation of and accounting for
certain internet investments made by our Communicade Group (“Communicade”), which we
contributed to Seneca Investments LLC (“Seneca”) in 2001, and (3) the existence and
amount of certain contingent future obligations in respect of acquisitions. The complaint
seeks an unspecified amount of compensatory damages plus costs and attorneys’ fees.
Defendants moved to dismiss the complaint and on March 28, 2005, the court dismissed
portions (1) and (3) of the complaint detailed above. The court’s decision denying the
defendants’ motion to dismiss the remainder of the complaint did not address the ultimate
merits of the case, but only the sufficiency of the pleading. Defendants have answered
the complaint. Discovery concluded in the second quarter of 2007. On April 30, 2007, the
court granted plaintiff’s motion for class certification, certifying the class proposed
by plaintiffs. In the third quarter of 2007 defendants filed a motion for summary
judgment on plaintiff’s remaining claim. On January 28, 2008, the court granted defendants’ motion
in its entirety, dismissing all claims and directing the court to close the case. On
February 4, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a notice of intent to appeal that decision to the
United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit.

In
addition, on June 28, 2002, a derivative action was filed on behalf of Omnicom in New
York state court. On February 18, 2005, a second shareholder derivative action, again
purportedly brought on behalf of the Company, was filed in New York state court. The
derivative actions have been consolidated before one New York State Justice and the
plaintiffs have filed an amended consolidated complaint. The consolidated derivative
complaint questions the business judgment of certain current and former directors of
Omnicom, by challenging, among other things, the valuation of and accounting for the
internet investments made by Communicade and the contribution of those investments to
Seneca. The consolidated complaint alleges that the defendants breached their fiduciary
duties of good faith. The lawsuit seeks from the directors the amount of profits received
from selling Omnicom stock and other unspecified damages to be paid to the Company, as
well as costs and attorneys’ fees. The defendants moved to dismiss the derivative
complaint on the procedural ground that plaintiffs had failed to make a demand on the
board. On June 27, 2006, the trial court entered a decision denying the motion to
dismiss. The decision did not address the merits of the allegations, but rather accepted
the allegations as true for the purposes of the motion (as the Court was required to do)
and excused plaintiffs from making a demand on the board. In the first quarter of 2007,
defendants appealed the trial court’s decision. On September 25, 2007, the New York
Supreme Court, Appellate Division, First Department issued a decision reversing the trial
court and dismissing the derivative claims. Plaintiffs served defendants with a motion
seeking reargument of the appeal or, in the alternative, for permission to appeal the
decision to the Court of Appeals, New York’s highest court. On January 31, 2008, the
court denied the plaintiff’s motion.

The
defendants in both cases believe that the allegations against them are baseless and
intend to vigorously oppose the lawsuits. Currently, we are unable to determine the
outcome of these cases and the effect on our financial position or results of operations.
The outcome of any of these matters is inherently uncertain and may be affected by future
events. Accordingly, there can be no assurance as to the ultimate effect of these matters.

F-31

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

We
are also involved from time to time in various legal proceedings in the ordinary course
of business. We do not presently expect that these proceedings will have a material
adverse effect on our consolidated financial position or results of operations.

11. Fair Value of
Financial Instruments

The
following table presents the carrying amounts and fair values of our financial
instruments at December 31, 2007 and 2006 (dollars in millions). Amounts in parentheses
represent liabilities.



Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Carrying

Amount

Fair

Value

Cash and cash equivalents

$ 1,793.2

$ 1,793.2

$ 1,739.5

$ 1,739.5

Short-term investments

47.8

47.8

189.3

189.3

Other investments

41.2

41.2

47.2

47.2

Long-term debt and convertible notes

(3,057.3

)

(3,147.3

)

(3,055.8

)

(3,138.2

)

Financial commitments:

Cross-currency interest rate swaps

(74.9

)

(74.9

)

(29.3

)

(29.3

)

Forward foreign exchange contracts

2.4

2.4

(0.2

)

(0.2

)

Guarantees

—

(0.9

)

—

(1.4

)

Letters of credit

—

—

—

—

The
following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of each class of
financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that value.

Short-term investments:

Short-term
investments consist primarily of time deposits with financial institutions and other
investments made with our excess cash which we expect to convert into cash in our current
operating cycle, generally within one year. Investments are carried at quoted market
prices which approximates cost.

Other investments:

Other
investments are carried at cost, which approximates fair value. See Note 6 for additional
information about these investments.

Long-term debt and
convertible notes:

A
portion of our long-term debt includes floating rate debt, the carrying value of which
approximates fair value. Our long-term debt includes convertible notes and fixed rate
debt. The fair value of these instruments was determined by reference to quoted market
prices.

Financial commitments:

The
estimated fair values of derivative positions in cross-currency interest rate swaps and
forward foreign exchange contracts are based upon quotations received from third party
banks and represent the net amount required to terminate the positions, taking into
consideration market rates and counterparty credit risk. The fair values of guarantees
and letters of credit are based upon the contractual amount of the underlying
instruments. The guarantees, which relate to equipment leases, were issued by us for
affiliated companies. Letters of credit, when issued, represent guarantees issued by us
on behalf of our operating companies for activities in the normal course of business.

12. Financial
Instruments and Market Risk

SFAS
No. 133 establishes accounting and reporting standards requiring that derivative
instruments which meet the SFAS 133 definition of a derivative (including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance sheet as
either an asset or liability measured at its fair value.

F-32

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

Our
derivative activities are confined to risk management activities related to our
international operations. We enter into short-term forward foreign exchange contracts
which mitigate the foreign exchange risk of our intercompany cash movements between
subsidiaries operating in different currency markets from that of our       treasury
centers from which they borrow or invest. In the limited number of instances where
operating expenses and revenues are not denominated in the same currency, amounts are
promptly settled in the foreign currency market with forward contracts. Changes in market
value of the forward contracts are included in the income statement and are offset by the
corresponding change in value of the underlying asset or liability being hedged. The
terms of these contracts are generally 90 days or less. At December 31, 2007 and 2006,
the aggregate amount of intercompany receivables and payables subject to this hedge
program was $246.9 million and $47.9 million, respectively. The table below summarizes by
major currency the notional principal amounts of the Company’s forward foreign exchange
contracts outstanding at December 31, 2007 and 2006. The “buy” amounts represent the U.S.
Dollar equivalent of commitments to purchase the respective currency, and the “sell” amounts
represent the U.S. Dollar equivalent of commitments to sell the respective currency. See
Note 11 for a discussion of the value of these instruments.

(Dollars in millions)

Notional Principal Amount



Company

Buys

Company

Sells

Company

Buys

Company

Sells

U.S. Dollar

$    4.9

$  93.7

—

$  7.0

British Pound

8.8

4.8

8.8

7.5

Euro

20.7

17.1

11.3

3.7

Japanese Yen

85.9

0.8

2.1

0.7

Other

3.9

6.3

1.8

5.0

Total

$124.2

$122.7

$24.0

$23.9

We
manage the foreign exchange fluctuations that may be caused by our intercompany cash
movements, by entering into short-term forward foreign exchange contracts which mitigate
the foreign exchange risk of the U.S. Dollar commercial paper issued by our London
treasury center, whose functional currency is the British Pound. At December 31, 2007, we
had no forward contracts outstanding relating to this activity as there was no commercial
paper outstanding.

At
December 31, 2007, we had Japanese Yen 22.0 billion aggregate notional principal amount
of cross-currency interest rate swaps that mature in 2013 and we had €230.0 million
(Euro) aggregate notional principal amount cross-currency interest rate swaps that mature
in 2010. These swaps effectively hedge our net investment in certain Yen-denominated and
Euro-denominated subsidiaries.

We
have established a centralized reporting system to evaluate the effects of changes in
interest rates, currency exchange rates and other relevant market risks. We periodically
determine the potential loss from market risk by performing a value-at-risk computation.
Value-at-risk analysis is a statistical model that utilizes historic currency exchange
and interest rate data to measure the potential impact on future earnings of our existing
portfolio of derivative financial instruments. The value-at-risk analysis we performed on
our December 31, 2007 portfolio of derivative financial instruments indicated that the
risk of loss was immaterial. Counterparty risk arises from the inability of a
counterparty to meet its obligations. To mitigate counterparty risk, we entered into
derivative contracts with major well-known banks and financial institutions that have
credit ratings at least equal to our credit rating.

The
foreign currency and swap contracts existing during the years ended December 31, 2007 and
2006 were entered into for the purpose of seeking to mitigate the risk of certain
specific adverse currency risks. As a result of these financial instruments, we reduced
financial risk in exchange for foregoing any gain (reward) that might have occurred if
the markets moved favorably. In using these contracts, management exchanged the risks of
the financial markets for counterparty risk.

F-33

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

13. New Accounting
Pronouncements

The
following pronouncements were either issued by the FASB or adopted by us in 2005, 2006
and 2007, and impacted our financial statements as discussed below:

•

SFAS
No. 123 (Revised 2004)  —  Share Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”),

•

SFAS
No. 141 (Revised 2007), Business Combinations (“SFAS 141R”),

•

SFAS
No. 154, Accounting Changes and Error Corrections  —  a replacement of APB Opinion No. 20
and FASB Statement No. 3 (“SFAS 154”),

•

SFAS
No. 157, Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”),

•

SFAS
No. 158, Employers’ Accounting for Defined Benefit Pension and Other Postretirement
Plans, an amendment of FASB Statements No.            87, 88, 106, and 132(R) (“SFAS 158”),
and

•

SFAS
No. 159, The Fair Value Option for Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities (“SFAS 159”),

•

SFAS
No. 160, Noncontrolling Interests in Consolidated Financial Statements, an amendment of
ARB No. 51 (“SFAS 160”).

On
January 1, 2006, we adopted SFAS No. 123 (Revised 2004), Share-Based Payment (“SFAS 123R”)
that requires, among other things, that we record stock-based compensation expense net of
an estimate for awards that are expected to be forfeited. For all unvested awards
outstanding at January 1, 2006, we recorded an adjustment to reflect the cumulative
effect of this change in accounting principle. The adjustment in the first quarter of
2006 resulted in an increase in our operating profit and net income of $3.6 million and
$2.0 million, respectively. Because this adjustment did not have a material effect on our
results of operations and financial condition, we did not present this adjustment on an
after-tax basis as a cumulative effect of accounting change in our income statement.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 141R that will change the current accounting and
financial reporting for business combinations. SFAS 141R will be effective for fiscal
years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited and SFAS 141R will
apply to business combinations entered into after January 1, 2009. We will adopt SFAS
141R on January 1, 2009. However, we are not yet in a position to assess the full impact
and related disclosure. SFAS 141R will require, among other things that: the acquirer
record 100% of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed even when less than 100% of
the target is acquired; all transaction costs and expenses will be expensed as incurred;
and, a liability for contingent purchase price obligations (earn-outs), if any, be
recorded at the acquisition date and will be remeasured at fair value and included in
earnings in each subsequent reporting period.

SFAS
154 provides guidance on the accounting for and reporting of accounting changes and error
corrections. SFAS 154 is effective for accounting changes and error corrections made in
fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2005. The adoption of SFAS 154 did not have a
material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition.

In
September 2006, the FASB released SFAS No. 157 Fair Value Measurements (“SFAS 157”). SFAS
157 defines fair value, establishes a framework for measuring fair value in GAAP, and
expands disclosure about fair value measurement. On December 14, 2007, the FASB issued a
proposed FASB Staff Position (“FSP”) SFAS 157-b that would delay the implementation until
January 1, 2009 of SFAS 157 for non-financial assets and liabilities except for those
recognized at fair value in the financial statements on a recurring basis. The comment
period for the FSP expired on January 16, 2008 and the FASB has begun its re-deliberation
process. At the present time, it is not possible to determine the effect, if any, on our
consolidated financial statements.

SFAS
158 was adopted as of December 31, 2006 and is discussed in Note 9 to our consolidated
financial statements.

F-34

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

In
February 2007, the FASB released SFAS 159. SFAS 159 permits entities to choose to measure
most financial instruments and certain other items at fair value that are currently
required to be measured at historical cost. Adoption of SFAS 159 is optional. We
currently do not expect to apply SFAS 159 to any existing financial instruments.

In
December 2007, the FASB issued SFAS 160 that will change the current accounting and
financial reporting for non-controlling (minority) interests. SFAS 160 will be effective
for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2008. Early adoption is prohibited and SFAS
160 will be applied prospectively. However, certain disclosure requirements of SFAS 160
require retrospective treatment. We will adopt SFAS 160 on January 1, 2009. However, we
are not yet in a position to assess the full impact and related disclosure.

In
July 2006, the FASB released FIN 48 which is discussed in Note 8 to our consolidated
financial statements.

The
FASB issued a proposed FSP APB 14-a  —  Accounting for Convertible Debt in August 2007.
This proposed FSP would require issuers of convertible debt instruments that may be
settled in cash on conversion to separately account for the liability and equity
components of the convertible debt. The comment period ended on October 15, 2007 and the
FASB is expected to begin its re-deliberation on the proposed FSP in the first quarter of
2008. The final FSP is expected to be issued in 2008 and would be effective on January 1,
2009 and applied retrospectively. The accounting for our convertible notes would be
affected by the proposed FSP. However, at the present time, it is not possible to predict
the effect on our consolidated financial statements.

The
FASB issued several FASB Staff Positions (“FSP”) during 2005, 2006 and 2007 covering
several topics that impact our financial statements. These topics include:

•

other-than-temporary
impairment of certain investments (“FSP FAS 115-1” and “FSP FAS 124-1”),

•

the
classification of freestanding instruments (“FSP FAS 123(R)-1”),

•

the
clarification and definition of grant date (“FSP FAS 123(R)-2”),

•

the
transition election related to the tax effects of share-based awards (“FSP FAS 123(R)-3”),

•

the
clarification of FSP FAS 123(R)-1 (“FSP FAS 123(R)-5”),

•

the
clarification of current requirements for fair value measurement (“FSP FAS 141-b”, “FSP
FAS 142-e” and “FSP FAS 144-b”),

•

guidance
in determining the variability to be considered in applying FASB 46R (“FSP FIN 46(R)-6”),

•

guidance
in applying the initial adoption of FIN 48 (“FSP FIN 48-1”),

•

accounting
for freestanding financial instruments issued as employee compensation (“FSP EITF 00-19-1”),

•

accounting
for registration payment arrangements (“FSP EITF 00-19-2”),

•

accounting
for other-than-temporary impairment on certain investments (“FSP EITF Issue 03-1-1”),

•

determining
if instruments granted in share-based payment transactions are participating securities (“FSP
EITF 03-6-a”), and

•

accounting
for other comprehensive income of an investee upon loss of significant influence (“FSP
APB 18-1”).

The
application of these FSPs did not have a material impact on our consolidated result of
operations or financial condition.

F-35

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)

The
Emerging Issues Task Force (“EITF”) of the FASB released guidance in 2005, 2006 and 2007
covering several topics that impact our financial statements. These topics include:

•

revenue
arrangements with multiple deliverables (“EITF 00-21”),

•

application
of equity method accounting to investments other than common stock (“EITF 02-14“),

•

vendor
rebates (“EITF 02-16”),

•

customer
relationship intangible assets acquired (“EITF 02-17”),

•

other-than-temporary
impairment related to certain investments (“EITF 03-1”),

•

participating
securities and the two-class method (“EITF 03-6”),

•

reporting
impairment or disposal of long-lived assets (“EITF 03-13”),

•

accounting
for investments in limited liability companies (“EITF 03-16”),

•

accounting
for pre-existing relationships with a business combination (“EITF 04-1”),

•

the
effect of contingently convertible debt on diluted earnings per share (“EITF 04-8”),

•

aggregation
of operating segments (“EITF 04-10”),

•

accounting
for certain derivative instruments (“EITF 05-2”),

•

determining
amortization periods for leasehold improvement (“EITF 05-6”),

•

accounting
for modifications to conversion options embedded in debt instruments (“EITF 05-7”),

•

income
tax consequences of issuing convertible debt with beneficial conversion features (“EITF
05-8”),

•

accounting
for sabbatical leave and similar benefits (“EITF 06-2”),

•

accounting
for taxes collected from customers and remitted (“EITF 06-3”),

•

accounting
for a modification (or exchange) of convertible debt instruments (“EITF 06-06”), and

•

accounting
for income tax benefits on dividends on share-based payment awards (“EITF 06-11”).

The
application of these guidance topics did not have a material impact on our consolidated
results of operations or financial condition.

F-36

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

Quarterly Results of
Operations (Unaudited)

The
following table sets forth a summary of the Company’s unaudited quarterly results of
operations for the years ended December 31, 2007 and 2006, in millions of dollars, except
for per share amounts.

Quarter

First

Second

Third

Fourth

Revenue


$  2,840.6

$  3,126.1

$  3,101.4

$  3,626.0


2,562.9

2,823.4

2,774.3

3,216.2

Operating Profit


315.5

461.6

350.2

531.9


284.4

417.4

307.4

474.2

Income After Income Taxes


196.7

290.6

218.8

342.1


178.4

260.2

187.8

298.7

Net Income


183.0

276.7

202.2

313.9


165.7

244.1

177.1

277.2

Net Income Per Share  —  Basic


0.55

0.85

0.62

0.97


0.47

0.72

0.52

0.82

Net Income Per Share  —  Diluted


0.55

0.84

0.62

0.96


0.47

0.71

0.52

0.81

F-37

Schedule II

OMNICOM GROUP INC.
AND SUBSIDIARIES

SCHEDULE II — VALUATION
AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

For the Three Years
Ended December 31, 2007

(Dollars in millions)

Column A

Column B

Column C

Column D

Column D

Column E

Description

Balance at

Beginning

of Period

Charged

to Costs

and Expenses

Removal of

Uncollectible

Receivables (1)

Translation

Adjustments

(Increase)

Decrease

Balance

at End of

Period

Valuation accounts deducted from

assets to which they apply —

Allowance for doubtful accounts:

December 31, 2007

$50.5

$21.2

$19.5

$(2.5)

$54.7

December 31, 2006

53.9

10.7

16.6

(2.5)

50.5

December 31, 2005

67.8

10.0

19.7

4.2

53.9

(1)

Net
of acquisition date balances in allowance for doubtful accounts of companies acquired of
$0.4 million, $0.1 million and $0.7 million in 2007, 2006 and 2005, respectively.

S-1