
10-K
FORM 10-K




================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   ----------

                                    FORM 10-K

                     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998


                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-4858


                     INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC.
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)


                NEW YORK                                          13-1432060
    -------------------------------                          -------------------
    (State or other jurisdiction of                             (IRS Employer
     incorporation or organization)                          Identification No.)


  521 WEST 57TH STREET, NEW YORK, N.Y.                              10019
- ----------------------------------------                          ----------
(Address of principal executive offices)                          (Zip Code)


        REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE (212) 765-5500

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:


                                                          Name of each exchange
              Title of each class                          on which registered
              -------------------                          -------------------

Common Stock, par value 12 1/2 (cent) per share .......  New York Stock Exchange


           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                                      NONE
                                ----------------
                                (Title of Class)


     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                                Yes X     No
                                   ---      ---
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendments to
this Form 10-K. [ ]

     The Registrant denies that any of its common stock is held by an
"affiliate" of the Registrant within the meaning of Rule 405 of the Securities
and Exchange Commission. See "Stock Ownership" in proxy statement incorporated
by reference herein. The aggregate market value of all of the outstanding voting
stock of Registrant as of March 19, 1999 was $4,016,446,724.

     Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the Registrant's
classes of common stock, as of March 19, 1999.


      106,044,798 SHARES OF COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE 12 1/2 (CENT) PER SHARE


                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     The information called for by Part III [Items 10, 11, 12 and 13] is hereby
incorporated by reference from the Registrant's definitive proxy statement for
the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A.

================================================================================







                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS.

     International Flavors & Fragrances Inc., incorporated in New York in 1909,
is a leading creator and manufacturer of flavor and fragrance products used by
other manufacturers to impart or improve flavor or fragrance in a wide variety
of consumer products. Fragrance products are sold principally to manufacturers
of perfumes, cosmetics, soaps and detergents, and flavor products to
manufacturers of prepared foods, beverages, dairy foods, pharmaceuticals and
confectionery products.

     The present world-wide scope of the Company's business is in part the
result of the combination in December 1958 of the business theretofore conducted
primarily in the United States by the Company under the name van
Ameringen-Haebler, Inc. ("VAH") with the business conducted primarily in Europe
by N. V. Polak & Schwarz's Essencefabrieken, a Dutch corporation ("P & S"). The
P & S enterprise, founded in Holland in 1889, was also engaged in the
manufacture and sale of flavor and fragrance products, with operations in a
number of countries where VAH was not an important factor.

     The major manufacturing facilities of the Company are located in the United
States, Holland, France, Germany, Great Britain, Ireland, Spain, Switzerland,
Argentina, Brazil, Mexico, Australia, China, Hong Kong, Indonesia and Japan.
Manufacturing facilities are also located in six other countries. The Company
maintains its own sales and distribution facilities in 35 countries and is
represented by sales agents in additional countries. The Company's principal
executive offices are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York, New York 10019
(Tel. No. 212-765-5500). Except as the context otherwise indicates, the term
"the Company" as used herein refers to the Registrant and its subsidiaries.

MARKETS

     Fragrance products are used by customers in the manufacture of such
consumer products as soaps, detergents, cosmetic creams, lotions and powders,
lipsticks, after-shave lotions, deodorants, hair preparations and air
fresheners, as well as in other consumer products designed solely to appeal to
the sense of smell, such as perfumes and colognes. The cosmetics industry,
including perfumes and toiletries, is one of the Company's two largest customer
groups. Most of the major United States companies in this industry are customers
of the Company, and five of the largest United States cosmetics companies are
among its principal customers. The household products industry, including soaps
and detergents, is the other important customer group. Four of the largest
United States household product manufacturers are major customers of the
Company. In the five years ended December 31, 1998, sales of fragrance products
accounted for approximately 59%, 57%, 57%, 58% and 58%, respectively, of the
Company's total sales.

     Flavor products are sold principally to the food and beverage industries
for use in such consumer products as soft drinks, candies, baked goods,
desserts, prepared foods, dietary foods, dairy products, drink powders,
pharmaceuticals and alcoholic beverages. Two of the Company's largest customers
for flavor products are major producers of prepared foods and beverages in the
United States. In the five years ended December 31, 1998, sales of flavor
products accounted for approximately 41%, 43%, 43%, 42% and 42%, respectively,
of the Company's total sales.

PRODUCTS

     The Company's principal fragrance and flavor products consist of compounds
of large numbers of ingredients blended by it under formulas created by its
perfumers and flavorists. Most of these compounds contribute the total fragrance
or flavor to the consumer products in which they are used. This fragrance or
flavor characteristic is often a major factor in the public selection and
acceptance of the consumer end product. A smaller amount of compounds is sold to
manufacturers who further blend them to achieve the finished fragrance or flavor
in their consumer products. Thousands of compounds are produced by the Company,
and new compounds are constantly being created in order to meet the many and
changing characteristics of its customers' end products. Most of the fragrance
compounds and many of the flavor compounds are created and produced for the
exclusive use of particular customers. The Company's flavor products also
include extractives, concentrated juices and concentrates derived from various
fruits, vegetables, nuts, herbs and spices as well as microbiologically derived
ingredients. The Company's products are sold in solid and liquid forms and in
amounts ranging from a few pounds to many tons, depending upon the nature of the
product.

     The ingredients used by the Company in its compounds are both synthetic and
natural. Most of the synthetic ingredients are manufactured by the Company.
While the major part of the Company's production of synthetic ingredients









is used by it in its compounds, a substantial portion is sold to others. The
natural ingredients are derived from flowers, fruits and other botanical
products as well as from animal products. They contain varying numbers of
organic chemicals, which are responsible for the fragrance or flavor of the
natural product. The natural products are purchased for the larger part in
processed or semi-processed form. Some are used in compounds in the state in
which they are purchased and others after further processing. Natural products,
together with various chemicals, are also used as raw materials for the
manufacture of synthetic ingredients by chemical processes.

MARKET DEVELOPMENTS

     The demand for consumer products utilizing flavors and fragrances has been
stimulated and broadened by changing social habits resulting from such factors
as increases in personal income, employment of women, teen-age population,
leisure time, health concerns and urbanization and by the continued growth in
world population. In the fragrance field, these developments have expanded the
market for colognes, toilet waters, deodorants, soaps with finer fragrance
quality, men's toiletries and other products beyond traditional luxury items
such as perfumes. In the flavor field, similar market characteristics have
stimulated the demand for such products as convenience foods, soft drinks and
low-cholesterol and low-fat food products that must conform to expected tastes.
New and improved methods of packaging, application and dispensing have been
developed for many consumer products which utilize some of the Company's flavor
or fragrance products. These developments have called for the creation by the
Company of many new compounds and ingredients compatible with the newly
introduced materials and methods of application used in consumer end products.

PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND RESEARCH

     The development of new fragrance and flavor compounds is a complex artistic
and technical process calling upon the combined knowledge and talents of the
Company's creative perfumers and flavorists and its application chemists and
research chemists. Through long experience the perfumers and flavorists develop
and refine their skill for creating fragrances or flavors best suited to the
market requirements of the customers' products.

     An important contribution to the creation of new fragrance and flavor
products is the development in the Company's research laboratories of new
ingredients having fragrance or flavor value. The principal functions of the
fragrance research program are to isolate and synthesize fragrance components
found in natural substances and through chemical synthesis to develop new
materials and better techniques for utilization of such materials. The principal
functions of the flavor research program are to isolate and produce natural
flavor ingredients utilizing improved processes.

     The work of the perfumers and flavorists is conducted in 29 fragrance and
flavor laboratories in 23 countries. The Company maintains a research center at
Union Beach, New Jersey. The Company spent $98,438,000 in 1998, $94,411,000 in
1997 and $93,545,000 in 1996 on its research and development activities, all of
which were financed by the Company. These expenditures are expected to increase
in 1999 to approximately $106,000,000. Of the amount expended in 1998 on such
activities, 60% was for fragrances and the balance was for flavors. The Company
employed 820 persons in 1998 and 811 persons in 1997 in such activities.

     The business of the Company is not materially dependent upon any patents,
trademarks or licenses.

DISTRIBUTION

     Most of the Company's sales are made through its own sales force, operating
from eight sales offices in the United States and 45 sales offices in 34 foreign
countries. Sales in other countries are made through sales agencies. For the
year ended December 31, 1998, 32% of the Company's sales were to customers in
North America, 40% in Europe, Africa and the Middle East, 17% in Latin America
and 11% in the Far East. See Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements for other information with respect to the Company's segment
operations.

     The Company estimates that during 1998 its 30 largest customers accounted
for about 54% of its sales, its four largest customers and their affiliates
accounted for about 11%, 7%, 6% and 4%, respectively, of its sales, and no other
single customer accounted for more than 3% of sales.

GOVERNMENTAL REGULATION

     Manufacture and sale of the Company's products are subject to regulation in
the United States by the Food and Drug Administration, the Agriculture
Department, the Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms Bureau of the Treasury 








Department, the Environmental Protection Agency, the Occupational Safety and
Health Administration and state authorities. The foreign subsidiaries are
subject to similar regulation in a number of countries. Compliance with existing
governmental requirements regulating the discharge of materials into the
environment has not materially affected the Company's operations, earnings or
competitive position. The Company expects to spend in 1999 approximately
$2,600,000 in capital projects and $10,500,000 in operating expenses and
governmental charges for the purpose of complying with such requirements. The
Company expects that in 2000 capital expenditures, operating expenses and
governmental charges for such purpose will not be materially different.

RAW MATERIAL PURCHASES

     Some 5,000 different raw materials are purchased from many sources all over
the world. The principal natural raw material purchases consist of essential
oils, extracts and concentrates derived from fruits, vegetables, flowers, woods
and other botanicals, animal products and raw fruits. The principal synthetic
raw material purchases consist of organic chemicals. The Company believes that
alternate sources of materials are available to enable it to maintain its
competitive position in the event of any interruption in the supply of raw
materials from present sources.

COMPETITION

     The Company has more than 50 competitors in the United States and world
markets. While no single factor is responsible, the Company's competitive
position is based principally on the creative skills of its perfumers
and flavorists, the technological advances resulting from its research and
development and the customer service and support provided by its marketing and
application groups. Although statistics are not available, the Company believes
that it is one of the four largest companies producing and marketing on an
international basis a wide range of fragrance and flavor products of the types
manufactured by it for sale to manufacturers of consumer products. In particular
countries and localities, the Company faces the competition of numerous
companies specializing in certain product lines, among which are some larger
than the Company and some more important in a particular product line or lines.
Most of the Company's customers do not buy all their fragrance or flavor
products from the same supplier, and some customers make their own fragrance or
flavor compounds with ingredients supplied by the Company or others.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

     The Company at December 31, 1998 employed approximately 4,670 persons, of
whom about 1,440 were employed in the United States. The Company has never
experienced a work stoppage or strike and it considers that its employee
relations are satisfactory.








ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

     The principal manufacturing and research properties of the Company are as
follows:

            Location                        Operation
            --------                        ---------

UNITED STATES
    New York, NY .............   Fragrance laboratories.

    Augusta, GA ..............   Production of fragrance chemical ingredients.

    Hazlet, NJ ...............   Production of fragrance compounds; 
                                   fragrance laboratories.

    South Brunswick, NJ ......   Production of flavor ingredients and
                                   compounds and fruit
                                   preparations; flavor
                                   laboratories.

    Union Beach, NJ ..........   Research and development center.

    Salem, OR ................   Production of fruit and
                                   vegetable concentrates, fruit
                                   and vegetable preparations and
                                   flavor ingredients.

    Menomonee Falls, WI ......   Production of flavor
                                   compounds, flavor ingredients,
                                   bacterial cultures and fruit
                                   preparations.

HOLLAND
    Hilversum ................   Flavor and fragrance laboratories.

    Tilburg ..................   Production of flavor and fragrance compounds 
                                   and flavor ingredients.

FRANCE
    Bois-Colombes ............   Flavor and fragrance laboratories.

    Dijon ....................   Production of fragrance
                                   ingredients and compounds,
                                   flavor ingredients and
                                   compounds and fruit
                                   preparations.

GERMANY
    Emmerich/Rhein ...........   Production of fruit
                                   preparations and flavor
                                   ingredients and compounds;
                                   flavor laboratories.

GREAT BRITAIN
    Haverhill ................   Production of flavor compounds
                                   and ingredients, fruit
                                   preparations and fragrance
                                   chemical ingredients; flavor
                                   laboratories.

IRELAND
    Drogheda .................   Production of fragrance compounds.

SPAIN
    Benicarlo ................   Production of fragrance chemical ingredients.

SWITZERLAND
    Reinach-Aargau ...........   Production of fruit
                                   preparations and flavor
                                   ingredients and compounds;
                                   flavor laboratories.

ARGENTINA
    Garin ....................   Production of fruit
                                   preparations and flavor
                                   ingredients and compounds;
                                   production of fragrance
                                   compounds; flavor
                                   laboratories.

BRAZIL
    Rio de Janeiro ...........   Production of
                                   flavor ingredients and
                                   compounds, fruit preparations
                                   and fragrance compounds;
                                   flavor laboratories.

    Sao Paulo ................   Fragrance laboratory.

    Taubate ..................   Production of flavor compounds.

MEXICO
    Tlalnepantla .............   Production of flavor
                                   compounds, fruit preparations
                                   and fragrance compounds;
                                   flavor and fragrance
                                   laboratories.

AUSTRALIA
    Dee Why ..................   Production of flavor compounds; flavor and 
                                   fragrance laboratories.






            Location                        Operation
            --------                        ---------

CHINA
    Guangzhou ................   Production of flavor and fragrance compounds; 
                                   flavor laboratories.

    Xin'anjiang ..............   Production of fragrance chemical ingredients.

HONG KONG ....................   Production of fragrance compounds; 
                                   fragrance laboratories.

INDONESIA
    Jakarta ..................   Production of flavor and fragrance compounds 
                                   and ingredients; flavor and fragrance 
                                   laboratories.

JAPAN
    Tokyo ....................   Flavor and fragrance laboratories.

    Gotemba ..................   Production of flavor and fragrance compounds.

     The principal executive offices of the Company and its New York laboratory
facilities are located at 521 West 57th Street, New York City. Such offices and
all of the above facilities of the Company are owned in fee, except those in
China, Hong Kong, and the Indonesian landsite, which are leased. The Company
believes that the remaining facilities meet its present needs, but that
additional facilities will be required to meet anticipated growth in sales.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     Various Federal and State authorities and private parties claim that the
Company is a potentially responsible party as a generator of waste materials for
alleged pollution at a total of 10 waste sites operated by third parties located
principally in New Jersey and Pennsylvania. The governmental authorities seek to
recover costs incurred and to be incurred to clean up the sites. The private
suits generally seek damages for alleged injuries and, in one current case, a
waste site's former owner/operator seeks contribution and indemnification from
generators and others for remedial action costs incurred and to be incurred at
the site.

     The waste site claims and suits usually involve million dollar amounts, and
most of them are asserted against many potentially responsible parties. Remedial
activities typically consist of several phases carried out over a period of
years. Most site remedies begin with investigation and feasibility studies,
followed by physical removal, destruction, treatment or containment of
contaminated soil and debris, and sometimes by groundwater monitoring and
treatment. To date, the Company's financial responsibility for some sites has
been settled through agreements granting the Company, in exchange for one or
more cash payments made or to be made, either complete release of liability or,
for certain sites, release from further liability for early and/or later
remediation phases, subject to certain "re-opener" clauses for later-discovered
conditions. Settlements in respect of some sites involve, in part, payment by
the Company, and other parties, of a percentage of the site's future remediation
costs over a period of years.

     The Company believes that the amounts it has paid and probably will have to
pay for clean-up costs and damages at all sites are and will not be material to
the Company's financial condition, results of operations or liquidity, because
of the involvement of other large potentially responsible parties at most sites,
because payment will be made over an extended time period and because, pursuant
to an agreement reached in July 1994 with three of the Company's liability
insurers, defense costs and indemnity amounts payable by the Company in respect
of the sites will be shared by the insurers up to an agreed amount.







ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     Not applicable.



- ----------

(1) Chairman of Executive Committee of the Board of Directors.

(2) Employed by the Company or an affiliated company for the last five years,
    except as otherwise indicated.








                                     PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK 
        AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER MATTERS.

     (a) Market Information.

     The Company's common stock is traded principally on the New York Stock
Exchange. The high and low stock prices for each quarter during the last two
years were:

                                       1998                         1997
                              ---------------------        ---------------------
Quarter                        High            Low           High           Low
- -------                       ------         ------        ------         ------
First .....................   $51.88         $42.06        $47.13         $42.50
Second ....................    50.31          42.25         52.50          40.00
Third .....................    44.50          32.06         53.44          48.50
Fourth ....................    45.44          32.56         51.88          45.06


     (b) Approximate Number of Equity Security Holders.

                    (A)                                         (B)
                                                     Number of record holders as
              Title of Class                            of December 31, 1998
              --------------                         ---------------------------

Common stock, par value 12 1/2 (cent) per share .....            4,653


     (c) Dividends.

     Cash dividends declared per share for each quarter since January 1997 were
as follows:

                                             1999          1998           1997
                                             ----          ----           ----

First .................................      $.38           $.37          $.36
Second ................................                      .37           .36
Third .................................                      .37           .36
Fourth ................................                      .38           .37



- ----------

*    Reflects nonrecurring charge ($31,315 after tax) in 1996 resulting from the
     Registrant's program to phase out and close certain aroma chemical
     facilities.







ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS 
        OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION.

   Operations

     In 1998, worldwide net sales were $1,407,349,000 compared to $1,426,791,000
and $1,436,053,000 in 1997 and 1996, respectively. Sales of fragrance products
were $820,149,000, $821,592,000 and $813,918,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Fragrance sales were flat in 1998 in comparison to 1997, following
an increase of 1% in 1997 in comparison to 1996. Flavor sales were $587,200,000,
$605,199,000 and $622,135,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Flavor sales
decreased 3% in 1998 in comparison to 1997, following a similar decrease of 3%
in 1997 in comparison to 1996.

     Sales outside the United States represented approximately 70% of total
sales in 1998, 1997 and 1996. The following table shows net sales on a
geographic basis:



     For the full year 1998, sales growth was strong in North America, in both
flavors and fragrances. Although economic difficulties unfavorably impacted
Latin America flavor sales, fragrance sales in the area achieved double-digit
sales growth for the year. Sales in the Far East, in both flavors and
fragrances, were down 20% for the year, affected by the ongoing economic
disruption in Japan and Southeast Asia. In 1998, reported sales were also
unfavorably impacted by the stronger U.S. dollar, most notably against the major
European currencies; had the dollar exchange rates remained the same during 1998
and 1997, sales would have been approximately 2% higher than reported.

     During 1997, the strongest sales growth, for both flavors and fragrances,
was achieved in the EAME area, particularly Eastern Europe and the Middle East.
In 1997, reported sales were unfavorably impacted by the stronger U.S. dollar;
had the dollar exchange rates remained the same during 1997 and 1996, sales
would have increased approximately 4% worldwide. Sales were also affected,
mainly in the fourth quarter, by the economic slowdowns in the Far East and
Brazil.

     Although the Company's reported sales and earnings are affected by the
weakening or strengthening of the U.S. dollar, this has no long-term effect on
the underlying strength of our business.

     The percentage relationship of cost of goods sold and other operating
expenses to sales was as follows:

                                             1998          1997           1996
                                             ----          ----           ----
Cost of goods sold .....................    54.2%          54.2%         54.2%
Research and development
 expenses ..............................     7.0%           6.6%          6.5%
Selling and administrative
 expenses ..............................    17.0%          15.9%         15.6%

     Cost of goods sold, which includes cost of materials and internal
manufacturing expenses, has remained constant as a percentage of sales over the
years 1998, 1997 and 1996.

     Research and development expenses have consistently been between 6% and 7%
of sales. The expenses are for the development of new and improved products,
technical product support, compliance with governmental regulations and help in
maintaining our relationships with our customers who are often dependent on
technical advances. These activities contribute in a significant way to the
Company's business.

     Selling and administrative expenses are necessary to support the Company's
sales and operating levels and have remained relatively constant as a percentage
of net sales. In 1998, administrative costs include approximately $12.5 







million of expense incurred in connection with the Company's Year 2000 program,
for which there were no comparable costs incurred in 1997 or 1996. In addition,
administrative expenses also include certain costs incurred in connection with
the Company's project to implement the enterprise requirements planning ("ERP")
software package, SAP. Excluding these costs, selling and administrative
expenses would have represented approximately 15.9% of sales, in line with the
1997 and 1996 levels.

     Operating profit, as shown in Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
Financial Statements, was $312,728,000 in 1998, $338,339,000 in 1997 and
$346,163,000 in 1996. Operating profit results reflect the level of sales
achieved. In 1998, operating profit reflected the effects of the Year 2000
related expenses. Operating profit in 1996 excludes a nonrecurring charge of
$49,707,000.

     Interest expense amounted to $2,042,000, $2,420,000 and $2,740,000 in 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively. This expense relates primarily to bank loans taken
out by some of the Company's subsidiaries and may be significantly affected by
high interest rates in countries where local bank borrowing is used as a hedge
against devaluations. Interest expense decreased in 1998 compared to 1997 mainly
due to lower average borrowing levels during the year; the decrease in 1997
compared to 1996 was due to lower average interest rates, partially offset by
somewhat higher average borrowing levels outstanding during the year. More
details on bank loans and long-term debt are contained in Note 6 of the Notes to
the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Other income was $6,356,000 in 1998, compared to $10,442,000 in 1997 and
$11,405,000 in 1996. The decrease in other income in 1998 compared to 1997, and
1997 compared to 1996, was primarily due to lower interest income due to lower
average interest rates, and lower levels of investments.

     Net income in 1998 totaled $203,785,000, a decrease of $14,444,000 or 7%
from the prior year. Net income in 1997 totaled $218,229,000, and in 1996 was
$221,209,000. The 1996 amount excludes the effect of the nonrecurring charge to
earnings relating to the Company's aroma chemical operations; including this
charge, net income was $189,894,000.

     During 1996, the Company undertook a program to phase out aroma chemical
production at its Union Beach, New Jersey plant at the end of 1997, and to close
smaller capacity aroma chemical facilities in Mexico and Brazil that year. Most
of the volume produced at Union Beach was transferred to the Company's facility
in Augusta, Georgia; production capacity in Benicarlo, Spain was also expanded.

     The program resulted in a nonrecurring pretax charge to 1996 earnings of
$49,707,000 ($31,315,000 after tax or $.29 per share). Of the charge,
approximately $33,000,000 represented asset writedowns and other non-cash
related costs. Approximately 220 employees were affected by this program, all of
whom had left the Company at December 31, 1998.

     Movements in the reserve resulting from the nonrecurring charge were as
follows:

                                          Employee        Plant
(Dollars in thousands)                    Related        Closure          Total
- ----------------------                    -------        -------         -------
Original reserve .....................    $10,629        $39,078         $49,707
Utilized in 1996 .....................        560          6,446           7,006
                                          -------        -------         -------
Balance December 31, 1996 ............     10,069         32,632          42,701
Utilized in 1997 .....................      8,045         16,654          24,699
                                          -------        -------         -------
Balance December 31, 1997 ............      2,024         15,978          18,002
Utilized in 1998 .....................      1,503         13,778          15,281
                                          -------        -------         -------
Balance December 31, 1998 ............    $   521        $ 2,200         $ 2,721
                                          =======        =======         =======

     The balance of the reserve will be utilized in 1999 in connection with the
final decomissioning and disposal of plant equipment, and as severance
obligations to affected employees are satisfied.

     Effective January 1, 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Position 96-1
(SOP 96-1), Accounting for Environmental Remediation Liabilities. SOP 96-1
establishes guidance for when environmental liabilities should be recorded and
the factors to be considered in determining amounts recognized. The effect of
adopting this Standard was not material.








     Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Position 98-1
(SOP 98-1), Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained
for Internal Use. SOP 98-1 establishes guidance on when costs incurred for
internal-use software are capitalized. In accordance with this SOP, in 1998, the
Company capitalized approximately $28,000,000, included in construction in
progress, related to the acquisition and development of the SAP software
package.

     Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 130 (FAS 130), Reporting Comprehensive Income. FAS 130
establishes standards for the reporting of comprehensive income, and requires
that an enterprise classify items of other comprehensive income by their nature
in a financial statement, and display the accumulated balance of other
comprehensive income in the statement of financial position. Other comprehensive
income consists of movements in the Company's cumulative translation adjustment.

     Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 131 (FAS 131), Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. FAS 131 establishes standards for the way
public business enterprises report information about operating segments in
reports to shareholders. The adoption of FAS 131 did not affect results of
operations or financial position but did affect the disclosure of segment
information. Prior year data has been restated for comparability purposes. More
details on segment information are contained in Note 10 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.

     In 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 132 (FAS 132), Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits. FAS 132 standardizes disclosures about pension and
other postretirement plans; it does not change the accounting measurement or
recognition of such plans. More details on retirement benefits are contained in
Note 11 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 (FAS 133), Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, issued in June 1998, is
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. FAS 133 establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, and for hedging
activities. It requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either
assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those
instruments at fair value. The Company is currently evaluating the Standard, and
the accounting and reporting implications thereof.

     Statement of Position 98-5 (SOP 98-5), Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up
Activities, issued in April 1998, is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1998. SOP 98-5 requires that costs of start-up activities,
including organization costs, be expensed as incurred. The impact of adopting
this Standard is not expected to be material.

     Compliance with existing governmental requirements regulating the discharge
of materials into the environment has not materially affected the Company's
operations, earnings or competitive position. In 1998, the Company spent
approximately $2,700,000 on capital projects and about $10,000,000 in operating
expenses and governmental charges for the purpose of complying with such
regulations. Expenditures for these purposes will continue for the foreseeable
future. In addition, the Company is party to a number of proceedings brought
under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act
or similar state statutes. It is expected that the impact of any judgments in or
voluntary settlements of such proceedings will not be material to the Company's
financial condition, results of operations or liquidity.

   Financial Condition

     The financial condition of the Company remained strong during 1998. Cash,
cash equivalents and short-term investments totaled $115,999,000 at December 31,
1998, compared to $260,446,000 and $317,983,000 at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Short-term investments are high-quality, readily marketable
instruments. Working capital totaled $575,120,000 at year-end 1998, compared to
$670,598,000 and $725,892,000 at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Gross
additions to property, plant and equipment were $91,690,000, $59,284,000 and
$80,782,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, and are expected to
approximate $90,000,000 in 1999.

     In September 1996, the Company announced a plan to repurchase an additional
7.5 million shares of its common stock. An existing program to purchase 7.5
million shares, in effect since 1992, was completed in 1997. Repurchases will be
made from time to time on the open market or through private transactions as
market and business conditions warrant. The repurchased shares will be available
for use in connection with the Company's employee benefit plans 








and for other general corporate purposes. At December 31, 1998, approximately
4.3 million shares of common stock had been repurchased under the 1996 program.
Under these plans, the Company purchased $134,448,000, $70,988,000 and
$59,763,000 of treasury stock in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     The Company has almost no long-term debt and anticipates that its growth
and capital expenditure programs, and the above share repurchase plan, will
continue to be funded mainly from internal sources.

     During 1998, the Company paid dividends to shareholders totaling
$159,619,000 while $157,674,000 was paid in 1997, and $150,864,000 in 1996. In
January 1999, the cash dividend was increased to an annual rate of $1.52 per
share, from $1.48 in 1998; the annual cash dividend was $1.44 in 1997. The
Company believes these increases in dividends to its shareholders can be made
without limiting future growth and expansion.

   Year 2000 Issue

     The Company has instituted a comprehensive program to address its "Year
2000" needs (the "Y2K Program"). The Y2K Program is currently on schedule to be
completed prior to January 1, 2000, and in most cases no later than September
30, 1999.

     The Y2K Program has been designed to evaluate and, if necessary, repair or
replace those computer programs and embedded computer chips that are significant
to the Company and that use only the last two digits to refer to a year ("Y2K
Code"), so that such Y2K Code will be "Year 2000 Capable," that is, will
recognize dates beginning in the Year 2000. For purposes of the Y2K Program, Y2K
Code is that which the Company concludes could, if not made Year 2000 Capable,
materially affect the Company's operations and ability to service its customers,
or create a safety or environmental risk. In addition to dealing with the
Company's Y2K Code, the Y2K Program also is designed to identify and evaluate
the Year 2000 readiness of the Company's key suppliers of inventory and
non-inventory goods and services, and of the Company's significant customers.

     The Y2K Program, as it relates to the Company's computer programs and
embedded technology, has five phases: (1) assessing computer programs and
embedded technology to identify Y2K Code; (2) assigning priorities to the
identified Y2K Code; (3) repairing or replacing Y2K Code to make such Y2K Code
Year 2000 Capable; (4) testing the repaired or replaced Y2K Code; and (5)
developing and implementing, as necessary, contingency plans to address the
possibility that the Company or third parties, whose operations or business
could affect the Company, do not become Year 2000 Capable. The Company has
engaged certain outside consultants with recognized expertise in assessing and
dealing with Year 2000 needs, principally Computer Sciences Corporation, to
assist in the management of the Y2K Program and in the repair and testing of
certain Y2K Code.

     The Y2K Program focuses on Company Y2K Code in three principal areas: (1)
infrastructure; (2) applications software; and (3) facility operations, where
the great majority of embedded technology is found. The infrastructure area
involves hardware and systems software other than applications software. As
hardware and systems software is repaired, upgraded or replaced, they are tested
to ensure that they are Year 2000 Capable. The Company expects the
infrastructure portion of the Y2K Program to be completed by June 30, 1999.

     Significant portions of the Company's application software will be replaced
by new software, principally SAP, an ERP software package. At December 31, 1998,
the global design for the SAP project was complete, and the first
implementation, encompassing the Company's North American operations, is
scheduled to take place in May 1999, the scheduled date under the SAP project
plans. Applications software Y2K Code not being replaced as part of the SAP
project is being repaired, upgraded or replaced (where an upgrade or replacement
is available from the supplier of such software) to make such Y2K Code Year 2000
Capable. This portion of the Y2K Program is expected to be completed by
September 30, 1999, consistent with the schedule established by the Y2K Program.

     Facility operations include hardware, software and associated embedded
computer chips used in the operation of all facilities owned by the Company,
including, but not limited to, equipment used in manufacturing and research and
development, as well as security and other systems that may have date sensitive
operating controls. The Company is currently completing the assessment of these
systems and has commenced testing of critical systems to ensure Y2K capability.
This portion of the Y2K Program is on schedule, and the Company expects it to be
completed in the fourth quarter of 1999.

     The Company has identified its key suppliers of inventory and non-inventory
goods and services and has contacted them, in writing and in some cases through
face-to-face discussions, to ascertain the extent of their Year








2000 Capability. Similarly, the Company has also been communicating with
significant customers about their and the Company's Year 2000 Capability plans
and progress. This portion of the Y2K Program is expected to be completed in the
third quarter of 1999.

     The total cost to the Company of the Y2K Program is estimated to
approximate $45 million of which $24 million has been expended at December 31,
1998. Of the Y2K Program costs, approximately $21 million represents capital
expenditures associated with replacement hardware, software and associated
items. The remaining amount, totaling $24 million, represents the costs of
repair, testing and related efforts, and is being expensed as incurred. Of the
$24 million spent as at December 31, 1998, approximately $11.5 million related
to capital and the balance of $12.5 million was expensed. These amounts do not
include the estimated cost of the SAP project.

     The failure to make Y2K Code Year 2000 Capable could result in an
interruption in, or failure of, certain business activities or operations, which
could materially and adversely affect the Company's results of operations,
liquidity and/or financial condition. The Company currently expects that the
Company's Y2K Code will be Year 2000 Capable on or before December 31, 1999. Due
to general uncertainty about the overall extent of the Year 2000 problem,
however, including, but not limited to, uncertainty about the extent of Year
2000 Capability of the Company's suppliers and customers, the Company is
currently unable to determine whether the consequences of the failure of
entities other than the Company to be Year 2000 Capable will have a material
impact on the Company's results of operations, liquidity or financial condition.

     Subject to the above uncertainties, however, the Company believes that,
with the completion of the Y2K Program as scheduled, and with the implementation
of SAP, the likelihood of material interruptions of the Company's normal
business should be reduced. Notwithstanding the Company's belief, the Company is
currently unable to predict, and thus to describe, its most likely worst case
Year 2000 scenario. To address the possibility that the Company or its
suppliers, customers, or other third parties are not successful in becoming Year
2000 Capable, the Company has commenced to develop contingency plans for the
critical aspects of its operations. Such plans will be designed to avoid or
mitigate potential serious disruptions in the Company's business and will be
refined and modified as the Company monitors and evaluates the progress of its
Y2K Program.

   Euro Currency Adoption

     As part of the European Economic and Monetary Union, a single currency (the
"Euro") will replace the national currencies of most of the European countries
in which the Company conducts business. The conversion rates between the Euro
and the participating nations' currencies were fixed irrevocably as of January
1, 1999, with the participating national currencies scheduled to be removed from
circulation between January 1, and June 30, 2002, and replaced by Euro notes and
coinage. During the transition period from January 1, 1999 through December 31,
2001, public and private entities as well as individuals may pay for goods and
services using either checks, drafts, or wire transfers denominated in Euros or
the participating country's national currency.

     The Company's systems and processes were "Euro capable" (able to enter into
Euro-denominated transactions) on January 1, 1999. The effects of the Euro
conversion on the Company's revenues, costs and competitive position, while
currently still being assessed, are not expected to be significant. The cost of
systems and business process conversion was not material.

   Other Information

     The Company is currently evaluating its selling, administrative,
manufacturing and distribution functions with the intention of further
streamlining operations and reducing operating expenses. The Company anticipates
that decisions based on this evaluation will be made in the first half of 1999.
Ensuing actions may result in certain nonrecurring charges during 1999; the
extent of such charges is not yet quantifiable.

     Cautionary Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of

     Statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis which are not
historical facts or information are "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995, and are subject
to risks and uncertainties that could cause the Company's actual results to
differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking
statements. Risks and uncertainties with respect to the Company's business
include general economic and business conditions, the price and availability of
raw materials, the ability of 






the Company and third parties, including customers and suppliers, to adequately
address the Year 2000 Issue, and political and economic uncertainties, including
the fluctuation or devaluation of currencies in countries in which the Company
does business.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     See Note 12 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a
discussion of the Company's exposure to, and management of, market risk.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS:

                                                                        Page No.
                                                                        --------
Consolidated Statements of Income and Retained Earnings for 
  the three years ended December 31, 1998 ............................     14
Consolidated Balance Sheet--December 31, 1998 and 1997 ...............     15
Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three years
  ended December 31, 1998 ............................................     16
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements ...........................     17
Report of Independent Accountants ....................................     29

Financial Statement Schedules:
VIII--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves for the 
      three years ended December 31, 1998 ............................    S-1

     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.




ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.








See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements







                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET

                                     ASSETS

                                                             December 31,
                                                       ------------------------
                                                          1998          1997
                                                       ----------    ----------
                                                        (Dollars in thousands)
CURRENT ASSETS:
   Cash and cash equivalents ........................  $  114,960    $  216,994
   Short-term investments ...........................       1,039        43,452
   Receivables:
     Trade ..........................................     264,352       242,791
     Allowance for doubtful accounts ................      (9,517)       (8,101)
     Other ..........................................      28,645        33,844
   Inventories ......................................     403,961       360,074
   Prepaid and deferred charges .....................      44,588        46,405
                                                       ----------    ----------
    Total Current Assets ............................     848,028       935,459
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET ..................     498,784       446,509
OTHER ASSETS ........................................      41,252        40,293
                                                       ----------    ----------
TOTAL ASSETS ........................................  $1,388,064    $1,422,261
                                                       ==========    ==========


                      LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

CURRENT LIABILITIES:
   Bank loans .......................................  $   29,072    $   10,490
   Accounts payable .................................      60,331        57,832
   Accrued payrolls and bonuses .....................      16,507        19,410
   Dividends payable ................................      40,301        40,407
   Income taxes .....................................      46,647        56,070
   Other current liabilities ........................      80,050        80,652
                                                       ----------    ----------
    Total Current Liabilities .......................     272,908       264,861
                                                       ----------    ----------

OTHER LIABILITIES:
 Long-term debt .....................................       4,341         5,114
 Deferred income taxes ..............................      30,730        23,139
 Retirement and other liabilities ...................     135,034       128,659
                                                       ----------    ----------
    Total Other Liabilities .........................     170,105       156,912
                                                       ----------    ----------

SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:
 Common stock 12 1/2 (cent) par value;
   authorized 500,000,000 shares;
   issued 115,761,840 shares ........................      14,470        14,470
 Capital in excess of par value .....................     136,443       137,418
 Restricted stock ...................................      (6,750)       (9,000)
 Retained earnings ..................................   1,210,620     1,166,348
 Accumulated other comprehensive income:
   Cumulative translation adjustment ..............        (9,130)      (36,851)
                                                       ----------    ----------
                                                        1,345,653     1,272,385

 Treasury stock, at cost--9,715,775 shares in 1998
   and 6,630,911 shares in 1997 .....................    (400,602)     (271,897)
                                                       ----------    ----------
   Total Shareholders' Equity .......................     945,051     1,000,488
                                                       ----------    ----------
Total Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity ..........  $1,388,064    $1,422,261
                                                       ==========    ==========


See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements









See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements







                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


NOTE 1. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

NATURE OF OPERATIONS

     The Company is the leading creator and manufacturer of flavors and
fragrances used by others to impart or improve flavor or fragrance in a wide
variety of consumer products. Fragrance products are sold principally to makers
of perfumes and cosmetics, hair and other personal care products, soaps and
detergents, household and other cleaning products and area fresheners. Flavors
are sold primarily to makers of dairy, meat and other processed foods,
beverages, snacks and savory foods, confectionery, sweet and baked goods,
pharmaceutical and oral care products and animal foods.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and all subsidiaries.

CURRENCY TRANSLATION

     The assets and liabilities of non-U.S. subsidiaries which operate in a
local currency environment are translated into U.S. dollars at year-end exchange
rates. Income and expense items are translated at average exchange rates during
the year. Cumulative translation adjustments are shown as a separate component
of shareholders' equity.

     For those subsidiaries which operate in U.S. dollars, or which operate in a
highly inflationary environment, inventory and property, plant and equipment are
translated using the approximate exchange rates at the time of acquisition. All
other assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates. Except
for inventories charged to cost of goods sold and depreciation, which are
remeasured for historical rates of exchange, all income and expense items are
translated at average exchange rates during the year. Gains and losses as a
result of remeasurements are included in income.

INVENTORIES

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (generally on an average basis)
or market.

CASH EQUIVALENTS

     Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less at date
of purchase are considered to be cash equivalents.

PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT

     Property, plant and equipment are recorded at cost. Depreciation is
calculated on a straight-line basis, principally over the following estimated
useful lives: buildings and improvements, 10 to 30 years; machinery and
equipment, 3 to 10 years; and leasehold improvements, the shorter of 10 years or
the remaining life of the lease.

     When properties are retired or otherwise disposed of, the asset and related
accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts and the resultant gain or
loss is included in income.

     Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when events or changes in
business conditions indicate that their full carrying value may not be
recovered. Assets are considered to be impaired and written down to estimated
fair value if expected associated cash flows are less than the carrying amounts.

INCOME TAXES

     Deferred income taxes reflect the impact of temporary differences between
the amount of assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting purposes
and such amounts recognized for tax purposes, based on tax laws as 








             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


currently enacted. Additional taxes which would result from dividend
distributions by subsidiary companies to the parent company are provided to the
extent such dividends are anticipated. No provision is made for additional taxes
on undistributed earnings of subsidiary companies which are intended to be
permanently invested in such subsidiaries. As a result, no income tax effect is
attributable to the currency translation component of other comprehensive
income.

RETIREMENT BENEFITS

     Current service costs of retirement plans and postretirement health care
and life insurance benefits are accrued currently. Prior service costs resulting
from improvements in these plans are amortized over periods ranging from 10 to
20 years.

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The fair value of financial instruments is determined by reference to
various market data and other valuation techniques, as appropriate. Unless
otherwise disclosed, the fair values of financial instruments approximate their
recorded values.

RISKS AND UNCERTAINTIES

     The diversity of the Company's products, customers and geographic
operations significantly reduces the risk that a severe impact will occur in the
near term as a result of changes in its customer base, competition, sources of
supply or markets. It is unlikely that any one event would have a severe impact
on the Company's operating results.

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues
and expenses. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     Effective January 1, 1997, the Company adopted Statement of Position 96-1
(SOP 96-1), Accounting for Environmental Remediation Liabilities. SOP 96-1
establishes guidance for when environmental liabilities should be recorded and
the factors to be considered in determining amounts recognized. The effect of
adopting this Standard was not material.

     Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Position 98-1
(SOP 98-1), Accounting for the Costs of Computer Software Developed or Obtained
for Internal Use. SOP 98-1 establishes guidance on when costs incurred for
internal-use software are capitalized.

     Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 130 (FAS 130), Reporting Comprehensive Income. FAS 130
establishes standards for the reporting of comprehensive income, and requires
that an enterprise classify items of other comprehensive income by their nature
in a financial statement, and display the accumulated balance of other
comprehensive income separately in the statement of financial position.

     Effective January 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 131 (FAS 131), Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. FAS 131 establishes standards for the way
public business enterprises report information about operating segments in
reports to shareholders. The adoption of FAS 131 did not affect results of
operations or financial position but did affect the disclosure of segment
information. Prior year data has been restated for comparability purposes.

     In 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 132 (FAS 132), Employers' Disclosures about Pensions and Other
Postretirement Benefits. FAS 132 standardizes disclosures about pension and
other postretirement plans; it does not change the accounting measurement or
recognition of such plans.







             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 133 (FAS 133), Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities, issued in June 1998, is
effective for fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. FAS 133 establishes
accounting and reporting standards for derivative instruments, and for hedging
activities. It requires that an entity recognize all derivatives as either
assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure those
instruments at fair value. The Company is currently evaluating the Standard, and
the accounting and reporting implications thereof.

     Statement of Position 98-5 (SOP 98-5), Reporting on the Costs of Start-Up
Activities, issued in April 1998, is effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1998. SOP 98-5 requires that costs of start-up activities,
including organization costs, be expensed as incurred. The impact of adopting
this Standard is not expected to be material.

NET INCOME PER SHARE

     Net income per share is based on the weighted average number of shares
outstanding. A reconciliation of the number of shares used in the computations
for basic and diluted net income per share is as follows:

                                                      Number of Shares
                                            ------------------------------------
(Shares in thousands)                         1998          1997          1996
- ---------------------                       -------       -------        -------
Basic EPS ..............................    107,122       109,065        110,773
Dilution under stock plans .............        308           560            613
                                            -------       -------        -------
Diluted EPS ............................    107,430       109,625        111,386
                                            =======       =======        =======

     Net income used in the computation of basic and diluted net income per
share is not affected by the assumed issuance of stock under the Company's stock
plans and is therefore the same for both calculations.

     Options to purchase 2,295,667, 944,959 and 1,107,000 shares were
outstanding in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, but were not included in the
computation of diluted net income per share because the options' exercise prices
were greater than the average market price of the common shares in the
respective years.

NOTE 2. NONRECURRING CHARGE

     During 1996, the Company undertook a program to phase out aroma chemical
production at its Union Beach, New Jersey plant at the end of 1997, and to close
smaller capacity aroma chemical facilities in Mexico and Brazil that year. Most
of the volume produced at Union Beach was transferred to the Company's facility
in Augusta, Georgia; production capacity in Benicarlo, Spain was also expanded.

     The program resulted in a nonrecurring pretax charge to 1996 earnings of
$49,707,000 ($31,315,000 after tax or $.29 per share). Of the charge,
approximately $33,000,000 represented asset writedowns and other non-cash
related costs. Approximately 220 employees were affected by this program, all of
whom had left the Company at December 31, 1998.

     Movements in the reserve resulting from the nonrecurring charge were as
follows:

                                            Employee        Plant
(Dollars in thousands)                      Related        Closure        Total
- ---------------------                       -------        -------       -------
Original reserve ........................   $10,629        $39,078       $49,707
Utilized in 1996 ........................       560          6,446         7,006
                                            -------        -------       -------
Balance December 31, 1996                    10,069         32,632        42,701
Utilized in 1997 ........................     8,045         16,654        24,699
                                            -------        -------       -------
Balance December 31, 1997 ...............     2,024         15,978        18,002
Utilized in 1998 ........................     1,503         13,778        15,281
                                            -------        -------       -------
Balance December 31, 1998 ...............   $   521        $ 2,200       $ 2,721
                                            =======        =======       =======

     The balance of the reserve will be utilized in 1999 in connection with the
final decommissioning and disposal of plant equipment, and as severance
obligations to affected employees are satisfied.







             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


NOTE 3. MARKETABLE SECURITIES

     Marketable securities are included in cash equivalents and short-term
investments, as appropriate. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, marketable
securities totaling $2,655,000 and $122,931,000, respectively, were available
for sale and recorded at fair value which approximated cost. Realized gains and
losses on the sale of marketable securities were not material.

NOTE 4. INVENTORIES

                                                          December 31,
                                                   ---------------------------
                                                     1998               1997
                                                   --------           --------
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)

Raw materials .................................    $235,552           $193,136
Work in process ...............................       8,251             13,593
Finished goods ................................     160,158            153,345
                                                   --------           --------
                                                   $403,961           $360,074
                                                   ========           ========

NOTE 5. PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT, NET

                                                          December 31,
                                                   ---------------------------
                                                     1998               1997
                                                   --------           --------
                                                       (Dollars in thousands)

Land ..........................................    $ 33,784           $ 29,676
Buildings and improvements ....................     284,861            271,407
Machinery and equipment .......................     526,859            471,456
Construction in progress ......................      67,893             38,362
                                                   --------           --------
                                                    913,397            810,901
Accumulated depreciation ......................     414,613            364,392
                                                   --------           --------
                                                   $498,784           $446,509
                                                   ========           ========

     In 1998, construction in progress includes approximately $28,000,000
related to the acquisition and development of internal-use software.

NOTE 6. BORROWINGS

     Bank loans (all foreign) averaged $16,912,000 in 1998, $19,639,000 in 1997
and $15,007,000 in 1996. The highest levels were $29,636,000 in 1998,
$28,736,000 in 1997 and $18,925,000 in 1996. The 1998 weighted average annual
interest rate on these loans (based on balances outstanding at the end of each
month) was approximately 8% and the average rate on loans outstanding at
December 31, 1998 was 7%. These rates compare to 7% and 10%, respectively, in
1997, and 9% and 7%, respectively, in 1996.

     Long-term debt (all foreign) consists of various loans from financial
institutions, with interest rates ranging between 2.1% to 2.5%, and with
original terms of between five and seven years. Aggregate payments for the next
five years of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 1998 are $1,683,000 in
1999 and $886,000 annually through 2003. At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the
estimated fair value of long-term debt, based on borrowing rates currently
available to the Company with similar terms and maturities, approximated the
recorded amount.

     Cash payments for interest were $1,774,000 in 1998, $2,330,000 in 1997 and
$2,688,000 in 1996.

     At December 31, 1998, the Company and its subsidiaries had available unused
lines of bank credit approximating $96,000,000.








             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


NOTE 7. INCOME TAXES

                                           1998           1997           1996
                                         --------       --------       --------
                                                  (Dollars in thousands)

U.S. income before taxes .............   $ 54,745       $ 63,719       $ 19,860
Foreign income before taxes ..........    256,323        276,472        279,243
                                         --------       --------       --------
Total income before taxes ............   $311,068       $340,191       $299,103
                                         ========       ========       ========

     The following table shows the components of current and deferred income tax
expense by taxing jurisdiction, both domestic and foreign:

                                           1998           1997           1996
                                         --------       --------       --------
                                                 (Dollars in thousands)
Current
 Federal .............................    $ 4,830       $ 18,149       $ 15,138
 State and local .....................        578          2,210          2,835
 Foreign .............................     85,998         93,402         93,507
                                         --------       --------       --------
                                           91,406        113,761        111,480
                                         --------       --------       --------
Deferred
 Federal .............................     13,350          6,478        (10,640)
 State and local .....................      1,847            235         (2,356)
 Foreign .............................        680          1,488         10,725
                                         --------       --------       --------
                                           15,877          8,201         (2,271)
                                         --------       --------       --------
Total income taxes ...................   $107,283       $121,962       $109,209
                                         ========       ========       ========

     At December 31, 1998 and 1997, gross deferred tax assets were $56,000,000
and $61,300,000, respectively; gross deferred tax liabilities were $64,800,000
and $55,400,000, respectively. No valuation allowance was required for deferred
tax assets. The principal components of deferred tax assets (liabilities) were:

                                                        1998             1997
                                                     --------          --------
                                                        (Dollars in thousands)

Employee and retiree benefits ...................    $ 33,000          $ 35,400
Inventory .......................................       8,200             9,100
Property, plant and equipment ...................     (34,800)          (25,400)
Other, net ......................................     (15,200)          (13,200)
                                                     --------          --------
                                                     $ (8,800)         $  5,900
                                                     ========          ========

     A reconciliation between the U.S. federal income tax rate and the effective
tax rate is:

                                                     1998       1997       1996
                                                     ----       ----       ----
Statutory tax rate ..............................    35.0%      35.0%      35.0%
Difference in effective tax rate on 
  foreign earnings and remittances ..............    (0.5)       0.8        1.8
State and local taxes ...........................     0.5        0.5        0.1
Other, net ......................................    (0.5)      (0.4)      (0.4)
                                                     ----       ----       ----
Effective tax rate ..............................    34.5%      35.9%      36.5%
                                                     ====       ====       ==== 








             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


     Income taxes paid were $99,894,000 in 1998, $110,594,000 in 1997 and
$124,435,000 in 1996.

     Undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries for which no deferred taxes
have been provided approximated $518,000,000 at December 31, 1998. Any
additional U.S. taxes payable on these foreign earnings, if remitted, would be
substantially offset by credits for foreign taxes already paid.

NOTE 8. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

     Transactions in treasury shares resulted in net charges to capital in
excess of par value of $3,996,000, $1,062,000 and $975,000 in 1996, 1997 and
1998, respectively.

     The following table shows treasury shares acquired and, as appropriate, the
use of treasury shares for stock plans:

                                                    Number
                                                      of
                                                    Shares             Amount
                                                   ---------          --------
                                                     (Dollars in thousands)

Balance January 1, 1996 ........................   4,808,005          $184,856
Acquisitions ...................................   1,407,667            62,815
Used for stock plans ...........................    (425,349)          (17,131)
                                                   ---------          --------
Balance December 31, 1996 ......................   5,790,323           230,540
Acquisitions ...................................   1,633,034            73,869
Used for stock plans ...........................    (792,446)          (32,512)
                                                   ---------          --------
Balance December 31, 1997 ......................   6,630,911           271,897
Acquisitions ...................................   3,222,900           134,448
Used for stock plans ...........................    (138,036)           (5,743)
                                                   ---------          --------
Balance December 31, 1998 ......................   9,715,775          $400,602
                                                   =========          ========

     Under an employment contract dated January 1, 1997, the Company awarded
250,000 restricted shares of the Company's common stock. The restrictions
expire, subject to certain performance goals, over a five-year period.
Compensation expense is recognized over the restricted period.

     Changes in the cumulative translation adjustment, included in other
comprehensive income, were (in thousands):

       Balance January 1, 1996 ............................     $ 75,049
       Translation adjustments ............................      (27,494)
                                                                --------
       Balance December 31, 1996 ..........................       47,555
       Translation adjustments ............................      (84,406)
                                                                --------
       Balance December 31, 1997 ..........................      (36,851)
       Translation adjustments ............................       27,721
                                                                --------
       Balance December 31, 1998 ..........................      $(9,130)
                                                                ========


     On February 13, 1990, the Company adopted a shareholder protection rights
agreement (the "Rights Agreement") and declared a dividend of one right on each
share of common stock outstanding on February 28, 1990 or issued thereafter.

     Under the Rights Agreement, as amended, until a person or group acquires
20% or more of the Company's common stock or commences a tender offer that will
result in such person or group owning 20% or more, the rights will be evidenced
by the common stock certificates, will automatically trade with the common stock
and will not be exercisable. Thereafter, separate rights certificates will be
distributed and each right will entitle its holder to purchase one share of
common stock for an exercise price of $250.







             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


     If any person or group acquires 20% or more of the Company's common stock,
then ten business days thereafter (the "Flip-in Date") each right (other than
rights beneficially owned by holders of 20% or more of the common stock or
transferees thereof, which rights become void) will entitle its holder to
purchase, for the exercise price, a number of shares of common stock having a
market value of twice the exercise price.

     If the Company is involved in a merger or sells more than 50% of its assets
or earning power, each right will entitle its holder to purchase, for the
exercise price, a number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company
having a market value of twice the exercise price. If any person or group
acquires between 20% and 50% of common stock, the Company's Board of Directors
may, at its option, exchange one share of common stock for each right. The
rights may be redeemed by the Board of Directors for $0.01 per right prior to
the Flip-in Date. The rights will expire on February 20, 2000, unless previously
redeemed by the Board in accordance with the terms of the Rights Agreement.

     Dividends paid per share were $1.48, $1.44 and $1.36 in 1998, 1997 and
1996, respectively.

NOTE 9. STOCK OPTIONS

     The Company has various stock option plans under which the Company's
officers, directors and key employees may be granted options to purchase the
Company's common stock at 100% of the market price on the day the option is
granted.

     Except for certain options granted to foreign employees which can be
exercised immediately, options generally become exercisable no earlier than two
years from the date of grant. All options expire ten years after date of grant.

     During 1998, options to purchase common stock were granted at exercise
prices ranging from $40.50 to $49.69 per share. At December 31, 1998, the price
range for shares under option was $19.30 to $49.88; options for 1,983,676 shares
were exercisable at that date. During 1998, 138,036 shares of common stock under
option were exercised at prices ranging from $19.30 to $36.21.

     Stock option transactions were:
                                              
                                         Shares of Common Stock      Weighted
                                         ----------------------       Average
                                          Available       Under      Exercise
                                         for Option      Option        Price
                                         ----------     ---------    ---------
Balance January 1, 1996 ..............      863,166     3,285,632      $37.09
Granted ..............................     (639,500)      639,500       48.06
Exercised ............................           --      (425,349)      29.78
Terminated ...........................       13,428       (13,428)      38.21
                                          ---------     ---------
Balance December 31, 1996 ............      237,094     3,486,355       39.98
Granted ..............................     (781,250)      781,250       43.38
Exercised ............................           --      (542,446)      33.61
Terminated ...........................       94,485       (94,485)      39.67
Increase under 1997 plan .............    3,500,000            --          --
                                          ---------     ---------
Balance December 31, 1997 ............    3,050,329     3,630,674       41.67
Granted ..............................     (941,000)      941,000       48.93
Exercised ............................           --      (138,036)      33.10
Terminated ...........................      397,719      (397,719)      46.26
                                          ---------     ---------
Balance December 31, 1998 ............    2,507,048     4,035,919      $43.21
                                          =========     =========







             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


     The following table summarizes information concerning currently outstanding
and exercisable options:

                                                       Range of Exercise Prices
                                                       -------------------------
                                                       $10-$30          $30-$50
                                                       -------         ---------
Number outstanding .................................   231,473         3,804,446
Weighted average remaining contractual 
  life, in years ...................................       1.7               7.1
Weighted average exercise price ....................    $24.31            $44.36
Number exercisable .................................   231,473         1,752,203
Weighted average exercise price ....................    $24.31            $41.21


     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees, and related interpretations in accounting for its
plans. Had compensation cost for the Company's stock option plans been
determined based upon the fair value at the grant date, consistent with the
methodology prescribed under Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, the Company's net income and basic
earnings per share would have been reduced by approximately $4,700,000 ($.04 per
share) in 1998, $3,500,000 ($.03 per share) in 1997 and $2,700,000 ($.02 per
share) in 1996. These pro forma amounts may not be representative of future
disclosures because the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to
expense over the vesting period, and additional options may be granted in future
years.

     Using the Black-Scholes option valuation model, the estimated fair values
of options granted during 1998, 1997 and 1996 were $9.74, $8.19 and $9.98,
respectively. The Black-Scholes model was developed for use in estimating the
fair value of traded options which have no vesting restrictions. In addition,
such models require the use of subjective assumptions, including expected stock
price volatility. In management's opinion, such valuation models do not
necessarily provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee
stock options.

     Principal assumptions used in applying the Black-Scholes model were as
follows:

                                                 1998       1997        1996
                                                 ----       ----        ----
Risk-free interest rate ....................      5.6%       6.6%        6.6%
Expected life, in years ....................      5          5           5
Expected volatility ........................     19.5%      16.4%       16.8%
Expected dividend yield ....................      3.0%       3.3%        2.8%


NOTE 10. SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The Company's reportable segments are based on geographic area; accounting
policies used for segment reporting are the same as those described in Note 1.
The Company evaluates the performance of its geographic areas based on operating
profit, excluding interest expense, other income and expense, certain
unallocated expenses, the effects of nonrecurring items and accounting changes,
and income tax expense. Transfers between geographic areas are accounted for at
prices which approximate arm's length market prices. The North America area
includes the United States and Canada, and the EAME area includes Europe, Africa
and the Middle East. Unallocated assets are principally cash and short-term
investments.







             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)










             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


     Sales of fragrance products were $820,149,000, $821,592,000 and
$813,918,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. Sales of flavor products were
$587,200,000, $605,199,000 and $622,135,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996,
respectively. Sales in the United States, based on the final country of
destination of the Company's products, were $432,035,000, $407,824,000 and
$413,591,000 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. No other individual country
of destination exceeded 8% of consolidated sales. Sales to the Company's largest
customer in 1998, 1997 and 1996 accounted for 11%, 11% and 12% of worldwide net
sales, respectively. Total long-lived assets consist of net property, plant and
equipment and amounted to $498,784,000, $446,509,000 and $467,797,000 at
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively; of the respective totals
$204,430,000, $186,888,000 and $181,761,000 were located in the United States.
No other individual country had long-lived assets that exceeded 10% of total
long-lived assets.

     Net foreign exchange gains of $943,000 in 1998 and $1,231,000 in 1997 and
net losses of $668,000 in 1996 are included in other income.



NOTE 11. RETIREMENT BENEFITS

     The Company and most of its subsidiaries have pension and/or other
retirement benefit plans covering substantially all employees. Pension benefits
are generally based on years of service and on compensation during the final
years of employment. Plan assets consist primarily of equity securities and
corporate and government fixed income securities. Substantially all pension
benefit costs are funded as accrued; however, such funding is limited, where
applicable, to amounts deductible for income tax purposes. Certain other
retirement benefits are provided by balance sheet accruals. Contributions to
defined contribution plans are mainly determined as a percentage of profits.

     In addition to pension benefits, certain health care and life insurance
benefits are provided to qualifying United States employees upon retirement from
the Company. Such coverage is provided through insurance plans with premiums
based on benefits paid. The Company does not generally provide health care and
life insurance coverage for retired employees of foreign subsidiaries; however,
such benefits are provided in most foreign countries by government-sponsored
plans, and the cost of these programs is not significant to the Company.

     Pension expense included the following components:




     Expense recognized for postretirement benefits included the following
components:

                                                 1998         1997         1996
                                                ------       ------       ------
                                                    (Dollars in thousands)

Service cost for benefits earned ............   $1,505       $1,070       $1,368
Interest on benefit obligation ..............    3,371        3,097        3,377
Net amortization and deferrals ..............       28           (9)         138
                                                ------       ------       ------
Total postretirement benefit expense ........   $4,904       $4,158       $4,883
                                                ======       ======       ======







             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


     Changes in pension and postretirement benefit obligations were:



     Changes in pension plan assets were:



     The funded status of pension and postretirement plans at December 31 was:



     Pension assets and liabilities included in the Consolidated Balance Sheet
at December 31 were:

                                      U.S. Plans              Non-U.S. Plans
                                   -------------------      -------------------
                                    1998        1997         1998         1997
                                   -------     -------      ------       ------ 
                                               (Dollars in thousands)

Prepaid benefit cost ..........   $ 20,331    $ 19,845     $ 6,191      $ 5,291
Accrued benefit liability .....    (15,693)    (13,548)     (7,342)      (6,712)







             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)


     Principal weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine the
above pension data were:

                                              U.S. Plans          Non-U.S. Plans
                                            ---------------       --------------
                                            1998       1997       1998      1997
                                            ----       ----       ----      ----
Discount rate ..........................    6.7%       7.2%       5.3%      6.6%
Weighted average rate of 
  compensation increase ................    4.5%       4.5%       2.8%      3.5%
Long-term rate of return
  on plan assets .......................    8.0%       8.0%       7.3%      7.9%

     Principal actuarial assumptions used to determine the above postretirement
data were:

                                                     1998           1997
                                                     ----           ----
Discount rate ..................................     6.7%           7.2%
Initial medical cost trend rate ................     7.0%           8.0%
Ultimate medical cost trend rate ...............     5.0%           5.0%
Medical cost trend rate decreases to
  ultimate rate in year ........................     2003           2001

     The effect of a 1% increase in the assumed medical rate of inflation would
increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation, and the annual
postretirement expense, by approximately $9,900,000 and $1,100,000,
respectively; a 1% decrease in the rate would decrease the obligation and
expense by approximately $7,800,000 and $800,000, respectively.

NOTE 12. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

     The Company uses forward exchange contracts to reduce its exposure to
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. These contracts, the
counterparties to which are major international financial institutions,
generally involve the exchange of one currency for a second currency at a future
date, and have maturities which do not exceed six months. Gains and losses on
such contracts are recognized in income as incurred, effectively offsetting the
losses and gains on the foreign currency transactions that are hedged. At
December 31, 1998 and 1997, the value of outstanding foreign currency exchange
contracts was not material.

     The Company has no significant concentrations of risk in financial
instruments. Temporary cash investments are made in a well-diversified portfolio
of high-quality, liquid obligations of government, corporate and financial
institutions. There are also limited concentrations of credit risk with respect
to trade receivables because of the large number of customers spread across many
industries and geographic areas.

NOTE 13. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     There are various lawsuits and claims pending against the Company.
Management believes that any liability resulting from those actions or claims
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition,
results of operations or liquidity.







                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of 
INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed in the index
appearing under Item 8 on page 13 present fairly, in all material respects, the
financial position of International Flavors & Fragrances Inc. and its
subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. These
financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and perform the
audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are
free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements,
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We
believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
above.

PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
1301 Avenue of the Americas
New York, New York 10019
January 28, 1999








                                     PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a) See Item 8 on page 13.

     (b) A report on Form 8-K was filed during the last quarter of the year
         ended December 31, 1998 on October 5, 1998.

     (c) Exhibits.

     (d) Not applicable.

Number
- ------
   2              Not applicable.

   3              Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to Registrant's Report
                  on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 (File No.
                  1-4858).

   3(b)           By-laws of Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  3(b) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-4858).

   3(c)           Amendment to By-laws adopted December 12, 1996, incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to Registrant's Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 (File No.
                  1-4858).

   3(d)           Amendment to By-laws adopted May 8, 1997, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 3(a) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated August 13, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

   3(e)           Amendments to By-laws adopted March 10, 1998, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 3(a) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated May 14, 1998 (File No. 1-4858).

   4(a)           Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement dated as of February
                  20, 1990 between Registrant and The Bank of New York, as
                  Rights Agent, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No.
                  1-4858).

   4(b)           Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 6, 1990 to Shareholder 
                  Protection Rights Agreement, incorporated by reference to 
                  Exhibit 4(b) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14,
                  1997 (File No. 1-4858).

   4(c)           Amendment No. 2 dated as of March 8, 1994 to Shareholder
                  Protection Rights Agreement, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 4(c) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-4858).

   4(cc)          Amended and Restated Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement
                  dated as of September 25, 1998, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit (4) to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated September
                  25, 1998.

   4(ccc)         First Amendment dated as of March 9, 1999 to the Amended and
                  Restated Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement.

   4(d)           Specimen certificates of Registrant's Common Stock bearing
                  legend notifying of Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to Registrant's
                  Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

   9              Not applicable.

  10(a)           Agreement dated as of January 1, 1997 between Registrant and
                  Eugene P. Grisanti, Chairman and President of Registrant, 
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's 
                  Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(b)           Form of Executive Severance Agreement approved by Registrant's
                  Board of Directors on February 14, 1989 incorporated by 
                  reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Report on Form
                  10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(c)           Registrant's Executive Death Benefit Plan effective July 1,
                  1990, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No.
                  1-4858).

  10(d)           Supplemental Retirement Investment Plan adopted by 
                  Registrant's Board of Directors on November 14, 1989 
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to Registrant's 
                  Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(e)           Supplemental Retirement Plan adopted by Board of Directors on
                  October 29, 1986, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)
                  to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File
                  No. 1-4858).






Number
- ------
  10(f)           Restated Management Incentive Compensation Plan of Registrant,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the Registrant's
                  Proxy Statement dated March 28, 1995 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(h)           Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, incorporated by 
                  reference to Exhibit 10(h) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(i)           Registrant's Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan adopted by
                  Registrant's Board of Directors on September 15, 1981,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to Registrant's
                  Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(j)           Director Charitable Contribution Program adopted by the Board 
                  of Directors on February 14, 1995 incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10(j) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(k)           Agreement dated as of July 22, 1996 between Registrant and
                  Hugh R. Kirkpatrick, former Senior Vice-President and Director
                  of Registrant incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1996 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(l)           1997 Employee Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit A to the Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 27,
                  1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(m)           Agreement dated June 19, 1997 between Registrant and Hendrik
                  C. van Baaren, former Senior Vice-President and Director of
                  Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(n)           Agreement dated September 2, 1998 between Registrant and 
                  David G. Bluestein, former Director and Senior Vice-President
                  of Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated November 13, 1998 (File
                  No. 1-4858).

  10(o)           Agreement dated July 27, 1998 between Registrant and Stuart 
                  R. Maconochie, Vice-President of Registrant, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated November 13, 1998 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(p)           Agreement dated June 23, 1998 between Registrant and Carlos
                  A. Lobbosco, Vice-President of Registrant, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated November 13, 1998 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(q)           Agreement dated July 2, 1998 between Registrant and Brian D.
                  Chadbourne, former Director and Senior Vice-President of
                  Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated August 14, 1998 (File
                  No. 1-4858).

  10(r)           Agreement dated February 25, 1998 between Registrant and
                  Thomas H. Hoppel, former Vice-President, Chief Financial
                  Officer and Director of Registrant, incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May
                  14, 1998 (File No. 1-4858).

  11              Not applicable.

  12              Not applicable.

  13              Not applicable.

  16              Not applicable.

  18              Not applicable.

  21              List of Principal Subsidiaries. See page E-1 of this 
                  Form 10-K.

  22              Not applicable.

  23              Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. See page 33 of this
                  Form 10-K.

  24              Powers of Attorney authorizing George Rowe, Jr. and Stephen A.
                  Block to sign this report and amendments thereto on behalf of
                  certain directors and officers of the Registrant.

  27              Financial Data Schedule (EDGAR version only).

  28              Not applicable.

  99              None.







     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS BEHALF
BY THE UNDERSIGNED HEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.


                                        INTERNATIONAL FLAVORS & FRAGRANCES INC.
                                        (REGISTRANT)

                
                                        By: /s/ DOUGLAS J. WETMORE
                                            ------------------------------------
                                             Douglas J. Wetmore
                                             Vice-President and Chief Financial
                                             Officer


Dated: March 30, 1999

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED:

PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER:

             EUGENE P. GRISANTI
      President, Chairman of the Board
         and Chief Executive Officer


PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING OFFICER:
                                    
            DOUGLAS J. WETMORE           By: /s/ STEPHEN A. BLOCK
  Vice-President and Chief Financial         -----------------------------------
           Officer and Director              Stephen A. Block
                                             Attorney-in-fact 

DIRECTORS:

            MARGARET HAYES ADAME
              ROBERT G. CORBETT
             ROBIN CHANDLER DUKE
             RICHARD M. FURLAUD
            STUART R. MACONOCHIE                 March 30, 1999
              GEORGE ROWE, JR.
          STANLEY M. RUMBOUGH, JR.
           HENRY P. VAN AMERINGEN
          WILLIAM D. VAN DYKE, III
               

     ORIGINAL POWERS OF ATTORNEY AUTHORIZING GEORGE ROWE, JR. AND STEPHEN A.
BLOCK, AND EACH OF THEM, TO SIGN THIS REPORT ON BEHALF OF CERTAIN DIRECTORS AND
OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT HAVE BEEN FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION.







                       CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

     We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements on Form S-3 (No. 333-59689, No. 33-66756 and No. 33-47856) and the
Registration Statement on Form S-8 (No. 33-54423) of International Flavors &
Fragrances Inc. of our report dated January 28, 1999 relating to the financial
statements and financial statement schedules, which appears on page 29 of this
Form 10-K.



PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP 
1301 Avenue of the Americas 
New York, New York 10019
March 30, 1999











                                                     S-1




                                                                      EXHIBIT 21


                   LIST OF REGISTRANT'S PRINCIPAL SUBSIDIARIES

     There is furnished below a list of the principal subsidiaries of
Registrant. All the voting stock of each subsidiary, other than directors'
qualifying shares, if any, is wholly owned by Registrant or a subsidiary of
Registrant, except that International Flavors & Fragrances I.F.F. (France)
S.a.r.1. is owned 70% by International Flavors & Fragrances I.F.F. (Nederland)
B.V. and 30% by Registrant, I.F.F. Essencias e Fragrancias Ltda. is owned 63% by
Registrant and 37% by International Flavors & Fragrances I.F.F. (Nederland)
B.V., and International Flavours & Fragrances I.F.F. (Great Britain) Ltd. is
owned 49% by International Flavors & Fragrances I.F.F. (Nederland) B.V. and 51%
by Aromatics Holdings Limited.




                                      E-1



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT                            DESCRIPTION
- -------                            -----------
   2              Not applicable.

   3              Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to Registrant's Report
                  on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended December 31, 1993 (File No.
                  1-4858).

   3(b)           By-laws of Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
                  3(b) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-4858).

   3(c)           Amendment to By-laws adopted December 12, 1996, incorporated
                  by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to Registrant's Report on Form
                  10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996 (File No.
                  1-4858).

   3(d)           Amendment to By-laws adopted May 8, 1997, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 3(a) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated August 13, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

   3(e)           Amendments to By-laws adopted March 10, 1998, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 3(a) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated May 14, 1998 (File No. 1-4858).

   4(a)           Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement dated as of February
                  20, 1990 between Registrant and The Bank of New York, as
                  Rights Agent, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(a) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No.
                  1-4858).

   4(b)           Amendment No. 1 dated as of April 6, 1990 to Shareholder 
                  Protection Rights Agreement, incorporated by reference to 
                  Exhibit 4(b) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14,
                  1997 (File No. 1-4858).

   4(c)           Amendment No. 2 dated as of March 8, 1994 to Shareholder
                  Protection Rights Agreement, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 4(c) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for fiscal
                  year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 1-4858).

   4(cc)          Amended and Restated Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement
                  dated as of September 25, 1998, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit (4) to Registrant's Report on Form 8-K dated September
                  25, 1998.

   4(ccc)         First Amendment dated as of March 9, 1999 to the Amended and
                  Restated Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement.

   4(d)           Specimen certificates of Registrant's Common Stock bearing
                  legend notifying of Shareholder Protection Rights Agreement,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4(d) to Registrant's
                  Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

   9              Not applicable.

  10(a)           Agreement dated as of January 1, 1997 between Registrant and
                  Eugene P. Grisanti, Chairman and President of Registrant, 
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's 
                  Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(b)           Form of Executive Severance Agreement approved by Registrant's
                  Board of Directors on February 14, 1989 incorporated by 
                  reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Report on Form
                  10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(c)           Registrant's Executive Death Benefit Plan effective July 1,
                  1990, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No.
                  1-4858).

  10(d)           Supplemental Retirement Investment Plan adopted by 
                  Registrant's Board of Directors on November 14, 1989 
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to Registrant's 
                  Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(e)           Supplemental Retirement Plan adopted by Board of Directors on
                  October 29, 1986, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e)
                  to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File
                  No. 1-4858).





EXHIBIT
- -------
  10(f)           Restated Management Incentive Compensation Plan of Registrant,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit A to the Registrant's
                  Proxy Statement dated March 28, 1995 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(h)           Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee Directors, incorporated by 
                  reference to Exhibit 10(h) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(i)           Registrant's Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan adopted by
                  Registrant's Board of Directors on September 15, 1981,
                  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(i) to Registrant's
                  Report on Form 10-Q dated May 14, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(j)           Director Charitable Contribution Program adopted by the Board 
                  of Directors on February 14, 1995 incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit 10(j) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the
                  fiscal year ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(k)           Agreement dated as of July 22, 1996 between Registrant and
                  Hugh R. Kirkpatrick, former Senior Vice-President and Director
                  of Registrant incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(k) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1996 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(l)           1997 Employee Stock Option Plan, incorporated by reference to
                  Exhibit A to the Registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 27,
                  1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(m)           Agreement dated June 19, 1997 between Registrant and Hendrik
                  C. van Baaren, former Senior Vice-President and Director of
                  Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(m) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
                  December 31, 1997 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(n)           Agreement dated September 2, 1998 between Registrant and 
                  David G. Bluestein, former Director and Senior Vice-President
                  of Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated November 13, 1998 (File
                  No. 1-4858).

  10(o)           Agreement dated July 27, 1998 between Registrant and Stuart 
                  R. Maconochie, Vice-President of Registrant, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10(b) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated November 13, 1998 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(p)           Agreement dated June 23, 1998 between Registrant and Carlos
                  A. Lobbosco, Vice-President of Registrant, incorporated by
                  reference to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q
                  dated November 13, 1998 (File No. 1-4858).

  10(q)           Agreement dated July 2, 1998 between Registrant and Brian D.
                  Chadbourne, former Director and Senior Vice-President of
                  Registrant, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(a) to
                  Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated August 14, 1998 (File
                  No. 1-4858).

  10(r)           Agreement dated February 25, 1998 between Registrant and
                  Thomas H. Hoppel, former Vice-President, Chief Financial
                  Officer and Director of Registrant, incorporated by reference
                  to Exhibit 10(a) to Registrant's Report on Form 10-Q dated May
                  14, 1998 (File No. 1-4858).

  11              Not applicable.

  12              Not applicable.

  13              Not applicable.

  16              Not applicable.

  18              Not applicable.

  21              List of Principal Subsidiaries. See page E-1 of this 
                  Form 10-K.

  22              Not applicable.

  23              Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP. See page 33 of this
                  Form 10-K.

  24              Powers of Attorney authorizing George Rowe, Jr. and Stephen A.
                  Block to sign this report and amendments thereto on behalf of
                  certain directors and officers of the Registrant.

  27              Financial Data Schedule (EDGAR version only).

  28              Not applicable.

  99              None.


