
10-K405
KEYCORP             FORM 10-K405



 
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
               [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998
 
                                       OR
 
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO
                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-850
 
                                  KEYCORP LOGO
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                                      OHIO
                          ---------------------------
                        (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF
                         INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)
 
                       127 PUBLIC SQUARE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
                    ---------------------------------------
                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
 
                                   34-6542451
                                ----------------
                                (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
                              IDENTIFICATION NO.)
 
                                   44114-1306
                                ----------------
                                   (ZIP CODE)
 
                                 (216) 689-6300
                 ----------------------------------------------
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
 

 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                                    Yes [X]
                                     No [ ]
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]
 
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $14,451,041,949 at February 26, 1999. (The
aggregate market value has been computed using the closing market price of the
stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on February 26, 1999.)
 
                                  448,094,324
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     (NUMBER OF KEYCORP COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING AS OF FEBRUARY 26, 1999)
 
Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this Form
10-K. Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp's definitive Proxy
Statement for its 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

 
                                    KEYCORP
 
                          1998 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
 
                                


 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
OVERVIEW
 
KeyCorp (also referred to herein as the "Corporation") is a legal entity
separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the
right of KeyCorp, its security holders and its creditors to participate in any
distribution of the assets or earnings of its banking and other subsidiaries is
necessarily subject to the prior claims of the respective creditors of such
banking and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that claims of the
Corporation in its capacity as creditor of such banking and other subsidiaries
may be recognized.
 
KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the state of Ohio and registered
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended (the "BHCA"), is
headquartered in Cleveland, Ohio, and is engaged primarily in the business of
commercial and retail banking. At December 31, 1998, it was one of the nation's
largest bank holding companies with consolidated total assets of $80.0 billion.
Its subsidiaries provide a wide range of banking, equipment leasing, fiduciary
and other financial services to its corporate, individual and institutional
customers through four businesses: Key Corporate Capital, Key Consumer Finance,
Key Community Bank and Key Capital Partners. These services are provided across
much of the country through subsidiaries operating 968 full-service banking
offices in 13 states, a 24-hour telephone banking call center services group and
nearly 2,600 automated teller machines ("ATMs") as of December 31, 1998.
Additional information pertaining to the four businesses referred to above is
included in the Line of Business Results section beginning on page 38 and in
Note 4, Line of Business Results, beginning on page 69 of the Financial Review
section of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated
herein by reference. The Corporation and its subsidiaries had 25,862 full-time
equivalent employees as of December 31, 1998.
 
In addition to the customary banking services of accepting deposits and making
loans, subsidiaries of the Corporation provide specialized services, including
personal and corporate trust services, personal financial services, customer
access to mutual funds, cash management services, investment banking and capital
markets products and international banking services. Through its subsidiary
banks, trust companies and registered investment adviser subsidiaries, KeyCorp
provides investment management services to institutional and individual clients,
including large corporate and public retirement plans, foundations and
endowments, high net worth individuals and Taft-Hartley plans (i.e.,
multiemployer trust funds established for providing pension, vacation or other
benefits to employees that are established in accordance with applicable law).
In addition, investment management subsidiaries serve as investment advisers to
KeyCorp's proprietary mutual funds.
 
KeyCorp provides other financial services both inside and outside of its primary
banking markets through its nonbank subsidiaries. These services include
accident and health insurance on loans made by subsidiary banks, venture
capital, community development financing, securities underwriting and brokerage,
automobile financing and other financial services. KeyCorp is an equity
participant in joint ventures with Integrion Financial Network, L.L.C., which is
building a platform for electronic banking, and Key Merchant Services, L.L.C.,
which provides merchant services to businesses. On February 28, 1999, Electronic
Payment Services, Inc. ("EPS"), an electronic funds transfer processor in which
Key held a 20% ownership interest, merged with a wholly owned subsidiary of
Concord EFS, Inc., a Delaware corporation, with EPS as the surviving
corporation. Key received approximately 5.9 million shares of Concord EFS and
recorded a gain on the transaction.
 

 
The following financial data is included in the Financial Review section of
KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference as indicated below:
 

 
The executive offices of KeyCorp are located at 127 Public Square, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114-1306, and its telephone number is (216) 689-6300.
 
MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
 
The information presented in Note 3, Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures,
beginning on page 68 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
 
COMPETITION
 
The market for banking and related financial services is highly competitive.
KeyCorp and its subsidiaries ("Key") compete with other providers of financial
services, such as other bank holding companies, commercial banks, savings
associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, finance companies,
mutual funds, insurance companies, investment management firms, investment
banking firms, broker-dealers and a growing list of other local, regional and
national institutions which offer financial services. Key competes by offering
quality products and innovative services at competitive prices.
 
In recent years, mergers between financial institutions have added competitive
pressure to Key's core banking services. In addition, competition is expected to
intensify as a consequence of interstate banking and branching laws now in
effect which permit banking organizations to expand geographically. See
"Interstate Banking and Branching" and "Financial Modernization Legislation"
herein.
 
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
 
The following discussion addresses certain of the material elements of the
regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries, and provides certain specific information regarding Key.
Regulation of financial institutions, such as Key, is intended primarily for the
protection of depositors, the deposit insurance funds of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and the banking system as a whole, and generally
is not intended for the protection of shareholders or other investors.
 
In the following discussion, references to statutes and regulations are brief
summaries thereof and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full
text of such statutes and regulations. In addition, there are other statutes and
regulations not described below that apply to the operation of banking
institutions. Changes in the applicable laws, and in their application by
regulatory agencies, cannot necessarily be predicted, but they may have a
material effect on the business and results of Key.
 

 
General
 
As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to regulation, supervision and
examination by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
"Federal Reserve Board") under the BHCA. Under the BHCA, bank holding companies
may not, in general, directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of
more than 5% of the voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of any
company, including a bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve
Board. In addition, bank holding companies are generally prohibited under the
BHCA from engaging in commercial or industrial activities.
 
The Corporation's banking subsidiaries are also subject to extensive regulation,
supervision and examination by applicable Federal banking agencies. KeyCorp
operates two full-service, FDIC-insured national bank subsidiaries, KeyBank
National Association ("KeyBank") and Key Bank USA, National Association
("KeyBank USA"), and six national bank subsidiaries whose activities are limited
to that of a fiduciary. All of KeyCorp's national bank subsidiaries and their
subsidiaries are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by the
Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (the "OCC"). Because the deposits in
KeyBank and KeyBank USA are insured (up to applicable limits) by the FDIC, the
FDIC also has certain regulatory and supervisory authority over both banking
subsidiaries. The Corporation also operates two state-chartered trust company
subsidiaries that are subject to regulation, supervision and examination by
state banking authorities.
 
The Corporation also has other financial services subsidiaries that are subject
to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, as well
as other applicable state and Federal regulatory agencies and self-regulated
organizations. For example, the Corporation's brokerage and asset management
subsidiaries are subject to supervision and regulation by the Securities and
Exchange Commission, the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. or the
New York Stock Exchange, and state securities regulators; the Corporation's
insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation by the insurance regulatory
authorities of the various states. Other nonbank subsidiaries of the Corporation
may be subject to other laws and regulations of both the Federal government and
the various states in which they are authorized to do business.
 
Dividend Restrictions
 
The principal source of cash flow to the Corporation, including cash flow to pay
dividends on the Corporation's common shares and debt service on the
Corporation's debt, is dividends from its banking and other subsidiaries.
Various statutory and regulatory provisions limit the amount of dividends that
may be paid to the Corporation by its banking subsidiaries without regulatory
approval.
 
The approval of the OCC is required for the payment of any dividend by a
national bank if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors
of such bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of: (i) the bank's net
income for the current year plus (ii) the retained net income (as defined and
interpreted by regulation) for the preceding two years, less any required
transfer to surplus or a fund for the retirement of any preferred stock. In
addition, a national bank can pay dividends only to the extent of its undivided
profits. All of the Corporation's national bank subsidiaries are subject to
these restrictions.
 
In addition, if, in the opinion of a Federal banking agency, a depository
institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to engage in an
unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial condition of the
institution, could include the payment of dividends), the agency may require,
after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist from such
practice. The OCC and the FDIC have indicated that paying dividends that would
deplete a depository institution's capital base to an inadequate level would be
an unsafe and unsound practice. Moreover, under the Federal Deposit Insurance
Act (the "FDIA"), an insured depository institution may not pay any dividend if
payment would cause it to become less than "adequately capitalized". See
"Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters--Prompt Corrective Action."
The FDIA also prohibits the payment of any dividend while the institution is in
default in the payment of any assessment due to the FDIC. Also, the Federal
Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC have issued policy statements which provide
that FDIC-insured depository institutions and their holding companies should
generally pay dividends only out of their current operating earnings.
 

 
Holding Company Structure
 
Transactions Involving Banking Subsidiaries. The Corporation's banking
subsidiaries are subject to Federal Reserve Act restrictions which limit the
amount of funds or other items of value that can be transferred from such
subsidiaries to either the Corporation and (with certain exceptions) the
Corporation's nonbanking subsidiaries. Any such loans or extensions of credit
are required to be secured in specified amounts.
 
Source of Strength Doctrine. Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding
company is expected to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to
each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit
resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required by
the Federal Reserve Board at times when the Corporation may not have the
resources to provide it, or, for other reasons, would not otherwise be inclined
to provide it. Certain loans by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are
subordinate in right of payment to deposits in, and certain other indebtedness
of, the subsidiary bank. In addition, the Crime Control Act of 1990 provides
that in the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by a
bank holding company to a Federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital
of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
priority of payment.
 
Depositor Preference. The FDIA provides that, in the event of the "liquidation
or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the claims of
depositors of such institution (including claims by the FDIC as subrogee of
insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC
as a receiver would be afforded a priority over other general unsecured claims
against such an institution, including Federal funds and letters of credit. If
an insured depository institution fails, insured and uninsured depositors along
with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including
a parent holding company, in order of priority of payment.
 
Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions. Under the FDIA an insured
depository institution which is under common control with another insured
depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably
anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of such
commonly controlled institution, or any assistance provided by the FDIC to such
commonly controlled institution which is in danger of default. The term
"default" is defined generally to mean the appointment of a conservator or
receiver and the term "in danger of default" is defined generally as the
existence of certain conditions indicating that a "default" is likely to occur
in the absence of regulatory assistance.
 
Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters
 
Regulatory Capital. Applicable law and regulation define and prescribe minimum
levels of regulatory capital for bank holding companies and their banking
subsidiaries. Adequacy of regulatory capital is assessed periodically by the
Federal banking agencies in the examination and supervision process, and in the
evaluation of applications in connection with specific transactions and
activities, including acquisitions, expansion of existing activities, and
commencement of new activities.
 
Bank holding companies are subject to risk-based capital guidelines adopted by
the Federal Reserve Board. These guidelines establish minimum ratios of
qualifying capital to risk-weighted assets. Qualifying capital includes Tier 1
capital and Tier 2 capital. Risk-weighted assets are calculated by assigning
varying risk-weights to broad categories of assets and off-balance-sheet
exposures, based primarily on counterparty credit risk. The required minimum
Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by
risk-weighted assets, is currently 4%. The required minimum total risk-based
capital ratio is currently 8%. It is calculated by dividing the sum of Tier 1
capital and Tier 2 capital not in excess of Tier 1 capital, after deductions for
investments in certain subsidiaries and associated companies and for reciprocal
holdings of capital instruments, by risk-weighted assets.
 
Tier 1 capital includes common equity, qualifying perpetual preferred equity,
and minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries less
certain intangible assets (including goodwill) and certain other assets. Tier 2
capital includes qualifying hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt,
mandatory convertible debt securities, perpetual preferred equity not includable
in Tier 1 capital, and limited amounts of term subordinated debt, medium-term
preferred equity, certain unrealized holding gains on certain equity securities,
and the allowance for loan and lease losses.
 

 
Effective January 1, 1998, the Federal Reserve Board amended its risk-based
capital rules to require banking organizations having relatively large trading
activities (such as Key) to maintain capital for market risk in an amount that
may be calculated by using internal value-at-risk models which meet the
standards prescribed by the rules. Market risk includes changes in the market
value of trading account, foreign exchange, and commodity positions, whether
resulting from broad market movements (such as changes in the general level of
interest rates, equity prices, foreign exchange rates, or commodity prices) or
from position specific factors (such as idiosyncratic variation, event risk, and
default risk). At December 31, 1998, Key's Tier 1 and total capital to risk-
weighted assets ratios were 7.21% and 11.69%, respectively, which include all
required adjustments for market risk.
 
In addition to the risk-based standard, bank holding companies are subject to
the Federal Reserve Board's leverage ratio guidelines. These guidelines
establish minimum ratios of Tier 1 capital to total assets. The minimum leverage
ratio, calculated by dividing Tier 1 capital by average total consolidated
assets, is 3% for bank holding companies that either have the highest
supervisory rating or have implemented the Federal Reserve Board's risk-based
capital measure for market risk. All other bank holding companies must maintain
a minimum leverage ratio of at least 4%. Neither Key nor any of its banking
affiliates has been advised by its primary Federal banking regulator of any
specific leverage ratio applicable to it. At December 31, 1998, Key's Tier 1
capital leverage ratio was 6.95%.
 
The Corporation's national bank subsidiaries are also subject to risk-based and
leverage capital requirements adopted by the OCC which are substantially similar
to those imposed by the Federal Reserve Board on bank holding companies. At
December 31, 1998, each of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries had regulatory
capital in excess of all minimum risk-based and leverage capital requirements.
 
Besides establishing regulatory minimum ratios of capital to assets for all bank
holding companies and their banking subsidiaries, the risk-based and leverage
capital guidelines also identify various organization-specific factors and risks
which are not taken into account in the computation of the capital ratios yet
affect the overall supervisory evaluation of a banking organization's regulatory
capital adequacy and can result in the imposition of higher minimum regulatory
capital ratio requirements upon the particular organization. Neither the Federal
Reserve Board nor the OCC has advised the Corporation or any national bank
subsidiary of the Corporation of any specific minimum risk-based or leverage
capital ratio applicable to the Corporation or such national bank subsidiary.
 
Amendments were adopted by the Federal Reserve Board and OCC in 1998 to address
the risk-based and leverage capital treatment of (i) mortgage and nonmortgage
servicing assets, purchased credit card relationships, and interest-only strips
receivable on serviced assets and (ii) pretax net unrealized holding gains on
available-for-sale equity securities having readily determinable fair values.
Another amendment adopted by the Federal Reserve Board in 1998 clarified that
all but either the most highly rated bank holding companies or those bank
holding companies which have implemented the Federal Reserve Board's risk-based
capital measure for market risk are subject to a minimum 4% Tier 1 capital
leverage ratio. In March 1999, the OCC adopted its proposed amendment which
similarly clarifies that the same minimum 4% Tier 1 capital leverage ratio
requirement applies to all but the most highly rated national banks. Amendments
proposed in 1997 but not acted upon during 1998 by the Federal Reserve Board and
OCC include proposals to address the risk-based capital treatment of recourse
obligations, direct credit substitutes, and securitized transactions. Finally,
proposals that make uniform the risk-based capital treatment for loans secured
by junior liens on 1-4 family residential properties, construction loans on
presold residential properties, and investments in mutual funds were adopted by
the Federal Reserve Board and OCC in March 1999.
 
Prompt Corrective Action. The "prompt corrective action" provisions of the FDIA
added by the FDIC Improvement Act ("FDICIA") create a statutory framework that
applies a system of both discretionary and mandatory supervisory actions indexed
to the capital level of FDIC-insured depository institutions. These provisions
impose progressively more restrictive constraints on operations, management, and
capital distributions of the institution as its regulatory capital decreases, or
in some cases, based on supervisory information other than the institution's
capital level. This framework and the authority it confers on the Federal
banking agencies supplements other existing authority vested in such agencies to
initiate supervisory actions to address capital
 

 
deficiencies. Moreover, other provisions of law and regulation employ regulatory
capital level designations the same as or similar to those established by the
prompt corrective action provisions both in imposing certain restrictions and
limitations and in conferring certain economic and other benefits upon
institutions. These include restrictions on brokered deposits, FDIC deposit
insurance limits on pass-through deposits, limits on exposure to interbank
liabilities, risk-based FDIC deposit insurance premium assessments, and
expedited action upon regulatory applications.
 
FDIC-insured depository institutions are grouped into one of five prompt
corrective action capital categories -- well capitalized, adequately
capitalized, undercapitalized, significantly undercapitalized and critically
undercapitalized -- using the Tier 1 risk-based, total risk-based, and Tier 1
leverage capital ratios as the relevant capital measures. An institution is
considered well capitalized if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of at
least 10%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio of at least 6% and a Tier 1
leverage capital ratio of at least 5% and is not subject to any written
agreement, order or capital directive to meet and maintain a specific capital
level for any capital measure. An adequately capitalized institution must have a
total risk-based capital ratio of at least 8%, a Tier 1 risk-based capital ratio
of at least 4% or greater and a Tier 1 leverage capital ratio of at least 4% (3%
if the institution has achieved the highest composite rating in its most recent
examination) and is not well capitalized. At December 31, 1998, each KeyCorp
insured depository institution subsidiary met the requirements for the "well
capitalized" capital category. An institution's prompt corrective action capital
category, however, may not constitute an accurate representation of the overall
financial condition or prospects of the Corporation or its banking subsidiaries,
and should be considered in conjunction with other available information
regarding Key's financial condition and results of operations.
 
FDIC DEPOSIT INSURANCE AND FINANCING CORPORATION BOND ASSESSMENTS
 
Since substantially all of the deposits of the Corporation's depository
institution subsidiaries are insured up to applicable limits by the FDIC, these
subsidiaries are subject to deposit insurance premium assessments by the FDIC to
maintain the Bank Insurance Fund (the "BIF") and the Savings Association
Insurance Fund (the "SAIF") of the FDIC. The FDIC has adopted a risk-related
deposit insurance assessment system under which premiums, ranging in 1998 from
zero to $.27 for each $100 of domestic deposits, are imposed based upon the
depository institution's capitalization and Federal supervisory evaluation. Each
of the Corporation's depository institution subsidiaries in 1998 qualified for a
deposit insurance assessment rate of zero. The FDIC is authorized to increase
deposit insurance premium assessments in certain circumstances. Any such
increase would have an adverse effect on Key's earnings.
 
Beginning in 1997, all BIF-member institutions are required to join with
SAIF-member institutions in servicing the approximately $793 million of annual
interest on 30-year non-callable bonds issued by the Financing Corporation
("FICO") in the late 1980s to fund losses incurred by the former Federal Savings
and Loan Insurance Corporation. FICO bond assessments are separate from and in
addition to deposit insurance premium assessments and, unlike deposit insurance
premium assessments, do not vary with the depository institution's
capitalization and Federal supervisory evaluation. Federal law requires the FICO
assessment rate on BIF assessable deposits to be one-fifth of that imposed on
SAIF assessable deposits through 1999, or until BIF and SAIF are merged,
whichever occurs first, when BIF and SAIF assessable deposits will be assessed
at the same rate. For 1998, the average annualized FICO assessment rates were
$.06105 per $100 of SAIF-assessable deposits and $.01221 per $100 of
BIF-assessable deposits. The 1998 FICO assessment expense to Key was
approximately $6 million.
 
INTERSTATE BANKING AND BRANCHING
 
On September 29, 1994, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching
Efficiency Act of 1994 (the "Interstate Act") was enacted into Federal law. The
Interstate Act generally authorizes bank holding companies to acquire banks
located in any state, and also generally permits FDIC-insured banks located in
different states to merge, allowing the resulting institution to operate
interstate branches. In addition, the Interstate Act allows an FDIC-insured bank
to establish (or acquire) and operate a branch in a state in which such bank
does not maintain a branch if that state expressly permits such transactions.
Using the authority conferred by the Interstate Act,
 

 
during the period from mid-1997 through mid-1998, the number of FDIC-insured
depository institutions operated by the Corporation decreased from thirteen to
two -- KeyBank and KeyBank USA.
 
FINANCIAL MODERNIZATION LEGISLATION
 
Congress, the President, the Federal banking agencies and most participants in
the financial services industry have recognized the need for comprehensive
Federal financial modernization legislation which would enhance customer choice
in the financial services marketplace, eliminate anti-competitive regulatory
disparities among financial services providers, and increase competition among
providers of financial services. No such legislation, however, was enacted
during 1998. It is impossible to predict whether or in what form any such
Federal financial modernization legislation may be adopted in the future, and,
if adopted, what its effect will be on Key.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
The headquarters of KeyCorp, KeyBank and KeyBank USA are located in Key Tower at
127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306. At December 31, 1998, Key leased
approximately 695,000 square feet of the complex, encompassing the first
twenty-three floors, the 28th floor and the 54th through 56th floors of the 57-
story Key Tower. As of the same date, the banking subsidiaries of KeyCorp owned
542 of their branch banking offices and leased 426 offices. The lease terms for
applicable branch banking offices are not individually material, with terms
ranging from month-to-month to 99-year leases from inception. Additional
information pertaining to Key's properties is presented in Note 1, Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies, beginning on page 65 of the Financial Review
section of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated
herein by reference.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
In the ordinary course of business, Key is subject to legal actions which
involve claims for substantial monetary relief. Based on information presently
known to management and Key's counsel, management does not believe that there
exists any legal action to which KeyCorp or any of its subsidiaries is a party,
or of which their properties are the subject, that, individually or in the
aggregate, will have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of
Key.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders of KeyCorp.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS
 
The dividend restrictions discussion on page 3 of this report and the following
disclosures included in the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual
Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference:
 

 

 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
The Selected Financial Data presented on page 36 of the Financial Review section
of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS
 
The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations presented on pages 35 through 58 of the Financial Review section of
KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
The information included in the Market Risk Management section beginning on page
43 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
The Selected Quarterly Financial Data and the financial statements and the notes
thereto, presented on page 58 and on pages 61 through 84, respectively, of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"Issue One -- ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 20, 1999, and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp
expects to file its final proxy statement on or before April 15, 1999.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES," "COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS" and "EMPLOYMENT AND CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 20, 1999, and is incorporated herein by reference. The
information set forth in the sections captioned "COMPENSATION AND ORGANIZATION
COMMITTEE REPORT ON EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" and "KEYCORP STOCK PRICE
PERFORMANCE" contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1999
Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 20, 1999, is not incorporated by
reference in this Report on Form 10-K. KeyCorp expects to file its final proxy
statement on or before April 15, 1999.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"SHARE OWNERSHIP AND PHANTOM STOCK UNITS" contained in KeyCorp's definitive
Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 20,
1999, and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its final
proxy statement on or before April 15, 1999.
 

 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"Issue One -- ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy
Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 20, 1999,
and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its final proxy
statement on or before April 15, 1999.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a)(1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The following financial statements of KeyCorp and its subsidiaries, and the
auditor's report thereon, are incorporated herein by reference to the pages
indicated in the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders:
 

 
(a)(2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
All financial statement schedules for KeyCorp and its subsidiaries have been
included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or
they are either inapplicable or not required.
 
(a)(3) EXHIBITS*
 

 


 


 


 
The Corporation hereby agrees to furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission
upon request, copies of instruments outstanding, including indentures, which
define the rights of long-term debt security holders.
 
All documents listed as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.40 constitute management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
 
* Copies of these Exhibits have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
  Commission. Shareholders may obtain a copy of any exhibit, upon payment of
  reproduction costs, by writing KeyCorp Investor Relations, at 127 Public
  Square (Mail Code OH-01-27-1113), Cleveland, OH 44114-1306.
 
(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
October 16, 1998 -- The Registrant's October 15, 1998, press release announcing
its earnings results for the three-month and nine-month periods ended September
30, 1998.
 
No other reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1998.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE DATE INDICATED.
                                          KEYCORP
 
                                          /S/ THOMAS C. STEVENS
 
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          THOMAS C. STEVENS
                                          Senior Executive Vice President,
                                          General Counsel and Secretary
                                          March 18, 1999
 
PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT
HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED.
 

 

 
                                          /s/ Thomas C. Stevens
 
                                          * By Thomas C. Stevens,
                                            attorney-in-fact
                                           March 18, 1999
 

