
10-K405
KEYCORP       10-K405



 
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
               [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
 
                                       OR
 
             [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO
                          COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-850
 
                                  KEYCORP LOGO
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                                      OHIO
                          ---------------------------
                        (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF
                         INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)
 
                       127 PUBLIC SQUARE, CLEVELAND, OHIO
                    ---------------------------------------
                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)
 
                                   34-6542451
                                ----------------
                                (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
                              IDENTIFICATION NO.)
 
                                   44114-1306
                                ----------------
                                   (ZIP CODE)
 
                                 (216) 689-6300
                 ----------------------------------------------
              (REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE)
 

 
Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                               Yes [X]         No [ ]
 
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]
 
The aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant was approximately $11,832,852,977 at February 28, 1997. (The
aggregate market value has been computed using the closing market price of the
stock as reported by the New York Stock Exchange on February 28, 1997.)
 
                                  221,174,822
       ------------------------------------------------------------------
     (NUMBER OF KEYCORP COMMON SHARES OUTSTANDING AS OF FEBRUARY 28, 1997)
 
Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV of this Form
10-K. Certain specifically designated portions of KeyCorp's definitive Proxy
Statement for its 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by
reference into Part III of this Form 10-K.

 
                                    KEYCORP
 
                          1996 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
 
                                


 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
OVERVIEW
 
KeyCorp (also referred to herein as the "Corporation") is a legal entity
separate and distinct from its banking and other subsidiaries. Accordingly, the
right of KeyCorp, its security holders and its creditors to participate in any
distribution of the assets or earnings of its banking and other subsidiaries is
necessarily subject to the prior claims of the respective creditors of such
banking and other subsidiaries, except to the extent that claims of the
Corporation in its capacity as creditor of such banking and other subsidiaries
may be recognized.
 
KeyCorp, organized in 1958 under the laws of the state of Ohio and registered
under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended, is headquartered in
Cleveland, Ohio, and is engaged primarily in the business of commercial and
retail banking. At December 31, 1996, it was one of the nation's largest bank
holding companies with consolidated total assets of approximately $67.6 billion.
Its subsidiaries provide a wide range of banking, fiduciary and other financial
services to its corporate, individual and institutional customers through three
primary lines of business: Corporate Banking, National Consumer Finance and
Community Banking. These services are provided across much of the country
through a network of banking subsidiaries operating more than 1,200 full-service
banking offices in 15 states, a 24-hour telephone banking call center services
group and nearly 1,900 ATMs as of December 31, 1996. At February 28, 1997, the
Corporation and its subsidiaries had approximately 26,963 full-time equivalent
employees.
 
In addition to the customary banking services of accepting deposits and making
loans, the bank and trust company subsidiaries provide specialized services,
including personal and corporate trust services, personal financial services,
customer access to mutual funds, cash management services, investment banking
services and international banking services. Through its subsidiary banks, trust
companies and registered investment adviser subsidiaries, KeyCorp provides
investment management services to institutional and individual clients,
including large corporate and public retirement plans, Taft-Hartley plans,
foundations and endowments, and high net worth individuals. In addition,
investment management subsidiaries serve as investment advisers to the
proprietary mutual funds offered by other affiliates.
 
KeyCorp provides other financial services both inside and outside of its primary
banking markets through its nonbank subsidiaries. These services include
accident and health insurance on loans made by subsidiary banks, venture
capital, community development financing, securities underwriting and brokerage,
automobile financing and other financial services. KeyCorp is an equity
participant in joint ventures with a number of other unaffiliated companies in
Electronic Payment Services, Inc., which operates ATMs throughout the country,
and Integrion Financial Network, L.L.C., which is building a platform for
electronic banking.
 
The following financial data is included in the Financial Review section of
KeyCorp's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference as indicated below:
 

 

 
The executive offices of KeyCorp are located at 127 Public Square, Cleveland,
Ohio 44114-1306, and its telephone number is (216) 689-6300.
 
MERGERS, ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES
 
The information presented in Note 2, "Mergers, Acquisitions and Divestitures,"
beginning on page 49 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1996 Annual
Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by reference.
 
COMPETITION
 
The market for banking and related financial services is highly competitive.
KeyCorp and its subsidiaries ("Key") competes with other providers of financial
services, such as other bank holding companies, commercial banks, savings
associations, credit unions, mortgage banking companies, mutual funds, insurance
companies, investment management firms, investment banking firms, broker-dealers
and a growing list of other local, regional and national institutions which
offer financial services. Key competes by offering quality products and
innovative services at competitive prices.
 
In recent years, mergers between financial institutions have added competitive
pressure to Key's core banking services. In addition, competition is expected to
intensify as a consequence of interstate banking laws now in effect in the
majority of states which permit banking organizations to expand geographically.
Further, the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994
(the "Interstate Act") removed the restrictions on interstate acquisitions of
banks and bank holding companies as of September 29, 1995. The act also
authorizes nationwide interstate branching and bank mergers effective June 1,
1997, although states may "opt-in" and permit branching sooner, or "opt-out" and
prohibit branching into or out of that state. See "Supervision and
Regulation--Interstate Banking and Other Recent Legislation" herein.
 
SUPERVISION AND REGULATION
 
The following discussion addresses certain of the material elements of the
regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies and their
subsidiaries, and provides certain specific information regarding Key.
Regulation of financial institutions, such as Key, is intended primarily for the
protection of depositors, the deposit insurance funds of the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation ("FDIC") and the banking system as a whole, and generally
is not intended for the protection of shareholders or other investors.
 
In the following discussion, references to statutes and regulations are brief
summaries thereof and are qualified in their entirety by reference to the full
text of such statutes and regulations. In addition, there are other statutes and
regulations not described below that apply to the operation of banking
institutions. Changes in the applicable laws, and in their application by
regulatory agencies, cannot necessarily be predicted, but they may have a
material effect on the business and results of KeyCorp.
 
General
 
As a bank holding company, KeyCorp is subject to the regulation, supervision and
examination of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (the
"Federal Reserve Board") under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended
(the "BHCA"). Under the BHCA, bank holding companies may not, in general,
directly or indirectly acquire the ownership or control of more than 5% of the
voting shares, or substantially all of the assets, of any company, including a
bank, without the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board. In addition, bank
holding companies are generally prohibited under the BHCA from engaging in
commercial or industrial activities.
 
The Corporation's banking subsidiaries are also subject to extensive regulation,
supervision and examination by applicable Federal banking agencies. On January
13, 1997, KeyCorp converted all of its state-chartered bank subsidiaries, with
the exception of KeyBank of Washington, to national banks. KeyBank of
Washington's charter was converted on March 5, 1997. Key Bank USA, National
Association ("KeyBank USA"), Key Trust Company of Florida National Association
and KeyBank National Association in Ohio, New York,
 

 
Washington, Alaska, Colorado, Idaho, Maine, Oregon, Utah, Vermont, Wyoming and
New Hampshire (all of which are separate banking subsidiaries) are national
banking associations with full banking powers, subject to regulation,
supervision and examination by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency
(the "OCC"). Also on January 13, 1997, KeyCorp converted all of its
state-chartered trust company subsidiaries except Society Trust Company of New
York to national bank charters that limit their powers to trust-related
fiduciary activities. These are Key Trust Company of Ohio, National Association,
Key Trust Company of Indiana, National Association, and KeyTrust Company
National Association in New York, Alaska, Maine, Washington and Wyoming (all of
which are separate trust company subsidiaries). These entities are also subject
to the regulation, supervision and examination of the OCC, although they are not
regulated as banks for purposes of the BHCA. Society Trust Company of New York
is a state-chartered trust company subsidiary subject to regulation by the
banking authorities in the State of New York. Because the deposits in all of the
Corporation's banking subsidiaries are insured (up to applicable limits) by the
FDIC, the FDIC also has certain regulatory and supervisory authority over all
such banking subsidiaries.
 
The Corporation also has other financial services subsidiaries that are subject
to regulation, supervision and examination by the Federal Reserve Board, as well
as other applicable state and Federal regulatory agencies. For example, the
Corporation's brokerage and asset management subsidiaries are subject to
supervision and regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the
National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. and state securities
regulators, and the Corporation's insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by the insurance regulatory authorities of the various states. Other
nonbank subsidiaries of the Corporation are subject to other laws and
regulations of both the Federal government and the various states in which they
are authorized to do business.
 
Dividend Restrictions
 
The principal source of cash flow to the Corporation, including cash flow to pay
dividends on the Corporation's common and preferred shares and debt service on
the Corporation's debt, is dividends from its banking and other subsidiaries.
Various Federal and state statutory and regulatory provisions limit the amount
of dividends that may be paid to the Corporation by its banking subsidiaries
without regulatory approval.
 
The approval of the OCC is required for the payment of any dividend by a
national bank if the total of all dividends declared by the board of directors
of such bank in any calendar year would exceed the total of: (i) the bank's net
profits (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the current year plus
(ii) the retained net profits (as defined and interpreted by regulation) for the
preceding two years, less any required transfer to surplus or a fund for the
retirement of any preferred stock. In addition, a national bank can pay
dividends only to the extent that retained net profits (including the portion
transferred to surplus) exceed bad debts (as defined and interpreted by
regulation). All of the Corporation's banking subsidiaries and trust company
subsidiaries, with the exception of Society Trust Company of New York, are
national banks and are subject to these restrictions. Until the Corporation's
state-chartered banks were converted to national banks, they were subject to
similar restrictions under state law.
 
In addition, if, in the opinion of the applicable Federal banking agency, a
depository institution under its jurisdiction is engaged in or is about to
engage in an unsafe or unsound practice (which, depending on the financial
condition of the institution, could include the payment of dividends) the agency
may require, after notice and hearing, that such institution cease and desist
from such practice. The OCC and the FDIC have indicated that paying dividends
that would deplete a depository institution's capital base to an inadequate
level would be an unsafe and unsound practice. Moreover, under the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act (the "FDI Act"), an insured depository institution may not
pay any dividend if payment would cause it to become undercapitalized or if it
is undercapitalized. See "Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters --
Prompt Corrective Action." Also, the Federal Reserve Board, the OCC and the FDIC
have issued policy statements which provide that FDIC-insured depository
institutions and their holding companies should generally pay dividends only out
of the current operating earnings.
 

 
Holding Company Structure
 
Transactions Involving Banking Subsidiaries.  The Corporation's banking
subsidiaries are subject to Federal Reserve Act restrictions which limit the
amount of funds or other items of value that can be transferred from such
subsidiaries to either the Corporation and (with certain exceptions) the
Corporation's nonbanking subsidiaries. Any such loans or extensions of credit
are required to be secured in specified amounts.
 
Source of Strength Doctrine.  Under Federal Reserve Board policy, a bank holding
company is expected to serve as a source of financial and managerial strength to
each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate circumstances, to commit
resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be required by
the Federal Reserve Board at times when the Corporation may not have the
resources to provide it, or, for other reasons, would not otherwise be inclined
to provide it. Certain loans by a bank holding company to a subsidiary bank are
subordinate in right of payment to deposits in, and certain other indebtedness
of, the subsidiary bank. In addition, the Crime Control Act of 1990 provides
that in the event of a bank holding company's bankruptcy, any commitment by a
bank holding company to a Federal bank regulatory agency to maintain the capital
of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
priority of payment.
 
Depositor Preference.  The FDI Act provides that, in the event of the
"liquidation or other resolution" of an insured depository institution, the
claims of depositors of such institution (including claims by the FDIC as
subrogee of insured depositors) and certain claims for administrative expenses
of the FDIC as a receiver would be afforded a priority over other general
unsecured claims against such an institution, including Federal funds and
letters of credit. If an insured depository institution fails, insured and
uninsured depositors along with the FDIC will be placed ahead of unsecured,
nondeposit creditors, including a parent holding company, in order of priority
of payment.
 
Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.  Under the FDI Act, an insured
depository institution which is under common control with another insured
depository institution is generally liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably
anticipated to be incurred, by the FDIC in connection with the default of such
commonly controlled institution, or any assistance provided by the FDIC to such
commonly controlled institution which is in danger of default. The term
"default" is defined generally to mean the appointment of a conservator or
receiver and the term "in danger of default" is defined generally as the
existence of certain conditions indicating that a "default" is likely to occur
in the absence of regulatory assistance.
 
Regulatory Capital Standards and Related Matters
 
Capital Guidelines.  The Federal Reserve Board, the FDIC and the OCC have
adopted substantially similar risk-based and leverage capital guidelines for
United States banking organizations. Under these risk-based capital standards,
the minimum consolidated ratio of total capital to risk-adjusted assets
(including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of credit)
required by the Federal Reserve Board for bank holding companies, such as Key,
is currently 8%. At least one-half of the total capital must be comprised of
common equity, retained earnings, qualifying noncumulative, perpetual preferred
stock, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative, perpetual preferred stock and
minority interests in the equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less
goodwill and certain other intangible assets ("Tier I capital"). The remainder
may consist of hybrid capital instruments, perpetual debt, mandatory convertible
debt securities, a limited amount of subordinated debt, other preferred stock
and a limited amount of loan and lease loss reserves ("Tier II capital"). As of
December 31, 1996, Key's Tier I and total capital to risk-adjusted assets ratios
were 7.98% and 13.01%, respectively.
 
In addition to the risk-based standard, Key is subject to minimum leverage ratio
guidelines. The leverage ratio is defined to be the ratio of a banking
organization's Tier I capital to its total consolidated quarterly average assets
less goodwill and certain other intangible assets. These guidelines provide for
a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for bank holding companies that have the highest
supervisory rating. All other bank holding companies must maintain a minimum
leverage ratio of at least 4% to 5%. Neither Key nor any of its banking
affiliates has
 

 
been advised by its primary Federal banking regulator of any specific leverage
ratio applicable to it. As of December 31, 1996, Key's Tier I leverage ratio was
6.93%.
 
The Corporation's banking subsidiaries are also subject to capital requirements
adopted by their respective primary Federal regulatory agency which are
substantially similar to those imposed by the Federal Reserve Board on bank
holding companies. The Corporation's national bank subsidiaries are subject to
the capital requirements of the OCC. Prior to their conversion to national
banks, the Corporation's state-chartered bank subsidiaries were subject to FDIC
capital requirements. As of December 31, 1996, each of the Corporation's banking
subsidiaries had capital in excess of all minimum regulatory requirements.
 
Prompt Corrective Action.  The "prompt corrective action" provisions of the FDI
Act group FDIC-insured depository institutions into five broad categories based
on their capital ratios. The five categories -- "well capitalized," "adequately
capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly undercapitalized" and
"critically undercapitalized" -- are based upon an institution's total, Tier I
and leverage capital ratios. Under the regulations, an institution is: (i) "well
capitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 10% or greater, a
Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 6% or greater and a leverage ratio of 5% or
greater and is not subject to any written agreement, order or capital directive
to meet and maintain a specific capital level for any capital measure; (ii)
"adequately capitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of 8% or
greater, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of 4% or greater and a leverage ratio
of 4% or greater (3% in certain circumstances) and is not "well capitalized";
(iii) "undercapitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than
8%, a Tier I risk-based capital ratio of less than 4% or a leverage ratio of
less than 4% (3% in certain circumstances); (iv) "significantly
undercapitalized" if it has a total risk-based capital ratio of less than 6%, a
Tier I risk-based capital ratio of less than 3% or a leverage ratio of less than
3%; and (v) "critically undercapitalized" if its tangible equity is equal to or
less than 2% of average quarterly tangible assets. An institution may be
downgraded to, or be deemed to be in, a capital category that is lower than is
indicated by its capital ratios if it is determined to be in an unsafe or
unsound condition or if it receives an unsatisfactory examination rating with
respect to certain matters.
 
Each KeyCorp banking subsidiary is considered to be "well capitalized." An
institution's capital category, as determined by applying the prompt corrective
action provisions of law, may not constitute an accurate representation of the
overall financial condition or prospects of the Corporation or its banking
subsidiaries, and should be considered in conjunction with other available
information regarding Key's financial condition and results of operations.
 
FDIC INSURANCE
 
Under the FDIC's risk-related insurance assessment system, all insured
depository institutions are required to pay annual assessments to the Bank
Insurance Fund (the "BIF") or the Savings Association Insurance Fund (the
"SAIF") of the FDIC. The assessments are based on the institution's risk
classification which, in turn, is based on an assignment of the institution by
the FDIC to one of three capital groups and to one of three supervisory
subgroups. The capital groups are "well capitalized," "adequately capitalized"
and "undercapitalized". The three supervisory subgroups are Group "A" (for
financially solid institutions with only a few minor weaknesses), Group "B" (for
those institutions with weaknesses which, if uncorrected, could cause
substantial deterioration of the institution and increase the risk to the
deposit insurance fund) and Group "C" (for those institutions with a substantial
probability of loss to the insurance fund, absent effective corrective action).
 
On August 8, 1995, the FDIC amended its regulations on insurance assessments to
establish a new assessment rate schedule of $.04 to $.31 per $100 of domestic
deposits in replacement of the previous schedule of $.23 to $.31 per $100 of
domestic deposits for institutions whose deposits are subject to assessment by
the BIF. The new BIF schedule became effective on June 1, 1995. Assessments
collected in accordance with the previous assessment schedule that exceed the
amount due under the new schedule have been refunded with interest, from the
effective date of June 1, 1995. For the period commencing June 1 through
December 31, 1995, insurance premiums on deposits of all of the Corporation's
banking subsidiaries were assessed at the rate of $.04 per $100 of domestic
deposits. The BIF rate was reduced further to zero as of January 1, 1996. The
FDIC maintained the SAIF assessment rate at $.23 per $100 of insured deposits
during 1995 and in 1996 through
 

 
the date of enactment of the Deposit Insurance Funds Act of 1996 ("Funds Act")
passed by Congress on September 30 to recapitalize the SAIF. In accordance with
the Funds Act, effective January 1, 1997, the FDIC will require all insured
institutions to begin servicing the bonds issued in the late 1980s to fund
government assistance payments made necessary by a higher volume of insolvencies
in the thrift industry. The servicing will take the form of an annual assessment
equal to $.0129 per $100 of BIF-assessable deposits and $.0644 per $100 of
SAIF-assessable deposits. This will result in a 1997 expense of approximately $5
million for the Corporation's banking subsidiaries.
 
INTERSTATE BANKING AND OTHER RECENT LEGISLATION
 
On September 29, 1994, the Interstate Act was enacted into Federal law. Under
the Interstate Act, commencing on September 29, 1995, bank holding companies
were permitted to acquire banks located in any state regardless of the state law
in effect at the time. The Interstate Act also provides for the nationwide
interstate branching of banks. Under the Interstate Act, both national and
state-chartered banks will be permitted to merge across state lines (and thereby
establish interstate branches) commencing on June 1, 1997. States are permitted
to "opt-out" of the interstate branching authority by taking action prior to the
commencement date. States may also "opt-in" early (i.e., prior to June 1, 1997)
to the interstate branching provisions. All states in which the Corporation has
banking subsidiaries have "opted in" to the interstate branching provisions. As
a result, the Corporation plans to consolidate all of its bank subsidiaries
(other than KeyBank USA) into one national banking institution in mid-1997. The
Corporation continues to evaluate its business opportunities with respect to its
trust company subsidiaries, and plans for consolidating these subsidiaries are
not yet final.
 
In addition to the matters discussed above, there have been proposed a number of
legislative and regulatory proposals designed to strengthen the Federal deposit
insurance system and to improve the overall financial stability of the United
States banking system, and to provide for other changes in the bank regulatory
structure, including proposals to reduce regulatory burdens on banking
organizations and to expand the nature of products and services banks and bank
holding companies may offer. It is impossible to predict whether or in what form
these proposals may be adopted in the future, and, if adopted, what their effect
will be on Key.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
The headquarters of KeyCorp, KeyBank National Association (Ohio) and KeyBank USA
are located in Key Tower at 127 Public Square, Cleveland, Ohio 44114-1306. Key
currently leases approximately 695,000 square feet of the complex, encompassing
the first twenty-three floors, the 28th floor and the 54th through 56th floors
of the 57-story Key Tower. At December 31, 1996, the banking subsidiaries of
KeyCorp owned 711 of their branch banking offices and leased 494 offices. The
lease terms for applicable branch banking offices are not individually material,
with terms ranging from month-to-month to 99-year leases from inception.
Additional information pertaining to KeyCorp's properties is presented in Note
7, "Premises and Equipment," on page 53 of the Financial Review section of
KeyCorp's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
In the ordinary course of business, Key is subject to legal actions which
involve claims for substantial monetary relief. Based on information presently
available to management and Key's counsel, management does not believe that any
legal actions, individually or in the aggregate, will have a material adverse
effect on the financial condition of Key.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
During the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report, no matter
was submitted to a vote of security holders of KeyCorp.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS
 
On August 20, 1996, KeyCorp sold an aggregate of 270,263 KeyCorp Common Shares
pursuant to the exemption from registration under Rule 506 of the Securities Act
of 1933, as amended. The sale of the KeyCorp Common Shares was made in
connection with an acquisition of a privately held company by KeyCorp. The
acquisition was structured as a stock for stock exchange. KeyCorp received
shares of the privately held company and future services of certain of the
selling stockholders in exchange for KeyCorp Common Shares. In making the sale,
KeyCorp relied on the fact that the KeyCorp Common Shares were acquired by no
more than 35 persons other than accredited investors and that each
non-accredited investor, either alone or together with his purchaser
representative(s), was capable of evaluating the investment.
 
During the fourth quarter of 1996, the Corporation formed two wholly owned
Delaware business trusts, KeyCorp Institutional Capital A ("Capital A") and
KeyCorp Institutional Capital B ("Capital B"), which issued $350 million and
$150 million, respectively, of corporation-obligated mandatorily redeemable
capital securities of subsidiary trusts holding solely junior subordinated
deferrable interest debentures of the Corporation ("capital securities").
Goldman, Sachs & Co. acted as lead underwriter for the Capital A capital
securities sold on December 4, 1996, and Credit Suisse First Boston was the sole
underwriter for the Capital B capital securities sold on December 30, 1996. The
offering price and commission for both transactions was $1,000 per capital
security and $10 per capital security, respectively. The capital securities sold
by Capital A and Capital B were sold primarily to qualified institutional buyers
(as defined in Rule 144A under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended) and were
therefore exempt from registration. A limited amount of capital securities were
sold to institutional investors that are accredited investors within the meaning
of Rule 501 (a) under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Further
information pertaining to the capital securities is included in Note 11,
"Capital Securities," on page 56 of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's
1996 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.
 
The dividend restrictions discussion beginning on page 3 of this report and the
following disclosures included in the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1996
Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated herein by reference:
 

 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
The Selected Financial Data presented on page 6 of the Financial Review section
of KeyCorp's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders is incorporated herein by
reference.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS
 
The information included under "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" presented on pages 1 through 38
of the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders
is incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
The Selected Quarterly Financial Data and the financial statements and the notes
thereto, presented on page 37 and on pages 42 through 68, respectively, of the
Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1996 Annual Report to Shareholders are
incorporated herein by reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"Issue One -- ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" and "EXECUTIVE OFFICERS" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 15, 1997, and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp
expects to file its final proxy statement on or about April 7, 1997.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the sections captioned
"THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND ITS COMMITTEES," "COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS" and "EMPLOYMENT AND CHANGE OF CONTROL AGREEMENTS" contained in
KeyCorp's definitive Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders
to be held May 15, 1997, and is incorporated herein by reference. The
information set forth in the sections captioned "COMPENSATION AND ORGANIZATION
COMMITTEE AND EQUITY BASED COMPENSATION COMMITTEE JOINT REPORT ON EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION" and "KEYCORP STOCK PRICE PERFORMANCE" contained in KeyCorp's
definitive Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held May 15, 1997, is not incorporated by reference in this Report on Form 10-K.
KeyCorp expects to file its final proxy statement on or about April 7, 1997.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"SHARE OWNERSHIP AND PHANTOM STOCK UNITS" contained in KeyCorp's definitive
Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 15,
1997, and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its final
proxy statement on or about April 7, 1997.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
The information required by this item is set forth in the section captioned
"Issue One -- ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" contained in KeyCorp's definitive Proxy
Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 15, 1997,
and is incorporated herein by reference. KeyCorp expects to file its final proxy
statement on or about April 7, 1997.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
(a) (1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
The following financial statements of KeyCorp and its subsidiaries, and the
auditor's report thereon, are incorporated herein by reference to the pages
indicated in the Financial Review section of KeyCorp's 1996 Annual Report to
Shareholders:
 

 
(a) (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
 
All financial statement schedules for KeyCorp and its subsidiaries have been
included in the consolidated financial statements or the related footnotes, or
they are either inapplicable or not required.
 
(a) (3) EXHIBITS*
 

 

 

 

 

 
The Corporation hereby agrees to furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission
upon request, copies of instruments outstanding, including indentures, which
define the rights of long-term debt security holders.
 
All documents listed as Exhibits 10.1 through 10.36 constitute management
contracts or compensatory plans or arrangements.
 
* Copies of these Exhibits have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
  Commission. Shareholders may obtain a copy of any exhibit, upon payment of
  reproduction costs, by writing KeyCorp Investor Relations, at 127 Public
  Square (Mailcode OH-01-27-1113), Cleveland, OH 44114-1306.
 

 
(b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 

 
No other reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1996.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, ON THE DATE INDICATED.
                                          KEYCORP
 
                                          /S/ THOMAS C. STEVENS
 
                                          --------------------------------------
                                          THOMAS C. STEVENS
                                          Executive Vice President,
                                          General Counsel and Secretary
                                          March 13, 1997
 
PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS REPORT
HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND
IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED.

 
/s/ Thomas C. Stevens
 
*By Thomas C. Stevens, attorney-in-fact
   March 13, 1997
 

