
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
      (MARK ONE)
               [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                                       OR
            [ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                      OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the transition period from     to
 
                         Commission file number 1-8606
 
                           BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 
                DELAWARE                               23-2259884
    (State or other jurisdiction of       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
     incorporation or organization)
 
            1717 ARCH STREET                              19103
       PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA                      (Zip Code)
    (Address of principal executive
                offices)
 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (215) 963-6000
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes  X  No
                                              ---    ---
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.
                            -----

  At February 28, 1995, the aggregate market value of the registrant's voting
stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $23,393,000,000.
 
  At February 28, 1995, 436,369,634 shares of the registrant's Common Stock
were outstanding, after deducting 62,615 shares held in treasury.
 
  Documents incorporated by reference:
 
  Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to Shareowners for the year
  ended December 31, 1994 (Part II).
 
  Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement dated February 28, 1995
  prepared in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareowners (Part III).
 
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------
--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                               
 

                                    PART II



                                    PART III

                                    PART IV


      UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED, ALL INFORMATION IS AS OF MARCH 27, 1995

 
                                     PART I

Item 1. Business

                                    GENERAL

  Bell Atlantic Corporation (the "Company" or "Bell Atlantic") is one of the
seven regional holding companies ("RHCs") formed in connection with the court-
approved divestiture (the "Divestiture"), effective January 1, 1984, of those
assets of American Telephone and Telegraph Company ("AT&T") related to exchange
telecommunications, exchange access functions, printed directories and cellular
mobile communications.

  Pursuant to the Divestiture, AT&T transferred to the Company, among other
assets, its 100% ownership interest in seven Bell System operating companies
("BOCs"):  New Jersey Bell Telephone Company; The Bell Telephone Company of
Pennsylvania; The Diamond State Telephone Company; The Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company; The Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Maryland; The
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia; and The Chesapeake and
Potomac Telephone Company of West Virginia (collectively, the "Network Services
Companies").  In January 1994, to facilitate the creation of a uniform "Bell
Atlantic" brand name across the territories served by these seven telephone
subsidiaries, the names of the Network Services Companies were changed to Bell
Atlantic - New Jersey, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - New Jersey"), Bell Atlantic -
Pennsylvania, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania"), Bell Atlantic - Delaware,
Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - Delaware"), Bell Atlantic - Washington, D.C., Inc. ("Bell
Atlantic - Washington, D.C."), Bell Atlantic - Maryland, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic -
Maryland"), Bell Atlantic - Virginia, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - Virginia") and Bell
Atlantic - West Virginia, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - West Virginia"), respectively.

  The Company's business currently encompasses one principal segment --
Communications and Related Services -- which includes the Network Services
Companies as well as subsidiaries which are engaged in the business of providing
wireless communications products and services, including cellular mobile
service; selling directory advertising and providing photocomposition services;
and servicing and repairing computers.  During 1993, Bell Atlantic reorganized
certain functions performed by each of the Network Services Companies into nine
lines of business ("LOBs") organized across the Network Services Companies
around specific market segments. See "The Network Services Companies-
Operations".

  Prior to December 31, 1994, the Company reported segment information for
Financial, Real Estate and Other Services, which was comprised of subsidiaries
engaged in lease financing of commercial, industrial, medical and high-
technology equipment, and other forms of financing; real estate investment and
management; and the sale and distribution of liquefied petroleum gas.  In 1994,
the Company disposed of substantially all of its lease financing business and
sold its liquefied petroleum gas business.

  The Company was incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware
and has its principal executive offices at 1717 Arch Street, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19103 (telephone number 215-963-6000).


 
                         LINE OF BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS

  The consent decree entitled "Modification of Final Judgment" ("MFJ") approved
by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (the "D.C.
District Court") which, together with the Plan of Reorganization ("Plan")
approved by the D.C. District Court, set forth the terms of Divestiture also
established certain restrictions on the post-Divestiture activities of the RHCs,
including Bell Atlantic.  Currently, the MFJ's principal restrictions on post-
Divestiture RHC activities are prohibitions on (i) providing interexchange
telecommunications, and  (ii) engaging in the manufacture of telecommunications
equipment and customer premises equipment ("CPE"). Since Divestiture, the D.C.
District Court has retained jurisdiction over the construction, modification,
implementation and enforcement of the MFJ.

  Legislation has been introduced in the current session of Congress pursuant to
which the line of business restrictions established by the MFJ could be
eliminated or modified.  No definitive prediction can be made as to whether or
when any such legislation will be enacted, the provisions thereof or the impact
on the business or financial condition of the Company.


                         THE NETWORK SERVICES COMPANIES

General

  The Network Services Companies presently serve a territory ("Territory")
consisting of 19 Local Access and Transport Areas ("LATAs").  These LATAs are
generally centered on a city or based on some other identifiable common
geography and, with certain limited exceptions, each LATA marks the boundary
within which a Network Services Company may provide telephone service.

  The Network Services Companies provide two basic types of telecommunications
services.  First, they transport telecommunications traffic between subscribers
located within the same LATA ("intraLATA service"), including both local and
toll services.  Local service includes the provision of local exchange ("dial
tone"), local private line and public telephone services (including dial tone
service for pay telephones owned by the Company and other pay telephone
providers).  Among other local services provided are Centrex (telephone company
central office-based switched telephone service enabling the subscriber to make
both intercom and outside calls) and a variety of special and custom calling
services.  Toll service includes message toll service (calling service beyond
the local calling area) within LATA boundaries, and intraLATA Wide Area Toll
Service (WATS)/800 services (volume discount offerings for customers with highly
concentrated demand). As permitted by the Plan, Bell Atlantic - New Jersey and
Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania also earn toll revenue from the provision of
telecommunications service between LATAs ("interLATA service") in corridors
between the cities (and certain surrounding counties) of (i) New York, New York
and Newark, New Jersey and (ii) Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and Camden, New
Jersey. Second, the Network Services Companies provide exchange access service,
which links a subscriber's telephone or other equipment to the transmission
facilities of interexchange carriers which, in turn, provide interLATA service
to their customers. Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania, Bell Atlantic - Delaware, Bell
Atlantic - Maryland, Bell Atlantic - West Virginia and Bell Atlantic - New
Jersey also provide exchange access service to interexchange carriers which
provide intrastate intraLATA long distance telecommunications service.


 
Operations

  Although the Network Services Companies remain responsible within their
respective service areas for the provision of telephone services, financial
performance and regulatory matters, during 1993 Bell Atlantic reorganized
certain functions formerly performed by each of these companies into LOBs
organized across the Network Services Companies around specific market segments.
These LOBs are:

  The Consumer Services LOB markets communications services to residential
customers within the Territory (11 million households and 29 million people) and
plans to market information services and entertainment programming.  1994
revenues generated by the Consumer Services LOB were approximately $4 billion,
representing approximately 34% of the Network Services Companies' aggregate
revenues.  These revenues were derived primarily from the provision of telephone
services to residential users.

  The Carrier Services LOB markets (i) switched and special access to the
Network Services Companies' local exchange networks, and (ii) billing and
collection services, including recording, rating, bill processing and bill
rendering.  1994 revenues generated by the Carrier Services market were
approximately $2.5 billion, representing approximately 21% of the Network
Services Companies' aggregate revenues.  Approximately 93% of total Carrier
Services revenues were derived from interexchange carriers; AT&T is the largest
single customer. Most of the remaining revenues came from business customers and
government agencies with their own special access network connections, wireless
companies and other local exchange carriers ("LECs") which resell network
connections to their own customers.

  The Small Business Services LOB markets communications and information
services to small businesses (customers having up to 20 access lines or 100
Centrex lines).  The Small Business Services LOB has approximately 1.2 million
small business customers in the Territory which in 1994 generated approximately
$1.8 billion in revenues, representing approximately 15% of the Network Services
Companies' aggregate revenues.

  The Large Business Services LOB markets communications and information
services to large businesses (customers having more than 20 access lines or more
than 100 Centrex lines).  These services include voice switching/processing
services (e.g., dedicated private lines, custom Centrex, call management and
voice messaging), end-user networking (e.g., credit and debit card transactions,
and personal computer-based conferencing, including data and video),
internetworking (establishing links between the geographically disparate
networks of two or more companies or within the same company), network
integration (integrating multiple geographically disparate networks into one
system), network optimization (disaster avoidance, 911, intelligent vehicle
highway systems), video services (distance learning, telemedicine, surveillance,
videoconferencing) and integrated multi-media applications services.  1994
revenues from the Large Business  Services LOB were approximately $1.5 billion,
representing approximately 13% of the Network Services Companies' aggregate
revenues.

  The Directory Services LOB manages the provision of (i) advertising and
marketing services to advertisers, and (ii) listing information (e.g., White
Pages and Yellow Pages).  These services are currently provided primarily
through print media, but the Company expects that use of electronic formats will
increase in the future.  In addition, the Directory Services LOB manages the
provision of photocomposition, database management and other related products
and services to 


 
publishers. 1994 revenues from the Directory Services LOB were approximately $1
billion, representing approximately 9% of the Network Services Companies'
aggregate revenues.

  The Public and Operator Services LOB markets pay telephone and operator
services in the Territory to meet consumer needs for accessing public networks,
locating and identifying network subscribers, providing calling assistance and
arranging billing alternatives (e.g., calling card, collect and third party
calls).  1994 revenues from the Public and Operator Services LOB were
approximately $700 million, representing approximately 6% of the Network
Services Companies' aggregate revenues.

  The Federal Systems LOB markets communications and information technology and
services to departments, agencies and offices of the executive, judicial and
legislative branches of the federal government.  1994 revenues from the Federal
Systems LOB were approximately $300 million, representing approximately 2% of
the Network Services Companies' aggregate revenues.

  The Network LOB manages the technologies, services and systems platforms
required by the other LOBs and the Network Services Companies to meet the
needs of their respective customers, including switching, feature development
and on-premises installation and maintenance services.

  The Network Services Companies have been making and expect to continue to make
significant capital expenditures to meet the demand for communications services
and to further improve such services.  Capital expenditures of the Network
Services Companies were approximately $2.2 billion in 1992, $2.1 billion in
1993, and $2.2 billion in 1994.  The total investment in plant, property and
equipment was approximately $29.6 billion at December 31, 1992, $30.6 billion at
December 31, 1993, and $33.7 billion at December 31, 1994, in each case after
giving effect to retirements, but before deducting accumulated depreciation at
such date.

  The Network Services Companies as a whole are projecting construction
expenditures for 1995 at approximately the same level as in the past several
years.  However, subject to regulatory approvals, the Network Services Companies
plan to allocate a greater portion of capital resources to the deployment of
broadband network platforms (technologies ultimately capable of providing a
switched facility for access to and transport of high-speed data services,
video-on-demand, and image and interactive multimedia applications).  Most of
the funds for these expenditures are expected to be generated internally.  Some
additional external financing may be necessary or desirable for some of the
Network Services Companies.


FCC Regulation and Interstate Rates

  The Network Services Companies are subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal
Communications Commission ("FCC") with respect to interstate services and
certain related matters.  The FCC prescribes a uniform system of accounts for
telephone companies, interstate depreciation rates and the principles and
standard procedures used to separate plant investment, expenses, taxes and
reserves between those applicable to interstate services under the jurisdiction
of the FCC 


 
and those applicable to intrastate services under the jurisdiction of the
respective state regulatory authorities ("separations procedures"). The FCC also
prescribes procedures for allocating costs and revenues between regulated and
unregulated activities.


 Interstate Access Charges

  The Network Services Companies provide intraLATA service and, with certain
limited exceptions, do not participate in the provision of interLATA service
except through offerings of exchange access service.  See "The Network Services
Companies-General".  The FCC has prescribed structures for exchange access
tariffs to specify the charges ("Access Charges") for use and availability of
the Network Services Companies' facilities for the origination and termination
of interstate interLATA service.

  In general, the tariff structures prescribed by the FCC provide that
interstate costs of the Network Services Companies which do not vary based on
usage ("non-traffic sensitive costs") are recovered from subscribers through
flat monthly charges ("Subscriber Line Charges"), and from interexchange
carriers through usage-sensitive Carrier Common Line ("CCL") charges.  Traffic-
sensitive interstate costs are recovered from carriers through variable access
charges based on several factors, primarily usage.

  In May 1984, the FCC authorized the implementation of Access Charge tariffs
for "switched access service" (access to the local exchange network) and of
Subscriber Line Charges for multiple line business customers (up to $6.00 per
month per line).  In 1985, the FCC authorized Subscriber Line Charges for
residential and single-line business customers at the rate of $1.00 per month
per line, which increased in installments to $3.50, effective April 1, 1989.


 FCC Access Charge Pooling Arrangements

  The FCC previously required that all LECs, including the Network Services
Companies, pool revenues from CCL and Subscriber Line Charges that cover the
non-traffic sensitive costs of the local exchange network, that is, the
interstate costs associated with the lines from subscribers' premises to
telephone company central offices.  To administer such pooling arrangements, the
FCC mandated the formation of the National Exchange Carrier Association, Inc.
("NECA").  All but one of the Network Services Companies received substantially
less from the pool than the amount billed to their interexchange carrier
customers.

  The FCC changed its mandatory pooling requirements, effective April 1, 1989.
As a result, the Network Services Companies as a group withdrew from the pool
and were permitted to charge CCL rates which more closely reflected their non-
traffic sensitive costs.  The Network Services Companies are still obligated to
make contributions of CCL revenues to companies who choose to continue to pool
non-traffic sensitive costs so that the pooling companies can charge a CCL rate
no greater than the nationwide average CCL rate of price cap companies.  In
addition to this continuing obligation, the Network Services Companies had a
transitional support obligation to high cost companies who left the pool in 1989
and 1990. This transitional support obligation ended in July 1994.

  In February 1995, the FCC issued an Order to Show Cause with respect to
certain findings contained in an independent audit concluded in December 1991


 
with respect to certain filings by the Network Services Companies with NECA.
Resolution of these issues is expected in the second half of 1995.


 Price Caps

  The price cap system, which has been in effect since 1991, places a cap on
overall LEC prices for interstate access services which is modified annually, in
inflation-adjusted terms, by a fixed percentage which is intended to reflect
increases in productivity.  The price cap level can also be adjusted to reflect
"exogenous" changes, such as changes in FCC separations procedures or accounting
rules.  LECs subject to price caps have somewhat increased flexibility to change
the prices of existing services within certain groupings of interstate services,
known as "baskets".

  FCC regulations applicable to the Network Services Companies provide for an
authorized rate of return of 11.25% for the years 1991 and beyond.  To the
extent that a company is able to earn a higher rate of return through improved
efficiency, the FCC's price cap rules permit them to retain the full amount of
this higher return up to 100 basis points above the authorized rate of return
(currently, up to a 12.25% rate of return).  If a company's rate of return is
between 100 and 500 basis points above the authorized rate of return (that is,
currently, between 12.25% and 16.25%), the company must share 50% of the
earnings above the 100-basis-point level with customers by reducing rates
prospectively.  All earnings above the 500-basis-point level must be returned to
customers in the form of prospective rate decreases.  If, on the other hand, a
company's rate of return is more than 100 basis points below the authorized rate
of return (that is, currently, below 10.25%), the company is permitted to
increase rates prospectively to make up the deficiency.

  Under FCC-approved tariffs, the Network Services Companies are charging
uniform rates for interstate access services (with the exception of Subscriber
Line Charges) throughout the Territory and are regarded as a single unit by the
FCC for rate of return measurement.

  In February 1994, the FCC initiated a rulemaking proceeding to determine the
effectiveness of LEC price cap rules and to decide what changes, if any, should
be made to those rules.  This rulemaking is expected to be concluded in the
first half of 1995.


 Enhanced Services

  In 1985, the FCC initiated an examination of its regulations requiring that
"enhanced services" (e.g. voice messaging services, electronic mail, videotext
gateway, protocol conversion) be offered only through a structurally separated
subsidiary. In 1986, the FCC eliminated this requirement, permitting the Network
Services Companies to offer enhanced services, subject to compliance with a
series of non-structural safeguards. These safeguards include detailed cost
accounting, protection of customer information, public disclosure of technical
interfaces and certain reporting requirements. In 1990, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Ninth Circuit (Court of Appeals) vacated and remanded the matter
to the FCC. In 1991, the FCC adopted an order which reinstated relief from the
separate subsidiary requirement upon a company's compliance with the FCC's Open
Network Architecture requirements and strengthened some of the non-structural
safeguards. In 1992, the Network Services Companies certified to the FCC that
they had complied with applicable requirements, and the FCC granted them
structural relief.


 
  In October 1994, the Court of Appeals vacated the 1991 order and remanded the
matter to the FCC for further proceedings.  As a result, the FCC has initiated a
broad examination of the state of competition in the enhanced services business
and the adequacy of existing non-structural safeguards. The Network Services
Companies are permitted to continue to offer existing enhanced services pending
further action.


  FCC Cost Allocation and Affiliate Transaction Rules

  FCC rules govern: (i) the allocation of costs between the regulated and
unregulated activities of a communications common carrier and (ii) transactions
between the regulated and unregulated affiliates of a communications common
carrier.

  The cost allocation rules apply to certain unregulated activities: activities
that have never been regulated as communications common carrier offerings and
activities that have been preemptively deregulated by the FCC.  The costs of
these activities are removed prior to the separations procedures process and are
assigned to unregulated activities in the aggregate, not to specific services,
for pricing purposes.  Other activities must be accounted for as regulated
activities, and their costs are subject to separations procedures.

  The affiliate transaction rules govern the pricing of assets transferred to
and services provided by affiliates.  These rules generally require that assets
be transferred between affiliates at "market price", if such price can be
established through a tariff or a prevailing price actually charged to third
parties.  In the absence of a tariff or prevailing price, "market price" cannot
be established, in which case (i) asset transfers from a regulated to an
unregulated affiliate must be valued at the higher of cost or fair market value,
and (ii) asset transfers from an unregulated to a regulated affiliate must be
valued at the lower of cost or fair market value.

  The FCC has not attempted to make its cost allocation or affiliate transaction
rules preemptive. State regulatory authorities are free to use different cost
allocation methods and affiliate transaction rules for intrastate ratemaking and
to require carriers to keep separate allocation records.


 Telephone Company Provision of Video Dial Tone and Video Programming

  In August 1992, the FCC issued an order permitting telephone companies such as
the Network Services Companies to provide "video dial tone" service.  Video dial
tone permits telephone companies to provide video transport to multiple
programmers on a non-discriminatory common carrier basis. In November 1994, the
FCC issued an order which stated that jurisdiction for video dial tone service
will be divided between the FCC and the states. Over the air services and
services transported across state lines will be deemed interstate services
subject to regulation by the FCC. Services delivered entirely within a single
state will be deemed intrastate services subject to state regulation. The order
also generally prohibits telephone companies from acquiring in-region cable
television facilities or entering into a joint venture with an in-region cable
television company or other video programmer to jointly construct or operate a
video dial tone platform.

  In December 1992, Bell Atlantic - Virginia and Bell Atlantic Video Services
Company filed a lawsuit against the federal government in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia seeking to overturn the


 
prohibition in the Cable Communications Policy Act of 1984 against LECs
providing video programming in their respective telephone service areas.  In
1993, the court struck down this prohibition as a violation of the First
Amendment's freedom of speech protections and enjoined its enforcement against
the Company, the Network Services Companies and Bell Atlantic Video Services
Company.  This decision was affirmed by the United States Court of Appeals for
the Fourth Circuit in 1994. The federal government is expected to petition the
United States Supreme Court to review the decision.

  In 1992, Bell Atlantic - New Jersey entered into an agreement with Future
Vision of America Corporation ("Future Vision") pursuant to which Bell Atlantic
- New Jersey will deploy fiber optic technology in the Dover Township, New
Jersey telephone network to establish a video dial tone platform that will allow
Future Vision and other video information providers to deliver video programming
services.  The FCC approved the deployment of this system in late 1994.  Service
is expected to commence later in 1995.

  In 1993, the FCC granted the Company authority to test a new technology known
as Asynchronous Digital Subscriber Line ("ADSL") for use in delivering video
entertainment and information over existing copper telephone lines.  Beginning
in March 1993, the Company began a one-year technical trial of ADSL serving up
to 400 Bell Atlantic employees in northern Virginia.  In the Fall of 1993, Bell
Atlantic petitioned the FCC for authorization to expand and convert this
technical trial, upon its completion, into a six month market trial serving up
to 2,000 customers. The FCC approved this application in early 1995. Bell
Atlantic has also requested authority to offer a commercial video dial tone
service to customers served by 25 central offices in parts of northern Virginia
and southern Maryland upon completion of the six month market trial. This
application remains pending at the FCC.


 Interconnection and Collocation

  In order to encourage greater competition in the provision of interstate
special access services,  the FCC issued an order in 1992 allowing third parties
to collocate their equipment in telephone company offices to provide special
access (private line) services to the public.  The order permits collocating
parties to pay LECs an interconnection charge that is lower than the existing
tariffed rates for similar non-collocated services and it allows LECs limited
additional pricing flexibility for their own special access services when
collocated interconnection is operational. In 1993, the FCC extended collocation
to switched access services under terms and conditions similar to those for
special access collocation. In June 1994, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia vacated the FCC's special access collocation order insofar
as it required physical collocation. In July 1994, the FCC voted to require LECs
to offer virtual collocation, with the LECs having the option to offer physical
collocation.


 
State Regulation and Competitive Environment

  The communications services of the Network Services Companies are subject to
regulation by the public utility commissions in the jurisdictions in which they
operate with respect to intrastate rates and services and other matters.  In
1994, there were a number of proceedings dealing with such issues as the
adoption of flexible regulation procedures and competition for local exchange
and toll services.


 Bell Atlantic -  New Jersey, Inc.

  The New Jersey Telecommunications Act of 1992 authorized the Board of Public
Utilities ("BPU") to adopt alternative regulatory frameworks to address changes
in technology and the structure of the telecommunications industry and to
promote economic development. It also deregulated services which the BPU found
to be competitive.  Pursuant to that legislation, Bell Atlantic - New Jersey
filed a Plan for Alternative Form of Regulation (the "NJPAR"), which became
effective in May 1993.

  The NJPAR replaced the Rate Stability Plan, which was approved by the BPU in
1987. In general, the Rate Stability Plan separated intrastate services into two
categories:  Group I (more competitive) and Group II (less competitive).  Only
Group II services were subject to financial performance monitoring by the BPU.

  The NJPAR divides Bell Atlantic - New Jersey's services into Rate-Regulated
Services (formerly Group II services) and Competitive Services (formerly Group I
services and services which have never been regulated by the BPU).  Rate-
Regulated Services are grouped in two categories:

     -"Protected Services": Basic residence and business service, Touch-Tone,
  access services, message toll services and the ordering, installation and
  restoration of these services.  Rates for Protected Services, other than basic
  residence service, may be increased beginning January 1996 in an amount
  limited to the prior year's increase in the Gross National Product-Price Index
  ("GNP-PI") less a 2% productivity offset, as long as the return on equity for
  Rate-Regulated Services does not exceed 11.7%.  Basic residence service rates
  are frozen through December 1999.
 
     -"Other Services": Custom Calling, Custom Local Area Signaling Services
  ("CLASS" services which utilize Signaling System 7), operator services and 911
  enhanced service. Rates for Other Services may be increased beginning January
  1996 in an amount limited to the prior year's increase in the GNP-PI less a 2%
  productivity offset, as long as the return on equity for Rate-Regulated
  Services does not exceed 12.7%.

All earnings above a return on equity of 13.7% for Rate-Regulated Services will
be shared equally with customers. There is no point at which the earnings are
capped. Competitive Services are deregulated under the New Jersey
Telecommunications Act.  An appeal of the NJPAR is pending.

  In May 1994, the BPU approved a settlement of a proceeding addressing
intraLATA toll competition.  The settlement permitted IXCs to compete for the
provision of intraLATA toll services on an access code basis (e.g., customers
must dial 10XXX to use an IXC), beginning July 1, 1994, and granted Bell
Atlantic - New Jersey substantial flexibility in the pricing and marketing of
the services it offers to enable it to compete with the IXCs.  In January 1995,
the BPU  


 
commenced a further proceeding to examine issues of intraLATA toll competition
including whether presubscription should be authorized, and if so, under what
terms and conditions. Currently, intraLATA toll calls default to the Network
Services Companies unless the customer dials a five-digit access code to use an
alternate carrier. Presubscription would enable customers to make intraLATA toll
calls using the carrier of their choice without having to dial the five-digit
access code. The BPU will also address the issue of subsidies embodied in Bell
Atlantic - New Jersey's rates. A decision is expected by the end of 1995.

  In January 1995, MFS - Intelenet filed a petition with the BPU requesting
authority to provide local exchange services in areas served by Bell Atlantic -
New Jersey.


 Bell Atlantic -  Pennsylvania, Inc.

  In July 1993, legislation was enacted in Pennsylvania which enabled Bell
Atlantic - Pennsylvania to petition the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
("PPUC") to regulate Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania under an alternative form of
regulation.  In October 1993, Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania filed its petition
and plan with the PPUC.  In June 1994, the PPUC approved, with modifications,
Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania's Alternative Regulation Plan, ("PAPAR") which was
accepted by Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania in July 1994.

  The PAPAR provides for a pure price cap plan with no sharing and replaces rate
base rate of return regulation.  The PPUC's order confirmed that current rates
are just and reasonable, and therefore, required no change to current rates. The
PAPAR removed from price and earnings regulation six competitive services,
including directory advertising, billing service, Centrex service, paging, speed
calling and repeat calling.  All remaining noncompetitive services will be price
regulated.

  Under price regulation, annual price increases up to, but not exceeding, the
inflation rate (GDP-PI) minus 2.93% will be permitted.  Annual price decreases
are required when the GDP-PI falls below 2.93%.  Protected services in the
noncompetitive category, which include residential and business basic exchange
services, special access and switched access, are capped through December 31,
1999.  However, revenue neutral rate restructuring for non-competitive services
is permitted.

  The PAPAR requires Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania to propose a Lifeline service
for residential customers on a revenue neutral basis   The Plan also requires
deployment of a universal broadband network, which must be completed in phases:
20% by 1998; 50% by 2004; and 100% by 2015. Deployment must be reasonably
balanced among urban, suburban and rural areas.  An appeal of the PAPAR is
pending.

  Several large competitors have requested authority from the PPUC to provide
local exchange service in areas served by Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania.
Applications are currently pending from MFS - Intelenet, MCI Metro ATS and
Teleport Communications Group.  Decisions on these applications are expected
later in 1995.

  The PPUC is currently conducting a proceeding to examine issues regarding
intraLATA toll competition, including whether to authorize presubscription and,
if so, under what terms and conditions.  A decision is expected later in 1995.


 
 Bell Atlantic - Delaware, Inc.

  In March 1994, Bell Atlantic - Delaware elected to be regulated under the
alternative regulation provisions of the Delaware Telecommunications Technology
Investment Act of 1993 (the "Delaware Telecommunications Act"). The Delaware
Telecommunications Act provides:

     -that the prices of "Basic Telephone Services" (e.g., dial tone and local
  usage) will remain regulated and cannot change in any one year by more than
  the rate of inflation (GDP-PI), less 3%;

     -that the prices of "Discretionary Services" (e.g., Identa Ring/SM/ and
  Call Waiting) cannot increase more than 15% per year per service, after an
  initial one-year cap;
 
     -that the prices of "Competitive Services" (e.g., directory advertising and
  message toll service) will not be subject to tariff; and
 
     -that Bell Atlantic - Delaware will develop a technology deployment plan
  with a commitment to invest a minimum of $250 million in Delaware's
  telecommunications network during the first five years of the plan.

  The Delaware Telecommunications Act also provides protections to ensure that
competitors will not be unfairly disadvantaged, including a prohibition on
cross-subsidization, imputation rules, service unbundling and resale service
availability requirements, and a review by the Delaware Public Service
Commission (DPSC) during the fifth year of the plan.

  The DPSC has initiated a rulemaking docket to develop regulations for the
implementation of the Delaware Telecommunications Act.  Public hearings were
held in March 1995, with a DPSC decision expected during the second quarter of
1995.

  The DPSC has also initiated a proceeding to examine issues regarding intraLATA
toll competition, including whether to authorize presubscription and dialing
parity ("1+ dialing") for intrastate toll competitors and, if so, under what
terms and conditions.  A decision is expected in the second quarter of 1995.


 Bell Atlantic  - Washington, D.C., Inc.
 
   In January 1993, the District of Columbia Public Service Commission (DCPSC)
adopted a regulatory reform plan ("D.C. Reform Plan") for the intra-Washington,
D.C. services of Bell Atlantic - Washington, D.C., for a three year trial
period.  The D.C. Reform Plan provides a banded rate of return of 100 basis
points over or under the authorized return on equity (which was set at 11.45% in
December 1993).  Bell Atlantic - Washington, D.C. is permitted to seek a rate
increase if its return on equity falls below 10.45% and is required to share,
through refunds, 50% of any earnings in excess of a return on equity of 12.45%.
The  D.C. Reform Plan also provides for pricing flexibility, including custom
contracting  and 14-day tariffing, for certain competitive services, including
Centrex, High Speed Private Line Services, Digital Data Services, Paging
Services, Speed Calling, Repeat Call, Home Intercom and Home Intercom Extra.

  In December 1993, the DCPSC approved a $15,800,000 rate increase, effective
January 1, 1994.


 
  In May 1994, the DCPSC issued an order requiring Bell Atlantic - Washington,
D.C. to show cause why it should not refund to its customers $2,300,000, plus
interest, related to certain surcharge revenues in 1993. Bell Atlantic  -
Washington, D.C. has responded to the order.

  In January 1995, Bell Atlantic - Washington, D.C. filed a petition with the
DCPSC seeking approval of a  proposed price cap plan to become effective upon
the expiration of the D.C. Reform Plan in 1996.  The price cap plan would: i)
divide services into three categories: basic, discretionary and competitive;
(ii) cap basic residential prices through January 1, 2000 and then allow basic
prices to be increased annually at one half the rate of inflation (GNP - PI);
(iii) permit annual increases of up to 25% for discretionary services; (iv)
eliminate price regulation for all competitive services; and (v) classify
services among the three categories and establish a process for moving services
between categories going forward. Hearings on the proposed price cap plan are
expected to commence later in 1995.

  MFS - Intelenet of Washington, D.C., a subsidiary of MFS Communications
Company, Inc., has filed an application with the DCPSC for authority to provide
local exchange services.


 Bell Atlantic - Maryland, Inc.
 
  In 1990, the Public Service Commission of Maryland ("MPSC") instituted a
regulatory reform plan (the "Reform Plan") for regulation of intrastate services
provided by Bell Atlantic - Maryland.  The Reform Plan provides for sharing of
earnings on other-than-competitive services (e.g., basic business and
residential dial tone line and usage, pay telephone services and intraLATA toll
services) within a prescribed range (13.6% to 15.6% return on equity), for the
direct refund to ratepayers of all earnings above that range and for no sharing
of earnings if earnings fall below that range.  Earnings on competitive services
(e.g., Centrex intercom and high capacity, special access and private line
services) are not subject to a rate of return limitation.  In connection with
its approval of the Reform Plan, the MPSC required Bell Atlantic - Maryland to
initiate a rate proceeding to examine Bell Atlantic - Maryland's financial and
operating results under the Reform Plan and to serve as a rate case for
determining rates and rate structure on a going-forward basis for services that
the MPSC has determined are other-than-competitive.

  In January 1993, the MPSC issued an order directing Bell Atlantic - Maryland
to reduce rates prospectively in the aggregate amount of $28.6 million annually.
Tariffs reducing rates by that amount became effective on January 23, 1993.

  The Reform Plan was extended through 1995 and the sharing range was changed to
12.7% to 14.7%.  This range was expanded on reconsideration to 12.7% to 16.5%.

  Legislation was passed by both houses of the Maryland General Assembly that
would enable the MPSC to regulate Bell Atlantic - Maryland by a method other
than rate base rate of return regulation.  If signed into law, the legislation
would become effective in June 1995.

  In April 1994, the MPSC approved an application from MFS-Intelenet of
Maryland, Inc. (MFS-I), a subsidiary of MFS Communications Company, Inc.(MFS),
to provide and resell local exchange and interexchange telecommunications
services to business customers in areas served by Bell Atlantic - Maryland.
MFS-I is authorized to be a co-carrier in Maryland and has been assigned its own


 
central office codes for use with its customers, and Bell Atlantic - Maryland is
required to provide intrastate switched access collocation.  The rates that MFS-
I will pay to interconnect with Bell Atlantic - Maryland must include MFS-I's
fair share of the joint and common costs that support universal service.  On an
interim basis, MFS-I will pay 6.1 cents per call to terminate a call on Bell
Atlantic - Maryland's network.  The MPSC established a schedule, which extends
into 1995, for Phase II of this case. Final interconnection rates will be
decided in Phase II. In late 1994, MCI Metro ATS and Teleport Communications
Group received approval for the same waivers and interconnection rates
established in the MFS-I proceeding.  An application by SBC Media Ventures (SBC)
to provide residential service in Montgomery County was suspended at SBC's
request pending completion of Phase II of the MFS-I proceeding.


 Bell Atlantic - Virginia, Inc.

  From January 1989 through December 1993, Bell Atlantic - Virginia participated
in the Experimental Plan for Alternative Regulation of Virginia telephone
companies (the "Experimental Plan"), adopted by the Virginia State Corporation
Commission ("VSCC") in December 1988.  The Experimental Plan marked a departure
from traditional regulation, segregating telephone services into four categories
and capping earnings on Bell Atlantic - Virginia's non-competitive services at a
14% return on equity.  Refunds of excess earnings are required to be made.

  In December 1993, following an evaluation of the Experimental Plan, the VSCC
adopted a Modified Plan for Alternative Regulation, effective January 1, 1994
(the "Modified Plan").  Under the Modified Plan, Bell Atlantic - Virginia's
telephone services remained categorized, but earnings on non-competitive
services were capped at a 12.55% return on equity.  Additionally, in assessing
whether earnings exceeded the permitted cap, the Modified Plan required an
imputation to regulated earnings of an amount equal to 25% of the net profits of
Yellow Page advertising.

  Bell Atlantic - Virginia's financial results under the Experimental Plan for
the years 1989 through 1993 have been filed with the VSCC.  The VSCC issued
orders making Bell Atlantic - Virginia's rates final for 1989, 1990 and 1991.
Therefore, rates for these years are no longer subject to refunds.  Bell
Atlantic - Virginia's financial results for 1992 and 1993, which as filed with
the VSCC indicate that no refunds are due, are still subject to VSCC audit.

  Under legislation passed in the 1993 session of the Virginia General Assembly,
the VSCC is no longer statutorily required to regulate telephone companies on
the basis of rate of return regulation; for example, the VSCC is free to adopt a
price cap form of regulation.  In February 1994, Bell Atlantic - Virginia filed
a proposal to have its non-competitive services regulated on a price cap basis;
competitive services would not be regulated.

  Following public hearings, the VSCC approved a new optional regulatory plan,
effective January 1, 1995, which allows Bell Atlantic - Virginia to replace
traditional cost-based regulation with a plan that relies on price constraints.
The new plan, which eliminates regulation of profits, includes a temporary
moratorium on rate increases for basic local telephone service until 2001,
eliminates the monthly charge for Touch-Tone service and expands universal
telephone service to the poor.  In November 1994, Bell Atlantic - Virginia
notified the VSCC of its election to participate in the new regulatory plan.  An
appeal of this plan is pending.


 
  During the 1995 session of the Virginia General Assembly, legislation was
passed that will allow the VSCC to authorize other telephone companies,
beginning January 1, 1996, to compete with Bell Atlantic - Virginia in the
provision of local exchange services.  These telephone companies will come under
the jurisdiction of the VSCC and will be required to comply with rules and
regulations which will be determined by the VSCC during 1995.  The VSCC is also
investigating whether to allow competition in the provision of intraLATA toll
services.


 Bell Atlantic - West Virginia, Inc.

  In 1988, the Public Service Commission of West Virginia ("WVPSC") approved a
plan ("Flexible Regulation Plan") which gave Bell Atlantic - West Virginia
flexibility in the pricing of competitive services (e.g., intraLATA toll
service, intraLATA "800" service, intraLATA WATS service, billing and collection
services and directory advertising) and provided for a freeze on rates for basic
local exchange services through December 31, 1990, and a lifting on January 1,
1989 of the moratorium on intraLATA toll competition.  The Flexible Regulation
Plan was subsequently extended through 1991.

  In March 1990, the West Virginia legislature enacted legislation, which became
effective on January 1, 1991, requiring the WVPSC to cease its regulation of the
rates charged by a telephone utility for any service that the WVPSC finds to be
subject to "workable competition", unless the WVPSC finds that to do so would
adversely affect the continued availability of adequate, economical and reliable
local telephone service.

  In December 1991, the WVPSC approved a new "Incentive Regulation Plan". The
Incentive Regulation Plan continued the major provisions of the Flexible
Regulation Plan, including pricing flexibility for competitive services and a
freeze on rates for basic local exchange service. It also committed Bell
Atlantic - West Virginia to invest $450 million from 1991 through 1995 in West
Virginia's telecommunications infrastructure.

  In December 1994, the WVPSC issued an order extending the Incentive Regulation
Plan for three years, with certain modifications.  Basic rates remain frozen
through January 15, 1998 and Touch-Tone charges will be eliminated over a three
year period. Bell Atlantic - West Virginia is committed to invest at least $375
million in its network over the next five years.

  The WVPSC set aside for separate proceedings issues regarding intraLATA
presubscription and local service competition.


Competition - General

  Regulatory proceedings, as well as new technology, are continuing to expand
the types of available communications services and equipment and the number of
competitors offering such services.  An increasing amount of this competition is
from large companies which have substantial capital, technological and marketing
resources, many of which do not face the same regulatory constraints as the
Company.


 
 Alternative Access

  A substantial portion of the Network Services Companies' revenues from
business and government customers is derived from a relatively small number of
large, multiple-line subscribers.

  The Network Services Companies face competition from alternative
communications systems, constructed by large end users, interexchange carriers
and alternative access vendors, which are capable of originating and/or
terminating calls without the use of the local telephone company's plant.  MFS
has an optical fiber network which currently competes with Bell Atlantic -
Pennsylvania and Bell Atlantic - Maryland in the Philadelphia, Pittsburgh and
Baltimore metropolitan areas.  In the Washington, D.C. metropolitan area,
Institutional Communications Company, in which MFS has acquired a controlling
interest, has deployed an optical fiber network to compete with Bell Atlantic -
Washington, D.C., Bell Atlantic - Maryland and Bell Atlantic - Virginia in the
provision of switched and special access services and local services.  Eastern
TeleLogic Corporation is currently providing service in the Philadelphia area
over an optical fiber network, and Digital Direct of Pittsburgh, Inc. (dba Penn
Access) has multiple fiber rings in service in the Pittsburgh metropolitan area,
with additional fiber rings under construction.  In July 1993, Virginia Metrotel
Inc. was granted authority by the VSCC to compete against Bell Atlantic -
Virginia in the provision of access services in the Richmond metropolitan area.
Teleport Communications Group and MFS provide competitive access service in the
Princeton-Trenton corridor and northern New Jersey.  The ability of such
alternative access providers to compete with the Network Services Companies has
been enhanced by the FCC's orders requiring the Network Services Companies to
offer virtual collocated interconnection for special and switched access
services.

  Other potential sources of competition are cable television systems, shared
tenant services and other non-carrier systems which are capable of bypassing the
Network Services Companies' local plant, either partially or completely, through
substitution of special access for switched access or through concentration of
telecommunications traffic on fewer of the Network Services Companies' lines.


 IntraLATA Toll Competition

  The ability of interexchange carriers to engage in the provision of intrastate
intraLATA toll service in competition with the Network Services Companies is
subject to state regulation. Such competition is permitted in New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Delaware, Maryland and West Virginia. The issue is inapplicable to
Washington, D.C. since intraLATA toll service is not offered within the District
of Columbia. The VSCC has instituted a proceeding to consider whether, and on
what terms, to permit intraLATA toll competition in Virginia. See "The Network
Services Companies -- State Regulation and Competitive Environment".


 Personal Communications Services

  Radio-based personal communications services ("PCS") also constitute potential
sources of competition to the Network Services Companies and to Bell Atlantic's
cellular communications companies.  PCS consists of wireless portable telephone
services which would allow customers to make and receive telephone calls from
any location using small handsets, and which could also be used for


 
data transmission. The FCC has authorized trials of such services, using a
variety of technologies, by numerous companies, including the Company's cellular
telecommunications subsidiaries (collectively, "Bell Atlantic Mobile").

  In September 1993, the FCC issued an order allocating radio spectrum to be
licensed for use in providing PCS. Under the order, seven separate bandwidths of
spectrum, ranging in size from 10 MHz to 30 MHz, would be auctioned to potential
PCS providers in each geographic area of the United States; five of the spectrum
blocks would be auctioned by "basic trading area" and the remaining two would be
auctioned by larger "major trading area" (as such trading areas are defined by
Rand McNally).  LECs and companies with LEC subsidiaries, such as the Company,
are eligible to bid for PCS licenses, except that cellular carriers such as the
Company are limited to obtaining only 10 MHz of PCS bandwidth in areas where
they provide cellular service.  Bidders other than cellular providers may obtain
multiple licenses aggregating up to 40 MHz of bandwidth in any area.

  In October 1994, the Company, NYNEX, AirTouch Communications and U S WEST,
Inc., formed a partnership  to bid jointly in the FCC's auctions for PCS
licenses. In March 1995, this partnership was a successful bidder for licenses
for spectrum to provide PCS services in the following markets: Chicago; Dallas;
Tampa; Houston; Miami; New Orleans; Milwaukee; Richmond; San Antonio;
Jacksonville; and Honolulu.  The partnership will pay $1.1 billion for these
licenses.


 Centrex

  The Network Services Companies offer Centrex service, which is a telephone
company central office-based communications system for business, government and
other institutional customers consisting of a variety of integrated software-
based features located in a centralized switch or switches and extended to the
customer's premises primarily via local distribution facilities.  In the
provision of Centrex, the Network Services Companies are subject to significant
competition from the providers of CPE systems, such as private branch exchanges
("PBXs"), which perform similar functions with less use of the Network Services
Companies' switching facilities.

  Users of Centrex systems generally require more subscriber lines than users of
PBX systems of similar capacity.  The FCC increased the maximum Subscriber Line
Charge on embedded Centrex lines to $6.00 per month per line, effective April 1,
1989.  Increases in Subscriber Line Charges result in Centrex users incurring
higher charges than users of comparable PBX systems.  Some of the state
regulatory commissions having jurisdiction over the Network Services Companies
have approved Centrex tariff revisions designed to offset the effects of such
higher Subscriber Line Charges and to provide for stability of Centrex rates.


 Directories

  The Network Services Companies continue to face significant competition from
other providers of directories, as well as competition from other advertising
media.  In particular, the former sales representative of the Network Services
Companies (other than Bell Atlantic - New Jersey) publishes directories in
competition with those published by the Network Services Companies in New
Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware and the Washington, D.C. and Baltimore
metropolitan areas.


 
 Public Telephone Services

  The Company faces increasing competition in the provision of pay telephone
services from other pay telephone service providers.  In addition, the growth of
wireless communications negatively impacts usage of public telephones.


 Operator Services

  Alternative operator services providers have entered into competition with the
Network Services Companies' operator services product line.


New Products and Services

 Bell Atlantic/(R)/IQ/(SM)/ Services

  The Network Services Companies have introduced the Bell Atlantic/(R)/IQ/(SM)/
Services family of calling features (although not all features are available in
all states). These features include Identa Ring/(SM)/, which allows a single
line to have multiple telephone numbers, each with a distinctive ring; Repeat
Call, which allows customers automatically to redial busy phone numbers; Return
Call, which allows customers automatically to return the last incoming call,
even without knowing the number; Ultra Forward/(SM)/, which customers can use to
program call-forwarding instructions; Home Intercom, which allows for phone-to-
phone dialing within the home; Caller ID, which displays the number of the
calling party; and Caller ID Deluxe, which displays the name and number of the
calling party.


 Data Services

  The Network Services Companies have introduced several high speed data
transmission services (although not all services are available in all states).
Switched Multi-Megabit Data Service ("SMDS", a high-speed, public, packet-
switched data transmission service); Fiber Distributed Data Interface Network
Service; and Frame Relay Service (which allows high-speed interconnection of a
customer's multiple locations).


 Integrated Services Digital Network

  Integrated Services Digital Network ("ISDN") is an all digital switched
network architecture that allows voice, data and video services to be integrated
on one telephone line. The Network Services Companies had approximately 90,000
ISDN lines in service at the end of 1994.  All of the Network Services Companies
introduced ISDN Anywhere in 1994.  This service allows customers in non-equipped
ISDN offices to be offered service from a designated host switch until such time
as their home office becomes equipped with ISDN.


 Information Services

  The Network Services Companies offer various types of information services,
such as message storage services, voice mail, electronic mail and Answer Call, a
telephone answering service aimed at residential and small business customers.


 
                        DOMESTIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS


  Bell Atlantic Mobile provides cellular telecommunications service in certain
portions of the Network Services Companies' Territory and in other parts of the
United States.  These entities market cellular telecommunications service and
related equipment directly to consumers, wholesale such service to businesses
which resell the service to consumers, and authorize agents to sell such service
to consumers.  They also resell paging service in some locations. In 1992, the
Company acquired Metro Mobile CTS, Inc., then the second-largest independent
provider of cellular telecommunications service in the United States.

  Cellular telecommunications service is subject to FCC regulation and licensing
requirements.  Some states also regulate the service.  To assure competition,
the FCC awarded two competitive licenses in each market.  Many such competing
cellular providers are substantial businesses with experience in broadcasting,
telecommunications, cable television and radio common carrier services.
Competition is based on the price of cellular service, the quality of the
service and the size of the geographic area served.

  Bell Atlantic Mobile has established cellular telecommunications service in
the standard metropolitan statistical areas ("SMSAs") for Washington, D.C.;
Wilmington, Delaware; Baltimore, Maryland; Allentown, Philadelphia, Pittsburgh
and Reading, Pennsylvania; Trenton, Vineland and Atlantic City, New Jersey;
Phoenix and Tucson, Arizona; Bridgeport, Hartford, New Haven, and New London,
Connecticut; New Bedford, Pittsfield and Springfield, Massachusetts; Albuquerque
and Las Cruces, New Mexico; Charlotte and Hickory, North Carolina; Providence,
Rhode Island; Anderson, Columbia and Greenville, South Carolina; and El Paso,
Texas.

  Bell Atlantic Mobile also has established service in the rural service areas
of Kent (Dover), Delaware; Kent (Eastern Shore) and Frederick, Maryland; Ocean,
Sussex and Hunterdon, New Jersey; Greene, Jefferson, Huntingdon, Lawrence and
McKean, Pennsylvania; Madison, Caroline, Frederick (Fauquier) and Lee, Virginia;
Wetzel and Mason, West Virginia; Windham, Connecticut; Cabarrus and Anson, North
Carolina; Newport, Rhode Island; Cherokee, Lancaster and Oconee, South Carolina;
and Gila, Arizona.

  Bell Atlantic Mobile also owns a significant minority interest in a
partnership providing cellular telecommunications service in the New York City
metropolitan area and the adjoining SMSAs of New Brunswick and Long Branch, New
Jersey.  Under reciprocal agreements between Bell Atlantic Mobile and certain
other providers of cellular telecommunications service, the customers of Bell
Atlantic Mobile may use the services of those other providers in areas where
Bell Atlantic Mobile is not licensed to provide service.

  In June 1994, Bell Atlantic and NYNEX Corporation executed a Joint Venture
Formation Agreement which sets forth the terms and conditions under which the
parties intend to combine their domestic cellular properties. This transaction,
which is subject to regulatory approvals and various other conditions to 
closing, is expected to close in mid-1995.  Upon completion of the merger, 
Bell Atlantic Mobile will dispose of certain competing properties in 
Massachusetts and Rhode Island.

  In October 1994, Bell Atlantic, NYNEX, AirTouch Communications and U S WEST,
Inc. formed two partnerships to provide nationwide wireless communications
services. The first partnership participated in the FCC auctions for PCS
licenses. See "Competition-Personal Communications Services". The second
partnership will 


 
develop a national brand and provide coordination and centralization of various
functions for the companies' cellular and PCS businesses.

  Bell Atlantic Paging, Inc. markets paging services in portions of the Network
Services Companies' Territory.


                                 INTERNATIONAL

  Bell Atlantic International, Inc. and its subsidiaries ("International") serve
as the Company's principal vehicle for new business development outside the
United States.  International provides telecommunications consulting and
software systems integration services to telecommunications authorities in
several countries, and has entered into business development agreements with
various governmental authorities.

  In 1990, wholly-owned New Zealand subsidiaries of International and Ameritech
Corporation ("Ameritech") each purchased approximately 49% of the common shares
of Telecom Corporation of New Zealand Limited ("TCNZ") for a purchase price of
approximately $2.4 billion.  Under the terms of the acquisition and subsequent
agreements with the New Zealand government, International and Ameritech were
required to sell equity interests in TCNZ such that their combined ownership
would, within four years of the acquisition, be reduced to 49.9%. In furtherance
of that requirement, International and Ameritech in 1991 sold a portion of their
equity shares in TCNZ in a worldwide public offering, thereby reducing their
combined ownership in TCNZ to approximately 68%.  In  1993, International
privately sold an aggregate of 9.8% of TCNZ, reducing its ownership interest in
TCNZ to 24.8%, and, together with private sales by Ameritech, completing its
sell-down obligations.

  International is also a shareholder in joint ventures, begun in November 1990,
with a subsidiary of U S WEST, Inc. and the telecommunications administrations
of The Czech Republic and The Slovak Republic, to build and operate cellular and
packet data networks in these republics.

  In 1993, International acquired for $1.04 billion an interest of approximately
42% in Grupo Iusacell, S.A. de C.V., the second largest telecommunications
company in Mexico and the primary business of which is the provision of cellular
telephone service.

  In March 1994, a consortium in which International has the second largest
interest (approximately 11.5%) was awarded the second cellular license for
Italy.



                           BUSINESS SYSTEMS COMPANIES

  Bell Atlantic Business Systems Services, Inc. ("Business Systems Services"),
which was formerly known as Sorbus Inc., is a computer services company which
provides hardware and software maintenance, network support, disaster recovery
and other services on over 10,000 hardware and software products. Business 
Systems Services provides service to more than 80,000 customer sites worldwide.
Business Systems Services' major competitors are computer equipment 
manufacturers which offer to service the equipment they sell as well as other
vendors of computer maintenance and service. In some cases, Business Systems
Services is


 
dependent on computer manufacturers and distributors for spare parts necessary
for the products it services.

  The Bell Atlantic Computer Technology Services Division of Business Systems
Services provides parts repair and sales and refurbishment services for
International Business Machines Corporation, Digital Equipment Corporation, Sun
Microsystems, Inc. and other computer manufacturers' equipment to end users,
manufacturers and service companies throughout the world.


                                 VIDEO SERVICES

  In October 1994, the Company, NYNEX and Pacific Telesis Group formed two
companies to deliver nationally branded home entertainment, information and
interactive services. A media company will license, acquire and develop
entertainment and information services. Creative Artists Agency, Inc. has
entered into a consulting arrangement with the media company to develop a
branding and marketing strategy and to provide assistance in acquiring
programming. A technology and integration company will provide the systems
necessary to deliver these services over the companies' networks.


                      CERTAIN CONTRACTS AND RELATIONSHIPS

  Certain planning, marketing, procurement, financial, legal, accounting,
technical support and other management services are provided on behalf of the
Network Services Companies on a centralized basis by Bell Atlantic's wholly-
owned subsidiary, Bell Atlantic Network Services, Inc. ("NSI"). Bell Atlantic
Network Funding Corporation provides short-term financing and cash management
services to the Network Services Companies.

  Certain corporate services also are provided to other subsidiaries on a
centralized basis by NSI. Bell Atlantic Financial Services, Inc. provides
short-, medium- and long-term financing services and cash management services to
subsidiaries of the Company other than the Network Services Companies.

  The seven RHCs each own (directly or through subsidiaries) a one-seventh
interest in Bell Communications Research, Inc. ("Bellcore").  Pursuant to the
Plan, Bellcore furnishes the RHCs and their BOC subsidiaries with technical
assistance such as network planning, engineering and software development, as
well as various other consulting services that can be provided more effectively
on a centralized basis.  Bellcore is the central point of contact for
coordinating the efforts of the RHCs in meeting the national security and
emergency preparedness requirements of the federal government.  It also helps to
mobilize the combined resources of the RHCs in times of natural disasters.


 
                               EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

  As of December 31, 1994, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately
72,300 employees, which represents approximately a 1.8% decrease from the number
of employees at December 31, 1993.

  Approximately 65% of the employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are
represented by unions. Of those so represented, approximately 80% are
represented by the Communications Workers of America, and approximately 20% are
represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers, which are
both affiliated with the American Federation of Labor-Congress of Industrial
Organizations.

  The terms of the contracts ratified in October 1992 by unions representing
associate employees of the Network Services Companies and NSI expire in August
1995.


 
Item 2.  Properties

  The principal properties of the Company do not lend themselves to simple
description by character and location.  The Company's investment in plant,
property and equipment, 94% of which was held by the Network Services Companies
in 1994 (92% in 1993), consisted of the following at December 31:



  "Central office equipment" consists of switching equipment, transmission
equipment and related facilities.  "Cable, wiring, and conduit" consists
primarily of aerial cable, underground cable, conduit and wiring.  "Land and
buildings" consists of land owned in fee and improvements thereto, principally
central office buildings.  "Other equipment" consists of public telephone
instruments and telephone equipment (including PBXs) used by the Network
Services Companies in their operations, poles, furniture, office equipment,
vehicles and other work equipment, and cellular plant.  "Other" property
consists primarily of plant under construction, capital leases and leasehold
improvements.

  The customers of the Network Services Companies are served by electronic
switching systems that provide a wide variety of services.  The Network Services
Companies' network is in a transition from an analog to a digital network, which
provides the capabilities to furnish advanced data transmission and information
management services.  At December 31, 1994, approximately 75% of the access
lines were served by digital capability.


 
Item 3. Legal Proceedings

Pre-Divestiture Contingent Liabilities and Litigation

  The Plan provides for the recognition and payment by AT&T and the former BOCs
(including the Network Services Companies) of liabilities that are attributable
to pre-Divestiture events but do not become certain until after Divestiture.
These contingent liabilities relate principally to litigation and other claims
with respect to the former Bell System's rates, taxes, contracts and torts
(including business torts, such as alleged violations of the antitrust laws).
Except to the extent that affected parties otherwise agree, contingent
liabilities that are attributable to pre-Divestiture events are shared by AT&T
and the BOCs in accordance with formulas prescribed by the Plan, whether or not
an entity was a party to the proceeding and regardless of whether an entity was
dismissed from the proceeding by virtue of settlement or otherwise.  Each
company's allocable share of liability under these formulas depends on several
factors, including the type of contingent liability involved and each company's
relative net investment as of the effective date of Divestiture.  Under the
formula generally applicable to most of the categories of these contingent
liabilities, the Network Services Companies' aggregate allocable share of
liability is approximately 10.2%.

  AT&T and various of its subsidiaries and the BOCs (including in some cases one
or more of the Network Services Companies) have been and are parties to various
types of litigation relating to pre-Divestiture events, including actions and
proceedings involving environmental claims and allegations of violations of
equal employment laws.  Damages, if any, ultimately awarded in the remaining
actions relating to pre-Divestiture events could have a financial impact on the
Company whether or not the Company is a defendant since such damages will be
treated as contingent liabilities and allocated in accordance with the
allocation rules established by the Plan.

  While complete assurance cannot be given as to the outcome of any contingent
liabilities or litigation, in the opinion of the Company's management, any
monetary liability or financial impact to which the Company would be subject
after final adjudication of all of the remaining potential or actual pre-
Divestiture claims would not be material in amount to the financial position of
the Company.


Other Pending Cases

  In January 1991, the Company, its Chief Executive Officer and its former Chief
Financial Officer were named as defendants in several identical class action
complaints.  These complaints, which have been consolidated in a single
proceeding in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania and have subsequently been amended, allege that, during a class
period from June 14, 1990 through January 22, 1991, the plaintiffs purchased
shares of Bell Atlantic stock at inflated prices as a result of the defendants'
alleged failure to disclose material information regarding certain aspects of
the Company's financial performance and prospects.  The trial court's earlier
decision granting defendants' motion to dismiss this action was reversed by the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upon appeal by the
plaintiffs.  Discovery in this action is in progress.


 
  While complete assurance cannot be given as to the outcome of any litigation,
in the opinion of the Company's management, any monetary liability or financial
impact to which the Company would be subject after final adjudication of the
foregoing actions would not be material in amount to the financial position of
the Company.


Prior Cases

  On April 12, 1990, a letter was submitted to the Company's Board of Directors
by a law firm, purportedly on behalf of a shareowner of the Company, requesting
that the Company commence action against any present or former director, officer
or employee of the Company or any of its subsidiaries who might be found to have
violated any duty to the Company in connection with (i)  certain litigation
involving Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania and (ii) a temporary suspension of the
Company and Bell Atlantic - Washington, D. C. from eligibility for future
federal government contracts (the "Treasury suspension").  As previously
reported by the Company in its Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q for the quarters
ended March 31 and September 30, 1990 and its Annual Reports on Form 10-K for
the years ended December 31, 1990 and 1991, the Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania
litigation involved allegations that this subsidiary had engaged in improper
practices while selling certain optional services, and resulted in a settlement
pursuant to which Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania made payments and refunds
aggregating approximately $42 million; the Treasury suspension involved
allegations that the Company and Bell Atlantic - Washington, D.C. had
misrepresented certain facts in connection with a bid for a particular
government contract, and was terminated approximately one month later after the
Company agreed to re-emphasize to employees the need to verify information
provided to the government, including information supplied to the Company by
sub-contractors.

  In response to the demand letter (a similar letter, purportedly on behalf of a
different shareowner, was received shortly thereafter), the Board of Directors
of the Company (the "Board") on April 24, 1990 appointed a committee of three
outside directors (James H. Gilliam, Jr. (Chairman), William G. Copeland and
John F. Maypole) to investigate these matters and present its recommendation to
the Board (the "Special Committee").

  On May 11, 1990, the Company was served with a complaint filed in the Court of
Common Pleas of Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania, naming certain then-current
directors and officers as defendants in a shareholder derivative suit.  The
complaint alleged that the defendants had breached their fiduciary duties to the
Company and its shareowners by failing to implement and enforce adequate
safeguards to prevent the activities which resulted in the Bell Atlantic -
Pennsylvania litigation and the Treasury suspension referred to above.  The
Company was not a defendant in this litigation.

  The Special Committee retained independent outside counsel and conducted a
five-month investigation.  After completion of its investigation, the Special
Committee concluded that it would not be in the best interest of the Company and
its shareowners to assert claims or take any other action against any director
or officer of the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to either the
Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania litigation or the Treasury suspension.
Accordingly, the Special Committee recommended that the Board reject the demands
expressed in the shareowner letters, and the Board on October 23, 1990 adopted
this recommendation.  Counsel for each of the demanding shareowners was advised
of the Board's determination.


 
  On June 19, 1991, the Company was served with a complaint filed in the United
States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania naming all of the
then-current directors of the Company and one former officer as defendants in a
shareowner class action and derivative suit.  This lawsuit made allegations very
similar to the Court of Common Pleas suit referenced above with respect to the
Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania litigation and Treasury suspension matters and, in
addition, alleged that the Company violated federal proxy rules and regulations
and its duty of candor under state law by failing to disclose, in its 1987-1991
proxy materials, information about the Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania litigation,
the Treasury suspension, the appointment of the Special Committee and the Court
of Common Pleas litigation referenced above.

  On March 25, 1992, the parties to the federal court action reached an
agreement to settle that action, subject to court approval after notice to the
Company's shareowners, without the payment of any damages but subject to payment
of the plaintiffs' attorneys fees up to $450,000.  In June 1992, this settlement
agreement was approved by the United States District Court for the Eastern
District of Pennsylvania.  A single shareowner, who is also the plaintiff in the
related Court of Common Pleas litigation, filed an appeal with the United States
Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit challenging the approval of the
settlement agreement by the lower court.  On August 18, 1993, the Third Circuit
affirmed the lower court approval of the settlement agreement.  After expiration
of the time in which to file an appeal of the Third Circuit affirmation, the
Company paid the plaintiffs' attorneys fees stipulated by the settlement
agreement and the federal court action was dismissed.

  In March 1995, the parties in the Court of Common Pleas action filed a Consent
Order to Settle, Discontinue and End.


Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

  Not applicable.


 
                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  Set forth below is certain information with respect to the Company's executive
  officers.



  Prior to serving as an executive officer of the Company, each of the above
officers, with the exception of Mr. Johnson, has held high level managerial
positions with the Company or one of its subsidiaries for at least five years.
From 1987 until joining the Company in 1992, Mr. Johnson served as President,
GTE-Contel Federal Sector for GTE Corporation.

  Officers are not elected for a fixed term of office but are removable at the
discretion of the Board of Directors.


                                    PART II

Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
          Matters

  The principal market for trading in the common stock of Bell Atlantic
Corporation is the New York Stock Exchange.  The common stock is also listed in
the United States on the Boston, Chicago, Pacific, and Philadelphia stock
exchanges.  As of December 31, 1994, there were 990,652 shareowners of record.



 
  High and low stock prices, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
composite tape of transactions, and dividend data are as follows:



Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

  The Selected Financial and Operating Data on page 2 of the Company's 1994
Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations

  The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on pages 6 through 15 of the Company's 1994 Annual Report to
shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

  The Report of Independent Accountants, Consolidated Statements of Operations,
Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 17 through 41 of the Company's 1994
Annual Report to shareowners are incorporated herein by reference.


Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosure

  None.


 
                                    PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of Registrant

  For information with respect to the executive officers of the Company, see
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" at the end of Part I of this Report.  For
information with respect to the Directors of the Company, see "Election of
Directors" on pages 1 through 6 of the Proxy Statement for the Company's 1995
Annual Meeting of Shareowners, which is incorporated herein by reference.  For
information regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, see "Section 16 Reporting" on page 19 of the Proxy Statement for
the Company's 1995 Annual Meeting of Shareowners, which is incorporated herein
by reference.


Item 11.   Executive Compensation

  For information with respect to executive compensation, see "Executive
Compensation" on pages 11 through 18, "Stock Performance" on page 19, and
"Employment Agreements" on page 20 of the Proxy Statement for the Company's 1995
Annual Meeting of Shareowners, which are incorporated herein by reference.


Item 12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

  For information with respect to the security ownership of the Directors and
Executive Officers of the Company, see "Ownership of Bell Atlantic Common Stock"
on pages 18 and 19 of the Proxy Statement for the Company's 1995 Annual Meeting
of Shareowners, which is incorporated herein by reference.


Item 13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

  None.


 
                                    PART IV

Item 14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K


 (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

  (1) Financial Statements

      See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule
    appearing on Page F-1.

  (2) Financial Statement Schedules

      See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule
    appearing on Page F-1.

  (3) Exhibits

  Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as exhibits
hereto.

 


 
10b        Bell Atlantic Senior Management Long-Term Disability and Survivor
           Protection Plan, as amended. (Exhibit 10h to Form SE filed on March
           27, 1986, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
           10b (i)  Resolutions amending the Plan, effective as of January 1,
                    1989 (Exhibit 10d to Form SE dated March 29, 1989, File
                    No. 1-8606.)*
         
10c        Bell Atlantic Personal Financial Services Program for Senior and
           Executive Managers and Key Employees, effective as of July 1, 1990,
           as amended. (Exhibit 10f to Form SE dated March 28, 1991, File No. 1-
           8606.)*
         
10d        Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as
           amended and restated as of February 1, 1995.*
         
10e        Bell Atlantic Insurance Plan for Directors. (Exhibit 10hh to
           Registration Statement on Form S-1 No. 2-87842, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10f        Description of Bell Atlantic Plan for Non-Employee Directors' Travel
           Accident Insurance. (Exhibit 10ii to Registration Statement on
           Form S-1 No. 2-87842, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10g        Article V from Bell Atlantic Management Pension Plan regarding
           limitations on payment of pension amounts which exceed the
           limitations contained in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
           of 1974. (Exhibit 10j to Form SE dated March 26, 1992, File No. 1-
           8606.)*
         
10h        Bell Atlantic Senior Management Retirement Income Plan, as amended
           and restated effective as of January 1, 1993. (Exhibit 10k to Form SE
           dated March 29, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
           10h (i)  Resolutions amending the Bell Atlantic Senior Management
                    Retirement Income Plan effective as of December 31, 1993.
                    (Exhibit 10k(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10i        Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly the Bell Atlantic
           Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan), as amended and
           restated effective as of January 1, 1993. (Exhibit 101 to Form SE
           dated March 29, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
           10i (i)  Resolutions amending the Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation
                    Plan, effective October 25, 1993. (Exhibit 10l(i) to Form
                    10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, File No.
                    1-8606.)* 

           10i (ii) Resolution amending the Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation 
                    Plan, effective November 21, 1994.*
         
10j        Bell Atlantic Stock Incentive Plan, consisting of (1) The Bell
           Atlantic 1985 Performance Share Plan as amended and restated
           effective as of January 1, 1993 and (2) The Bell Atlantic 1985
           Incentive Stock Option Plan as amended and restated effective as of
           January 1, 1993. (Exhibit 10m to Form SE dated March 29, 1993, File
           No. 1-8606.)*




           10j (i)  Resolutions amending The Bell Atlantic 1985 Incentive Stock
                    Option Plan, (Exhibit 10m(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10k        Bell Atlantic Retirement Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and
           restated as of February 1, 1995.*
         
10l        Bell Atlantic Stock Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as
           amended and restated as of October 25, 1994.*
         
10m        Bell Atlantic Corporation Directors' Charitable Giving Program.
           (Exhibit 10p to Form SE dated March 29, 1990, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
           10m (i)  Resolutions amending and partially terminating the Program.
                    (Exhibit 10p to Form SE dated March 29, 1993, File 
                    No. 1-8606.)*
         
10n        Employment Agreement dated January 24, 1994 between the Company and
           William O. Albertini. (Exhibit 10q to Form 10-K for the year ended
           December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10o        Employment Agreement dated January 24, 1994 among the Company, Bell
           Atlantic Enterprises International, Inc. and Lawrence T. Babbio, Jr.
           (Exhibit 10n to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, File
           No. 1-8606.)*
         
10p        Resolution dated January 24, 1994 granting Lawrence T. Babbio, Jr.
           certain nonqualified stock options to purchase American Depository
           Receipts representing Series L shares of the capital stock of Grupo
           Iusacell, S.A. de C.V. (Exhibit 10s to Form 10-K for the year ended
           December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10q        Employment Agreement dated January 24, 1994 between the Company and
           James G. Cullen. (Exhibit 10t to Form 10-K for the year ended
           December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10r        Non-Compete and Proprietary Information Agreement dated August 10,
           1993 between the Company and James G. Cullen. (Exhibit 10u to Form 
           10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10s        Employment Agreement dated January 24, 1994 among the Company, Bell
           Atlantic Network Services, Inc. and Stuart C. Johnson. (Exhibit 10v
           to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10t        Non-Compete and Proprietary Information Agreement dated August 9,
           1993 among the Company, Bell Atlantic Network Services, Inc. and
           Stuart C. Johnson. (Exhibit 10w to Form 10-K for the year ended
           December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
10u        Employment Agreement dated January 24, 1994 between the Company and
           James R. Young. (Exhibit 10x to Form 10-K for the year ended December
           31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
         
11         Computation of Earnings Per Common Share.
         
12         Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.




*Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


     Shareowners may request a copy of the exhibits to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K by writing to the Corporate Secretary, Bell Atlantic Corporation, 1717
Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

 (b)  Current Reports on Form 8-K filed during the quarter ended December 31,
      1994:

     A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 20, 1994, was filed regarding
the Company's third quarter 1994 financial results.  This report contained
unaudited condensed consolidated statements of income for the three- and nine-
month periods ended September 30, 1994 and 1993.


 
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                                    BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION


                                                By   /s/ William O. Albertini
                                                  ---------------------------
                                                     William O. Albertini
                                                   Executive Vice President
                                                  and Chief Financial Officer


March 29, 1995

  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.

 


 
                           BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION

         Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule




Financial statement schedules other than that listed above have been omitted
because such schedules are not required or applicable.

                                      F-1


 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of
Bell Atlantic Corporation

Our report on the consolidated financial statements of Bell Atlantic
Corporation and subsidiaries has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-
K from page 17 of the 1994 Annual Report to shareowners of Bell Atlantic
Corporation and subsidiaries.  In connection with our audits of such financial
statements, we have also audited the related financial statement schedule listed
in the index on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.



/s/Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.


2400 Eleven Penn Center
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
February 6, 1995



                                      F-2


 
                    BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             For the Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993, and 1992
                             (Dollars In Millions)

 
____________
(a)  Amounts include beginning balances for businesses acquired during the year.
     Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable includes (1) amounts
     previously written off which were credited directly to this account when
     recovered, and (2) accruals charged to accounts payable for anticipated
     uncollectible charges on purchases of accounts receivable from others which
     were billed by the Company.
(b)  Amounts written off as uncollectible or obsolete or transferred to other
     accounts (except for the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets).  
     In 1994, amounts include ending balances for businesses sold during the 
     year.
(c)  Represents the valuation allowance at implementation of Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes,"
     effective January 1, 1993.
(d)  Other Allowances include allowances for obsolete equipment and allowances
     for probable losses incurred in the directory businesses arising in the
     normal course of operations.


                                      F-3


 
                             EXHIBITS TO FORM 10-K
              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
       FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994    COMMISSION FILE NO. 1-8606
                           BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
10e        Bell Atlantic Insurance Plan for Directors. (Exhibit 10hh to
           Registration Statement on Form S-1 No. 2-87842, File No. 1-8606.)*

10f        Description of Bell Atlantic Plan for Non-Employee Directors Travel
           Accident Insurance. (Exhibit 10ii to Registration Statement on Form 
           S-1 No. 2-87842, File No. 1-8606.)*

10g        Article V from Bell Atlantic Management Pension Plan regarding
           limitations on payment of pension amounts which exceed the
           limitations contained in the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
           of 1974. (Exhibit 10j to Form SE dated March 26, 1992, File No. 1-
           8606.)*

10h        Bell Atlantic Senior Management Retirement Income Plan, as amended
           and restated effective as of January 1, 1993. (Exhibit 10k to Form SE
           dated March 29, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
       
           10h (i)  Resolutions amending the Bell Atlantic Senior Management
                    Retirement Income Plan effective as of December 31, 1993.
                    (Exhibit 10k(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
                    1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
       
10i        Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation Plan (formerly the Bell Atlantic
           Senior Management Incentive Award Deferral Plan), as amended and
           restated effective as of January 1, 1993. (Exhibit 101 to Form SE
           dated March 29, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
       
           10i (i)  Resolutions amending the Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation
                    Plan, effective October 25, 1993. (Exhibit 10l(i) to Form 
                    10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993, File No. 
                    1-8606.)*

           10i (ii) Resolution amending the Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation
                    Plan, effective November 21, 1994.*
 
10j        Bell Atlantic Stock Incentive Plan, consisting of (1) The Bell
           Atlantic 1985 Performance Share Plan as amended and restated
           effective as of January 1, 1993 and (2) The Bell Atlantic 1985
           Incentive Stock Option Plan as amended and restated effective as of
           January 1, 1993. (Exhibit 10m to Form SE dated March 29, 1993, File
           No. 1-8606.)*
       
           10j (i)  Resolutions amending The Bell Atlantic 1985 Incentive Stock
                    Option Plan, (Exhibit 10m(i) to Form 10-K for the year ended
                    December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
       
10k        Bell Atlantic Retirement Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and
           restated as of February 1, 1995.*
       
10l        Bell Atlantic Stock Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as
           amended and restated as of October 25, 1994.*

10m        Bell Atlantic Corporation Directors' Charitable Giving Program.
           (Exhibit 10p to Form SE dated March 29, 1990, File No. 1-8606.)*
       
           10m (i)  Resolutions amending and partially terminating the Program.
                    (Exhibit 10p to Form SE dated March 29, 1993, File No. 1-
                    8606.)*
       
10n        Employment Agreement dated January 24, 1994 between the Company and
           William O. Albertini. (Exhibit 10q to Form 10-K for the year ended
           December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*



*Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

