
10-K405
FORM 10-K



 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549
                                   FORM 10-K

           (Mark one)
 
        [X]       ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995
                                       OR

        [ ]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    For the transition period from       to

                         Commission file number 1-8606

                           BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



               DELAWARE                                    23-2259884
        (State of incorporation)                        (I.R.S. Employer
                                                       Identification No.)
 
            1717 ARCH STREET
       PHILADELPHIA, PENNSYLVANIA                             19103
 (Address of principal executive offices)                   (Zip Code)



      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:  (215) 963-6000

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                   NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON
     TITLE OF EACH CLASS                               WHICH REGISTERED
     -------------------                               ----------------

Common Stock, $1 par value...................      New York, Philadelphia, 
                                                   Boston, Chicago and Pacific 
                                                   Stock Exchanges
 
SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X   No 
                                             ---    ---

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  X
           ---

  At February 29, 1996, the aggregate market value of the registrant's voting
stock held by non-affiliates was approximately $28,929,000,000.

  At February 29, 1996, 437,646,355 shares of the registrant's Common Stock were
outstanding, after deducting 169,912 shares held in treasury.

 Documents incorporated by reference:

  Portions of the registrant's Annual Report to shareowners for the year ended
  December 31, 1995 (Part II).

  Portions of the registrant's Proxy Statement dated February 28, 1996 prepared
  in connection with the Annual Meeting of Shareowners (Part III).

 
                               



      UNLESS OTHERWISE INDICATED, ALL INFORMATION IS AS OF MARCH 25, 1996

 
                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS


                                    GENERAL

  Bell Atlantic Corporation (the "Company" or "Bell Atlantic") is one of the
seven regional holding companies ("RHCs") formed in connection with the court-
approved divestiture (the "Divestiture"), effective January 1, 1984, of those
assets of American Telephone and Telegraph Company ("AT&T") related to exchange
telecommunications, exchange access functions, printed directories and cellular
mobile communications.

  Pursuant to the Divestiture, AT&T transferred to the Company, among other
assets, its 100% ownership interest in seven Bell System operating companies
("BOCs"):  New Jersey Bell Telephone Company; The Bell Telephone Company of
Pennsylvania; The Diamond State Telephone Company; The Chesapeake and Potomac
Telephone Company; The Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Maryland; The
Chesapeake and Potomac Telephone Company of Virginia; and The Chesapeake and
Potomac Telephone Company of West Virginia (collectively, the "Network Services
Companies").  In January 1994, to facilitate the creation of a uniform "Bell
Atlantic" brand name across the territories served by these seven telephone
subsidiaries, the names of the Network Services Companies were changed to Bell
Atlantic - New Jersey, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - New Jersey"), Bell Atlantic -
Pennsylvania, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania"), Bell Atlantic - Delaware,
Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - Delaware"), Bell Atlantic - Washington, D.C., Inc. ("Bell
Atlantic - Washington, D.C."), Bell Atlantic - Maryland, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic -
Maryland"), Bell Atlantic - Virginia, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - Virginia") and Bell
Atlantic - West Virginia, Inc. ("Bell Atlantic - West Virginia"), respectively.

  The Company was incorporated in 1983 under the laws of the State of Delaware
and has its principal executive offices at 1717 Arch Street, Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania 19103 (telephone number 215-963-6000).


      LINE OF BUSINESS RESTRICTIONS AND THE TELECOMMUNICATIONS ACT OF 1996

  The consent decree entitled "Modification of Final Judgment" ("MFJ") approved
by the United States District Court for the District of Columbia (the "D.C.
District Court") which, together with the Plan of Reorganization ("Plan")
approved by the D.C. District Court, set forth the terms of Divestiture also
established certain restrictions on the post-Divestiture activities of the RHCs,
including Bell Atlantic.  The MFJ's principal restrictions on post-Divestiture
RHC activities included prohibitions on (i) providing interexchange
telecommunications, and (ii) engaging in the manufacture of telecommunications
equipment and customer premises equipment ("CPE").

  The Telecommunications Act of 1996 (the "Act") became effective on February 8,
1996 and replaces the MFJ.  In general, the Act includes provisions that would
open the telephone subsidiaries' local exchange markets to competition and would
permit local exchange carriers, such as the Company, to provide interLATA
services (long distance) and video programming and to engage in manufacturing.
However, the ability of the Company and its subsidiaries to engage in businesses
previously prohibited by the MFJ is largely dependent on satisfying certain
conditions contained in the Act and regulations to be promulgated thereunder.
The following is a brief discussion regarding certain provisions of the Act.

  With regard to the rules governing competition in the interLATA market, the
Act takes a two-fold approach.  Effective February 8, 1996, the Company is
permitted to apply for approval to offer interLATA services outside of the
geographic region in which it currently operates as a local exchange carrier.
The Company has announced its plans to offer such services in several states.
In addition, the Company's wireless businesses are now permitted to offer
interLATA services without having to comply with the conditions imposed in
waivers granted under the MFJ.


 
  Secondly, within the Company's geographic region, each of the telephone
subsidiaries must demonstrate to the FCC that it has satisfied certain
requirements in order to be permitted to offer interLATA services within its
jurisdiction.  Among the requirements with which a telephone subsidiary must
comply is a 14-point "competitive checklist" which is aimed at ensuring that
competitors have the ability to connect to the telephone subsidiary's network.
A telephone subsidiary must also demonstrate to the FCC that its entry into the
interLATA market would be in the public interest.

  The Act also imposes specific requirements on the telephone subsidiaries that
are intended to promote competition in the local exchange markets.  These
requirements include the duty to:  (i) provide interconnection to any other
carrier for the transmission and routing of telephone exchange access at any
technically feasible point; (ii) provide unbundled access to network elements at
any technically feasible point; (iii) provide retail services for resale at
wholesale prices; (iv) establish reciprocal compensation arrangements for the
origination and termination of telecommunications; and (v) provide physical
collocation.

  No definitive prediction can be made as to the specific impact of the Act on
the business or financial condition of the Company.  The financial impact on the
Company will be dependent on several factors, including the timing, extent and
success of competition in the Company's markets and the timing, extent and
success of the Company's pursuit of new business opportunities resulting from
the Act.


                         THE NETWORK SERVICES COMPANIES

GENERAL

  The Network Services Companies presently serve a territory ("Territory")
consisting of 19 Local Access and Transport Areas ("LATAs").  These LATAs are
generally centered on a city or based on some other identifiable common
geography and, with certain limited exceptions, each LATA marks the boundary
within which a Network Services Company has historically been permitted to
provide telephone service.

  The Network Services Companies currently provide two basic types of
telecommunications services.  First, they transport telecommunications traffic
between subscribers located within the same LATA ("intraLATA service"),
including both local and toll services.  Local service includes the provision of
local exchange ("dial tone"), local private line and public telephone services
(including dial tone service for pay telephones owned by the Company and other
pay telephone providers).  Among other local services provided are Centrex
(telephone company central office-based switched telephone service enabling the
subscriber to make both intercom and outside calls) and a variety of special and
custom calling services.  Toll service includes message toll service (calling
service beyond the local calling area) within LATA boundaries, and intraLATA
Wide Area Toll Service (WATS)/800 services (volume discount offerings for
customers with highly concentrated demand).  As permitted by the Plan, Bell
Atlantic - New Jersey and Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania also earn toll revenue
from the provision of telecommunications service between LATAs ("interLATA
service") in corridors between the cities (and certain surrounding counties) of
(i) New York, New York and Newark, New Jersey and (ii) Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania and Camden, New Jersey. Second, the Network Services Companies
provide exchange access service, which links a subscriber's telephone or other
equipment to the transmission facilities of interexchange carriers which, in
turn, provide interLATA service to their customers.  Bell Atlantic -
Pennsylvania, Bell Atlantic - Delaware, Bell Atlantic - Maryland, Bell Atlantic
- - West Virginia, Bell Atlantic - Virginia and Bell Atlantic - New Jersey also
provide exchange access service to interexchange carriers which provide
intrastate intraLATA long distance telecommunications service.


 
OPERATIONS

  Although the Network Services Companies remain responsible within their
respective service areas for the provision of telephone services, financial
performance and regulatory matters, during 1993 Bell Atlantic reorganized
certain functions formerly performed by each of these companies into lines of
business ("LOBs") organized across the Network Services Companies around
specific market segments.

  The Consumer Services LOB markets communications services to residential
customers within the Territory (11 million households and 29 million people).
1995 revenues generated by the Consumer Services LOB were approximately $4
billion, representing approximately 33% of the Network Services Companies'
aggregate revenues.  These revenues were derived primarily from the provision of
telephone services to residential users.

  The Carrier Services LOB markets (i) switched and special access to the
Network Services Companies' local exchange networks, and (ii) billing and
collection services, including recording, rating, bill processing and bill
rendering.  1995 revenues generated by the Carrier Services market were
approximately $2.6 billion, representing approximately 21% of the Network
Services Companies' aggregate revenues.  Approximately 93% of total Carrier
Services revenues were derived from interexchange carriers; AT&T is the largest
single customer.  Most of the remaining revenues came from business customers
and government agencies with their own special access network connections,
wireless companies and other local exchange carriers ("LECs") which resell
network connections to their own customers.

  The Small Business Services LOB markets communications and information
services to small businesses (customers having up to 20 access lines).  The
Small Business Services LOB has approximately 1.2 million small business
customers in the Territory which in 1995 generated approximately $1.8 billion in
revenues, representing approximately 15% of the Network Services Companies'
aggregate revenues.

  The Large Business Services LOB markets communications and information
services to large businesses (customers having more than 20 access lines).
These services include voice switching/processing services (e.g., dedicated
private lines, custom Centrex, call management and voice messaging), end-user
networking (e.g., credit and debit card transactions, and personal computer-
based conferencing, including data and video), internetworking (establishing
links between the geographically disparate networks of two or more companies or
within the same company), network integration (integrating multiple
geographically disparate networks into one system), network optimization
(disaster avoidance, 911, intelligent vehicle highway systems), video services
(distance learning, telemedicine,  videoconferencing) and interactive multi-
media applications services.  1995 revenues from the Large Business Services LOB
were approximately $1.6 billion, representing approximately 13% of the Network
Services Companies' aggregate revenues.

  The Directory Services LOB manages the provision of (i) advertising and
marketing services to advertisers, and (ii) listing information (e.g., White
Pages and Yellow Pages).  These services are currently provided primarily
through print media, but the Company expects that use of electronic formats will
increase in the future.  In addition, the Directory Services LOB manages the
provision of photocomposition, database management and other related products
and services to publishers.  1995 revenues from the Directory Services LOB were
approximately $1.1 billion, representing approximately 9% of the Network
Services Companies' aggregate revenues.

  The Public and Operator Services LOB markets pay telephone and operator
services in the Territory to meet consumer needs for accessing public networks,
locating and identifying network subscribers, providing calling assistance and
arranging billing alternatives (e.g., calling card, collect and third party
calls).  1995 revenues from the Public and Operator Services LOB were
approximately $700 million, representing approximately 6% of the Network
Services Companies' aggregate revenues.

  The Federal Systems LOB markets communications and information technology and
services to departments, agencies and offices of the executive, judicial and
legislative branches of the federal government.  1995 revenues 


 
from the Federal Systems LOB were approximately $400 million, representing
approximately 3% of the Network Services Companies' aggregate revenues.

  The Network LOB manages the technologies, services and systems platforms
required by the other LOBs and the Network Services Companies to meet the needs
of their respective customers, including switching, feature development and on-
premises installation and maintenance services.


FCC REGULATION AND INTERSTATE RATES

  The Network Services Companies are subject to the jurisdiction of the Federal
Communications Commission ("FCC") with respect to interstate services and
certain related matters.  The FCC prescribes a uniform system of accounts for
telephone companies, interstate depreciation rates and the principles and
standard procedures used to separate plant investment, expenses, taxes and
reserves between those applicable to interstate services under the jurisdiction
of the FCC and those applicable to intrastate services under the jurisdiction of
the respective state regulatory authorities ("separations procedures").  The FCC
also prescribes procedures for allocating costs and revenues between regulated
and unregulated activities.

  The FCC has prescribed structures for exchange access tariffs to specify the
charges ("access charges") for use and availability of the Network Services
Companies' facilities for the origination and termination of interstate
interLATA service.  In general, the tariff structures prescribed by the FCC
provide that interstate costs of the Network Services Companies which do not
vary based on usage ("non-traffic sensitive costs") are recovered from
subscribers through flat monthly charges ("subscriber line charges"), and from
interexchange carriers through usage-sensitive Carrier Common Line ("CCL")
charges.  Traffic-sensitive interstate costs are recovered from carriers through
variable access charges based on several factors, primarily usage.


 Price Caps

  The price cap system, which became effective in 1991, (the "Prior Price Cap
Plan") placed a cap on overall LEC prices for interstate access services which
was modified annually, in inflation-adjusted terms, by a fixed percentage which
was intended to reflect increases in productivity.  The price cap level could
also be adjusted to reflect "exogenous" changes, such as changes in FCC
separations procedures or accounting rules.  Under the Prior Price Cap Plan, the
Company was required to share with customers in the form of prospective rate
reductions a portion of its earnings above a certain authorized rate of return.

  In March 1995, the FCC approved an Interim Price Cap Plan ("Interim Plan") for
interstate access charges, which became effective on August 1, 1995, and
replaced the Prior Price Cap Plan.

  Under the Interim Plan, the Company's price cap index must be adjusted by an
inflation index (GDP-PI), less a fixed percentage, either 4.0%, 4.7% or 5.3%,
which is intended to reflect increases in productivity ("Productivity Factor").
Companies selecting the 4.0% or 4.7% Productivity Factor are required to reduce
future prices and share a portion of their interstate return in excess of
12.25%.  Companies selecting the 5.3% Productivity Factor are also required to
reduce prices but are not required to share a portion of their future interstate
earnings.  The Interim Plan also provided for a reduction in the price cap index
of 2.8% to adjust for what the FCC believes was an underestimate in its
calculation of the Productivity Factor in prior years.  The Interim Plan also
eliminated the recovery of certain "exogenous" cost changes, including changes
in accounting costs that the FCC believes have no economic consequences.

  In May 1995, the Company selected the 5.3% Productivity Factor for the August
1995 to June 1996 tariff period.  The rates included in the May 1995 filing
resulted in price decreases totaling approximately $305 million on an annual
basis.  These price decreases included the scheduled expiration of a temporary
rate increase of 


 
approximately $98 million on an annualized basis that was in effect from March
17, 1995 through July 31, 1995 to recover prior years "exogenous" postemployment
benefit costs. Approximately 80% of the remaining $207 million reduction
resulted from compliance with the Interim Plan. The remaining 20% represented
reductions that the Company was required to make under the Prior Price Cap Plan.

  Bell Atlantic appealed the Interim Price Cap Order to the Court of Appeals for
the D.C. Circuit, and that case is currently pending.


 FCC Cost Allocation and Affiliate Transaction Rules

  FCC rules govern:  (i) the allocation of costs between the regulated and
unregulated activities of a communications common carrier and (ii) transactions
between the regulated and unregulated affiliates of a communications common
carrier.

  The cost allocation rules apply to certain unregulated activities: activities
that have never been regulated as communications common carrier offerings and
activities that have been preemptively deregulated by the FCC.  The costs of
these activities are removed prior to the separations procedures process and are
assigned to unregulated activities in the aggregate, not to specific services,
for pricing purposes.  Other activities must be accounted for as regulated
activities, and their costs are subject to separations procedures.

  The affiliate transaction rules govern the pricing of assets transferred to
and services provided by affiliates.  These rules generally require that assets
be transferred between affiliates at "market price," if such price can be
established through a tariff or a prevailing price actually charged to third
parties.  In the absence of a tariff or prevailing price, "market price" cannot
be established, in which case (i) asset transfers from a regulated to an
unregulated affiliate must be valued at the higher of cost or fair market value,
and (ii) asset transfers from an unregulated to a regulated affiliate must be
valued at the lower of cost or fair market value.

  The FCC has not attempted to make its cost allocation or affiliate transaction
rules preemptive.  State regulatory authorities are free to use different cost
allocation methods and affiliate transaction rules for intrastate ratemaking and
to require carriers to keep separate allocation records.


STATE REGULATION OF RATES AND SERVICES

  The communications services of the Network Services Companies are subject to
regulation by the public utility commissions in the jurisdictions in which they
operate with respect to intrastate rates and services and certain other matters.
For a discussion of regulatory proceedings regarding competition in the Network
Services Companies' local exchange and intraLATA toll markets, see "Competition
- - Local Exchange Services" and "Competition - IntraLATA Toll Services."


 Bell Atlantic -  New Jersey, Inc.

  The New Jersey Telecommunications Act of 1992 authorized the Board of Public
Utilities ("BPU") to adopt alternative regulatory frameworks to address changes
in technology and the structure of the telecommunications industry and to
promote economic development.  It also deregulated services which the BPU found
to be competitive.  Pursuant to that legislation, Bell Atlantic - New Jersey
filed a Plan for Alternative Form of Regulation (the "New Jersey Plan"), which
became effective with modifications required by the BPU in May 1993.


 
  The New Jersey Plan divides Bell Atlantic - New Jersey's services into Rate-
Regulated Services and Competitive Services.  Rate-Regulated Services are
grouped in two categories:

     -"Protected Services": Basic residence and business service, Touch-Tone,
  access services, message toll services and the ordering, installation and
  restoration of these services.  Rates for Protected Services, other than basic
  residence service, may be increased in an amount limited to the prior year's
  increase in the Gross National Product-Price Index ("GNP-PI") less a 2%
  productivity offset, as long as the return on equity for Rate-Regulated
  Services does not exceed 11.7%.  Basic residence service rates are capped
  through December 1999.  However, revenue neutral rate restructuring for Rate-
  Regulated Services, including Protected Services and basic residence service,
  is permitted.

     -"Other Services": Custom Calling, Custom Local Area Signaling Services
  ("CLASS" services which utilize Signaling System 7), operator services and 911
  enhanced service.  Rates for Other Services may be increased beginning January
  1996 in an amount limited to the prior year's increase in the GNP-PI less a 2%
  productivity offset, as long as the return on equity for Rate-Regulated
  Services does not exceed 12.7%.

  All earnings above a return on equity of 13.7% for Rate-Regulated Services
will be shared equally with customers.  There is no point at which the earnings
are capped.  Competitive Services are deregulated under the New Jersey
Telecommunications Act.  An appeal of the New Jersey Plan is pending.


 Bell Atlantic -  Pennsylvania, Inc.

  In July 1993, legislation was enacted in Pennsylvania which enabled Bell
Atlantic - Pennsylvania to petition the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission
("PPUC") to regulate Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania under an alternative form of
regulation.  In October 1993, Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania filed its petition
and plan with the PPUC.  In June 1994, the PPUC approved, with modifications,
Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania's Alternative Regulation Plan, (the "Pennsylvania
Plan") which was accepted by Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania in July 1994.

  The Pennsylvania Plan provides for a pure price cap plan with no sharing and
replaces rate base rate of return regulation.  The Pennsylvania Plan removes
from price and earnings regulation certain competitive services, including
directory advertising, billing service, Centrex service, paging, speed calling
and repeat calling.  All remaining noncompetitive services will be price
regulated.

  Under price regulation, annual price increases up to, but not exceeding, the
inflation rate (GDP-PI) minus 2.93% will be permitted.  Annual price decreases
are required when the GDP-PI falls below 2.93%.  Protected services revenues in
the noncompetitive category, which include residential and business basic
exchange services, special access and switched access, are capped through
December 31, 1999.  However, revenue neutral rate restructuring for non-
competitive services is permitted.

  The Pennsylvania Plan requires Bell Atlantic - Pennsylvania to propose a
Lifeline service for residential customers on a revenue neutral basis.  The Plan
also requires deployment of a universal broadband network, which must be
completed in phases:  20% by 1998; 50% by 2004; and 100% by 2015.  Deployment
must be reasonably balanced among urban, suburban and rural areas.

  In July 1994, several parties filed appeals in the Pennsylvania Commonwealth
Court regarding the PPUC's June 1994 order approving the Pennsylvania Plan.  On
December 22, 1995, the Commonwealth Court issued an opinion and order affirming
in part and reversing, vacating and remanding in part the PPUC's decision.  The
Commonwealth Court:  (i) vacated the PPUC's determination of the price cap
formula and remanded to the PPUC for quantification of an "input price
differential" (i.e., difference between the cost of Bell Atlantic -
Pennsylvania's inputs and the U.S. economy's inputs); (ii) vacated and remanded
for additional findings the PPUC's decision that directory advertising and
billing services are "competitive" services; and (iii) reversed the PPUC's
decision that 


 
paging, Centrex, speed calling, and repeat call are competitive. In all other
respects, the PPUC's order was sustained. The PPUC and Bell Atlantic -
Pennsylvania have filed petitions requesting that the Pennsylvania Supreme Court
review the Pennsylvania Commonwealth Court's ruling. The Supreme Court is
expected to decide whether to hear this appeal by the end of 1996. In the
meantime, the filing of the PPUC's petition for review has the effect of
automatically staying the Commonwealth Court's order.


 Bell Atlantic - Delaware, Inc.

  In March 1994, Bell Atlantic - Delaware elected to be regulated under the
alternative regulation provisions of the Delaware Telecommunications Technology
Investment Act of 1993 (the "Delaware Telecommunications Act").  The Delaware
Telecommunications Act provides:

     -that the prices of "Basic Telephone Services" (e.g., dial tone and local
      usage) will remain regulated and cannot change in any one year by more
      than the rate of inflation (GDP-PI), less 3%;

     -that the prices of "Discretionary Services" (e.g., Identa Ring SM and Call
      Waiting) cannot increase more than 15% per year per service, after an
      initial one-year cap;

     -that the prices of "Competitive Services" (e.g., directory advertising and
      message toll service) will not be subject to tariff; and

     -that Bell Atlantic - Delaware will develop a technology deployment plan
      with a commitment to invest a minimum of $250 million in Delaware's
      telecommunications network during the first five years of the plan.

  The Delaware Telecommunications Act also provides protections to ensure that
competitors will not be unfairly disadvantaged, including a prohibition on
cross-subsidization, imputation rules, service unbundling and resale service
availability requirements, and a review by the Delaware Public Service
Commission ("DPSC") during the fifth year of the plan.


 Bell Atlantic  - Washington, D.C., Inc.

  In January 1993, the District of Columbia Public Service Commission ("DCPSC")
adopted a regulatory reform plan ("D.C. Reform Plan") for the intra-Washington,
D.C. services of Bell Atlantic - Washington D.C. for a three-year trial period.
The D.C. Reform Plan provides a banded rate of return of 100 basis points over
or under the authorized return on equity (which was set at 11.45% in December
1993).  Bell Atlantic - Washington D.C. is permitted to seek a rate increase if
its return on equity falls below 10.45% and is required to share, through
refunds, 50% of any earnings in excess of a return on equity of 12.45%.

  In January 1995, Bell Atlantic - Washington D.C. filed a petition with the
DCPSC seeking approval of a proposed price cap plan to become effective upon the
expiration of the D.C. Reform Plan in 1996.  In February 1996, Bell Atlantic -
Washington D.C. signed a settlement agreement with the Office of People's
Counsel to implement a four-year price cap plan to replace the D.C. Reform Plan.
The settlement agreement, if approved, would:  (1) introduce a four-year price
cap plan effective 1/1/96 through 12/31/99; (2) divide services into three
categories, basic, discretionary and competitive; (3) cap certain basic
residence rates for the term of the plan and allow other basic rates to change
with the rate of inflation minus 3%; (4) allow discretionary services rates to
increase by 15% annually; (5) eliminate pricing regulation of competitive
services; (6) reduce residential rates by $3.1 million in 1996; business rates
by $2.2 million in 1997 and $3.2 million in 1998; and (7) establish a trust fund
to wire public schools and libraries with Bell Atlantic integrated services
digital network (ISDN) lines.  The agreement is pending approval by the DCPSC.


 
 Bell Atlantic - Maryland, Inc.

  In January 1993, the Public Service Commission of Maryland ("MPSC") continued
a regulatory reform plan (the "Reform Plan"), first adopted in 1990, for
regulating the intrastate services provided by Bell Atlantic - Maryland.  The
Reform Plan provides for sharing of earnings on Other-Than-Competitive Services
(e.g., basic business and residential dial-tone line and usage, pay telephone
services, and intraLATA toll services) within a prescribed range (12.7% to 16.5%
return on equity).  Earnings on Competitive Services (e.g., Centrex intercom,
and high capacity, special access and private line service) are not subject to
rate of return limitation.

  In 1995, the Maryland General Assembly enacted legislation which permits the
MPSC to regulate Bell Atlantic - Maryland by a method other than rate base rate
of return regulation.

  In December 1995, Bell Atlantic - Maryland filed a proposed price cap plan
with the MPSC.  Under the plan, services would be divided into six categories:
Access, Basic-Residential, Basic-Other, Discretionary, Competitive and Co-
Carrier.  Rates for Access and Basic-Residential Services would be capped for a
period of two years, and rates for Basic-Other Services would be capped for one
year.  After the cap period, rates for services in these three categories could
then be increased or decreased annually under a formula that is based on changes
in the rate of inflation (GDP-PI).

  The Office of People's Counsel, the MPSC Staff and MCI Telecommunications
(MCI) have also filed proposed price cap plans for regulating Bell Atlantic -
Maryland.  In addition, the Office of People's Counsel and the MPSC Staff have
argued that Bell Atlantic - Maryland's rates should be reduced by $232 million
and $97 million, respectively, while MCI has asked for an $85 million reduction
in Bell Atlantic - Maryland's switched access rates.  Bell Atlantic - Maryland
has responded that its existing rates are reasonable and there is no basis to
reduce them.  All of these issues are being considered in a single evidentiary
proceeding, which is expected to conclude by mid-year 1996.


 Bell Atlantic - Virginia, Inc.

  Under legislation passed in the 1993 session of the Virginia General Assembly,
the Virginia State Corporation Commission ("VSCC") is no longer statutorily
required to regulate telephone companies on the basis of rate of return
regulation.  In February 1994, Bell Atlantic - Virginia filed a proposal to have
its non-competitive services regulated on a price cap basis; competitive
services would not be regulated.

  Following public hearings, the VSCC approved a new optional regulatory plan,
effective January 1, 1995, which allows Bell Atlantic - Virginia to replace
traditional cost-based regulation with a plan that relies on price constraints.
The new plan, which eliminates regulation of profits, includes a temporary
moratorium on rate increases for basic local telephone service until 2001,
eliminates the monthly charge for Touch-Tone service and expands universal
telephone service to the poor.  In November 1994, Bell Atlantic - Virginia
notified the VSCC of its election to participate in the new regulatory plan.
Following an appeal, the new plan was upheld by the Virginia Supreme Court.


 Bell Atlantic - West Virginia, Inc.

  In December 1991, the West Virginia Public Service Commission ("WVPSC")
approved an "Incentive Regulation Plan".  The Incentive Regulation Plan
continued the major provisions of the prior plan, including pricing flexibility
for competitive services and a freeze on rates for basic local exchange service.
It also committed Bell Atlantic - West Virginia to invest $450 million from 1991
through 1995 in West Virginia's telecommunications infrastructure.


 
  In December 1994, the WVPSC issued an order extending the Incentive Regulation
Plan for three years, with certain modifications.  Basic rates remain frozen
through January 15, 1998 and Touch-Tone charges will be eliminated over a three
year period.  Bell Atlantic - West Virginia is committed to invest at least $375
million in its network over the five year period from 1995 through 1999.


COMPETITION

  Regulatory changes, as well as new technology, are continuing to expand the
types of available communications services and equipment and the number of
competitors offering such services.  An increasing amount of this competition is
from large companies which have substantial capital, technological and marketing
resources.

 Local Exchange Services

  The ability to offer local exchange service has historically been subject to
regulation by state public utility commissions.  In 1994 and 1995, applications
from competitors to provide and resell local exchange services were approved by
the Maryland Public Service Commission and the Pennsylvania Public Utility
Commission. In addition, applications from competitors to provide local exchange
services are pending in Delaware, Maryland, New Jersey and Virginia. The Act is
expected to significantly increase the level of competition in all of the
telephone subsidiaries' local exchange markets. However, increased competition
in the local exchange markets will facilitate FCC approval of the telephone
subsidiaries' entry into the interLATA markets.

 IntraLATA Toll Services

  Competition to offer intrastate intraLATA toll services is currently permitted
in all of the Company's state jurisdictions that provide intraLATA toll
services.  Increased competition from IXCs has resulted in a decline in several
components of the telephone subsidiaries' toll service revenues.

  Currently, intraLATA toll calls in all of such jurisdictions are completed by
the telephone subsidiaries unless the customer dials a five-digit access code.
Presubscription for intraLATA toll services would enable customers to make
intraLATA toll calls using the carrier of their choice without having to dial
the five-digit access code.

  In general, the Act prohibits a state from requiring presubscription or
"dialing parity" until the earlier of such time as a BOC in the state is
authorized to provide long distance services within the state or three years
from the effective date of the Act.  This prohibition does not apply to a final
order requiring a BOC to implement presubscription that was issued on or prior
to December 19, 1995.

  During 1995, state regulatory commissions in Pennsylvania, New Jersey, West
Virginia, Virginia and Delaware conducted proceedings to determine whether, and
under what conditions, to authorize presubscription.

  On December 19, 1995, the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission issued an
order directing the implementation of presubscription within eighteen months of
that order.  However, the order stated that a reasonable effort should be made
to coordinate implementation of presubscription with Bell Atlantic -
Pennsylvania's entry into the interLATA market in Pennsylvania.

  In New Jersey, the Board of Public Utilities ("BPU") issued an order on
December 14, 1995 finding that implementation of presubscription for intraLATA
toll services in New Jersey would be in the public interest and proposed rules
for implementation.  The BPU is expected to issue final rules in the second
quarter of 1996.


 
  In October 1995, the West Virginia Public Service Commission issued an order
directing the implementation of presubscription within eighteen months of that
order.  Bell Atlantic - West Virginia has filed an appeal with the West Virginia
Supreme Court.

  In Virginia, the State Corporation Commission issued an order on July 24, 1995
denying intraLATA toll presubscription.

  During 1995, proceedings in Delaware were suspended pending the outcome of the
federal legislative process. On March 26, 1996, the Delaware Public Service
Commission considered the issue of implementation of presubscription and
deferred any decision for six months. A final decision is expected in the fourth
quarter of 1996.


 Alternative Access

  A substantial portion of the Network Services Companies' revenues from
business and government customers is derived from a relatively small number of
large, multiple-line subscribers.

  The Network Services Companies face competition from alternative
communications systems, constructed by large end users, interexchange carriers
and alternative access vendors, which are capable of originating and/or
terminating calls without the use of the local telephone company's plant.  The
ability of such alternative access providers to compete with the Network
Services Companies has been enhanced by the FCC's orders requiring the Network
Services Companies to offer virtual collocated interconnection for special and
switched access services.

  Other potential sources of competition are cable television systems, shared
tenant services and other non-carrier systems which are capable of bypassing the
Network Services Companies' local plant, either partially or completely, through
substitution of special access for switched access or through concentration of
telecommunications traffic on fewer of the Network Services Companies' lines.


 Personal Communications Services

  Radio-based personal communications services ("PCS") also constitute potential
sources of competition to the Network Services Companies and to Bell Atlantic's
cellular communications investments.  PCS consists of wireless portable
telephone services which would allow customers to make and receive telephone
calls from any location using small handsets, and which could also be used for
data transmission.


 Directories

  The Network Services Companies continue to face significant competition from
other providers of directories, as well as competition from other advertising
media.


 Public Telephone Services

  The Company faces increasing competition in the provision of pay telephone
services from other pay telephone service providers.  In addition, the growth of
wireless communications negatively impacts usage of public telephones.


 Operator Services

  Alternative operator services providers have entered into competition with the
Network Services Companies' operator services product line.


 
                        DOMESTIC WIRELESS COMMUNICATIONS

  Through several joint ventures, the Company provides wireless communications
services in the United States.

  Effective July 1, 1995, Bell Atlantic and NYNEX Corporation (NYNEX) combined
substantially all of their domestic cellular and paging businesses and formed
Bell Atlantic NYNEX Mobile, a partnership which provides wireless services to
over 3.4 million customers in the Northeast, mid-Atlantic, Southeast and
Southwest portions of the United States.  Bell Atlantic NYNEX Mobile is a
general partnership and is controlled equally by Bell Atlantic and NYNEX.  Bell
Atlantic owns an approximate 63% economic interest in Bell Atlantic NYNEX Mobile
and accounts for its interest in the partnership under the equity method.

  In October 1994, Bell Atlantic, NYNEX, AirTouch Communications and U S WEST,
Inc. formed two partnerships to provide nationwide wireless communications
services.  The first partnership was formed to participate in the FCC auctions
for PCS licenses.  In March 1995, this partnership was a successful bidder for
licenses for spectrum to provide PCS services in the following markets:
Chicago; Dallas; Tampa; Houston; Miami; New Orleans; Milwaukee; Richmond; San
Antonio; Jacksonville; and Honolulu.  The partnership paid $1.1 billion for
these licenses.  The second partnership was formed to develop a national brand
and provide coordination and centralization of various functions for the
companies' cellular and PCS businesses.


                       INTERNATIONAL WIRELESS INVESTMENTS

  Through purchases of stock in 1993 and 1994  totaling $1.04 billion, the
Company acquired a 41.9% economic interest in Grupo Iusacell, S.A. de C.V., a
leading telecommunications company in Mexico and the primary business of which
is the provision of cellular telephone service.

  The Company also has telecommunications investments in Italy, Slovakia and the
Czech Republic.  These investments consist of joint ventures to build and
operate cellular networks in these countries.


                       TELECOM CORPORATION OF NEW ZEALAND

  In 1990, wholly-owned New Zealand subsidiaries of the Company and Ameritech
Corporation ("Ameritech") each purchased approximately 49% of the common shares
of Telecom Corporation of New Zealand Limited ("TCNZ") for a purchase price of
approximately $2.4 billion.  Under the terms of the acquisition and subsequent
agreements with the New Zealand government, the Company and Ameritech were
required to sell equity interests in TCNZ such that their combined ownership
would, within four years of the acquisition, be reduced to 49.9%.  Through
public and private sales during 1991 and 1993, the Company reduced its ownership
interest in TCNZ to 24.8%, and, together with sales by Ameritech, completed its
sell-down obligations.


                                 VIDEO SERVICES

  In October 1994, the Company, NYNEX and Pacific Telesis Group formed two
partnerships to provide multimedia services.  TELE-TV Media, L.P. will license,
acquire and develop entertainment and information services.  TELE-TV Systems,
L.P. will provide the systems necessary to deliver these services over the
partners' networks.


                      CERTAIN CONTRACTS AND RELATIONSHIPS

  Certain planning, marketing, procurement, financial, legal, accounting,
technical support and other management services are provided on behalf of the
Network Services Companies on a centralized basis by Bell 


 
Atlantic's wholly-owned subsidiary, Bell Atlantic Network Services, Inc.
("NSI"). Bell Atlantic Network Funding Corporation provides short-term financing
and cash management services to the Network Services Companies.

  Certain corporate services also are provided to other subsidiaries on a
centralized basis by NSI.  Bell Atlantic Financial Services, Inc. provides
short-, medium- and long-term financing services and cash management services to
subsidiaries of the Company other than the Network Services Companies.

  The seven RHCs each own (directly or through subsidiaries) a one-seventh
interest in Bell Communications Research, Inc. ("Bellcore").  Pursuant to the
Plan, Bellcore furnishes the RHCs and their BOC subsidiaries with technical
assistance such as network planning, engineering and software development, as
well as various other consulting services that can be provided more effectively
on a centralized basis.  Bellcore is the central point of contact for
coordinating the efforts of the RHCs in meeting the national security and
emergency preparedness requirements of the federal government.  It also helps to
mobilize the combined resources of the RHCs in times of natural disasters.


                                   EMPLOYEES

  As of December 31, 1995, the Company and its subsidiaries had approximately
61,800 employees.  Approximately 70% of the employees of the Company and its
subsidiaries are represented by unions.  Of those so represented, approximately
80% are represented by the Communications Workers of America, and approximately
20% are represented by the International Brotherhood of Electrical Workers,
which are both affiliated with the American Federation of Labor-Congress of
Industrial Organizations.


 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

                                    GENERAL

  The principal properties of the Company do not lend themselves to simple
description by character and location.  The Company's investment in plant,
property and equipment, 98% of which was held by the Network Services Companies
in 1995 (94% in 1994), consisted of the following at December 31:



  "Central office equipment" consists of switching equipment, transmission
equipment and related facilities.  "Cable, wiring and conduit" consists
primarily of aerial cable, underground cable, conduit and wiring.  "Other
equipment" consists of public telephone instruments and telephone equipment
(including PBXs) used by the Network Services Companies in their operations,
poles, furniture, office equipment, and vehicles and other work equipment.
"Land and buildings" consists of land owned in fee and improvements thereto,
principally central office buildings.  "Other" property consists primarily of
plant under construction, capital leases and leasehold improvements.  In 1995,
other equipment no longer includes cellular plant, which was entirely held by
the Company's domestic cellular and paging businesses.  Such equipment was
contributed to the Bell Atlantic NYNEX Mobile partnership, which was formed on
July 1, 1995, through the combination of substantially all of the domestic
cellular and paging businesses of Bell Atlantic and NYNEX Corporation.

  The customers of the Network Services Companies are served by electronic
switching systems that provide a wide variety of services.  The Network Services
Companies' network is in a transition from an analog to a digital network, which
provides the capabilities to furnish advanced data transmission and information
management services.  At December 31, 1995, approximately 83% of the access
lines were served by digital capability.


                              CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

  The Network Services Companies have been making and expect to continue to make
significant capital expenditures to meet the demand for communications services
and to further improve such services.  Capital expenditures of the Network
Services Companies were approximately $2.1 billion in 1993, $2.2 billion in 1994
and $2.4 billion in 1995.  The total investment in plant, property and equipment
was approximately $30.6 billion at December 31, 1993, $33.7 billion at December
31, 1994 and $33.6 billion at December 31, 1995, in each case after giving
effect to retirements, but before deducting accumulated depreciation at such
date.


 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

PRE-DIVESTITURE CONTINGENT LIABILITIES AND LITIGATION

  The Plan provides for the recognition and payment by AT&T and the former BOCs
(including the Network Services Companies) of liabilities that are attributable
to pre-Divestiture events but do not become certain until after Divestiture.
These contingent liabilities relate principally to litigation and other claims
with respect to the former Bell System's rates, taxes, contracts and torts
(including business torts, such as alleged violations of the antitrust laws).
Except to the extent that affected parties otherwise agree, contingent
liabilities that are attributable to pre-Divestiture events are shared by AT&T
and the BOCs in accordance with formulas prescribed by the Plan, whether or not
an entity was a party to the proceeding and regardless of whether an entity was
dismissed from the proceeding by virtue of settlement or otherwise.  Each
company's allocable share of liability under these formulas depends on several
factors, including the type of contingent liability involved and each company's
relative net investment as of the effective date of Divestiture.  Under the
formula generally applicable to most of the categories of these contingent
liabilities, the Network Services Companies' aggregate allocable share of
liability is approximately 10.2%.

  AT&T and various of its subsidiaries and the BOCs (including in some cases one
or more of the Network Services Companies) have been and are parties to various
types of litigation relating to pre-Divestiture events, including actions and
proceedings involving environmental claims and allegations of violations of
equal employment laws.  Damages, if any, ultimately awarded in the remaining
actions relating to pre-Divestiture events could have a financial impact on the
Company whether or not the Company is a defendant since such damages will be
treated as contingent liabilities and allocated in accordance with the
allocation rules established by the Plan.

  Effective in 1994, the Company and the other Regional Holding Companies agreed
to discontinue sharing of new pre-Divestiture claims and certain existing claims
other than claims relating to environmental matters.  AT&T is not a party to
this agreement.

  While complete assurance cannot be given as to the outcome of any contingent
liabilities or litigation, in the opinion of the Company's management, any
monetary liability or financial impact to which the Company would be subject
after final adjudication of all of the remaining potential or actual pre-
Divestiture claims would not be material in amount to the financial position of
the Company.


OTHER PENDING CASES

In January 1991, the Company, its Chief Executive Officer and its former Chief
Financial Officer were named as defendants in several identical class action
complaints.  These complaints, which have been consolidated in a single
proceeding in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Pennsylvania and have subsequently been amended, allege that, during a class
period from June 14, 1990 through January 22, 1991, the plaintiffs purchased
shares of Bell Atlantic stock at inflated prices as a result of the defendants'
alleged failure to disclose material information regarding certain aspects of
the Company's financial performance and prospects.  The trial court's earlier
decision granting defendants' motion to dismiss this action was reversed by the
United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit upon appeal by the
plaintiffs.  Discovery in this action is essentially complete and defendants
expect to file a motion for summary judgment during the second quarter of 1996.

  While complete assurance cannot be given as to the outcome of any litigation,
in the opinion of the Company's management, any monetary liability or financial
impact to which the Company would be subject after final adjudication of the
foregoing actions would not be material in amount to the financial position of
the Company.


 
ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  Not applicable.


                                 EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


  Prior to serving as an executive officer of the Company, each of the above
officers, with the exception of Messrs. Coulter, Johnson, and Pennington, have
held high level managerial positions with the Company or one of its subsidiaries
for at least five years.  Prior to joining the Company in 1995, Mr. Coulter was
with Raytheon Company, serving as Director of Media Relations and Advertising
(from 1991 to 1992) and Director of Corporate Communications (from 1992 to
1995).  From 1987 until joining the Company in 1992, Mr. Johnson served as
President, GTE-Contel Federal Sector for GTE Corporation.  Prior to joining the
Company in 1995, Mr. Pennington served as Executive Vice President-Corporate
Services and Chief Administrative Officer at Clark U.S.A., Inc. (from 1993 to
1995) and as Vice President-Human Resources at Mercy Health System (from 1991 to
1993).

  Officers are not elected for a fixed term of office but are removable at the
discretion of the Board of Directors.



                                 PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS

  The principal market for trading in the common stock of Bell Atlantic
Corporation is the New York Stock Exchange.  The common stock is also listed in
the United States on the Boston, Chicago, Pacific, and Philadelphia stock
exchanges.  As of December 31, 1995, there were 932,705 shareowners of record.


 
  High and low stock prices, as reported on the New York Stock Exchange
composite tape of transactions, and dividend data are as follows:


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

  The Selected Financial and Operating Data on page 4 of the Company's 1995
Annual Report to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
          RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and
Financial Condition on pages 11 through 20 of the Company's 1995 Annual Report
to shareowners is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

  The Report of Independent Accountants, Consolidated Statements of Operations,
Consolidated Balance Sheets, Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements on pages 21 through 45 of the Company's 1995
Annual Report to shareowners are incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
          FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

  None.


 
                                    PART III


ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

  For information with respect to the executive officers of the Company, see
"Executive Officers of the Registrant" at the end of Part I of this Report.  For
information with respect to the Directors of the Company, see "Election of
Directors" on pages 1 through 6 of the Proxy Statement for the Company's 1996
Annual Meeting of Shareowners, which is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  For information with respect to executive compensation, see "Executive
Compensation" on pages 11 through 16, "Stock Performance" on page 18, and
"Employment Agreements" on page 19 of the Proxy Statement for the Company's 1996
Annual Meeting of Shareowners, which are incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

  For information with respect to the security ownership of the Directors and
Executive Officers of the Company, see "Ownership of Bell Atlantic Common Stock"
on page 17 of the Proxy Statement for the Company's 1996 Annual Meeting of
Shareowners, which is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

  None.


 
                                 PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


 (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     (1)  Financial Statements

     See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule
appearing on Page F-1.

     (2)  Financial Statement Schedules

        See Index to Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedule
appearing on Page F-1.

     (3)  Exhibits.

  Exhibits identified in parentheses below, on file with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (SEC), are incorporated herein by reference as exhibits
hereto.

 
Exhibit
Number
 
3a      Certificate of Incorporation of Bell Atlantic Corporation ("Bell
        Atlantic"), dated October 7, 1983. (Exhibit 3a to Registration Statement
        on Form S-1 No. 2-87842, File No. 1-8606.)
       
3b      Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Bell
        Atlantic, dated May 9, 1986 and filed May 16, 1986. (Exhibit 3b to 
        Form SE dated March 27, 1987, File No. 1-8606.)
       
3c      Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Bell
        Atlantic, dated May 6, 1987 and filed May 8, 1987. (Exhibit 3c to 
        Form SE dated March 28, 1988, File No. 1-8606.)
       
3d      Certificate of Amendment of Certificate of Incorporation of Bell
        Atlantic, dated May 10, 1990 and filed June 29, 1990. (Exhibit 3d to
        Form SE dated March 28, 1991, File No. 1-8606.)
       
3e      By-Laws of Bell Atlantic, as amended through June 23, 1992. (Exhibit 3e
        to Form SE dated March 29, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)
       
4       No instrument which defines the rights of holders of long and
        intermediate term debt, of the Company and all of its consolidated
        subsidiaries, is filed herewith pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item
        601(b)(4)(iii)(A). Pursuant to this regulation, Bell Atlantic hereby
        agrees to furnish a copy of any such instrument to the SEC upon request.
       
10a     Bell Atlantic Senior Management Short Term Incentive Plan, as amended
        and restated effective as of January 1, 1993. (Exhibit 10c to Form SE
        dated March 29, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
       
10b     Bell Atlantic Senior Management Long-Term Disability and Survivor
        Protection Plan, as amended. (Exhibit 10h to Form SE filed on March 27,
        1986, File No. 1-8606.)*
    
        10b (i) Resolutions amending the Plan, effective as of January 1, 1989
                (Exhibit 10d to Form SE dated March 29, 1989, File No. 1-8606.)*


 
10c          Bell Atlantic Personal Financial Services Program, as amended and
             restated as of July 1, 1995.*
 
10d          Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as
             amended and restated as of February 1, 1995. (Exhibit 10d to 
             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994, File No. 1-8606.)*
 
10e          Bell Atlantic Insurance Plan for Directors. (Exhibit 10hh to
             Registration Statement on Form S-1 No. 2-87842, File No. 1-8606.)*
 
10f          Description of Bell Atlantic Plan for Non-Employee Directors'
             Travel Accident Insurance. (Exhibit 10ii to Registration Statement
             on Form S-1 No. 2-87842, File No. 1-8606.)*

10g          Article V from Bell Atlantic Management Pension Plan regarding
             limitations on payment of pension amounts which exceed the
             limitations contained in the Employee Retirement Income Security
             Act of 1974. (Exhibit 10j to Form SE dated March 26, 1992, File 
             No. 1-8606.)*
 
10h          Bell Atlantic Senior Management Retirement Income Plan, as amended
             and restated effective as of December 31, 1995.*
 
10i          Bell Atlantic Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and restated
             as of January 1, 1996.*

10j          Bell Atlantic Stock Incentive Plan, as amended and restated as of
             January 1, 1996.*

             10j (i)  Resolutions amending The Bell Atlantic 1985 Incentive
                      Stock Option Plan, (Exhibit 10m(i) Form 10-K for the year
                      ended December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
 
10k          Bell Atlantic Retirement Plan for Outside Directors, as amended and
             restated, as of January 1, 1996.*
 
10l          Bell Atlantic Stock Compensation Plan for Outside Directors, as
             amended and restated as of January 1, 1996.*

10m          Bell Atlantic Corporation Directors' Charitable Giving Program.
             (Exhibit 10p to Form SE dated March 29, 1990, File No. 1-8606.)*

             10m (i)  Resolutions amending and partially terminating the
                      Program. (Exhibit 10p to Form SE dated March 29, 1993,
                      File No. 1-8606.)*

10n          Employment Agreement dated May 2, 1995 between the Company and
             Lawrence T. Babbio, Jr.*


 
10o      Resolution dated January 24, 1994 granting Lawrence T. Babbio, Jr.
         certain nonqualified stock options to purchase American Depository
         Receipts representing Series L shares of the capital stock of Grupo
         Iusacell, S.A. de C.V. (Exhibit 10s to Form 10-K for the year ended
         December 31, 1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
 
10p      Employment Agreement dated May 2, 1995 between the Company and James G.
         Cullen.*
 
10q      Non-Compete and Proprietary Information Agreement dated August 9, 1993
         among the Company, Bell Atlantic Network Services, Inc. and Stuart C.
         Johnson. (Exhibit 10w to Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
         1993, File No. 1-8606.)*
 
11       Computation of Earnings Per Common Share.
 
12       Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.
 
13       Portions of the Company's Annual Report to shareowners for the year
         ended December 31, 1995.
 
21       List of subsidiaries of Bell Atlantic.
 
23       Consent of Independent Accountants.
 
24       Powers of Attorney.
 
27       Financial Data Schedule.
 
99a      Annual Report on Form 11-K for the Bell Atlantic Savings Plan for
         Salaried Employees for the year ended December 31, 1995. (To be filed
         by amendment.)
 
99b      Annual report on Form 11-K for the Bell Atlantic Savings and Security
         Plan (Non-Salaried Employees) for the year ended December 31, 1995. (To
         be filed by amendment.)

*Indicates management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


       Shareowners may request a copy of the exhibits to this Annual Report on
Form 10-K by writing to the Corporate Secretary, Bell Atlantic Corporation, 1717
Arch Street, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania 19103.

 (b)   Current Reports on Form 8-K filed during the quarter ended December 31,
1995:

       A Current Report on Form 8-K, dated October 19, 1995, was filed regarding
the Company's third quarter 1995 financial results.


 
                                   SIGNATURES

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.


                                          BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION

                                  By    /s/   William O. Albertini         
                                    --------------------------------------   
                                              William O. Albertini
                                            Executive Vice President
                                           and Chief Financial Officer

March 27, 1996

  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATE INDICATED.

 
       







 
                           BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION

        INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

 
                                                             Page Number
                                                           -------------------- 
                                                                       Annual
                                                           Form      Report to
                                                           10-K     Shareowners
                                                           ----     -----------

Report of Independent Accountants......................     F-2          21
 
Consolidated Statements of Operations-
 For the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993..     --           22
 
Consolidated Balance Sheets-
 December 31, 1995 and 1994............................     --           23
 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows-
 For the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993..     --           24
 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.............     --          25-45

Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts--
  For the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and
  1993.................................................     F-3          --



Financial statement schedules other than that listed above have been omitted
because such schedules are not required or applicable.

                                      F-1

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of
Bell Atlantic Corporation

Our report on the consolidated financial statements of Bell Atlantic Corporation
and subsidiaries has been incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K from page
21 of the 1995 Annual Report to shareowners of Bell Atlantic Corporation and
subsidiaries.  In connection with our audits of such financial statements, we
have also audited the related financial statement schedule listed in the index
on page F-1 of this Form 10-K.

In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to above, when
considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information required to be
included therein.



Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.


2400 Eleven Penn Center
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
February 5, 1996

                                      F-2

 
                   BELL ATLANTIC CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

 
                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995, 1994, AND 1993
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)

____________
(a)  Allowance for Uncollectible Accounts Receivable includes (1) amounts
     previously written off which were credited directly to this account when
     recovered, and (2) accruals charged to accounts payable for anticipated
     uncollectible charges on purchases of accounts receivable from others which
     were billed by the Company.
(b)  Amounts written off as uncollectible or obsolete or transferred to other
     accounts (except for the valuation allowance for deferred tax assets).  In
     1995 and 1994, amounts include ending balances for businesses sold during
     the year.
(c)  Represents the valuation allowance at implementation of Statement of
     Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes,"
     effective January 1, 1993.
(d)  Other Allowances include allowances for notes receivable, obsolete
     equipment and allowances for probable losses incurred in the directory
     businesses arising in the normal course of operations.

                                      F-3

