
10-K405
1997 10-K405


              SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                    WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549
                         FORM 10-K
(Mark One)
            [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                  OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                     For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                          OR 
           [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                   OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
        For the transition period from to          to   
                                          --------   -------- 

Commission  Registrant; State of Incorporation; I.R.S. Employer
File Number   Address; and Telephone Number    Identification No.
- -----------   -----------------------------    ------------------

333-21011         FIRSTENERGY CORP.              34-1843785
                  (An Ohio Corporation)
                  76 South Main Street
                  Akron, Ohio  44308
                  Telephone (800)736-3402


1-2578            OHIO EDISON COMPANY           34-0437786
                  (An Ohio Corporation)
                  76 South Main Street
                  Akron, OH  44308
                  Telephone (800)736-3402


1-2323            THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC 
                    ILLUMINATING COMPANY        34-0150020
                  (An Ohio Corporation)
                  c/o FirstEnergy Corp.
                  76 South Main Street
                  Akron, OH  44308
                  Telephone (800)736-3402


1-3583            THE TOLEDO EDISON COMPANY     34-4375005
                  (An Ohio Corporation)
                  c/o FirstEnergy Corp.
                  76 South Main Street
                  Akron, OH  44308
                  Telephone (800)736-3402

1-3491            PENNSYLVANIA POWER COMPANY    25-0718810
                  (A Pennsylvania Corporation)
                  1 East Washington Street
                  P. O. Box 891
                  New Castle, Pennsylvania  16103
                  Telephone (412)652-5531


    SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                              None


        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, 
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, 
in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by 
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this 
Form 10-K.  (X)


        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has 
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of 
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 
months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was 
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such 
filing requirements for the past 90 days:   Yes   X    No  

        State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held 
by non-affiliates of the registrant: $6,831,426,606 as of March 
6, 1998.  Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of 
the registrant's classes of common stock, as of the latest 
practicable date:

                                             OUTSTANDING 
         CLASS                              AT MARCH 26, 1998
         -----                              -----------------

  FirstEnergy Corp., $.10 par value           230,207,141
  Ohio Edison Company, $9 par value                   100
  The Cleveland Electric Illuminating
    Company, no par value                      79,590,689
  The Toledo Edison Company, $5 par value      39,133,887
  Pennsylvania Power Company, $30 par value     6,290,000

FirstEnergy Corp. is the sole holder of Ohio Edison Company, The 
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and The Toledo Edison 
Company common stock; Ohio Edison Company is the sole holder of 
Pennsylvania Power Company common stock.


Documents incorporated by reference (to the extent indicated 
herein):

                                    PART OF FORM 10-K INTO WHICH
           DOCUMENT                  DOCUMENT IS INCORPORATED  
           --------                 ----------------------------
FirstEnergy Corp. Annual Report
  to Stockholders for 
  the fiscal year ended 
  December 31, 1997 (Pages 16-38)             Part II


Proxy Statement for 1998 Annual
  Meeting of Stockholders  
  to be held April 30, 1998                  Part III
 

  SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                           Name of Each Exchange
  Registrant         Title of Each Class     on Which Registered    
  ----------        ---------------------  ---------------------
FirstEnergy Corp.   Common Stock,
                     $.10 par value          New York Stock
                                               Exchange

Ohio Edison Company Cumulative Preferred
                      Stock, $100 par value
                        3.90% Series         All series 
                        4.40% Series           registered on New
                        4.44% Series           York Stock 
                        4.56% Series           Exchange and
                                               Chicago Stock 
                                               Exchange

                    Cumulative Preferred 
                      Stock, $25 par value
                        7.75% Series         Registered on New 
                                               York
                                             Stock Exchange and
                                             Chicago Stock 
                                               Exchange

The Cleveland
Electric             Cumulative Serial
Illuminating          Preferred Stock,
Company               without par value:
                       $7.40 Series A        All series
                       $7.56 Series B          registered on New
                       Adjustable Rate,        York Stock
                          Series L              Exchange

                    Depositary Shares:
                      1993 Series A, 
                       each share            New York Stock
                      representing 1/20 of     Exchange
                      a share of Serial
                      Preferred Stock,
                      $42.40 Series T 
                      (without par value)

                     First Mortgage Bonds:
                      8-3/4% Series due 2005  New York Stock
                                                Exchange
                      8-3/8% Series due 2011  New York Stock
                                                Exchange
                      8-3/8% Series due 2012  New York Stock
                                                Exchange

The Toledo Edison    Cumulative Preferred 
Company                Stock, par value
                       $100 per share:        All series
                       4-1/4% Series            registered on
                       8.32% Series           American Stock 
                       7.76% Series             Exchange
                       10% Series

                     Cumulative Preferred
                       Stock, par value
                       $25 per share:
                       8.84% Series           All series 
                       $2.365 Series            registered on
                       Adjustable Rate,         New York Stock
                         Series A               Exchange
                       Adjustable Rate, 
                         Series B

                     First Mortgage Bonds:
                       7-1/2% Series          All series 
                         due 2002               registered on
                       8% Series                New York Stock
                         due 2003               Exchange

Pennsylvania Power   Cumulative Preferred 
Company                Stock, $100 par value:
                         4.24% Series         All series 
                         4.25% Series           registered on
                         4.64% Series           Philadelphia
                         7.64% Series           Stock Exchange,
                         8.00% Series           Inc.


        This combined Form 10-K is separately filed by 
FirstEnergy Corp., Ohio Edison Company, Pennsylvania Power 
Company, The Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company and The 
Toledo Edison Company. Information contained herein relating to 
any individual registrant is filed by such registrant on its own 
behalf. No registrant makes any representation as to information 
relating to any other registrant, except that information 
relating to any of the four FirstEnergy subsidiaries is also 
attributed to FirstEnergy.

FORM 10-K
                          
                                                             Page
Part I
   Item  1.  Business                                          1
               The Company                                     1
               Utility Regulation                              1
                 PUCO Rate Matters                             2
                 PPUC Rate Matters                             3
                 FERC Rate Matters                             3
                 Fuel Recovery Procedures                      3
               Capital Requirements                            4
               Central Area Power Coordination Group           6
               Nuclear Regulation                              7
               Nuclear Insurance                               7
               Environmental Matters                           9
                 Air Regulation                                9
                 Water Regulation                             10
                 Waste Disposal                               10
                 Summary                                      10
               Fuel Supply                                    11
               System Capacity and Reserves                   12
               Regional Reliability                           12
               Competition                                    13
               Research and Development                       13
               Executive Officers                             14

   Item  2.  Properties                                       15
 
   Item  3.  Legal Proceedings                                16

   Item  4.  Submission of Matters to a 
                Vote of Security Holders                      16

Part II
   Item  5.  Market for Registrant's Common Equity
                and Related Stockholder Matters               16

   Item  6.  Selected Financial Data                          16

   Item  7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of
                Financial Condition and Results of
                Operations                                    16

   Item  8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data      17

   Item  9.  Changes In and Disagreements with Accountants 
                on Accounting and Financial Disclosure        17

Part III
   Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the
                Registrant                                    17

   Item 11.  Executive Compensation                           18

   Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
               Owners and Management                          23
  
   Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions   24


Part IV

   Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules
                and Reports on Form 8-K                       24

PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

          FirstEnergy Corp. (Company) was organized under the 
laws of the State of Ohio in 1996 and became a holding company on 
November 8, 1997 in connection with the merger of Ohio Edison 
Company (OE) and Centerior Energy Corporation (Centerior). The 
Company's principal business is the holding, directly or 
indirectly, of all of the outstanding common stock of its four 
principal electric utility operating subsidiaries, OE, The 
Cleveland Electric Illuminating Company (CEI), Pennsylvania Power 
Company (Penn) and The Toledo Edison Company (TE). These utility 
subsidiaries are referred to throughout as "Companies." Nearly 
all of the Company's consolidated operating revenues are derived 
from electric service provided by its utility operating 
subsidiaries. In addition, the Company holds all of the 
outstanding common stock of its other seven direct subsidiaries, 
FirstEnergy Services Corp. (whose subsidiaries include Roth 
Bros., Inc., a major provider of energy equipment, management and 
control systems), Centerior Service Company (CSC), Centerior 
Properties Company, Centerior Enterprises Corporation, 
FirstEnergy Trading and Power Marketing, Inc., FirstEnergy 
Telecom Corp., and FirstEnergy Securities Transfer Company. 

          The Companies' combined service areas encompass 
approximately 13,200 square miles in central and northern Ohio 
and western Pennsylvania. The areas they serve have combined 
populations of approximately 5,577,000.

          OE was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 
1930 and owns property and does business as an electric public 
utility in that state. OE also has ownership interests in certain 
generating facilities located in the Commonwealth of 
Pennsylvania. OE furnishes electric service to communities in a 
7,500 square mile area of central and northeastern Ohio. It also 
provides transmission services and electric energy for resale to 
certain municipalities in OE's service area and transmission 
services to certain rural cooperatives. OE also engages in the 
sale, purchase and interchange of electric energy with other 
electric companies. The area it serves has a population of 
approximately 2,542,000.

          OE owns all of the outstanding common stock of Penn, a 
Pennsylvania corporation, which furnishes electric service to 
communities in a 1,500 square mile area of western Pennsylvania. 
Penn also provides transmission services and electric energy for 
resale to certain municipalities in Pennsylvania. The area served 
by Penn has a population of approximately 343,000.

          CEI was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio 
in 1892 and does business as an electric public utility in that 
state. It also has ownership interests in certain generating 
facilities in Pennsylvania. CEI furnishes electric service in an 
area of approximately 1,700 square miles in northeastern Ohio, 
including the City of Cleveland. The area CEI serves has a 
population of approximately 2,007,000.

          TE was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 
1901 and does business as an electric public utility in that 
state. It also has ownership interests in certain generating 
facilities in Pennsylvania. TE furnishes electric service in an 
area of approximately 2,500 square miles in northwestern Ohio, 
including the City of Toledo. The area TE serves has a population 
of approximately 685,000.

Utility Regulation

          The Companies are subject to broad regulation as to 
rates and other matters by the Public Utilities Commission of 
Ohio (PUCO) and the Pennsylvania Public Utility Commission 
(PPUC). With respect to their wholesale and interstate electric 
operations and rates, the Companies are subject to regulation, 
including regulation of their accounting policies and practices, 
by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC). Under Ohio 
law, municipalities may regulate rates, subject to appeal to the 
PUCO if not acceptable to the utility.

          In 1986, a law was passed which extended the 
jurisdiction of the PUCO to nonutility affiliates of holding 
companies exempt under Section 3(a)(1) and 3(a)(2) of the Public 
Utility Holding Company Act of 1935 (1935 Act) to the extent that 
the activities of such affiliates affect or relate to the cost of 
providing electric utility service in Ohio. The law, among other 
things, requires PUCO approval of investments in, or the transfer 
of assets to, nonutility affiliates. Investments in such 
affiliates are limited to 15% of the aggregate capitalization of 
the holding company on a consolidated basis. The Company is an 
exempt holding company under Section 3(a)(1) of the 1935 Act, but 
the law has not had any effect on its operations as they are 
currently conducted.

          The Energy Policy Act of 1992 (1992 Act) amended 
portions of the 1935 Act, providing independent power producers 
and other nonregulated generating facilities easier entry into 
electric generation markets. The 1992 Act also amended portions 
of the Federal Power Act, authorizing the FERC, under certain 
circumstances, to mandate access to utility-owned transmission 
facilities. Following the enactment of the 1992 Act, the FERC has 
ordered all utilities to file open access tariffs applicable to 
transmission facilities, including provisions which require 
utilities to offer comparable services on a nondiscriminatory 
basis. The FirstEnergy system has such an open access tariff 
currently in effect (see "FERC Rate Matters").

    PUCO Rate Matters

          OE's Rate Reduction and Economic Development Plan was 
approved by the PUCO in 1995 and a Rate Reduction and Economic 
Development Plan for CEI and TE was approved in January 1997. 
These plans are designed to enhance and accelerate economic 
development within the Companies' Ohio service areas and to 
assure the Companies' customers in those service areas of long-
term competitive pricing for energy services.

          These plans initially maintain current base electric 
rates for OE, CEI and TE through December 31, 2005, unless 
additional revenues are needed to recover the costs of changes in 
environmental, regulatory or tax laws or regulations. At the end 
of the plan periods, OE base rates will be reduced by $300 
million (approximately 20 percent below current levels) and CEI 
and TE base rates will be reduced by a combined $310 million 
(approximately 15 percent below current levels). As part of these 
plans, transition rate credits were implemented for customers, 
which are expected to reduce operating revenues for OE by 
approximately $600 million and CEI and TE by approximately $391 
million during the plan period. The plans also established 
revised fuel recovery rate formulas which eliminated the 
automatic pass-through of fuel costs to their retail customers 
(see "Fuel Recovery Procedures").

          All of OE's regulatory assets and CEI's and TE's 
regulatory assets related to their nonnuclear operations are 
being recovered under provisions of these plans. In addition, the 
PUCO has authorized OE to recognize additional capital recovery 
related to its generating assets (which is reflected as 
additional depreciation expense) and additional amortization of 
regulatory assets during the plan period of at least $2 billion 
more than the amount that would have been recognized if OE's plan 
were not in effect. These additional amounts are being recovered 
through current rates. CEI and TE recognized fair value purchase 
accounting adjustments to reduce nuclear plant by $1.71 billion 
and $.84 billion, respectively, in connection with the 
FirstEnergy merger; these fair value adjustments recognized for 
financial reporting purposes will ultimately satisfy the asset 
reduction commitments of at least $1.4 billion for CEI and $0.6 
billion for TE contained in the CEI and TE plan. For regulatory 
purposes, CEI and TE will recognize accelerated amortization over 
the plan period.

          Based on the Ohio plans, at this time, OE, CEI and TE 
believe they will continue to be able to bill and collect cost-
based rates (with the exception of CEI's and TE's nuclear 
operations); accordingly, it is appropriate that they continue 
the application of SFAS No. 71 "Accounting for the Effects of 
Certain Types of Regulation" (SFAS 71). However, as discussed 
under "Competition" below, changes in the regulatory environment 
are on the horizon in Ohio. The Companies do not expect any 
changes in Ohio regulation to be effective within the next two 
years and cannot assess what the ultimate impact may be. CEI's 
and TE's plan does not provide for full recovery of their nuclear 
operations. As a result, in October 1997 CEI and TE discontinued 
application of SFAS 71 for their nuclear operations and decreased 
their regulatory assets of customer receivables for future income 
taxes related to the nuclear assets by $499 million and $295 
million, respectively, in addition to the fair value adjustments 
referred to above.

    PPUC Rate Matters

          Penn's Rate Stability and Economic Development Plan was 
approved by the PPUC in the second quarter of 1996. This plan 
initially maintains current base electric rates for Penn through 
June 20, 2006 and revised its fuel recovery method (see "Fuel 
Recovery Procedures"). All of Penn's regulatory assets are being 
recovered under provisions of the plan. In addition, the PPUC has 
authorized Penn to recognize additional capital recovery related 
to its generating assets (which is reflected as additional 
depreciation expense) and additional amortization of regulatory 
assets during the plan period of at least $358 million more than 
the amounts that would have been recognized if the plan were not 
in effect. These additional amounts are being recovered through 
current rates.

          In December 1996, Pennsylvania enacted "The Electricity 
Generation Customer Choice and Competition Act," which permitted 
customers, including Penn's customers, to choose their electric 
generation supplier, while transmission and distribution services 
will continue to be supplied by their current providers. In 
accordance with this law, on September 30, 1997, Penn filed a 
restructuring plan with the PPUC. The plan describes how Penn 
will restructure its rates and provide customers with direct 
access to alternative electricity suppliers; customer choice is 
to be phased in over three years beginning in 1999, after 
completion of a two-year pilot program. Penn will continue to 
deliver power to homes and businesses through its transmission 
and distribution system, which remains regulated by the PPUC. 
Penn also plans to sell electricity and energy-related services 
in its own territory and throughout Pennsylvania as an 
alternative supplier through its nonregulated subsidiary, Penn 
Power Energy, Inc. Through the restructuring plan, Penn is 
seeking recovery of $293 million of stranded costs through a 
competitive transition charge starting in 1999 and ending in 
2005, which is consistent with Penn's regulatory plan. The PPUC 
plans to hold public hearings on Penn's restructuring plan early 
in 1998. Based on the changing regulatory environment in 
Pennsylvania, Penn is expected to discontinue its application of 
SFAS 71 for its generation operations, possibly as early as 1998. 
The impact of Penn discontinuing SFAS 71 is not expected to be 
material. However, Penn believes that this legislation will 
continue to provide for cost recovery in a manner which meets the 
criteria for application of SFAS 71 for all non-generation 
operations as described above. 

    FERC Rate Matters

          Rates for wholesale customers are regulated by the 
FERC. The FirstEnergy merger was approved by the FERC on October 
29, 1997, and the Companies have operated as a single utility 
system since December 1997. An open access transmission tariff 
and joint dispatch agreement for the FirstEnergy system are 
currently in effect, subject to refund, pending the outcome of 
hearings before the FERC. A decision is expected on this 
proceeding in late 1998.

    Fuel Recovery Procedures

          In accordance with their respective plans, OE's, CEI's 
and TE's fuel recovery rates have been frozen, subject only to 
limited periodic adjustments. The respective rates are adjusted 
annually based on changes in the GDP Implicit Price Deflator, 
unless significant changes in environmental, regulatory or tax 
laws or regulations increase or decrease the cost of fuel. Such 
changes in laws, regulations and/or taxes would require PUCO 
approval in order to be reflected as an adjustment to the 
Electric Fuel Component (EFC) rate.

          Furthermore, for the period through June 30, 2000, the 
OE EFC rate will be limited to the average fuel cost rate of 
certain utilities within the state. Commencing July 1, 2000, the 
OE EFC rate will be limited to 97% of the average fuel cost rate 
of these companies. The average fuel cost rate for these 
utilities may be adjusted by the PUCO to reflect any significant 
changes in the Phase II environmental compliance plans of such 
companies involving capital additions or equipment utilization.

          After January 1, 2000, the respective EFC rates in 
effect for CEI and TE will be reduced to reflect the elimination 
of annual fixed charges related to a Bruce Mansfield Plant coal 
supply contract (see "Fuel Supply"), which amounts to $13.96 
million for CEI and $8.74 million for TE. The resulting reduced 
EFC rates would be used as the basis for the annual GDP 
adjustment, but, in no event, would either company's annual EFC 
rate exceed 1.465 cents per kWh during the plan period.

          Under its plan, Penn eliminated its energy cost rate 
for the recovery of fuel and net purchased power costs as a 
separate component of customer charges. Energy costs were rolled 
into Penn's base electric rates at their projected 1996-1997 
level.

Capital Requirements

          The Companies' respective total 1997 construction 
costs, excluding nuclear fuel, are shown on the following table. 
Such costs included expenditures for the betterment of existing 
facilities and for the construction of transmission lines, 
distribution lines, substations and other additions. For the 
years 1998 -2002, such construction costs related to their 
regulated businesses are also shown on the following table. The 
Company also expects to invest approximately $300 million during 
1998-2002 ($65 million in 1998) relating to various nonregulated 
business ventures. See "Environmental Matters" below with regard 
to possible environment-related expenditures not included in this 
estimate.

             1997         1998-2002 Construction Forecast  
            Actual     ----------------------------------
            ------     1998      1999-2002          Total
                       ----      ---------          -----
                                (In millions)

  OE         $107      $147         $363           $  510
  Penn         15        18           72               90
  CEI         135 *     105          325              430
  TE           52 *      50          150              200
                       ----         ----           ------
  Total                $320         $910           $1,230
 
   *  Includes CEI's and TE's costs of approximately $17 million
      and $13 million, respectively, for the period from the
      November 8, 1997 merger date to December 31, 1997.

          During the 1998 -2002 period, maturities of, and 
sinking fund requirements for, long-term debt and preferred stock 
of the Companies are:







                 Preferred Stock and Long-Term Debt
                    1998-2002 Redemption Schedule  
                 ----------------------------------
                 1998      1999-2002       Total
                 ----      ---------       -----
                         (In millions)

  OE             $166         $901        $1,067
  Penn              1           27            28
  CEI              81          775           856
  TE               40          402           442
                 ----       ------        ------
  Total          $288       $2,105        $2,393

          OE's and Penn's nuclear fuel purchases are financed 
through OES Fuel (a wholly owned subsidiary of OE) commercial 
paper and loans, both of which are supported by a $225 million 
long-term bank credit agreement. CEI and TE severally lease their 
respective portions of nuclear fuel and pay for the fuel as it is 
consumed. The Companies' respective investments for additional 
nuclear fuel, and nuclear fuel investment reductions as the fuel 
is consumed, during the 1998 -2002 period are represented in the 
following table. The table also shows the Companies' net 
operating lease commitments for the 1998-2002 period. The 
Companies recover the cost of nuclear fuel consumed and operating 
leases through their electric rates.





          Short-term borrowings outstanding at December 31, 1997, 
consisted of $182.2 million of OE's bank borrowings and $120.0 
million of OES Capital, Incorporated commercial paper. OES 
Capital is a wholly owned subsidiary of OE whose borrowings are 
secured by customer accounts receivable. OES Capital can borrow 
up to $120 million under a receivables financing agreement at 
rates based on certain bank commercial paper. The Company and its 
utility operating subsidiaries also had $162 million (Company-
$125 million, OE-$35 million and Penn-$2 million) available under 
revolving lines of credit as of December 31, 1997. The Company 
plans to transfer any of its borrowings under its $125 million 
line of credit to CEI and/or TE. In addition, $26 million (OE-$14 
million and Penn-$12 million) was available through bank 
facilities that provide for borrowings on a short-term basis at 
the banks' discretion.

          Based on their present plans, the Companies could 
provide for their cash requirements in 1998 from the following 
sources: funds to be received from operations; available cash and 
temporary cash investments (approximate amounts as of December 
31, 1997: Company's nonutility subsidiaries-$37 million, OE-$4 
million, Penn-$1 million, CEI-$34 million and TE-$22 million); 
the issuance of long-term debt (for refunding purposes) and funds 
available under revolving credit arrangements.

          The extent and type of future financings will depend on 
the need for external funds as well as market conditions, the 
maintenance of an appropriate capital structure and the ability 
of the Companies to comply with coverage requirements in order to 
issue first mortgage bonds and preferred stock. The Companies 
will continue to monitor financial market conditions and, where 
appropriate, may take advantage of economic opportunities to 
refund debt and preferred stock to the extent that their 
financial resources permit.

          The coverage requirements contained in the first 
mortgage indentures under which the Companies issue first 
mortgage bonds provide that, except for certain refunding 
purposes, the Companies may not issue first mortgage bonds unless 
applicable net earnings (before income taxes), calculated as 
provided in the indentures, for any period of twelve consecutive 
months within the fifteen calendar months preceding the month in 
which such additional bonds are issued, are at least twice annual 
interest requirements on outstanding first mortgage bonds, 
including those being issued. Under OE's first mortgage 
indenture, the availability of property additions is more 
restrictive than the earnings test at the present time and would 
limit the amount of first mortgage bonds issuable against 
property additions to $350 million. OE is currently able to issue 
$1.05 billion principal amount of first mortgage bonds against 
previously retired bonds without the need to meet the above 
restrictions. Under Penn's first mortgage indenture, other 
requirements also apply and are more restrictive than the 
earnings test at the present time. Penn is currently able to 
issue $248 million principal amount of first mortgage bonds, with 
up to $111 million of such amount issuable against property 
additions; the remainder could be issued against previously 
retired bonds. Purchase accounting revaluation applied to CEI's 
and TE's net assets under the merger reduced CEI's and TE's 
available bondable property so that first mortgage bonds cannot 
currently be issued against property additions.

          OE's , Penn's and TE's respective articles of 
incorporation prohibit the sale of preferred stock unless 
applicable gross income, calculated as provided in the articles 
of incorporation, is equal to at least 1-1/2 times the aggregate 
of the annual interest requirements on indebtedness and annual 
dividend requirements on preferred stock outstanding immediately 
thereafter. Based upon earnings for 1997 and at an assumed 
dividend rate of 8.5%, OE and Penn would be permitted, under the 
earnings coverage test contained in their respective charters, to 
issue at least $1.3 billion and $107 million of preferred stock, 
respectively. Based on its 1997 earnings, TE could not issue 
additional preferred stock. There are no restrictions on CEI's 
ability to issue preferred stock.

          To the extent that coverage requirements or market 
conditions restrict the Companies' abilities to issue desired 
amounts of first mortgage bonds or preferred stock, the Companies 
may seek other methods of financing. Such financings could 
include the sale of preferred or and preference stock or of such 
other types of securities as might be authorized by applicable 
regulatory authorities which would not otherwise be sold and 
could result in annual interest charges and/or dividend 
requirements in excess of those that would otherwise be incurred.

Central Area Power Coordination Group (CAPCO)

          In September 1967, the CAPCO companies, which consists 
of the Companies and Duquesne Light Company (Duquesne), announced 
a program for joint development of power generation and 
transmission facilities. Included in the program are Unit 7 at 
the W. H. Sammis Plant, Unit 5 at the Eastlake Plant, Units 1, 2 
and 3 at the Bruce Mansfield Plant, Units 1 and 2 at the Beaver 
Valley Power Station, the Perry Nuclear Power Plant and the 
Davis-Besse Nuclear Power Station, each now in service.

          The present CAPCO Basic Operating Agreement provides, 
among other things, for coordinated maintenance responsibilities 
among the CAPCO companies, a limited and qualified mutual backup 
arrangement in the event of outage of CAPCO units and certain 
capacity and energy transactions among the CAPCO companies.

          The agreements among the CAPCO companies generally 
treat OE and Penn as a single system as between them and the 
other three CAPCO companies, but, in agreements between the CAPCO 
companies and others, all five companies are treated as separate 
entities. Subject to any rights that might arise among the CAPCO 
companies as such, each member company, severally and not 
jointly, is obligated to pay only its proportionate share of the 
costs associated with the facilities and the cost of required 
fuel. The CAPCO companies have agreed that any modification of 
their arrangements or of their agreed-upon programs requires 
their unanimous consent. Should any member become unable to 
continue to pay its share of the costs associated with a CAPCO 
facility, each of the other CAPCO companies could be adversely 
affected in varying degrees because it may become necessary for 
the remaining members to assume such costs for the account of the 
defaulting member.

          Under the agreements governing the construction and 
operation of CAPCO generating units, the responsibility is 
assigned to a specific CAPCO company. CEI has such 
responsibilities for Perry and Eastlake Unit 5, Duquesne is 
responsible for Beaver Valley Units 1 and 2, TE is responsible 
for Davis-Besse, OE for Sammis Unit 7 and Penn for Bruce 
Mansfield Units 1, 2 and 3. The Companies monitor activities in 
connection with Beaver Valley Units 1 and 2 but must rely to a 
significant degree on Duquesne for necessary information. The 
Companies in their oversight role as a practical matter cannot be 
privy to every detail; it is Duquesne that must directly 
supervise activities and then exercise its reporting 
responsibilities to the co-owners. The Companies critically 
review the information given to it by Duquesne, but they cannot 
be absolutely certain that things they would have considered 
significant have been reported or that they always would have 
reached exactly the same conclusion about matters that are 
reported. In addition, the time that is necessarily part of the 
compiling and analyzing process creates a lag between the 
occurrence of events and the time the Companies becomes aware of 
their significance.

Nuclear Regulation

          The construction and operation of nuclear generating 
units are subject to the regulatory jurisdiction of the Nuclear 
Regulatory Commission (NRC) including the issuance by it of 
construction permits and operating licenses. The NRC's procedures 
with respect to application for construction permits and 
operating licenses afford opportunities for interested parties to 
request public hearings on health, safety, environmental and 
antitrust issues. In this connection, the NRC may require 
substantial changes in operation or the installation of 
additional equipment to meet safety or environmental standards 
with resulting delay and added costs. The possibility also exists 
for modification, denial or revocation of licenses or permits. 
Davis-Besse was placed in commercial operation in 1977, and its 
operating license expires in 2017. Beaver Valley Unit 1 was 
placed in commercial operation in 1976, and its opening license 
expires in 2016. Perry Unit 1 and Beaver Valley Unit 2 were 
placed in commercial operation in 1987, and their operating 
licenses expire in 2026 and 2027, respectively.

          The NRC has promulgated and continues to promulgate 
regulations related to the safe operation of nuclear power 
plants. The Companies cannot predict what additional regulations 
will be promulgated or design changes required or the effect that 
any such regulations or design changes, or the consideration 
thereof, may have upon Beaver Valley, Davis-Besse and Perry. 
Although the Companies have no reason to anticipate an accident 
at any nuclear plant in which they have an interest, if such an 
accident did happen, it could have a material but currently 
undeterminable adverse effect on the Company's consolidated 
financial position. In addition, such an accident at any 
operating nuclear plant, whether or not owned by the Companies, 
could result in regulations or requirements that could affect the 
operation or licensing of plants that the Companies do own with a 
consequent but currently undeterminable adverse impact, and could 
affect the Companies' abilities to raise funds in the capital 
markets.

Nuclear Insurance

          The Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability 
which can be assessed with respect to a nuclear power plant to 
$8.92 billion (assuming 110 units licensed to operate) for a 
single nuclear incident, which amount is covered by: (i) private 
insurance amounting to $200 million; and (ii) $8.72 billion 
provided by an industry retrospective rating plan required by the 
NRC pursuant thereto. Under such retrospective rating plan, in 
the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in the United States 
resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to $75.5 
million (but not more than $10 million per unit per year in the 
event of more than one incident) must be contributed for each 
nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees 
thereof to cover liabilities arising out of the incident. Based 
on their present ownership and leasehold interests in Beaver 
Valley, Perry and Davis-Besse, the Companies' maximum potential 
assessment under these provisions (assuming the other co-owner 
were to contribute its proportionate share of any assessments 
under the retrospective rating plan) would be $257.7 million (OE-
$84.8 million, Penn-$18.0 million, CEI-$84.8 million and TE-$70.1 
million) per incident but not more than $32.5 million (OE-$10.7 
million, Penn-$2.3 million, CEI-$10.7 million and TE-$8.8 
million) in any one year for each incident.

          In addition to the public liability insurance provided 
pursuant to the Price-Anderson Act, the Companies have also 
obtained insurance coverage in limited amounts for economic loss 
and property damage arising out of nuclear incidents. The 
Companies are members of Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited 
(NEIL) which provides coverage (NEIL I) for the extra expense of 
replacement power incurred due to prolonged accidental outages of 
nuclear units. Under NEIL I, the Companies have policies, 
renewable yearly, corresponding to their respective interests in 
Beaver Valley, Perry and Davis-Besse, which provide an aggregate 
indemnity of up to approximately $809 million (OE-$180 million, 
Penn-$53 million, CEI-$316 million and TE-$260 million) for 
replacement power costs incurred during an outage after an 
initial 21-week (17 weeks for Davis-Besse) waiting period. 
Members of NEIL I pay annual premiums and are subject to 
assessments if losses exceed the accumulated funds available to 
the insurer. The Companies' present maximum aggregate assessment 
for incidents at any covered nuclear facility occurring during a 
policy year would be approximately $7.2 million (OE-$1.8 million, 
Penn-$.5 million, CEI-$2.7 million and TE-$2.2 million).

          The Companies are insured as to their respective 
interests in Beaver Valley, Perry and Davis-Besse under property 
damage insurance provided by American Nuclear Insurers, Mutual 
Atomic Energy Liability Underwriters and NEIL to the operating 
company for each plant. Under these arrangements, $2.75 billion 
of coverage for decontamination costs, decommissioning costs, 
debris removal and repair and/or replacement of property is 
provided for Beaver Valley, Perry and Davis-Besse. The Companies 
pay annual premiums for this coverage and are liable for 
retrospective assessments of up to approximately $29.4 million 
(OE-$8.9 million, Penn-$1.8 million, CEI-$10.3 million and TE-
$8.4 million) during a policy year.

          The Companies intend to maintain insurance against 
nuclear risks as described above as long as it is available. To 
the extent that replacement power, property damage, 
decontamination, decommissioning, repair and replacement costs 
and other such costs arising from a nuclear incident at any of 
the Companies' plants exceed the policy limits of the insurance 
in effect with respect to that plant, to the extent a nuclear 
incident is determined not to be covered by the Companies' 
insurance policies, or to the extent such insurance becomes 
unavailable in the future, the Companies would remain at risk for 
such costs.

          The NRC requires nuclear power plant licensees to 
obtain minimum property insurance coverage of $1.06 billion or 
the amount generally available from private sources, whichever is 
less. The proceeds of this insurance are required to be used 
first to ensure that the licensed reactor is in a safe and stable 
condition and can be maintained in that condition so as to 
prevent any significant risk to the public health and safety. 
Within 30 days of stabilization, the licensee is required to 
prepare and submit to the NRC a cleanup plan for approval. The 
plan is required to identify all cleanup operations necessary to 
decontaminate the reactor sufficiently to permit the resumption 
of operations or to commence decommissioning. Any property 
insurance proceeds not already expended to place the reactor in a 
safe and stable condition must be used first to complete those 
decontamination operations that are ordered by the NRC. The 
Companies are unable to predict what effect these requirements 
may have on the availability of insurance proceeds to the 
Companies for the Companies' bondholders.

Environmental Matters

          Various federal, state and local authorities regulate 
the Companies with regard to air and water quality and other 
environmental matters. The Companies have estimated capital 
expenditures for environmental compliance of approximately $50 
million, which is included in the construction estimate given 
under "Capital Requirements" for 1998 through 2002.

    Air Regulation

          Under the provisions of the Clean Air Act of 1970, both 
the State of Ohio and the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania adopted 
ambient air quality standards, and related emission limits, 
including limits for sulfur dioxide (SO2) and particulates. In 
addition, the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
promulgated an SO2 regulatory plan for Ohio which became 
effective for OE's, CEI's and TE's plants in 1977. Generating 
plants to be constructed in the future and some future 
modifications of existing facilities will be covered not only by 
the applicable state standards but also by EPA emission 
performance standards for new sources. In both Ohio and 
Pennsylvania the construction or modification of emission sources 
requires approval from appropriate environmental authorities, and 
the facilities involved may not be operated unless a permit or 
variance to do so has been issued by those same authorities.

          The Companies are in compliance with the current SO2 
and nitrogen oxides (NOx) reduction requirements under the Clean 
Air Act Amendments of 1990. SO2 reductions through the year 1999 
will be achieved by burning lower-sulfur fuel, generating more 
electricity from lower-emitting plants, and/or purchasing 
emission allowances. Plans for complying with reductions required 
for the year 2000 and thereafter have not been finalized. EPA is 
conducting additional studies which could indicate the need for 
additional NOx reductions from the Companies' Pennsylvania 
facilities by the year 2003. In addition, the EPA is also 
considering the need for additional NOx  reductions from the 
Companies' Ohio facilities. On November 7, 1997, the EPA proposed 
uniform reductions of NOx emissions across a region of twenty-two 
states, including Ohio and the District of Columbia (NOx 
Transport Rule) after determining that such NOx emissions are 
contributing significantly to ozone pollution in the eastern 
United States. In a separate but related action, eight states 
filed petitions with the EPA under Section 126 of the Clean Air 
Act seeking reductions of NOx emissions which are alleged to 
contribute to ozone pollution in the eight petitioning states. A 
December 1997 EPA Memorandum of Agreement proposes to finalize 
the NOx Transport Rule by September 30, 1998, and establishes a 
schedule for EPA action on the Section 126 petitions. The cost of 
such reductions, if required, may be substantial. The Companies 
continue to evaluate their compliance plans and other compliance 
options.

          The Companies are required to meet federally approved 
SO2 regulations. Violations of such regulations can result in 
shutdown of the generating unit involved and/or civil or criminal 
penalties of up to $25,000 for each day the unit is in violation. 
The EPA has an interim enforcement policy for SO2 regulations in 
Ohio that allows for compliance based on a 30-day averaging 
period. The Companies cannot predict what action the EPA may take 
in the future with respect to proposed regulations or the interim 
enforcement policy.

          In July 1997, EPA promulgated changes in the National 
Ambient Air Quality Standard (NAAQS)for ozone and proposed a new 
NAAQS for previously unregulated ultra-fine particulate matter. 
The cost of compliance with these regulations may be substantial 
and depends on the manner in which they are implemented by the 
states in which the Companies operate affected facilities.

    Water Regulation

          Various water quality regulations, the majority of 
which are the result of the federal Clean Water Act and its 
amendments, apply to the Companies' plants. In addition, Ohio and 
Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to the 
Companies' operations. As provided in the Clean Water Act, 
authority to grant federal National Pollutant Discharge 
Elimination System (NPDES) water discharge permits can be assumed 
by a state. Ohio and Pennsylvania have assumed such authority.

    Waste Disposal

          As a result of the Resource Conservation and Recovery 
Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 
1976, federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been 
promulgated. Certain fossil-fuel combustion waste products, such 
as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste disposal 
requirements pending EPA's evaluation of the need for future 
regulation. EPA has issued its final regulatory determination 
that regulation of coal ash as a hazardous waste is unnecessary.

          OE,CEI and TE have been named as "potentially 
responsible parties" (PRPs) at waste disposal sites which may 
require cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, 
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980. Allegations that the 
Companies disposed of hazardous substances at historical sites 
and the liability involved, are often unsubstantiated and subject 
to dispute. Federal law provides that all PRPs for a particular 
site be held liable on a joint and several basis. CEI and TE have 
accrued a liability totaling $5.9 million at December 31, 1997 
based on estimates of the costs of cleanup and the proportionate 
responsibility of other PRPs for such costs. OE, CEI and TE 
believe that waste disposal costs will not have a material 
adverse effect on their financial condition, cash flows or 
results of operations.

          In 1980, Congress passed the Low-Level Radioactive 
Waste Policy Act which provides that the disposal of low-level 
radioactive waste is the responsibility of the state where such 
waste is generated. The Act encourages states to form compacts 
among themselves to develop regional disposal facilities. Failure 
by a state or compact to begin implementation of a program could 
result in access denial to the two facilities currently accepting 
low-level radioactive waste. Ohio is part of the Midwest Compact 
and has responsibility for siting and constructing a disposal 
facility. On June 26, 1997, the Midwest Compact Commission 
(Compact) voted to cease all siting activities in the host state 
of Ohio and to dismantle the Ohio Low-Level Radioactive Waste 
Facility Development Authority, the statutory agency charged with 
siting and constructing the low-level radioactive waste disposal 
facility. While the Compact remains intact, it has no plans to 
site or construct a low-level radioactive waste disposal facility 
in the Midwest. The Companies continue to ship low-level 
radioactive waste from their nuclear facilities to the Barnwell, 
South Carolina waste disposal facility.

    Summary

          Environmental controls are still in the process of 
development and require, in many instances, balancing the needs 
for additional quantities of energy in future years and the need 
to protect the environment. As a result, the Companies cannot now 
estimate the precise effect of existing and potential regulations 
and legislation upon any of their existing and proposed 
facilities and operations or upon their ability to issue 
additional first mortgage bonds under their respective mortgages. 
These mortgages contain covenants by the Companies to observe and 
conform to all valid governmental requirements at the time 
applicable unless in course of contest, and provisions which, in 
effect, prevent the issuance of additional bonds if there is a 
completed default under the mortgage. The provisions of each of 
the mortgages, in effect, also require, in the opinion of counsel 
for the respective Companies, that certification of property 
additions as the basis for the issuance of bonds or other action 
under the mortgages be accompanied by an opinion of counsel that 
the company certifying such property additions has all 
governmental permissions at the time necessary for its then 
current ownership and operation of such property additions. The 
Companies intend to contest any requirements they deem 
unreasonable or impossible for compliance or otherwise contrary 
to the public interest. Developments in these and other areas of 
regulation may require the Companies to modify, supplement or 
replace equipment and facilities, and may delay or impede the 
construction and operation of new facilities, at costs which 
could be substantial.

Fuel Supply

          The Companies' sources of generation during 1997 were:

                             Coal              Nuclear
                             ----              -------
               OE            76.5%              23.5%
               Penn          73.8%              26.2%
               CEI           63.0%              37.0%
               TE            43.0%              57.0%

          The Companies have long-term coal contracts providing 
for annual tons of approximately: OE - 6,400,000; Penn - 
1,248,000; CEI - 3,900,000; and TE-1,100,000. These contracts 
include the Companies' portion of the coal purchase contract 
relating to the Bruce Mansfield Plant discussed below. This 
contract coal is produced primarily from mines located in Ohio, 
Pennsylvania, Kentucky, Wyoming and West Virginia; the contracts 
expire at various times through December 31, 2003.

          The Companies estimate their 1998 coal requirements to 
be approximately 18,646,000 tons (including their respective 
shares of the coal requirements of CAPCO's Eastlake Unit 5, 
Sammis Unit 7 and the Bruce Mansfield Plant). See "Environmental 
Matters" for factors pertaining to meeting environmental 
regulations affecting coal-fired generating units.

          The Companies have each severally guaranteed (OE's, 
CEI's, TE's and Penn's composite percentages being approximately 
46.8%, 17.6%, 10.3% and 6.7%, respectively) certain debt and 
lease obligations in connection with a coal supply contract for 
the Bruce Mansfield Plant (see "Commitments, Guarantees and 
Contingencies" notes to the respective financial statements). As 
of December 31, 1997, the Companies' shares of the guarantees 
were $66.1 million. The price under the coal supply contract, 
which includes certain minimum payments, has been determined to 
be sufficient to satisfy the debt and lease obligations. This 
contract expires December 31, 1999.

          The Companies' fuel costs (excluding disposal costs) 
for each of the five years ended December 31, 1997, were as 
follows:
                          1997   1996   1995   1994   1993
Cost of fuel consumed 
   per million BTUs:
Coal:     OE             $1.31  $1.33  $1.37  $1.36  $1.37
          Penn            1.27   1.31   1.30   1.34   1.37
          CEI             1.41   1.50   1.56   1.50   1.40
          TE              1.54   1.79   1.86   1.76   1.82
Nuclear:  OE             $ .58  $ .66  $ .79  $ .94  $1.04
          Penn             .61    .64    .77    .88    .97
          CEI              .76    .84    .98    .98   1.02
          TE               .66    .74    .91    .92    .95
Average fuel cost per 
   kilowatt-hour 
   generated (cents):
          OE              1.17   1.20   1.27   1.31   1.36
          Penn            1.17   1.15   1.20   1.29   1.36
          CEI             1.23   1.35   1.42   1.35   1.37
          TE              1.06   1.26   1.32   1.35   1.42

          OES Fuel is the sole lessor for OE's and Penn's nuclear 
fuel requirements (see "Capital Requirements" and Note 4G of 
Notes to OE's Consolidated Financial Statements). Nuclear fuel is 
currently financed for CEI and TE through leases with a special-
purpose corporation.

          OE, Penn and OES Fuel have contracts for the supply of 
uranium sufficient to meet projected needs through 2000 and 
conversion services sufficient to meet projected needs through 
2001. Fabrication services for fuel assemblies have been 
contracted by the CAPCO companies for the next four reloads for 
Beaver Valley Unit 1, three reloads for Beaver Valley Unit 2 
(through approximately 2003 and 2002, respectively), the next two 
reloads for Perry (through approximately 2001), and the next four 
reloads for Davis-Besse (through approximately 2004). The 
Companies have a contract with U.S. Enrichment Corporation for 
the majority of their enrichment requirements for nuclear fuel 
through 2014.

          Prior to the expiration of existing commitments, the 
Companies intend to make additional arrangements for the supply 
of uranium and for the subsequent conversion, enrichment, 
fabrication, reprocessing and/or waste disposal services, the 
specific prices and availability of which are not known at this 
time. Due to the present lack of availability of domestic 
reprocessing services, to the continuing absence of any program 
to begin development of such reprocessing capability and 
questions as to the economics of reprocessing, the Companies are 
calculating nuclear fuel costs based on the assumption that spent 
fuel will not be reprocessed. On-site spent fuel storage 
facilities for Perry and Davis-Besse, are expected to be adequate 
through 2010 and 2017, respectively; facilities at Beaver Valley 
Units 1 and 2 are expected to be adequate through 2011 and 2005, 
respectively. After on-site storage capacity is exhausted, 
additional storage capacity will have to be obtained which could 
result in significant additional costs unless reprocessing 
services or permanent waste disposal facilities become available. 
The Federal Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 provides for the 
construction of facilities for the disposal of high-level nuclear 
wastes, including spent fuel from nuclear power plants operated 
by electric utilities; however, the selection of a suitable site 
has become embroiled in the political process. Duquesne, CEI and 
TE have each previously entered into contracts with the U.S. 
Department of Energy (DOE) for the disposal of spent fuel from 
Beaver Valley, Perry, and Davis-Besse, respectively. On December 
17, 1996, the DOE notified the Companies that it would be unable 
to begin acceptance of spent fuel for disposal by January 31, 
1998 as mandated by Section 302(a)(5)(B) of the Nuclear Waste 
Policy Act (NPA). As a result, the Companies along with over 40 
other nuclear utilities and more than 50 state agencies have 
asked for federal court approval to stop payments into the 
Nuclear Waste Fund and for an order requiring DOE to take 
immediate action to accept delivery of spent nuclear fuel.

System Capacity and Reserves

          The respective 1997 net maximum hourly demand on each 
of the Companies was OE-5,389,000 kilowatts (kW) (including 
387,000 kW of firm power sales which extend through 2005 as 
discussed under "Competition") on June 25, 1997; Penn-836,000 kW 
(including 63,000 kW of firm power sales) on June 25, 1997; CEI-
3,955,000 kW on June 25, 1997; and TE-1,813,000 kW on July 14 
1997. 

          Based on existing capacity plans, the load forecast 
made in December 1997 and anticipated term power sales to other 
utilities, the capacity margins during the 1998-2002 period are 
expected to range from about 8% to 10% for the FirstEnergy 
system.

Regional Reliability

          The Companies participate with 24 other electric 
companies operating in nine states in the East Central Area 
Reliability Coordination Agreement (ECAR), which was organized 
for the purpose of furthering the reliability of bulk power 
supply in the area through coordination of the planning and 
operation by the ECAR members of their bulk power supply 
facilities. The ECAR members have established principles and 
procedures regarding matters affecting the reliability of the 
bulk power supply within the ECAR region. Procedures have been 
adopted regarding: i) the evaluation and simulated testing of 
systems' performance; ii) the establishment of minimum levels of 
daily operating reserves; iii) the development of a program 
regarding emergency procedures during conditions of declining 
system frequency; and iv) the basis for uniform rating of 
generating equipment.

Competition

          The Companies compete with other utilities for 
intersystem bulk power sales and for sales to municipalities and 
cooperatives. The Companies compete with suppliers of natural gas 
and other forms of energy in connection with their industrial and 
commercial sales and in the home climate control market, both 
with respect to new customers and conversions, and with all other 
suppliers of electricity. To date, there has been no substantial 
cogeneration by the Companies' customers.

          Technological advances and regulatory changes are 
driving forces toward increasing competition in the energy 
market. The Pennsylvania pilot program, which allows residents to 
choose their electric generation supplier (see "Utility 
Regulation--PPUC Rate Matters") is one such regulatory change. In 
addition, many large electricity users continue to push for some 
form of retail wheeling, which would enable retail customers to 
purchase electricity from producers other than the local utility. 
In February 1996, the PUCO approved a change allowing large 
industrial customers that have interruptible service contracts to 
buy their power from other sources when they have been advised by 
their local utility that service will be interrupted. On January 
6, 1998, the co-chairs of the Ohio General Assembly's Joint 
Select Committee on Electric Industry Deregulation released their 
draft report of a plan which proposes to give customers a choice 
from whom they buy electricity beginning January 1, 2000. No 
consensus has been reached by the full Committee; in the 
meantime, legislation consistent with the co-chairs' draft report 
may be introduced into the General Assembly by one or both of the 
co-chairs.

          In an effort to more fully utilize their facilities and 
hold down rates to their other customers, OE and Penn have 
entered into a long-term power sales agreement with another 
utility. Currently, OE and Penn are selling 450,000 kW annually 
under this contract through December 31, 2005. OE and Penn have 
the option to reduce this commitment by 150,000 kW, with three 
years' advance notice.

Research and Development

          The Companies participate in funding the Electric Power 
Research Institute (EPRI), which was formed for the purpose of 
expanding electric research and development under the voluntary 
sponsorship of the nation's electric utility industry -- public, 
private and cooperative. Its goal is to mutually benefit 
utilities and their customers by promoting the development of new 
and improved technologies to help the utility industry meet 
present and future electric energy needs in environmentally and 
economically acceptable ways. EPRI conducts research on all 
aspects of electric power production and use, including fuels, 
generating, delivery, energy management and conservation, 
environmental effects and energy analysis. The major portion of 
EPRI research and development projects is directed toward 
practical solutions and their applications to problems currently 
facing the electric utility industry. In 1997, approximately 69% 
of the Companies' research and development expenditures were 
related to EPRI.

Executive Officers

          The executive officers are elected at the annual 
organization meeting of the Board of Directors, held immediately 
after the annual meeting of stockholders, and hold office until 
the next such organization meeting, unless the Board of Directors 
shall otherwise determine, or unless a resignation is submitted.





          At December 31, 1997, the Company's nonutility 
subsidiaries and the Companies had a total of 10,020 employees 
consisting of the following:  OE-3,218, CEI - 3,162, TE - 1,532, 
Penn - 997 and CSC - 1,111 employees.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

          The Companies' respective first mortgage indentures 
constitute, in the opinion of the Companies' counsel, direct 
first liens on substantially all of the respective Companies' 
physical property, subject only to excepted encumbrances, as 
defined in the indentures. See "Leases" and "Capitalization" 
notes to the respective financial statements for information 
concerning leases and financing encumbrances affecting certain of 
the Companies' properties.

          The Companies own, individually or together with other 
companies as tenants in common, and/or lease, the generating 
units in service as of March 1, 1998, shown on the table below.



          Prolonged outages of existing generating units might 
make it necessary for the Companies, depending upon the demand 
for electric service upon their system, to use to a greater 
extent than otherwise, less efficient and less economic 
generating units, or purchased power, and in some cases may 
require the reduction of load during peak periods under the 
Companies' interruptible programs, all to an extent not presently 
determinable.

          The Companies' generating plants and load centers are 
connected by a transmission system consisting of elements having 
various voltage ratings ranging from 23 kilovolts (kV) to 345 kV. 
The Companies' overhead and underground transmission lines 
aggregate 7,505 miles.

          The Companies' electric distribution systems include 
55,141 miles of overhead pole line and underground conduit 
carrying primary, secondary and street lighting circuits. They 
own, individually or together with one or more of the other CAPCO 
companies as tenants in common, substations with a total 
installed transformer capacity of 49,286, 125 kilovolt-amperes.

          The Companies' transmission lines also interconnect 
with those of AEP, The Dayton Power and Light Company, Duquesne, 
Monongahela Power Company, West Penn Power Company, Detroit 
Edison Company and Pennsylvania Electric Company. These 
interconnections make possible utilization by the Companies of 
generating capacity constructed as a part of the CAPCO program, 
as well as providing opportunities for the sale of power to other 
utilities.

                                                Substation
               Distribution    Transmission    Transformer
                  Systems         Lines          Capacity 
               ------------    ------------    -----------
                          (Miles)              (kV-amperes)

        OE        26,220           3,873        20,603,056
        Penn       5,110             606         3,938,069
        CEI       23,305           2,351        16,669,000
        TE           506             675         8,076,000
                  ------           -----        ----------
        Total     55,141           7,505        49,286,125


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

         None.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

         None.

                               PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

          The information required for this item for FirstEnergy 
and OE (through November 7, 1997) is included on page 17 of 
FirstEnergy's 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders (Exhibit 13).  
The information required for CEI, TE and Penn is not applicable 
because they are wholly owned subsidiaries.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

          The information called for by Items 6 through 8 is 
incorporated herein by reference to Selected Financial Data, 
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and 
Financial Condition, and Financial Statements included on the 
pages shown in the following table in the respective company's 
1997 Annual Report to Stockholders (Exhibit 13).

                 Item 6   Item 7       Item 8
                 ------   ------       ------
FirstEnergy         17     18-21      16,22-38
OE                   1      2-7           8-29
Penn                 1      2-4           5-16
CEI                  1      2-7           8-30
TE                   1      2-7           8-30

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
         ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

         None.

                          PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    FirstEnergy
    -----------

          The information required by Item 10, with respect to 
Identification of FirstEnergy's Directors and with respect to 
reports required to be filed under Section 16 of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, is incorporated herein by reference to the 
Company's 1998 Proxy Statement filed with the Securities and 
Exchange Commission (SEC) pursuant to Regulation 14A and, with 
respect to Identification of Executive Officers, to "Part I, Item 
1. Business- Executive Officers" herein.

    OE, CEI and TE
    --------------

          W. R. Holland, H. P. Burg and A. J. Alexander are the 
Directors of OE, CEI, and TE since the Ohio Edison-Centerior 
merger. Information concerning these individuals is shown in the 
"Executive Officers" section of Item 1.

    Penn
    ----

          The present term of office of each Penn director 
extends until the next succeeding annual meeting of stockholders 
and until his successor is elected and shall qualify.

          The Penn executive officers are elected at the annual 
organization meeting of the Penn Board of Directors, held 
immediately after the annual meeting of stockholders, and hold 
office until the next such organization meeting, unless the Board 
of Directors shall otherwise determine, or unless a resignation 
is submitted.

H. Peter Burg -Age 51

  President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company; and
  President of OE, CEI and TE since 1997.
  President, Chief Operating Officer and Chief Financial Officer
  of OE from 1996 to 1997. Senior Vice President and Chief
  Financial Officer of OE from 1989 to 1996. President of Penn
  from 1994 to 1995. Director of Penn since 1989. Mr. Burg is
  also a director of the Company, OE, CEI and TE.

Willard R. Holland -Age 61

  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the
  Company since 1997.
  Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, and Chief
  Financial Officer of Penn, since 1993. Chairman of the Board
  and Chief Executive Officer of OE, from 1996 to 1997.
  President and Chief Executive Officer of OE, from 1993 to
  1996. President and Chief Operating Officer of OE from 1991
  to 1993. Director of Penn since 1991. Mr. Holland is also a
  director of the Company, OE, CEI, TE and A. Schulman, Inc.

R. Joseph Hrach -Age 49

  President of Penn since 1996. Division Manager, Stark Division,
  of OE from 1991 to 1996. Director of Penn since 1996.

Joseph J. Nowak -Age 66

  Retired. Consultant to Armco Inc. during 1993 and Vice
  President during 1992 of Armco Inc., and Executive Vice
  President-Operations from 1988 to 1992 of Cyclops Industries, 
  Inc., manufacturers of steel products. Cyclops Industries, Inc.
  merged with Armco Inc. in 1992. Director of Penn since 1982.

Jack E. Reed -Age 55

  Vice President of Penn since 1992. Director of Penn since 1992.

Richard L. Werner -Age 66

  Retired in 1997 as Chairman of the Board, President, and Chief
  Executive Officer of Werner Co., Inc., manufacturer of aluminum
  extrusions, ladders and scaffolding. Director of Penn since
  1993.

Robert P. Wushinske -Age 58

  Secretary and General Counsel of Penn since 1994 and Vice
  President and Treasurer of Penn since 1987.

David W. McKean -Age 45

  Director, Budget and Financial Reporting Services of the
  Company since 1997. Comptroller of Penn since 1992.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

FirstEnergy -  The information required by this item is
  incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1998 Proxy
  Statement filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A.

OE CEI and TE - The information required by this item follows:




             CERTAIN SEVERANCE PAY AGREEMENTS

          Information related to severance pay agreements with 
each of Messrs. Holland, Burg, Alexander and Gill are 
incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1998 Proxy 
Statement. In 1996, Centerior entered into a severance pay 
agreement with Mr. Lange providing for the payment of severance 
benefits in the event that his employment was to terminate other 
than for cause, death or disability as a result of a merger. This 
agreement was extended to November 7, 1998. The severance 
agreement provided that in the event of a termination of 
employment (other than for cause, death or disability), he shall 
be entitled to receive a payment equal to three times his base 
salary. In addition, (i) certain benefit plans would be continued 
for three years following termination, (ii) he would be entitled 
to a payment reflecting the retirement benefit he would have been 
entitled to had his employment continued for the three-year 
period following termination of his employment, and (iii) certain 
additional payments will be made to him if he is subject to an 
excise tax.

Penn - The information required by this item follows:
- ----







          Each executive's 1997 target long-term incentive 
opportunity was converted into performance shares equal to an 
equivalent number of shares of FirstEnergy's common stock based 
on the average price of such stock during December 1996, and will 
be held in a Common Stock Equivalent Account through 2000. The 
Common Stock Equivalent Account was converted to FirstEnergy 
common stock upon the consummation of the merger of OE and 
Centerior Energy Corporation. At the end of this four-year 
performance period, this Common Stock Equivalent Account will be 
valued based on the average price of FirstEnergy's common stock 
during December 2000 and as if any dividends that would have been 
paid on such stock during the performance period had been 
reinvested on the date paid. This value may be increased or 
decreased based upon the total return of FirstEnergy's common 
stock relative to the Edison Electric Institute's Index of 
Investor-owned Electric Utility Companies (Index) during the 
period. If an executive retires, dies or otherwise leaves the 
employment of the Company prior to the end of the four-year 
period, the value will be further proportionally decreased based 
on the number of months worked during the period. However, an 
executive must work at least twelve months during the four-year 
period to be eligible for an award payout. The final value of an 
executive's account, if any, will be paid to the executive in 
cash early in the year 2001.

          The final value of an executive's account may range 
from zero to 150% of the target amount. The maximum amount in the 
above table is equal to 150% of the target 1997 long-term 
incentive opportunity and will be earned if FirstEnergy's total 
shareholder return is in the top 15% compared to the Index noted 
above. An amount equal to 100% of the target 1997 long-term 
incentive opportunity will be earned if FirstEnergy's total 
shareholder return is in the 38th percentile compared to the 
Index. The threshold amount is equal to 50% of the target 1997 
long-term incentive opportunity and will be earned if 
FirstEnergy's total shareholder return is in the 60th percentile 
compared to the Index. Payouts for a total shareholder return 
ranking between the 15th percentile and 60th percentile will be 
interpolated. However, there will be no long-term award payouts 
if FirstEnergy's total shareholder return compared to the Index 
falls below the 60th percentile.

Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan

          Penn participates in the FirstEnergy System 
Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan. Mr. Holland is the only 
executive officer listed above who is eligible to participate in 
the Plan. At normal retirement, eligible senior executives of 
Penn who have five or more years of service with the FirstEnergy 
System are provided a retirement benefit equal to the greater of 
65 percent of their highest annual salary from Penn, or 55 
percent of the average of their highest three consecutive years 
of salary plus annual incentive awards paid after January 1, 1996 
and paid prior to retirement, reduced by the executive's pensions 
under tax-qualified pension plans of Penn or other employers, any 
supplementary pension under Penn's Executive Deferred 
Compensation Plan, and social security benefits. Subject to 
exceptions that might be made in specific cases, senior 
executives retiring prior to age 65, or with less than five years 
of service, or both, may receive a similar but reduced benefit. 
This Plan also provides for disability and surviving spouse 
benefits. As of the end of 1997, the estimated annual retirement 
benefits at age 65 from all of the above sources was $76,963 for 
Mr. Holland.

Pension Plan

          The Company's trusteed noncontributory Pension Plan 
covers substantially all full-time employees including officers 
of the Company. Pension benefits are determined using a formula 
based on a Pension Plan participant's years of accrued service 
and average rate of monthly earnings for the highest 60 months of 
the last 120 months of accrued service immediately preceding 
retirement or termination of service.

          Compensation covered by the Pension Plan consists of 
basic cash wages and compensation deferred through the Savings 
Plan up to the maximum amount permitted under the Internal 
Revenue Code of 1986, as adjusted in accordance with regulations. 
This amount was $160,000 per year for 1997 and $160,000 per year 
for 1998. In addition, a supplementary pension benefit may be 
payable to participants in the Executive Deferred Compensation 
Plan. Compensation for 1997 covered by these two plans for the 
officers shown in the Executive Compensation Table who are not 
currently participants in the FirstEnergy System Supplemental 
Executive Retirement Plan is shown under the Salary column of the 
Table. The credited years of service for these same officers are 
as follows: J. E. Reed -31 years;   and R. P. Wushinske -24 
years.

          The following table shows the estimated annual amounts 
payable upon retirement as pension benefits under the Pension 
Plan and the supplemental pension benefit under the Executive 
Deferred Compensation Plan, based on specified compensation and 
years of credited service classifications, assuming continuation 
of both such present Plans and employment until age 65. 
Retirement prior to age 62 results in a reduction of pension 
benefits. The amounts shown are subject to a reduction based on 
an individual's covered compensation, date of birth and years of 
credited service as defined by the Pension Plan and its optional 
survivorship provision.





  (b)  Security Ownership of Management at December 31, 1997:

OE, CEI, TE
- -----------

         The information required by this item for all 
individuals with the exception of Messrs. Lange and Edelman is 
incorporated herein by reference to the Company's 1998 Proxy 
Statement filed with the SEC pursuant to Regulation 14A. Messrs. 
Lange and Edelman hold 5,964 and 4,974 shares, respectively, of 
FirstEnergy Common Stock as of December 31, 1997.

Penn
- ----




  (c)  Changes in Control: Not applicable

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

FirstEnergy -  The information required by this item is 
- -----------
               incorporated herein by reference to the Company's  
               1998 Proxy Statement filed with the SEC pursuant 
               to Regulation 14A.

OE, CEI, TE and Penn - The information required by this item 
- --------------------   follows:

    None.
                            PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
          FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  Financial Statements

          Included in Part II of this report and incorporated 
herein by reference to the respective company's 1997 Annual 
Report to Stockholders (Exhibit 13 below) at the pages indicated.














                                SIGNATURES

          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant 
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by 
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                              FIRSTENERGY CORP.


                              BY /s/ W. R. Holland  
                              -------------------------
                                     W. R. Holland
                                     Chairman of the Board
                                     and Chief Executive 
                                       Officer

Date: March 17, 1998

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by 
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the 
capacities and on the date indicated:


/s/  W. R. Holland                /s/  H. P. Burg    
- --------------------------------  ------------------------
     W. R. Holland                  H. P. Burg
     Chairman of the Board          President and Chief
      and Chief Executive Officer   Financial Officer
     and Director (Principal        and Director (Principal 
      Executive Officer)            Financial Officer)

/s/  Harvey L. Wagner              /s/  Glenn H. Meadows    
- --------------------------------   ------------------------
     Harvey L. Wagner                  Glenn H. Meadows
     Controller (Principal                Director
      Accounting Officer)

                                   /s/  Paul J. Powers   
- --------------------------------   -------------------------
     Robert M. Carter                   Paul J. Powers
     Director                            Director	

/s/  Carol A. Cartwright           /s/  Charles W. Rainger  
- --------------------------------    ------------------------
     Carol A. Cartwright                 Charles W. Rainger
     Director                            Director

/s/  William F. Conway             /s/  Robert C. Savage   
- --------------------------------   ----------------------
     William F. Conway                   Robert C. Savage
     Director                             Director

/s/  Robert L. Loughhead           /s/  George M. Smart  
- --------------------------------   -------------------------
     Robert L. Loughhead                 George M. Smart
     Director                             Director

/s/  Russell W. Maier             /s/ Jesse T. Williams, Sr.   
- --------------------------------   ----------------------
     Russell W. Maier                 Jesse T. Williams, Sr.
     Director                         Director

Date: March 17, 1998


                                   SIGNATURES


          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant 
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by 
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        OHIO EDISON COMPANY


                                        BY /s/  H. P. Burg  
                                         -------------------
                                                H. P. Burg
                                                President

    
Date: March 17, 1998

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by 
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the 
capacities and on the date indicated:


/s/  H. P. Burg                 /s/  R. H. Marsh    
- --------------------------      ----------------------------
     H. P. Burg                      R. H. Marsh
     President and Director          Vice President
     (Principal Executive Officer)   (Principal Financial
                                       Officer)

/s/  Harvey L. Wagner           /s/  W. R. Holland  
- --------------------------      ----------------------------
     Harvey L. Wagner                W. R. Holland
     Controller                      Director
     (Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/  Anthony J. Alexander  
- -------------------------------
     Anthony J. Alexander
     Director




Date:  March 17, 1998











                                  SIGNATURES



          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant 
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by 
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                   THE CLEVELAND ELECTRIC
                                    ILLUMINATING COMPANY


                                     BY /s/  H. P. Burg  
                                     --------------------
                                             H. P. Burg
                                             President
    
Date: March 17, 1998

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by 
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the 
capacities and on the date indicated:


/s/  H. P. Burg                 /s/  R. H. Marsh    
- -------------------------       ----------------------------
     H. P. Burg                       R. H. Marsh
     President and Director          Vice President
     (Principal Executive Officer)  (Principal Financial
                                      Officer)
    

/s/  Harvey L. Wagner           /s/  W. R. Holland  
- ----------------------------    ----------------------------
     Harvey L. Wagner                W. R. Holland
     Controller                      Director
     (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/  Anthony J. Alexander  
- -------------------------------------
     Anthony J. Alexander
     Director



Date:  March 17, 1998










                                         SIGNATURES



          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant 
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by 
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                  THE TOLEDO EDISON COMPANY


                                  BY /s/  H. P. Burg  
                                 --------------------------
                                          H. P. Burg
                                          President
    
Date: March 17, 1998

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by 
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the 
capacities and on the date indicated:


/s/  H. P. Burg                 /s/  R. H. Marsh    
- ---------------------------     ----------------------------
     H. P. Burg                      R. H. Marsh
     President and Director          Vice President
     (Principal Executive Officer)  (Principal Financial
                                      Officer)
      

/s/  Harvey L. Wagner          /s/  W. R. Holland  
- ---------------------------    -----------------------------
     Harvey L. Wagner               W. R. Holland
     Controller                     Director
     (Principal Accounting Officer)


/s/  Anthony J. Alexander  
- -----------------------------------
     Anthony J. Alexander
     Director


Date:  March 17, 1998







                                       SIGNATURES


          Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 
15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant 
has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by 
the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                               PENNSYLVANIA POWER COMPANY


                               BY /s/  Willard R. Holland
                               -----------------------------
                                       Willard R. Holland
                                       Chairman of the Board
                                        and Chief Executive
                                        Officer


Date: March 25, 1998

          Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by 
the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the 
capacities and on the date  indicated:



/s/  Willard R. Holland         /s/  Robert P. Wushinske  
- -----------------------------   ----------------------------
     Willard R. Holland              Robert P. Wushinske
     Chairman of the Board           Vice President and
      and Chief Executive Office      and Treasurer
      (Principal Executive Officer    (Principal Accounting 
      and Principal Financial           Officer)
      Officer)


/s/  H. P. Burg                 /s/  Jack E. Reed  
- -----------------------------  --------------------------
     H. P. Burg                      Jack E. Reed   
     Director                        Director


/s/  R. Joseph Hrach        
- -----------------------------   ----------------------------
     R. Joseph Hrach            Richard L. Werner
     Director                   Director


- ----------------------------
     Joseph J. Nowak
     Director



Date:  March 25, 1998




  




