Item 1. Business



Introduction

AutoZone, Inc. (“AutoZone,” the “Company,” “we,” “our” or “us”) is the nation’s leading retailer
and a leading distributor of automotive replacement parts and accessories. We began operations in
1979 and at August 27, 2011 operated 4,534 stores in the United States, including Puerto Rico, and
279 in Mexico. Each of our stores carries an extensive product line for cars, sport utility
vehicles, vans and light trucks, including new and remanufactured automotive hard parts,
maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products. At August 27, 2011, in 2,659 of our
domestic stores, we also have a commercial sales program that provides commercial credit and prompt
delivery of parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages, dealers,
service stations and public sector accounts. We also sell the ALLDATA brand automotive diagnostic
and repair software through www.alldata.com and www.alldatadiy.com. Additionally, we sell
automotive hard parts, maintenance items, accessories and non-automotive products through
www.autozone.com, and our commercial customers can make purchases through www.autozonepro.com. We
do not derive revenue from automotive repair or installation services.

At August 27, 2011, our stores were in the following locations:

Store CountAlabama98Arizona119Arkansas59California478Colorado67Connecticut37Delaware13Florida233Georgia180Idaho19Illinois221Indiana144Iowa23Kansas38Kentucky84Louisiana112Maine6Maryland45Massachusetts71Michigan155Minnesota30Mississippi85Missouri104Montana1Nebraska14Nevada53New Hampshire20New Jersey70New Mexico62New York129North Carolina181North Dakota1Ohio233Oklahoma67Oregon34Pennsylvania121Puerto Rico27Rhode Island15





Store CountSouth Carolina79South Dakota2Tennessee157Texas547Utah40Vermont1Virginia101Washington69Washington, DC6West Virginia26Wisconsin52Wyoming5Total Domestic4,534Mexico279Total4,813



Marketing and Merchandising Strategy

We are dedicated to providing customers with superior service and trustworthy advice as well as
quality automotive parts and products at a great value in conveniently located, well-designed
stores. Key elements of this strategy are:

Customer Service

Customer service is the most important element in our marketing and merchandising strategy, which
is based upon consumer marketing research. We emphasize that our AutoZoners (employees) should
always put customers first by providing prompt, courteous service and trustworthy advice. Our
electronic parts catalog assists in the selection of parts and warranties that are offered by us or
our vendors on many of the parts that we sell. The wide area network in our stores helps us
expedite credit or debit card and check approval processes, locate parts at neighboring AutoZone
stores, including our hub stores, and in some cases, place special orders directly with our
vendors.

Our stores generally open at 7:30 or 8 a.m. and close between 8 and 10 p.m. Monday through Saturday
and typically open at 9 a.m. and close between 6 and 9 p.m. on Sunday. However, some stores are
open 24 hours, and some have extended hours of 6 or 7 a.m. until midnight seven days a week.

We also provide specialty tools through our Loan-A-Tool program. Customers can borrow a specialty
tool, such as a steering wheel puller, for which a do-it-yourself (“DIY”) customer or a repair shop
would have little or no use other than for a single job. AutoZoners also provide other free
services, including check engine light readings where allowed by law, battery charging, the
collection of used oil for recycling, and the testing of starters, alternators, batteries, sensors
and actuators.





Merchandising

The following tables show some of the types of products that we sell by major category of items:

FailureMaintenanceDiscretionaryA/C CompressorsBatteries & AccessoriesBelts & HosesCarburetorsChassisClutchesCV AxlesEnginesFuel PumpsFusesIgnitionLightingMufflersStarters & AlternatorsWater PumpsRadiatorsThermostatsAntifreeze & Windshield Washer FluidBrake Drums, Rotors, Shoes & PadsChemicals, including Brake & PowerSteering Fluid, Oil & Fuel AdditivesOil & Transmission FluidOil, Air, Fuel & Transmission FiltersOxygen SensorsPaint & AccessoriesRefrigerant & AccessoriesShock Absorbers & StrutsSpark Plugs & WiresWindshield WipersAir FreshenersCell Phone AccessoriesDrinks & SnacksFloor Mats & Seat CoversMirrorsPerformance ProductsProtectants & CleanersSeat CoversSealants & AdhesivesSteering Wheel CoversStereos & RadiosToolsWash & Wax

We believe that the satisfaction of DIY customers and professional technicians is often impacted by
our ability to provide specific automotive products as requested. Each store carries the same basic
products, but we tailor our inventory to the makes and models of the vehicles in each store’s trade
area. Our hub stores carry a larger assortment of products that are delivered to local satellite
stores. We are constantly updating the products we offer to ensure that our inventory matches the
products our customers need or desire.

Pricing

We want to be perceived by our customers as the value leader in our industry, by consistently
providing quality merchandise at the right price, backed by a satisfactory warranty and outstanding
customer service. For many of our products, we offer multiple value choices in a good/better/best
assortment, with appropriate price and quality differences from the “good” products to the “better”
and “best” products. A key differentiating component versus our competitors is our exclusive line
of in-house brands, which includes the Valucraft, AutoZone, Duralast and Duralast Gold brands. We
believe that our overall value compares favorably to that of our competitors.

Brand Marketing: Advertising and Promotions

We believe that targeted advertising and promotions play important roles in succeeding in today’s
environment. We are constantly working to understand our customers’ wants and needs so that we can
build long-lasting, loyal relationships. We utilize promotions, advertising, and loyalty card
programs primarily to advise customers about the overall importance of vehicle maintenance, our
great value and the availability of high quality parts. Broadcast and internet media are our
primary advertising methods of driving traffic to our stores. We utilize in-store signage,
creative product placement and promotions to help educate customers about products that they need.

Store Design and Visual Merchandising

We design and build stores for high visual impact. The typical AutoZone store utilizes colorful
exterior and interior signage, exposed beams and ductwork and brightly lit interiors. Maintenance
products, accessories and non-automotive items are attractively displayed for easy browsing by
customers. In-store signage and special displays promote products on floor displays, end caps and
shelves.



Commercial

Our commercial sales program operates in a highly fragmented market, and we are one of the leading
distributors of automotive parts and other products to local, regional and national repair garages,
dealers, service stations and public sector accounts in the United States and Puerto Rico. As a
part of the program, we offer credit and delivery to our commercial customers, as well as direct
commercial sales through www.autozonepro.com. The program operated out of 2,659 domestic stores as
of August 27, 2011. Through our hub stores, we offer a greater range of
parts and products desired by professional technicians. We have dedicated sales teams focused on
national, regional and public sector commercial accounts.







Store Operations

Store Formats

Substantially all AutoZone stores are based on standard store formats, resulting in generally
consistent appearance, merchandising and product mix. Approximately 85% to 90% of each store’s
square footage is selling space, of which approximately 40% to 45% is dedicated to hard parts
inventory. The hard parts inventory area is generally fronted by counters or pods that run the
depth or length of the store, dividing the hard parts area from the remainder of the store. The
remaining selling space contains displays of maintenance, accessories and non-automotive items.

We believe that our stores are “destination stores,” generating their own traffic rather than
relying on traffic created by adjacent stores. Therefore, we situate most stores on major
thoroughfares with easy access and good parking.

Store Personnel and Training

Each store typically employs from 10 to 16 AutoZoners, including a manager and, in some cases, an
assistant manager. We provide on-the-job training as well as formal training programs, including an
annual national sales meeting, regular store meetings on specific sales and product issues,
standardized training manuals and a specialist program that provides training to AutoZoners in
several areas of technical expertise from the Company, our vendors and independent certification
agencies. All AutoZoners are encouraged to complete tests resulting in certifications by the
National Institute for Automotive Service Excellence (“ASE”), which is broadly recognized for
training certification in the automotive industry. Training is supplemented with frequent store
visits by management.

Store managers, sales representatives and commercial specialists receive financial incentives
through performance-based bonuses. In addition, our growth has provided opportunities for the
promotion of qualified AutoZoners. We believe these opportunities are important to attract,
motivate and retain high quality AutoZoners.

All store support functions are centralized in our store support centers located in Memphis,
Tennessee; Monterrey, Mexico and Chihuahua, Mexico. We believe that this centralization enhances
consistent execution of our merchandising and marketing strategies at the store level, while
reducing expenses and cost of sales.

Store Automation

All of our stores have Z-net, our proprietary electronic catalog that enables our AutoZoners to
efficiently look up the parts that our customers need and to provide complete job solutions, advice
and information for customer vehicles. Z-net provides parts information based on the year, make,
model and engine type of a vehicle and also tracks inventory availability at the store, at other
nearby stores and through special order. The Z-net display screens are placed on the hard parts
counter or pods, where both the AutoZoner and customer can view the screen.

Our stores utilize our computerized proprietary Store Management System, which includes bar code
scanning and point-of-sale data collection terminals. The Store Management System provides
administrative assistance and improved personnel scheduling at the store level, as well as enhanced
merchandising information and improved inventory control. We believe the Store Management System
also enhances customer service through faster processing of transactions and simplified warranty
and product return procedures. In addition, our wide area network enables the stores to expedite
credit or debit card and check approval processes, to access national warranty data, to implement
real-time inventory controls and to locate and hold parts at neighboring AutoZone stores.







Store Development

The following table reflects our store development during the past five fiscal years:

Fiscal Year20112010200920082007Beginning stores4,6274,4174,2404,0563,871New stores188213180185186Closed stores23311Net new stores186210177184185Relocated stores10391418Ending stores4,8134,6274,4174,2404,056

We believe that expansion opportunities exist both in markets that we do not currently serve, as
well as in markets where we can achieve a larger presence. We attempt to obtain high visibility
sites in high traffic locations and undertake substantial research prior to entering new markets.
The most important criteria for opening a new store are the projected future profitability and the
ability to achieve our required investment hurdle rate. Key factors in selecting new site and
market locations include population, demographics, vehicle profile, customer buying trends,
commercial businesses, number and strength of competitors’ stores and the cost of real estate. In
reviewing the vehicle profile, we also consider the number of vehicles that are seven years old and
older, or “our kind of vehicles”; these vehicles are generally no longer under the original
manufacturers’ warranties and require more maintenance and repair than younger vehicles. We
generally seek to open new stores within or contiguous to existing market areas and attempt to
cluster development in markets in a relatively short period of time. In addition to continuing to
lease or develop our own stores, we evaluate and may make strategic acquisitions.



Purchasing and Supply Chain

Merchandise is selected and purchased for all stores through our store support centers located in
Memphis, Tennessee and Monterrey, Mexico. In fiscal 2011, one class of similar products accounted
for 10 percent of our total sales, and one vendor supplied more than 10 percent of our purchases.
No other class of similar products accounted for 10 percent or more of our total sales, and no
other individual vendor provided more than 10 percent of our total purchases. We believe that we
have good relationships with our suppliers. We also believe that alternative sources of supply
exist, at similar cost, for most types of product sold. Most of our merchandise flows through our
distribution centers to our stores by our fleet of tractors and trailers or by third-party trucking
firms.

Our hub stores have increased our ability to distribute products on a timely basis to many of our
stores and to expand our product assortment. A hub store generally has a larger assortment of
products as well as regular replenishment items that can be delivered to a store in its network
within 24 hours. Hub stores are generally replenished from distribution centers multiple times per
week.



Competition

The sale of automotive parts, accessories and maintenance items is highly competitive in many
areas, including name recognition, product availability, customer service, store location and
price. AutoZone competes in both the retail DIY and commercial do-it-for-me (“DIFM”) auto parts and
products markets.

Competitors include national, regional and local auto parts chains, independently owned parts
stores, on-line parts stores, jobbers, repair shops, car washes and auto dealers, in addition to
discount and mass merchandise stores, department stores, hardware stores, supermarkets, drugstores,
convenience stores and home stores that sell aftermarket vehicle parts and supplies, chemicals,
accessories, tools and maintenance parts. AutoZone competes on the basis of customer service,
including the trustworthy advice of our AutoZoners; merchandise quality, selection and
availability; price; product warranty; store layouts, location and convenience; and the strength of
our AutoZone brand name, trademarks and service marks.







Trademarks and Patents

We have registered several service marks and trademarks in the United States Patent and Trademark
office as well as in certain other countries, including our service marks, “AutoZone” and “Get in
the Zone,” and trademarks, “AutoZone,” “Duralast,” “Duralast Gold,” “Valucraft,” “ALLDATA,”
“Loan-A-Tool” and “Z-net.” We believe that these service marks and trademarks are important
components of our marketing and merchandising strategies.



Employees

As of August 27, 2011, we employed over 65,000 persons, approximately 57 percent of whom were
employed full-time. About 91 percent of our AutoZoners were employed in stores or in direct field
supervision, approximately 5 percent in distribution centers and approximately 4 percent in store
support and other functions. Included in the above numbers are approximately 3,500 persons employed
in our Mexico operations.

We have never experienced any material labor disruption and believe that relations with our
AutoZoners are generally good.



AutoZone Website

AutoZone’s primary website is at http://www.autozone.com. We make available, free of charge, at our
investor relations website, http://www.autozoneinc.com, our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly
Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, proxy statements, registration statements and
amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities
and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, as soon as reasonably feasible after we electronically file
such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission.



Executive Officers of the Registrant

The following list describes our executive officers. The title of each executive officer includes
the words “Customer Satisfaction” which reflects our commitment to customer service. Officers are
elected by and serve at the discretion of the Board of Directors.

William C. Rhodes, III, 46—Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Customer Satisfaction

William C. Rhodes, III, was named Chairman of AutoZone during fiscal 2007 and has been President,
Chief Executive Officer and a director since March 2005. Prior to his appointment as President and
Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Rhodes was Executive Vice President — Store Operations and
Commercial. Previously, he held several key management positions with the Company. Prior to 1994,
Mr. Rhodes was a manager with Ernst & Young LLP. Mr. Rhodes is currently a member of the Board of
Directors for Dollar General Corporation.

William T. Giles, 52—Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President — Finance, Information
Technology and Store Development, Customer Satisfaction

William T. Giles was elected Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President — Finance,
Information Technology and Store Development during fiscal 2007. Prior to that, he was Executive
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer from June 2006 to December 2006 and Executive
Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since May 2006. From 1991 to May 2006, he held several
positions with Linens N’ Things, Inc., most recently as the Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer. Prior to 1991, he was with Melville, Inc. and PricewaterhouseCoopers.

Harry L. Goldsmith, 60—Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, Customer
Satisfaction

Harry L. Goldsmith was elected Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary during
fiscal 2006. Previously, he was Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since 1996
and was Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary from 1993 to 1996.





Jon A. Bascom,54—Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer, Customer Satisfaction

Jon A. Bascom was elected Senior Vice President and Chief Information Officer during fiscal 2008.
Previously, he was Vice President — Information Technology since 1996. Since 1989, Mr. Bascom has
worked in a variety of leadership roles in applications development, infrastructure, and technology
support. Prior to joining AutoZone, Mr. Bascom worked for Malone & Hyde, AutoZone’s predecessor
company, for 9 years.

Timothy W. Briggs, 50—Senior Vice President — Human Resources, Customer Satisfaction

Timothy W. Briggs was elected Senior Vice President — Human Resources during fiscal 2006. Prior to
that, he was Vice President — Field Human Resources since March 2005. From 2002 to 2005, Mr.
Briggs was Vice President — Organization Development. Prior to 1996, Mr. Briggs worked in various
capacities at The Limited, Inc., Marshalls, and The Broadway Department Stores.

Mark A. Finestone,50—Senior Vice President — Merchandising, Customer Satisfaction

Mark A. Finestone was elected Senior Vice President — Merchandising during fiscal 2008.
Previously, he was Vice President — Merchandising since 2002. Prior to joining AutoZone in 2002,
Mr. Finestone worked for May Department Stores for 19 years where he held a variety of leadership
roles which included Divisional Vice President, Merchandising.

William W. Graves,51—Senior Vice President — Supply Chain, Customer Satisfaction

William W. Graves was elected Senior Vice President — Supply Chain during fiscal 2006. Prior
thereto, he was Vice President — Supply Chain since 2000. From 1992 to 2000, Mr. Graves served in
various capacities with the Company.

Lisa R. Kranc, 58—Senior Vice President — Marketing, Customer Satisfaction

Lisa R. Kranc was elected Senior Vice President—Marketing during fiscal 2001. Previously, she
was Vice President—Marketing for Hannaford Bros. Co., a Maine-based grocery chain, since 1997,
and was Senior Vice President—Marketing for Bruno’s, Inc., from 1996 to 1997. Prior to 1996, she
was Vice President-Marketing for Giant Eagle, Inc. since 1992.

Thomas B. Newbern, 49—Senior Vice President — Store Operations, Customer Satisfaction

Thomas B. Newbern was elected Senior Vice President—Store Operations during fiscal 2007.
Previously, Mr. Newbern held the title Vice President — Store Operations for AutoZone since 1998.
Previously, he has held several key management positions with the Company.

Charlie Pleas, III, 46—Senior Vice President and Controller, Customer Satisfaction

Charlie Pleas, III, was elected Senior Vice President and Controller during fiscal 2007. Prior to
that, he was Vice President and Controller since 2003. Previously, he was Vice President —
Accounting since 2000, and Director of General Accounting since 1996. Prior to joining AutoZone,
Mr. Pleas was a Division Controller with Fleming Companies, Inc. where he served in various
capacities from 1988.

Larry M. Roesel, 54—Senior Vice President — Commercial, Customer Satisfaction

Larry M. Roesel joined AutoZone as Senior Vice President—Commercial during fiscal 2007. Mr.
Roesel came to AutoZone with more than thirty years of experience with OfficeMax, Inc. and its
predecessor, where he served in operations, sales and general management.

Robert D. Olsen, 58—Corporate Development Officer, Customer Satisfaction

Robert D. Olsen was elected Corporate Development Officer as of November 1, 2009, with primary
responsibility for Mexico, ALLDATA, and other strategic initiatives. Previously, he was Executive
Vice President — Store Operations, Commercial, ALLDATA, and Mexico since fiscal 2007. Prior to
that time, he was Executive Vice President — Supply Chain, Information Technology, Mexico and
Store Development since fiscal 2006 and before that, Senior Vice President since fiscal 2000 with
primary responsibility for store development and Mexico operations. From 1993 to 2000, Mr. Olsen
was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Leslie’s Poolmart. From 1985 to 1989,
Mr. Olsen held several positions with AutoZone, including Senior Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer and Vice President—Finance and Controller.







