
10-K405
l92984ae10-k405.txt
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.   10-K405-12-31-2001


                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K


              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


    For the fiscal year ended DECEMBER 31, 2001      Commission File No. 1-8923

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           DELAWARE                                           34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction of                           (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                        Identification Number)

 One SeaGate, Suite 1500, Toledo, Ohio                         43604
(Address of principal executive office)                      (Zip Code)

                                 (419) 247-2800
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                       Name of Each Exchange
        Title of Each Class                             on Which Registered
      -----------------------                          -----------------------
      Common Stock, $1.00 par value                    New York Stock Exchange

      8.875% Series B Cumulative                       New York Stock Exchange
         Redeemable Preferred Stock

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months; and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.
                                            Yes    X           No
                                                 -----            -----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of this
Form 10-K. [ X ]

The aggregate market value of voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant on March 21, 2002 was $925,794,000 based on the reported closing
sales price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange for that date. As of
March 21, 2002, there were 33,947,137 shares of common stock outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the annual
stockholders' meeting to be held May 2, 2002, are incorporated by reference into
Part III.








                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                          2001 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT


                                

                                     PART I





                                      -2-


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.      BUSINESS

GENERAL

Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") is a self-administered, equity real
estate investment trust that invests in health care facilities, primarily
skilled nursing and assisted living facilities. The Company also invests in
specialty care facilities. As of December 31, 2001, long-term care facilities,
which include skilled nursing and assisted living facilities, comprised
approximately 93% of the investment portfolio. Founded in 1970, the Company was
the first real estate investment trust to invest exclusively in health care
facilities.

As of December 31, 2001, the Company had $1,231,850,000 of real estate
investments, inclusive of credit enhancements, in 214 facilities located in 33
states and managed by 38 different operators. At that date, the portfolio
included 150 assisted living facilities, 57 skilled nursing facilities, and
seven specialty care facilities. At December 31, 2001, the Company had
approximately $35,000,000 in unfunded commitments.

The Company's primary objectives are to protect stockholders' capital and
enhance stockholder value. The Company seeks to pay consistent cash dividends to
stockholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments from annual
increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, the Company invests primarily in long-term care facilities managed
by experienced operators and diversifies its investment portfolio by operator
and geographic location.

The Company anticipates investing in additional health care facilities through
operating lease arrangements with, and mortgage loans for, qualified health care
operators. Capital for future investments may be provided by borrowing under the
Company's revolving credit facilities, public offerings or private placements of
debt or equity, and the assumption of secured indebtedness.

PORTFOLIO OF PROPERTIES

The following table shows the Company's portfolio as of December 31, 2001:




- ----------


(1) Investments include real estate investments and credit enhancements which
    amounted to $1,220,425,000 and $11,425,000, respectively.

(2) Investment Per Bed/Unit was computed by using the total investment amount of
    $1,233,614,000 which includes real estate investments, credit enhancements,
    and unfunded commitments for which initial funding has commenced which total
    $1,220,425,000, $11,425,000 and $1,764,000, respectively.

(3) The Company has investments in properties located in 33 states and managed
    by 38 different operators.


                                      -3-

ASSISTED LIVING FACILITIES

Assisted living facilities provide personal care services to assist in
activities of daily living, such as bathing, meals, security, transportation,
recreation, medication supervision and limited therapeutic programs. More
intensive medical needs of the resident within assisted living facilities may be
provided by home health providers through close coordination with the resident's
physician and skilled nursing facilities. Assisted living facilities represent
lower cost, less institutional alternatives for the care of the elderly or
medically frail.

SKILLED NURSING FACILITIES

Skilled nursing facilities provide inpatient skilled nursing and personal care
services as well as rehabilitative, restorative and transitional medical
services. In some instances, nursing facilities supplement hospital care by
providing specialized care for medically complex patients whose conditions
require intense medical and therapeutic services, but who are medically stable
enough to have these services provided in facilities that are less expensive
than acute care hospitals.

SPECIALTY CARE FACILITIES

Specialty care facilities provide specialized inpatient services for specific
illnesses or diseases including, among others, coronary and cardiovascular
services and behavioral care. Specialty care facilities are lower cost
alternatives to acute care hospitals.


INVESTMENTS

The Company invests in income producing health care facilities with a primary
focus on long-term care facilities, which include skilled nursing facilities and
assisted living facilities. The Company also invests in specialty care
facilities. The Company diversifies its investment portfolio by operator and
geographic location.

In determining whether to invest in a facility, the Company focuses on: (a) the
experience of the management team of that operator; (b) the historical and
projected financial and operational performance of the facility; (c) the credit
of the borrower or lessee; (d) the security for the lease or loan; and (e) the
capital committed to the facility by the borrower or lessee. Management conducts
market research and analysis for all potential investments. In addition,
Management reviews the value of all facilities, the interest rates and debt
service coverage requirements of any debt to be assumed and the anticipated
sources for repayment for such debt.

The Company's investments are primarily operating lease transactions and
mortgage loans. Construction financing is provided, but only as a part of a
operating lease or mortgage loan. Substantially all of the Company's investments
are designed with escalating rate structures. The Company's policy is to
structure long term investments to maximize returns. Depending upon market
conditions, the Company believes that appropriate new investments will be
available in the future with substantially the same spreads over its costs of
borrowing.

Operating leases and mortgage loans are normally secured by guarantees and/or
letters of credit. In addition, the leases and loans are generally
cross-defaulted and the loans are cross-collateralized with other mortgage
loans, leases, or agreements between the Company and the operator and its
affiliates.

At December 31, 2001, 75% of the operating leases were subject to master leases.
By structuring investments with an operator as a master lease, the operator must
exercise all rights to purchase the facility or to renew or terminate the lease
with respect to all leased properties included in the master lease. This
structure is believed to provide protection for the Company in the event the
operator seeks bankruptcy protection. The Company is in the process of
converting certain additional leases with existing operators to master leases.
If completed, the percentage of the Company's lease portfolio structured as
master leases would increase to approximately 81%.

The Company typically invests in or finances up to 90% of the appraised value of
a property. Economic terms normally include annual rate increases and fair
market value based purchase options in operating leases.

The Company monitors its investments through a variety of methods, which are
determined by the type of health care facility and operator. The monitoring
process includes a review and analysis of facility, borrower or lessee, and
guarantor financial statements; periodic site visits; property reviews; and
meetings with operators. Such reviews of operators and facilities generally
encompass licensure and regulatory compliance materials and reports,
contemplated building improvements and other material developments.


                                      -4-


OPERATING LEASES

Each facility, which includes the land, buildings, improvements and related
rights (the "Leased Properties") owned by the Company is leased to an operator
pursuant to a long-term lease (collectively, the "Leases"). The Leases generally
have a fixed term of 10 to 15 years and contain multiple five to 10-year renewal
options. Each Lease is a triple net lease requiring the lessee to pay rent and
all additional charges incurred in the operation of the Leased Property. The
lessees are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the Leased Properties.

The net value of the Company's completed leased properties aggregated
approximately $956,851,000 at December 31, 2001. The base rents range from
approximately 7.2% to 15.5% per annum of the Company's net book value in the
leased properties. The rental yield to the Company from Leases depends upon a
number of factors, including the initial rent charged, any rental adjustments
and the amount of the commitment fee charged at the inception of the
transaction. The base rents for the renewal periods are generally fixed rents
set at a spread above the Treasury yield for the corresponding period.

MORTGAGE LOANS

The Company's investments in mortgage loans are typically structured to provide
the Company with interest income, principal amortization and commitment fees and
are secured by a first mortgage lien.

The interest rates range from 8.1% to 15.0% per annum on the outstanding loan
balances. The yield to the Company on mortgage loans depends upon a number of
factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount
outstanding during the term of the loan, the amount of the commitment fee
charged at the inception of the loan and any interest rate adjustments.

The mortgage loans made through December 31, 2001, are generally subject to
seven to 10-year terms with 25-year amortization schedules that provide for a
balloon payment of the outstanding principal balance at the end of the term.
Generally, the mortgage loans provide five to seven years of prepayment
protection.

CONSTRUCTION FINANCING

The Company provides funding for construction of a facility subject to a
long-term operating lease or mortgage loan upon the completion of the facility.
Generally, the rates on the outstanding balances of the Company's construction
financings are 225 to 350 basis points over the prime rate of a specified
financial institution. The Company also typically charges a commitment fee at
the commencement of the financing. The construction period commences upon
funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of development of the
applicable facility or the end of a specified period, generally 12 to 18 months.
During the construction period, funds are advanced pursuant to draw requests
made by the operator in accordance with agreed upon terms and conditions which
require, among other things, a site visit by a Company representative prior to
the advancement of funds. Monthly payments are made on the total amount of the
proceeds advanced during the development period.

During the construction period, the Company generally requires additional
security and collateral in the form of either payment and performance bonds
and/or completion guarantees by either one, or a combination of, the operator's
parent entity, other affiliates of the operator, or one or more of the
individual principals of the operator.

At December 31, 2001, the Company had no construction investments.

SUBDEBT INVESTMENTS

Subdebt investments represent debt instruments in operators of facilities that
have been financed by the Company. Generally, these instruments are for five to
seven-year terms with interest at 11% to 15%. At December 31, 2001, the Company
had provided subdebt financing to four operators.

EQUITY INVESTMENTS

Management determines the appropriate classification of an equity investment at
the time of acquisition and reevaluates such designation as of each balance
sheet date. At December 31, 2001, included in equity investments are the common
stock of a corporation, and ownership representing a 31% interest in Atlantic
Healthcare Finance L.P., a property investment group that specializes in the
financing, through sale and leaseback transactions, of nursing and care homes
located in the United Kingdom.

BORROWING POLICIES

The Company may place long-term indebtedness through banks, private placements
to institutional investors, or public offerings. For short-term purposes, the
Company may, from time to time, obtain lines of credit or other short-term
borrowings from banks or others.

In addition, the Company may incur mortgage indebtedness on real estate that it
has acquired through purchase, foreclosure or otherwise. When terms are deemed
favorable, the Company may invest in properties subject to existing loans and
mortgages. In addition, the


                                      -5-


Company may obtain financing for unleveraged properties in which it has invested
or may refinance properties acquired on a leveraged basis.

Under documents pertaining to existing indebtedness, the Company is subject to
various restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.

COMPETITION

The Company competes with other real estate investment trusts, real estate
partnerships, banks, insurance companies and other investors in the acquisition,
leasing and financing of health care facilities.

The operators of the facilities compete on a local and regional basis with
operators of facilities that provide comparable services. Operators compete for
patients and residents based on a number of factors including quality of care,
reputation, physical appearance of facilities, services offered, family
preferences, physicians, staff and price.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 2001, the Company employed 24 full-time employees.

CERTAIN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS

MEDICARE AND MEDICAID PAYMENT PROGRAMS

The Company invests in assisted living facilities ("ALFs"), which constitute
approximately 63% of investments, nursing facilities ("NFs") (approximately 30%
of investments), and specialty care facilities that provide inpatient and
outpatient services in specific areas such as physical rehabilitation,
behavioral care and cardiac care ("SCFs"). NFs and SCFs receive a substantial
portion of their revenues from the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid
programs. Medicare does not pay for ALF services. Medicaid funding is available
for assisted living services in many states through various Medicaid waiver
provisions. The Medicaid waiver funding is limited and not typically a
substantial portion of the revenues of an ALF.

The amount of Medicare and Medicaid program payments can be changed by
legislative or regulatory actions and by determinations of program agents. Since
Medicaid programs are funded by both the state government and the federal
government, Medicaid payments can be affected by changes at either the state or
federal level. There is no assurance that payments under these programs will
remain comparable to present levels or be adequate to cover the costs of care.

Substantial reductions in payments to NFs and SCFs could impact their ability to
make rent or loan payments when due unless the facilities make operational
changes that reduce expenses. Such operational changes may not be possible
because of regulatory requirements or may adversely impact the quality of care
and the ability to attract prospective residents and patients.

Legislation adopted in 1999 and 2000 increased Medicare payments to NFs and
SCFs. Section 101 of the Balanced Budget Relief Act of 1999 ("BBRA") included a
20% increase for 15 of the Resource Utilization Groups (RUGs) and a 4%
across-the-board increase of the adjusted federal per diem payment rate. The 20%
increase was implemented in April 2000 and will remain in effect until the
implementation of refinements in the current RUG case-mix classification system
to more accurately estimate the cost of non-therapy ancillary services. The 4%
increase was implemented in April 2000 and will remain in effect until September
30, 2002.

The Benefits Improvement and Patient Protection Act of 2000 ("BIPA") included a
16.66% increase in the nursing component of the case-mix adjusted federal
periodic payment rate and a 6.7% increase in the 14 RUG payments for
rehabilitation therapy services. The 16.66% increase was implemented in April
2000 and will remain in effect until September 30, 2002. The 6.7% increase is an
adjustment to the 20% increase granted in the BBRA and spreads the funds
directed at 3 of those 15 RUGs to an additional 11 rehabilitation RUGs. The
increase was implemented in April 2001 and will remain in effect until the
implementation of refinements in the current RUG case-mix classification system.

Due to the temporary nature of these payment increases, there is no assurance
that federal reimbursement will remain at levels comparable to the present
levels or that such reimbursement will be sufficient to cover all the operating
and fixed costs necessary to care for Medicaid and Medicare patients. In
addition, the Medicare Payment Advisory Commission, an independent federal body
established by the Balanced Budget Act of 1997, has recommended that the 4%
increase implemented in BBRA and the 16.66% increase implemented in BIPA be
allowed to expire September 30, 2002. If the 4% and 16.66% increases are not
extended beyond their scheduled expiration, the Centers for Medicare and
Medicaid Services ("CMS") estimates that Medicare reimbursement will decrease by
approximately 10% from the amount that would otherwise be paid in fiscal 2003.
Reimbursement could be further reduced when CMS completes its RUG refinement due
to the termination of the 20% and 6.7% increases. However, the Medicare Payment
Advisory Commission ("MedPAC") has recommended that the 20% and 6.7% increases
be folded into the base rate upon the completion of the RUG refinement. The
expiration of any of the BBRA and BIPA increases could have an adverse impact on
the revenues of the operators of nursing facilities and would negatively impact
their ability to satisfy their monthly lease or debt payments to us.


                                      -6-

MedPAC has also recommended that the annual update in rates for Federal Fiscal
2003 be 0% for free-standing nursing facilities and 10% for hospital-based
nursing facilities.

Nursing Facilities - Payment Systems

Medicare and Medicaid programs historically reimbursed NFs for the costs
incurred in providing services (subject to certain cost ceilings). However,
Medicare and most state Medicaid programs have adopted payment systems that are
based on rates determined before the care is rendered ("prospective rates"). For
this reason, a nursing facility's ability to operate profitably now depends on
the efficiency of its operations. Many publicly-owned NFs negatively impacted by
these changes have sought bankruptcy protection.

MEDICARE. In 1998, the Medicare cost-based reimbursement system was replaced by
a federal per diem rate based on the resident's condition, to be phased in over
three years. New facilities were immediately paid based on the federal per diem
rate. The new per diem rate is the sole payment for direct nursing care,
ancillary services and capital costs.

MEDICAID. Until 1997, state Medicaid programs were required to pay NFs and SCFs
rates that were reasonable and adequate to meet the costs that must be incurred
by efficiently and economically operated facilities in order to provide services
in accordance with legal requirements and to assure reasonable access to
patients. This law, which restricted the ability of the states to reduce
Medicaid payments, was repealed in 1997. Under the new law, states need only
publish the methodology used to develop the proposed rates, along with a
justification for the methodology, and allow public comment. Most states have
adopted a system based on prospective rates. An August 2001 analysis prepared by
BDO Seidman, LLP concluded that the gap between the costs of care to NF
residents and state Medicaid payments for that care is increasing. The analysis
cited several reasons, including increased pressure on state budgets caused by a
softening economy and increased Medicaid utilization and escalating costs of
care.

Specialty Care Facilities - Payment Systems

Medicare and Medicaid payment methodologies for SCFs vary. Acute care specialty
hospitals are typically paid a fixed amount per discharge (based on the
patient's diagnosis) for inpatient services.

Behavioral facilities are paid by Medicare on a cost basis, subject to
limitations based on a "target amount" per discharge. The target amount is based
on updates to the facility's costs per discharge in a base year. Medicare
payment rules were changed effective October 1, 1997, to further limit
reimbursable costs, reduce payment incentives for providers whose costs are
below the target amount and reduce capital-related payments by 15%. The target
amount was capped at the 75th percentile of the target amounts for facilities of
the same type. For new facilities, the target is 110% of the median costs per
discharge of similar facilities. In addition, the target amount update is set at
0% for federal fiscal 1998. Depending on how the facility's costs per discharge
compare to its target amount, annual increases range from 0% to the "market
basket" percentage reflecting the inflation rate for costs of items purchased by
similar facilities.

Rehabilitation facilities have been paid by Medicare on the same basis as
behavioral facilities. However, a new system is currently being implemented
under which payments will be based on fixed rates per discharge that vary
according to the nature of the patient's condition. The new system is being
phased in over three years beginning with the cost reporting year commencing
after January 1, 2002.

OTHER MEDICARE AND MEDICAID PROGRAM CONSIDERATIONS

Medicare and Medicaid agencies routinely perform retrospective audits to confirm
that the amounts claimed by and paid to health care facilities are supported by
adequate documentation of the factors affecting the amount of payment, such as
the patient's condition. If any amount is determined to be unsupported, the
facility is required to repay the program and the amounts can be deducted from
current payments to the facility. This can result in a sudden loss of cash flow.
In some cases, it may be necessary for the Company to make additional advances
to the facility to prevent the facility from closing and jeopardizing the
Company's investment.

Federal and state laws prohibit facilities from charging Medicare and Medicaid
for services that do not satisfy program requirements. The Medicare and Medicaid
laws also prohibit the failure to refund overpayments when discovered, certain
payments to physicians and other parties who influence purchases of health care
services and the provision of unnecessary services. Penalties for violations may
include criminal penalties and/or exclusion of the facility from participation
in Medicare and Medicaid programs. In addition, substantial civil monetary
penalties may be imposed for improper billings if the facility acted in reckless
disregard or deliberate ignorance of program rules.

Health care facilities that participate in Medicare or Medicaid must meet
extensive program requirements, including physical plant and operational
requirements, which are revised from time to time. Such requirements may include
a duty to admit Medicare and Medicaid patients, limiting the ability of the
facility to increase its private pay census beyond certain limits. Medicare and
Medicaid certified facilities are regularly inspected to determine compliance.
Sanctions for failure to meet program requirements may include exclusion from
the program or a prohibition on new admissions of program beneficiaries until
the failures are corrected. These sanctions may be imposed without a prior
hearing in some cases.

Under the Medicare program, "peer review organizations" have been established to
review the quality and appropriateness of care rendered by health care
providers. These organizations may not only deny claims that fail to meet their
criteria, but can also fine and/or recommend termination of participation in the
program.


                                      -7-


Changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs will likely result in increased
use of "managed care" organizations to meet the needs of program beneficiaries.
These organizations selectively contract with health care facilities, resulting
in some facilities being excluded from the ability to serve program
beneficiaries.

CERTAIN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS AFFECTING HEALTH CARE FACILITIES

NFs, SCFs and (in some states) ALFs must comply with state licensing
requirements and with the requirements of municipal building codes, health
codes, and local fire departments. In granting and renewing a facility's
license, the licensure agency considers, among other things, the building and
equipment, the number and qualifications of the administrative personnel and
clinical staffs, the quality of health care programs and compliance with
applicable laws. Failure to meet these requirements can result in the imposition
of sanctions, including admission bans, fines, penalties and closure of a
facility.

Regulatory requirements may be changed from time to time. Some changes including
increased staffing requirements, may negatively impact operating revenues or
costs and thereby affect the ability of the operator to pay rent, interest or
principal.

Most states require NFs and SCFs to obtain a "certificate of need" before
opening a new inpatient health care facility. Most states, however, do not
require ALFs to obtain a "certificate of need." Once a facility closes, it may
be unable to reopen without obtaining a new certificate of need, which may be
impossible to obtain. In 1987, a federal law that required states to have
certificate of need programs was repealed. As a result, some states have
repealed these requirements, resulting in increased competition, and other
states are considering similar repeals.

Federal and state laws prohibit misrepresentations in billings for health care
facility services and certain payments to physicians and other parties who
influence the purchase of health care services, whether or not the payor is a
governmental health care program.

TAXATION

FEDERAL INCOME TAX CONSEQUENCES

This discussion is for general information only and is not tax advice. The
information in this section is based on the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
amended ("Code"), current, temporary and proposed Treasury Regulations
thereunder, the legislative history of the Code, current administrative
interpretations and practices of the Internal Revenue Service (including its
practices and policies as endorsed in private letter rulings, which are not
binding on the Internal Revenue Service except with respect to a taxpayer that
receives such a ruling), and court decisions, all as of the date hereof. Future
legislation, Treasury Regulations, administrative interpretations or court
decisions could significantly change the current law or adversely affect
existing interpretations of current law. Any such change could apply
retroactively to transactions preceding the date of the change. This summary
does not address all aspects of taxation that may be relevant to certain types
of stockholders (including, but not limited to, insurance companies, tax-exempt
entities, financial institutions or broker-dealers, and foreign corporations and
persons who are not citizens or residents of the United States).

Each investor is advised to consult its own tax advisor regarding the tax
consequences of the acquisition, ownership and sale of the shares, including the
federal, state, local, foreign and other tax consequences of such acquisition,
ownership, sale, and potential changes in applicable tax laws.

General

We elected to be taxed as a REIT under Sections 856 through 860 of the Code,
commencing with our first fiscal year. We intend to remain qualified as a REIT,
but there is no guarantee that we will qualify or remain qualified as a REIT for
subsequent years. Qualification as a REIT depends upon the Company's ability to
meet, through actual annual operating results, various asset composition,
distribution level, diversity of share ownership, and qualification tests
imposed under the Code and Treasury Regulations and discussed below under
"--Qualification as a REIT". In particular, qualification for REIT status under
current laws requires compliance with certain complex limitations on the type
and amount of income a REIT can receive and the type of assets a REIT can own.
However, there can be no assurance that we will qualify or remain qualified.

In any year in which we qualify as a REIT, in general, we will not be subject to
federal income tax on that portion of our REIT taxable income or capital gain
which is distributed to stockholders. We may, however, be subject to tax at
normal corporate rates upon any taxable income or capital gain not distributed.
If we elect to retain and pay income tax on our net long-term capital gain,
stockholders are required to include their proportionate share of our
undistributed long-term capital gain in income but receive a credit for their
share of any taxes paid on such gain by us.

Despite the REIT election, we may be subject to federal income and excise tax as
follows: (i) we will be taxed at regular corporate rates on our undistributed
REIT taxable income, including undistributed net capital gains; (ii) we may be
subject to the "alternative minimum tax" on certain items of tax preference if
that tax exceeds our regular tax; (iii) if we have net income from the sale or
other disposition of "foreclosure property" that is held primarily for sale to
customers in the ordinary course of business or other non-qualifying income from
foreclosure property, such income will be subject to tax at the highest
corporate rate on such income; (iv) any


                                      -8-


net income from prohibited transactions (which are, in general, sales or other
dispositions of property held primarily for sale to customers in the ordinary
course of business, other than dispositions of foreclosure property and
dispositions of property due to an involuntary conversion) will be subject to a
100% tax; (v) if we fail to satisfy either the 75% or 95% gross income tests (as
discussed below), but nonetheless maintain our qualification as a REIT because
certain other requirements are met, we will be subject to a 100% tax on an
amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to the greater of the amounts
by which we failed the 75% or 95% test, multiplied by (b) a fraction intended to
reflect our profitability; (vi) if we fail to distribute during each year at
least the sum of (a) 85% of our REIT ordinary income for such year, (b) 95% of
our REIT capital gain net income for such year (other than capital gain that we
elect to retain and pay tax on) and (c) any undistributed taxable income from
preceding periods, we will be subject to 4% excise tax on the excess of such
required distribution over the amounts actually distributed, and (vii) we will
also be subject to a tax of 100% on the amount of any rents from real property,
deductions or excess interest paid to us by any of our "taxable REIT
subsidiaries" that would be reduced through reapportionment under section 482 of
the Code in order to more clearly reflect income of the taxable REIT subsidiary.
A taxable REIT subsidiary is any corporation for which a joint election has been
made by a REIT and such corporation to treat such corporation as a taxable REIT
subsidiary with respect to such REIT.

If we acquire any assets from a taxable "C" corporation in a carryover basis
transaction, we could be liable for specified liabilities that are inherited
from the "C" corporation. If we recognize gain on the disposition of such assets
during the 10-year period beginning on the date on which such assets were
acquired by us, then to the extent of such assets' "built-in gain" (i.e., the
excess of the fair market value of such asset at the time of the acquisition by
us over the adjusted basis in such asset, determined at the time of such
acquisition), we will be subject to tax on such gain at the highest regular
corporate rate applicable. This treatment of the recognition of built-in gain
assumes that we made or will make (or will be deemed to make) an election
pursuant to Notice 88-19 or Treasury Regulations that were promulgated in 2000
and 2001 with respect to any assets acquired from a "C" corporation in a
carryover basis transaction.

Qualification as a REIT

A REIT is defined in the Code as a corporation, trust or association: (1) which
is managed by one or more trustees or directors; (2) the beneficial ownership of
which is evidenced by transferable shares or by transferable certificates of
beneficial interest; (3) which would be taxable as a domestic corporation but
for Sections 856 through 860 of the Code; (4) which is neither a financial
institution nor an insurance company; (5) the beneficial ownership of which is
held by 100 or more persons in each taxable year of the REIT except for its
first taxable year; (6) not more than 50% in value of the outstanding stock of
which is owned during the last half of each taxable year, excluding the REIT's
first taxable year, directly or indirectly, by or for five or fewer individuals
(as defined in the Code to include certain entities) (the "Five or Fewer
Requirement"); and (7) which meets certain income and asset tests described
below. Conditions (1) to (4), inclusive, must be met during the entire taxable
year and condition (5) must be met during at least 335 days of a taxable year of
12 months or during a proportionate part of a taxable year of less than 12
months. For purposes of conditions (5) and (6), pension funds and certain other
tax-exempt entities are treated as individuals, subject to a "look-through"
exception in the case of condition (6).

As of December 31, 2001, based on publicly available information, we satisfied
the share ownership requirements set forth in (5) and (6) above. In addition,
our Amended and Restated By-Laws provide for restrictions regarding ownership
and transfer of shares. These restrictions are intended to assist us in
continuing to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and (6)
above. These ownership and transfer restrictions are described in Article VI of
the By-Laws. These restrictions, however, may not ensure that we will, in all
cases, be able to satisfy the share ownership requirements described in (5) and
(6) above.

We have complied with, and will continue to comply with, regulatory rules to
send annual letters to certain of our stockholders requesting information
regarding the actual ownership of our stock. If despite sending the annual
letters, we do not know, or after exercising reasonable diligence would not have
known, whether we failed to meet the Five or Fewer Requirement, we will be
treated as having met the requirement described in condition (6) above. If we
failed to comply with these regulatory rules, we would be subject to monetary
damages. If our failure to comply was due to intentional disregard of the
requirement, the penalty is increased. However, if our failure to comply were
due to reasonable cause and not willful neglect, no penalty would be imposed.

We may own and operate a number of properties through wholly owned subsidiaries.
Code Section 856(i) provides that a corporation which is a "qualified REIT
subsidiary" shall not be treated as a separate corporation, and all assets,
liabilities and items of income, deductions, and credit of a "qualified REIT
subsidiary" will be treated as assets, liabilities and items (as the case may
be) of the REIT. Thus, in applying the requirements described in this Code
Section, the assets, liabilities and items of income, deduction and credit of
our qualified REIT subsidiaries will be treated as our assets, liabilities and
items. If we invest in a partnership, a limited liability company or a trust
taxed as a partnership or as a disregarded entity, we will be deemed to own a
proportionate share of the partnership's limited liability company's or trust's
assets. Likewise, we will be treated as receiving our share of the income and
loss of the partnership, limited liability company or trust, and the gross
income will retain the same character in our hands as it has in the hands of the
partnership, limited liability company or trust. These "look-through" rules
apply for purposes of the income tests and assets tests described below.

INCOME TESTS. There are two separate percentage tests relating to our sources of
gross income that we must satisfy for each taxable year. First, at least 75% of
our gross income (excluding gross income from certain sales of property held
primarily for sale) must be directly or indirectly derived each taxable year
from "rents from real property," other income from investments relating to real



                                      -9-


property or mortgages on real property, or certain income from qualified
temporary investments. Second, at least 95% of our gross income (excluding gross
income from certain sales of property held primarily for sale) must be directly
or indirectly derived each taxable year from any of the sources qualifying for
the 75% test and from dividends, interest, gain from the sale or disposition of
stock securities, and payments to us under an interest rate swap, cap agreement,
option, futures contract, forward rate agreement or any similar financial
instrument entered into by us to hedge indebtedness incurred or to be incurred.

Rents received by us will qualify as "rents from real property" for purposes of
satisfying the gross income tests for a REIT only if several conditions are met.
First, the amount of rent must not be based in whole or in part on the income or
profits of any person, although rents generally will not be excluded merely
because they are based on a fixed percentage or percentages of receipts or
sales. Second, rents received from a tenant will not qualify as "rents from real
property" if the REIT, or an owner of 10% or more of the REIT, also directly or
constructively owns 10% or more of such tenant unless the tenant is a taxable
REIT subsidiary of ours and certain other requirements are met with respect to
the real property being rented. Third, if rent attributable to personal property
leased in connection with a lease of real property is greater than 15% of the
total rent received under the lease, then the portion of rent attributable to
such personal property will not qualify as "rents from real property." Finally,
for rents received to qualify as rents from real property, we generally must not
furnish or render services to tenants, other than through a taxable REIT
subsidiary or an "independent contractor" from whom we derive no income, except
that we may directly provide services that are "usually or customarily rendered"
in the geographic area in which the property is located in connection with the
rental of real property for occupancy only, or are not otherwise considered
"rendered to the occupant for his convenience." For taxable years beginning
after August 5, 1997, a REIT has been permitted to render a de minimis amount of
impermissible services to tenants and still treat amounts received with respect
to that property as rent from real property. The amount received or accrued by
the REIT during the taxable year for the impermissible services with respect to
a property may not exceed 1% of all amounts received or accrued by the REIT
directly or indirectly from the property. The amount received for any service or
management operation for this purpose shall be deemed to be not less than 150%
of the direct cost of the REIT in furnishing or rendering the service or
providing the management or operation. Furthermore, impermissible services may
be furnished to tenants by a taxable REIT subsidiary subject to certain
conditions, and we may still treat rents received with respect to the property
as rent from real property.

The term "interest" generally does not include any amount if the determination
of such amount depends in whole or in part on the income or profits of any
person, although an amount generally will not be excluded from the term
"interest" solely by reason of being based on a fixed percentage of receipts or
sales.

If we fail to satisfy one or both of the 75% or 95% gross income tests for any
taxable year, we may nevertheless qualify as a REIT for such year if we are
eligible for relief under certain provisions of the Code. These relief
provisions will be generally available if our failure to meet such tests was due
to reasonable cause and not due to willful neglect, we attach a schedule of the
sources of our income to our return, and any incorrect information on the
schedule was not due to fraud with intent to evade tax. It is not now possible
to determine the circumstances under which we may be entitled to the benefit of
these relief provisions. If these relief provisions apply, a 100% tax is imposed
on an amount equal to (a) the gross income attributable to the greater of the
amount by which we failed the 75% or 95% test, multiplied by (b) a fraction
intended to reflect our profitability.

ASSET TESTS. At the close of each quarter of our taxable year, we must also
satisfy several tests relating to the nature and diversification of our assets
determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. At least
75% of the value of our total assets must be represented by real estate assets,
cash, cash items (including receivables arising in the ordinary course of our
operation), government securities and qualified temporary investments. Although
the remaining 25% of our assets generally may be invested without restriction,
we are prohibited from owning securities representing more than 10% of either
the vote or value of the outstanding securities of any issuer other than a
qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or a taxable REIT subsidiary (the "10%
test"). Further, no more than 20% of the total assets may be represented by
securities of one or more taxable REIT subsidiaries and no more than 5% of the
value of our total assets may be represented by securities of any
non-governmental issuer other than a qualified REIT subsidiary, another REIT or
a taxable REIT subsidiary. Each of the 10% vote and value test and the 20% and
5% asset tests must be satisfied at the end of any quarter. There are special
rules which provide relief if the value related tests are not satisfied due to
changes in the value of the assets of a REIT.

ANNUAL DISTRIBUTION REQUIREMENTS. We are, in order to avoid being taxed as a
regular corporation, required to make distributions (other than capital gain
distributions) to our stockholders which qualify for the dividends paid
deduction in an amount at least equal to (A) the sum of (i) 90% of our "REIT
taxable income" (computed without regard to the dividends paid deduction and our
net capital gain) and (ii) 90% of the after-tax net income, if any, from
foreclosure property, minus (B) a portion of certain items of non-cash income.
Such distributions must be paid in the taxable year to which they relate, or in
the following taxable year if declared before we timely file our tax return for
such year and if paid on or before the first regular distribution payment after
such declaration. To the extent that we do not distribute all of our net capital
gain or distribute at least 90%, but less than 100%, of our "REIT taxable
income," as adjusted, we will be subject to tax on the undistributed amount at
regular corporate tax rates. Finally, as discussed above, we may be subject to
an excise tax if we fail to meet certain other distribution requirements. We
intend to make timely distributions sufficient to satisfy these annual
distribution requirements.

It is possible that we, from time to time, may not have sufficient cash or other
liquid assets to meet the 90% distribution requirement, or to distribute such
greater amount as may be necessary to avoid income and excise taxation, due to,
among other things, (a) timing differences between (i) the actual receipt of
income and actual payment of deductible expenses and (ii) the inclusion of such
income


                                      -10-


and deduction of such expenses in arriving at our taxable income, or (b)
the payment of severance benefits that may not be deductible to us. In the event
that such timing differences occur, we may find it necessary to arrange for
borrowings or, if possible, pay dividends in the form of taxable stock dividends
in order to meet the distribution requirement.

Under certain circumstances, in the event of a deficiency determined by the
Internal Revenue Service, we may be able to rectify a resulting failure to meet
the distribution requirement for a year by paying "deficiency dividends" to
stockholders in a later year, which may be included in our deduction for
distributions paid for the earlier year. Thus, we may be able to avoid being
taxed on amounts distributed as deficiency distributions; however, we will be
required to pay applicable penalties and interest based upon the amount of any
deduction taken for deficiency distributions.

Failure to Qualify as a Real Estate Investment Trust

If we fail to qualify for taxation as a REIT in any taxable year, we will be
subject to federal income tax on our taxable income at regular corporate rates.
Distributions to stockholders in any year in which we fail to qualify as a REIT
will not be deductible nor will any particular amount of distributions be
required to be made in any year. All distributions to stockholders will be
taxable as ordinary income to the extent of current and accumulated earnings and
profits allocable to such distributions and, subject to certain limitations,
will be eligible for the dividends received deduction for corporate
stockholders. Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, we
also will be disqualified from taxation as a REIT for the four taxable years
following the year during which qualification was lost. It is not possible to
state whether in all circumstances we would be entitled to such statutory
relief. Failure to qualify for even one year could result in our need to incur
indebtedness or liquidate investments in order to pay potentially significant
resulting tax liabilities.

Federal Income Taxation of Stockholders

GENERAL. So long as we qualify for taxation as a REIT, distributions on shares
of common stock to a stockholder made out of the current or accumulated earnings
and profits allocable thereto (and not designated as capital gain dividends)
will be includable by such stockholder as ordinary income for federal income tax
purposes. None of these distributions will be eligible for the dividends
received deduction for stockholders that are corporations. Distributions that
are designated as capital gain dividends will be taxed as long-term capital
gains (to the extent they do not exceed our actual net capital gain for the
taxable year), without regard to the period for which the stockholder has held
its shares of common stock. However, corporate stockholders may be required to
treat up to 20% of some capital gain dividends as ordinary income.

If we elect to retain and pay income tax on any net long-term capital gain,
stockholders would include in income, as long-term capital gain, their
proportionate share of such net long-term capital gain. A stockholder would also
receive a refundable tax credit for its proportionate share of the tax paid by
us on such retained capital gains and an increase in its basis in the shares of
common stock in an amount equal to the stockholder's includable capital gains
less its share of the tax deemed paid.

Stockholders may not include in their individual federal income tax returns any
of our net operating losses or capital losses. Federal income tax rules may also
require that certain minimum tax adjustments and preferences be apportioned to
our stockholders. In addition, any distribution declared by us in October,
November or December of any year payable to a stockholder of record on a
specified date in any such month shall be treated as both paid by us and
received by the stockholder on December 31 of such year, provided that the
distribution is actually paid by us no later than January 31 of the following
year.

We will be treated as having sufficient earnings and profits to treat as a
dividend any distribution up to the amount required to be distributed in order
to avoid imposition of the 4% excise tax discussed under "--General", above, and
"--Qualification as a REIT - Annual Distribution Requirements" above. As a
result, stockholders may be required to treat as taxable dividends certain
distributions that would otherwise result in a tax-free return of capital.
Moreover, any "deficiency dividend" will be treated as a dividend (an ordinary
dividend or a capital gain dividend, as the case may be), regardless of our
earnings and profits. Any other distributions in excess of current or
accumulated earnings and profits will be not taxable to a stockholder to the
extent such distributions do not exceed the adjusted basis of such stockholder's
shares of common stock. Stockholders will be required to reduce the tax basis of
their shares of common stock by the amount of such distributions until such
basis has been reduced to zero, after which such distributions will be taxable
as capital gain, if the shares of common stock are held as a capital asset. The
tax basis as so reduced will be used in computing the capital gain or loss, if
any, realized upon sale of the shares of common stock. Any loss upon a sale or
exchange of shares of common stock which were held for six months or less (after
application of certain holding period rules) will generally be treated as a
long-term capital loss to the extent such stockholder previously received
capital gain distributions with respect to such shares of common stock.

Gain from the sale or exchange of shares held for more than one year is taxed at
a maximum long-term capital gain rate, which is currently 20%. Some taxpayers
may be eligible for a lower long-term capital gain rate if shares are acquired
after December 31, 2000 and held for at least five years. Pursuant to Internal
Revenue Service guidance, we may classify portions of our capital gain dividends
as gains eligible for the long-term capital gains rate or as unrecaptured Code
section 1250 gain taxable to individual stockholders at a maximum rate of 25%.


                                      -11-


TREATMENT OF TAX-EXEMPT STOCKHOLDERS. Tax-exempt entities, including qualified
employee pension and profit sharing trusts and individual retirement accounts,
("Exempt Organizations"), generally are exempt from federal income taxation.
However, they are subject to taxation on their unrelated business taxable income
("UBTI"). While many investments in real estate generate UBTI, the Internal
Revenue Service has issued a published revenue ruling that dividend
distributions from a REIT to an exempt employee pension trust do not constitute
UBTI, provided that the shares of the REIT are not otherwise used in an
unrelated trade or business of the exempt employee pension trust. Based on this
ruling, amounts distributed by us to Exempt Organizations generally should not
constitute UBTI. However, if an Exempt Organization finances its acquisition of
the shares of common stock with debt, a portion of its income from us will
constitute UBTI pursuant to the "debt financed property" rules. Likewise, a
portion of its income from us would constitute UBTI if we held a residual
interest in a real estate mortgage investment conduit. In addition, in certain
circumstances, a pension trust that owns more than 10% of our stock is required
to treat a percentage of our dividends as UBTI. This rule applies to a pension
trust holding more than 10% of our stock only if (i) the percentage of our
income that is UBTI (determined as if we were a pension trust) is at least 5%,
(ii) we qualify as a REIT by reason of the modification of the Five or Fewer
Requirement that allows beneficiaries of the pension trust to be treated as
holding shares in proportion to their actuarial interests in the pension trust,
and (iii) either (A) one pension trust owns more than 25% of the value of our
stock or (B) a group of pension trusts individually holding more than 10% of the
value of our stock owns more than 50% of the value of our stock.

SALE, EXCHANGE, OR REDEMPTION OF SHARES. Upon the sale or exchange of any shares
of common stock to or with a person other than us or a sale or exchange of all
shares of common stock (whether actually or constructively owned) with us, a
stockholder will generally recognize capital gain or loss equal to the
difference between the amount realized on such sale or exchange and the
stockholder's adjusted tax basis in such shares of common stock. Such gain will
be capital gain if the stockholder held such shares of common stock as a capital
asset.

TAXATION OF FOREIGN STOCKHOLDERS. We will qualify as a "domestically-controlled
REIT" so long as less than 50% in value of our shares is held by foreign
persons, for example, nonresident aliens and foreign corporations, partnerships,
trusts and estates. We do and expect to continue to qualify as a
domestically-controlled REIT. Under these circumstances, gain from the sale of
shares by a foreign person should not be subject to U.S. taxation, unless such
gain is effectively connected with such person's U.S. business or, in the case
of an individual foreign person, such person is present within the U.S. for more
than 182 days in such taxable year.

Distribution of cash generated by our real estate operations, but not by the
sale or exchange of our capital assets, that are paid to foreign persons
generally will be subject to U.S. withholding tax at a rate of 30%, unless an
applicable tax treaty reduces that tax and the foreign stockholder files with us
the required form evidencing such lower rate or unless the foreign stockholder
files an Internal Revenue Code Form W-8ECI with us claiming that the
distribution is "effectively connected" income.

Distributions of proceeds attributable to the sale or exchange by us of U.S.
real property interests are subject to income and withholding taxes pursuant to
the Foreign Investment in Real Property Tax Act of 1980, and may be subject to
branch profits tax in the hands of a stockholder which is a foreign corporation
if it is not entitled to treaty relief or exemption. We are required by
applicable Treasury Regulations to withhold 35% of any distribution to a foreign
person that could be designated by us as a capital gain dividend; this amount is
creditable against the foreign stockholder's Foreign Investment in Real Property
Tax Act liability.

Backup withholding tax and information reporting will generally not apply to
distributions paid to foreign stockholders outside the United States that are
treated as (i) dividends to which the 30% or lower treaty rate withholding tax
discussed above applies; (ii) capital gains dividends; or (iii) distributions
attributable to gain from the sale or exchange by us of U.S. real property
interests. Payment of the proceeds of a sale of common stock within the United
States or conducted through certain U.S. related financial intermediaries is
subject to both backup withholding and information reporting unless the
beneficial owner certifies under penalties of perjury that he or she is not a
U.S. person (and the payor does not have actual knowledge that the beneficial
owner is a U.S. person) or the holder otherwise established an exemption. A
foreign stockholder may obtain a refund of any amounts withheld under the backup
withholding rules by filing the appropriate claim for refund with the Internal
Revenue Service.

The federal taxation of foreign persons is a highly complex matter that may be
affected by many other considerations. Accordingly, foreign investors should
consult their own advisors regarding the income, withholding and estate tax
considerations with respect to their investment.

BACKUP WITHHOLDING AND INFORMATION REPORTING. Under certain circumstances, a
stockholder may be subject to backup withholding at applicable rates on payments
made with respect to, or cash proceeds of a sale or exchange of, shares of
common stock. Backup withholding will apply only if the holder (i) fails to
furnish the person required to withhold with its taxpayer identification number
("TIN"), (ii) furnishes an incorrect TIN, (iii) is notified by the Internal
Revenue Service that it has failed to properly report payments of interest and
dividends, or (iv) under certain circumstances, fails to certify, under penalty
or perjury, that it has furnished a correct TIN and has not been notified by the
Internal Revenue Service that it is subject to backup withholding for failure to
report interest and dividend payments. Backup withholding will not apply with
respect to payments made to certain exempt recipients, such as corporations and
tax-exempt organizations. A stockholder should consult with a tax advisor
regarding qualification for exemption from backup withholding, and the procedure
for obtaining such exemption. Backup withholding is not an additional tax.
Rather, the amount of any backup withholding with respect to payment to a
stockholder will be allowed as a credit against such stockholder's United States
federal income tax liability and may entitle such stockholder to a refund,
provided that the required information is


                                      -12-


provided to the Internal Revenue Service. In addition, withholding a portion of
capital gain distributions made to stockholders may be required for stockholders
who fail to certify their non-foreign status.

Recent Legislation and Potential Legislation or Other Actions Affecting Tax
Consequences

The Tax Relief Extension Act of 1999 included several modifications to the
provisions of the Code governing the taxation of real estate investment trusts.
Effective for tax years beginning after December 31, 2000, a REIT may not own
more than ten percent of the outstanding voting securities of any issuer or more
than ten percent of the total value of the outstanding securities of any issuer.
Certain types of securities are not subject to these limitations and the
limitations do not apply to certain securities owned on or before July 12, 1999.
The revised asset limitation test must be satisfied at the end of each calendar
quarter. The Company reviewed its investment portfolio for compliance with these
new standards, implemented new procedures and restructured as appropriate to
enable the Company to continue complying with the asset limitation tests.

Prospective stockholders should recognize that the present federal income tax
treatment of an investment in us may be modified by legislative, judicial or
administrative action at any time and that any such action may affect
investments and commitments previously made. The rules dealing with federal
income taxation are constantly under review by persons involved in the
legislative process and by the Internal Revenue Service and the Treasury
Department, resulting in revisions of regulations and revised interpretations of
established concepts as well as statutory changes. Revisions in federal tax laws
and interpretations of these laws could adversely affect the tax consequences of
an investment in us.

State, Local and Foreign Taxation

We and our stockholders may be subject to state, local, or foreign taxation in
various state, local or foreign jurisdictions, including those in which it or
they transact business or reside. Such state, local or foreign taxation may
differ from the federal income tax treatment described above. Consequently,
prospective investors should consult their own tax advisors regarding the effect
of state, local and foreign tax laws on an investment in us.


                                      -13-


Subsidiaries and Affiliates

The Company has formed subsidiaries in connection with its real estate
transactions. As of March 21, 2002, the Company's wholly-owned subsidiaries
consisted of the following entities:






                                      -14-



ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES
The Company's headquarters are currently located at One SeaGate, Suite 1500,
Toledo, Ohio 43604. The following table sets forth certain information regarding
the facilities that comprise the Company's investments as of December 31, 2001:



- --------------------------
(1)  Investments include real estate investments and credit enhancements which
     amounted to $1,220,425,000 and $11,425,000, respectively.

(2) Reflects contract rate of annual base rent or interest recognized.



                                      -15-




ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.


ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.



                                     PART II


ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
            MATTERS

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
prices of the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported
on the Composite Tape and dividends paid per share. There were 4,691
stockholders of record as of December 31, 2001.






                                      -16-




ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31,
2001, are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the
Company.





- --------------------------
(1) Revenues include net gains and losses from sales of properties.
(2) General and administrative and other expenses include loan expense,
    provision for loan losses, and other operating expenses.







                                      -17-



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At December 31, 2001, the Company's net real estate investments totaled
approximately $1,213,564,000, that included 150 assisted living facilities, 57
skilled nursing facilities and seven specialty care facilities. Depending upon
the availability and cost of external capital, the Company anticipates making
additional investments in health care related facilities. New investments are
funded from temporary borrowings under the Company's line of credit
arrangements, internally generated cash and the proceeds derived from asset
sales. Permanent financing for future investments, which replaces funds drawn
under the line of credit arrangements, is expected to be provided through a
combination of private and public offerings of debt and equity securities, and
the assumption of secured debt. The Company believes its liquidity and various
sources of available capital are sufficient to fund operations, meet debt
service and dividend requirements, and finance future investments.

During the previous two years, the underperformance of publicly owned skilled
nursing and assisted living companies, combined with the much publicized shift
in equity funds flow from income-oriented investments to high-growth
opportunities, impaired the stock valuations in the health care REIT sector. In
2001, certain events took place that improved the access to capital for the
health care REIT sector. First, several of the publicly owned skilled nursing
companies that had previously filed for bankruptcy protection, settled their
claims and emerged from bankruptcy. Assisted living construction declined
significantly, allowing more of the existing projects to improve their occupancy
and stabilize operations. Finally, the broad stock market decline and the drop
in interest rates generated renewed interest in income-oriented investments such
as REITs. As a result of these factors, the Company was able to access the
capital markets during 2001.

In June 2001, the Company issued 3,450,000 shares of common stock, generating
net proceeds of $74,184,000.

In August 2001, the Company issued $175 million of senior notes, due in 2007 at
an effective yield of 7.78%.

During 2001, the Company invested $181,420,000 in real property, provided
permanent mortgage and loan financings of $18,639,000, made construction
advances of $17,075,000 and funded $4,084,000 of subdebt investments. As of
December 31, 2001, the Company had approximately $35,000,000 in unfunded
commitments.

As of December 31, 2001, the Company had stockholders' equity of $757,870,000
and a total outstanding debt balance of $491,216,000, which represents a debt to
total capitalization ratio of 0.39 to 1.0.

In January 2001, the Company extended its primary revolving line of credit
through March 31, 2003. Under the terms of the extension, the total commitment
was reduced from $175 million to $150 million and the effective interest rate
was adjusted to the lender's prime rate or LIBOR plus 1.50%. As of December 31,
2001, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under the Company's revolving
lines of credit. The Company also had a $25 million unsecured line of credit
with no borrowings at December 31, 2001, and a $60 million secured line of
credit, with $33 million outstanding at December 31, 2001.

In February 2002, the Company issued 906,125 shares of common stock, generating
net proceeds of $23,619,000.

As of February 28, 2002, the Company had an effective shelf registration on file
with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which the Company may issue up
to $652,000,000 of securities including debt securities, common and preferred
stock and warrants. Depending upon market conditions, the Company anticipates
issuing securities under its shelf registration to invest in additional health
care facilities and to repay borrowings under the Company's line of credit
arrangements.


The following table summarizes our payments under contractual obligations as of
December 31, 2001:



The following table summarizes our other commercial commitments as of December
31, 2001:



Credit enhancements include letters of credit provided by the Company and
agreements to purchase facilities in the event that the present owners default
upon their obligations.



                                      -18-




RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DECEMBER 31, 2001 VS. DECEMBER 31, 2000

Revenues were comprised of the following:

                             Year ended                   Change
                     ---------------------------      ---------------
                     Dec. 31, 2001 Dec. 31, 2000        $        %
                     ------------- -------------      ---------------
 (in thousands)
 Rental income            $ 98,988      $ 88,312      $ 10,676    12%
 Interest income            31,294        41,064        (9,770)  -24%
 Commitment fees and
      other income           3,848         5,837        (1,989)  -34%
 Prepayment fees               990            57           933  1637%
                          --------      --------      ---------------

 Totals                   $135,120      $135,270      $   (150)    0%
                          ========      ========      ===============


The Company generated increased rental income as a result of the completion of
real property construction projects for which the Company began receiving rent
and the purchase of properties previously financed by the Company. This offsets
a reduction in interest income due to the repayment of mortgage loans and the
purchase of properties previously financed by the Company.

The reduction in commitment fees and other income is due primarily to the
significant reduction in construction and investing activity.

During 2001, the Company received payoffs on mortgages that had significant
prepayment fee requirements, generating the large increase over the prior year.

Expenses were comprised of the following:

                                    Year ended                   Change
                           ----------------------------    -----------------
                           Dec. 31, 2001  Dec. 31, 2000       $          %
                           -------------  -------------    -----------------

(in thousands)
Interest expense                $ 32,028       $ 34,622    $ (2,594)    -7%
Provision for
     depreciation                 30,227         22,706       7,521     33%
Loss on investment                                2,000      (2,000)   100%
General and administrative
     expenses                      8,078          7,405         673      9%
Loan expense                       1,775          1,165         610     52%
Provision for losses               1,000          1,000                  0%
                                --------       --------    ---------------
Totals                          $ 73,108       $ 68,898    $  4,210      6%
                                ========       ========    ===============

The decrease in interest expense from 2000 to 2001 was primarily due to lower
average borrowings during the year, offset by a reduction in the amount of
capitalized interest offsetting interest expense.

The Company capitalizes certain interest costs associated with funds used to
finance the construction of properties owned directly by the Company. The amount
capitalized is based upon the borrowings outstanding during the construction
period using the rate of interest that approximates the Company's cost of
financing. The Company's interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized.
Capitalized interest for the year ended December 31, 2001, totaled $841,000, as
compared with $3,079,000 for the same period in 2000.

The provision for depreciation increased primarily as a result of additional
investment in properties owned directly by the Company.

In 2000, the Company restructured its investments with Summerville Health Care.
As part of the restructuring agreement, Summerville agreed to permit the Company
to re-lease 10 of its 11 facilities to new operators and repaid substantially
all of the Company's subdebt investment. As part of Summerville's
recapitalization, the Company's $2,000,000 non-yielding preferred stock
investment was substantially diluted. Accordingly, the Company wrote off its
investment in 2000, resulting in a $2,000,000 charge.



                                      -19-





Other items:                        Year ended                    Change
                           ---------------------------     -----------------
                           Dec. 31, 2001 Dec. 31, 2000          $        %
                           ------------- -------------     -----------------
(in thousands)
Gain (loss) on sales of
   properties                   $ (1,250)     $  1,684      $ (2,934)  -174%
Loss on extinguishment
    of debt                         (213)                       (213)    n/a
Preferred dividends               13,505        13,490            15       0%

As a result of the various factors mentioned above, net income available to
common stockholders was $47,044,000, or $1.52 per diluted share, for 2001 as
compared with $54,566,000, or $1.91 per diluted share, for 2000.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DECEMBER 31, 2000 VS. DECEMBER 31, 1999

Revenues were comprised of the following:

                                 Year ended                   Change
                       ---------------------------     -----------------
                       Dec. 31, 2000 Dec. 31, 1999          $       %
                       ------------- -------------     -----------------
(in thousands)
Rental income               $ 88,312      $ 72,700      $ 15,612    21%
Interest income               41,064        48,076        (7,012)  -15%
Commitment fees and
     other income              5,837         6,263          (426)   -7%
Prepayment fees                   57         1,565        (1,508)  -96%

                            --------      --------     ----------------
Totals                      $135,270      $128,604      $  6,666     5%
                            ========      ========     ================


The Company generated increased rental income as a result of the completion of
real property construction projects for which the Company began receiving rent
and the purchase of properties previously financed by the Company. This offsets
a reduction in interest income due to the repayment of mortgage loans and the
purchase of properties previously financed by the Company.

Expenses were comprised of the following:

                                Year ended                   Change
                       ---------------------------     -----------------
                       Dec. 31, 2000 Dec. 31, 1999          $       %
                       ------------- -------------     -----------------
(in thousands)
Interest expense            $ 34,622      $ 26,916      $  7,706    29%
Provision for
     depreciation             22,706        17,885         4,821    27%
Loss on investment             2,000                       2,000    n/a
General and
     administrative expenses   7,405         7,359            46     1%
Loan expense                   1,165           909           256    28%
Provision for losses           1,000           600           400    67%
                            --------      --------     ----------------
Totals                      $ 68,898      $ 53,669      $ 15,229    28%
                            ========      ========     ================

The increase in interest expense from 1999 to 2000 was due to higher average
interest rates on the Company's line of credit and secured debt and a reduction
in the amount of capitalized interest offsetting interest expense.

The Company capitalizes certain interest costs associated with funds used to
finance the construction of properties owned directly by the Company. The amount
capitalized is based upon the borrowings outstanding during the construction
period using the rate of interest which approximates the Company's cost of
financing. The Company's interest expense is reduced by the amount capitalized.
Capitalized interest for the year ended December 31, 2000, totaled $3,079,000,
as compared with $8,578,000 for the same period in 1999.

The provision for depreciation increased as a result of additional investment in
properties owned directly by the Company.

In 2000, the Company restructured its investments with Summerville Health Care.
As part of the restructuring agreement, Summerville agreed to permit the Company
to re-lease 10 of its 11 facilities to new operators and repaid substantially
all of the Company's subdebt investment. As part of Summerville's
recapitalization, the Company's $2,000,000 non-yielding preferred stock
investment was substantially diluted. Accordingly, the Company wrote off its
investment in 2000, resulting in a $2,000,000 charge.


                                      -20-



Other items:                    Year ended                   Change
                       ---------------------------     -----------------
                       Dec. 31, 2000 Dec. 31, 1999       $           %
                       ------------- -------------     -----------------
(in thousands)
Gain on sales of
   properties           $      1,684   $       703       $ 981     140%
Preferred dividends           13,490        12,814         676       5%

As a result of the various factors mentioned above, net income available to
common stockholders was $54,566,000, or $1.91 per diluted share, for 2000 as
compared with $62,824,000, or $2.21 per diluted share, for 1999.

CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES

The consolidated financial statements are prepared in accordance with accounting
principles generally accepted in the U.S., which require the Company to make
estimates and assumptions (see Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements).
The Company believes that of its significant accounting policies, the following
critical accounting policies, among others, affect its more significant
judgments and estimates used in the preparation of its consolidated financial
statements.

IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS

The net book value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by
property basis to determine if there are indicators of impairment. These
indicators may include anticipated operating losses at the property level, the
tenant's inability to make rent payments, and changes in the market that may
permanently reduce the value of the property. If indicators of impairment exist,
then the undiscounted future cash flows from the most likely use of the property
are compared to the current net book value. If the undiscounted cash flows are
less than the net book value, an impairment loss would be recognized to the
extent that the net book value exceeds the current fair market value. This
analysis requires the Company to determine if indicators of impairment exist and
to estimate the most likely stream of cash flows to be generated from the
property during the period the property is expected to be held. If the
projections or assumptions change in the future, the Company may be required to
record an impairment charge and reduce the net book value of the property owned.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

The Company regularly evaluates the collectibility of its loans receivables
based on a combination of factors. These factors include current economic
conditions, historical loan charge-offs, financial strength of the borrower and
guarantors, and value of the underlying property. If such factors indicate that
there is greater risk of loan charge-offs, additional allowances may be
required.

POTENTIAL RISKS FROM BANKRUPTCIES

The Company is exposed to the risk that its operators may not be able to meet
the rent, or principal and interest payments due the Company, which may result
in an operator bankruptcy or insolvency. Although the Company's operating lease
agreements provide the Company the right to evict an operator, demand immediate
payment of rent and exercise other remedies, and the Company's mortgage loans
provide the Company the right to terminate an investment, demand immediate
payment of principal and unpaid interest and foreclose on the collateral, the
bankruptcy laws afford certain rights to a party that has filed for bankruptcy
or reorganization. An operator in bankruptcy may be able to restrict or delay
the Company's ability to collect unpaid rent in the case of a lease or to
receive unpaid principal or interest in the case of a mortgage loan.

The receipt of liquidation proceeds or the replacement of an operator that has
defaulted on its lease or loan could be delayed by the approval process of any
federal, state or local agency necessary for the transfer of the facility or the
replacement of the operator licensed to manage the facility. In addition, the
Company may be required to fund certain expenses (e.g., real estate taxes and
maintenance) to retain control of a facility or to transition it to a new
operator. In some instances, the Company has terminated its lease with an
operator and relet the facility to another operator. In some of those
situations, the Company provided working capital loans and limited
indemnification of the new operator. If the Company cannot transition the
facility to a new operator, it may take possession of a facility, which may
expose the Company to successor liabilities. Should such events occur, the
Company's revenue and operating cash flow may be adversely affected.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected the
earnings of the Company because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally,
earnings of the Company are primarily long-term investments with fixed interest
rates. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity,
senior notes and borrowings under the revolving lines of credit. During
inflationary periods, that generally are accompanied by rising interest rates,
the Company's ability to grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new
investments may increase at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming
the current inflation rate remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not
increase significantly, the Company believes that inflation will not impact the
availability of equity and debt financing.


                                      -21-


OTHER INFORMATION


We have made and incorporated by reference statements in this Form 10-K that
constitute "forward-looking statements" as that term is defined in the federal
securities laws. These forward-looking statements concern:

- -   The possible expansion of our portfolio;
- -   The performance of our operators and properties;
- -   Our ability to obtain new viable tenants for properties which we take back
    from financially troubled tenants, if any;
- -   Our ability to make distributions;
- -   Our policies and plans regarding investments, financings and other matters;
- -   Our tax status as a real estate investment trust;
- -   Our ability to appropriately balance the use of debt and equity; and
- -   Our ability to access capital markets or other sources of funds.

When we use words such as "believes," "expects," "anticipates," "estimates" or
similar expressions, we are making forward-looking statements. Forward-looking
statements are not guarantees of future performance and involve risks and
uncertainties. Our expected results may not be achieved and actual results may
differ materially from our expectations. This may be a result of various
factors, including:

- -   The status of the economy;
- -   The status of capital markets, including prevailing interest rates;
- -   Compliance with and changes to regulations and payment policies within the
    health care industry;
- -   Changes in financing terms;
- -   Competition within the health care and senior housing industries; and
- -   Changes in federal, state and local legislation.


ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is exposed to various market risks, including the potential loss
arising from adverse changes in interest rates. The Company seeks to mitigate
the effects of fluctuations in interest rates by matching the term of new
investments with new long-term fixed rate borrowings to the extent possible. The
following section is presented to provide a discussion of the risks associated
with potential fluctuations in interest rates.

The Company historically borrows on its revolving lines of credit to make
acquisitions of, loans to, or to construct health care facilities. Then, as
market conditions dictate, the Company will issue equity or long-term fixed rate
debt to repay the borrowings under the revolving lines of credit.

A change in interest rates will not affect the interest expense associated with
our fixed rate debt. Interest rate changes, however, will affect the fair value
of such debt. A 1% increase in interest rates would result in a decrease in fair
value of the Company's Senior Unsecured Notes by approximately $16 million at
December 31, 2001. Changes in the interest rate environment upon maturity of
this fixed rate debt could have an effect on the future cash flows and earnings
of the Company, depending on whether the debt is replaced with other fixed rate
debt, with variable rate debt, with equity, or by the sale of assets.

A change in interest rates will not affect the fair value of the Company's
variable rate debt, including its unsecured and secured revolving credit
arrangements. At December 31, 2001, the Company did not have any borrowings on
its unsecured revolving credit arrangements. At that time, there was $33 million
outstanding under the secured revolving credit arrangement at the interest rate
of 7%, which is the minimum interest rate for borrowings under this agreement.
As such, a 1% change in interest rates would have no effect on the Company's
annual interest expense assuming no change in the outstanding balances at
year-end. However, as an example, if borrowings under the unsecured credit
arrangements totaled $50 million, a 1% increase in interest rates would result
in increased annual interest expense of $500,000.

The Company is subject to risks associated with debt financing, including the
risk that existing indebtedness may not be refinanced or that the terms of such
refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of current indebtedness. The
majority of the Company's borrowings were completed pursuant to indentures or
contractual agreements that limit the amount of indebtedness the Company may
incur. Accordingly, in the event that the Company is unable to raise additional
equity or borrow money because of these limitations, the Company's ability to
acquire additional properties may be limited.

The Company may or may not elect to use financial derivative instruments to
hedge variable interest rate exposure. Such decisions are principally based on
the Company's policy to match its variable rate investments with comparable
borrowings, but is also based on the general trend in interest rates at the
applicable dates and the Company's perception of the future volatility of
interest rates.



                                      -22-



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA


                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


Stockholders and Directors
Health Care REIT, Inc.


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care
REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2001. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 14 (a). These
financial statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted
in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit
to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates
made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our
opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Health Care REIT,
Inc. at December 31, 2001 and 2000, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedules, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.




                                          /S/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Toledo, Ohio
January 22, 2002


                                      -23-





                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS




See accompanying notes



                                      -24-





                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME




See accompanying notes




                                      -25-



                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY





See accompanying notes






                                      -26-





                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS






See accompanying notes


                                      -27-




                             Health Care REIT, Inc.
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

1.     ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS

INDUSTRY

The Company is a self-administered real estate investment trust that invests
primarily in long-term care facilities, which include skilled nursing and
assisted living facilities. The Company also invests in specialty care
facilities.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its wholly owned subsidiaries after the elimination of all significant
intercompany accounts and transactions.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

LOANS RECEIVABLE

Loans receivable consist of long-term mortgage loans, construction-period loans
maturing in two years or less, working capital loans and subdebt investments.
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount
outstanding. The mortgage and construction loans are primarily collateralized by
a first mortgage on or assignment of partnership interest in the related
facilities, which consist of skilled nursing, assisted living and specialty care
facilities. The working capital loans are generally secured by second mortgages
or interests in receivables. Subdebt investments represent debt instruments to
operators of facilities that have been financed by the Company. These
obligations are generally secured by the operator's leasehold rights and
corporate guaranties.

REAL PROPERTY  OWNED

Substantially all of the properties owned by the Company are leased under
operating leases and are recorded at cost. These properties are depreciated on a
straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives which range from fifteen
to forty years for buildings and five to twelve years for fixtures. The net book
value of long-lived assets is reviewed quarterly on a property by property basis
to determine if facts and circumstances suggest that the assets may be impaired
or that the depreciable life may need to be changed. The Company considers
external factors relating to each asset. If these external factors and the
projected undiscounted cash flows of the asset over the remaining amortization
period indicate that the asset will not be recoverable, the carrying value will
be adjusted to the estimated fair value. The leases generally extend for a
minimum 10-year period and provide for payment of all taxes, insurance and
maintenance by the lessees. In general, operating lease income includes base
rent payments plus fixed annual rent increases, which are recognized on a
straight-line basis over the minimum lease period. This income is greater than
the amount of cash received during the first half of the lease term.

CAPITALIZATION OF CONSTRUCTION PERIOD INTEREST

The Company capitalizes interest costs associated with funds used to finance the
construction of properties owned directly by the Company. The amount capitalized
is based upon the borrowings outstanding during the construction period using
the rate of interest which approximates the Company's cost of financing.

The Company capitalized interest costs of $841,000, $3,079,000, and $8,578,000,
during 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, related to construction of real
property owned by the Company. The Company's interest expense reflected in the
statement of income has been reduced by the amounts capitalized.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

The allowance for loan losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to
absorb potential losses in the Company's loans receivable. The determination of
the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these loans, including
general economic conditions and estimated collectibility of loan payments.



                                      -28-



1.     ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS (CONTINUED)

 DEFERRED LOAN EXPENSES

Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred by the Company in connection with the
issuance of short-term and long-term debt. The Company amortizes these costs
over the term of the debt using the straight-line method, which approximates the
interest yield method.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less.

EQUITY INVESTMENTS

Management determines the appropriate classification of an equity investment at
the time of acquisition and reevaluates such designation as of each balance
sheet date. Included in equity investments are the common stock of a
corporation, valued at historical cost, and ownership representing a 31%
interest in Atlantic Healthcare Finance L.P., a property investment group that
specializes in the financing, through sale and leaseback transactions, of
nursing and care homes located in the United Kingdom. The ownership interest is
accounted for under the equity method.

Marketable securities available for sale are stated at market value with
unrealized gains and losses reported in a separate component of stockholders'
equity. Marketable securities reflect the market value of the common stock of
two publicly owned corporations, which were obtained by the Company at no cost.

COMMITMENT FEES

 Commitment fees are earned by the Company for its agreement to provide direct
and standby financing to, and credit enhancement for, owners and operators of
health care facilities. The Company amortizes commitment fees over the initial
fixed term of the lease, the mortgage or the construction period related to such
investments.

FEDERAL INCOME TAX

No provision has been made for federal income taxes since the Company has
elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and the Company believes that it has
met the requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year. See Note
10.

NET INCOME PER SHARE

Basic earnings per share is computed by dividing income available to common
stockholders by the weighted-average number of shares for the period adjusted
for non-vested shares of restricted stock. The computation of diluted earnings
per share is similar to basic earnings per share, except that the number of
shares is increased to include the number of additional common shares that would
have been outstanding if the potentially dilutive common shares had been issued.

COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

Comprehensive income includes unrealized gains or losses on the Company's
marketable securities ($78,000 and $130,000 at December 31, 2001 and 2000,
respectively) and foreign currency translation adjustments (($1,001,000) and
($874,000) at December 31, 2001 and 2000, respectively). These items are
included as components of stockholders' equity.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARD

In August 2001, the FASB issued Statement No. 144, Accounting for the Impairment
or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets, that the Company is required to adopt
beginning January 1, 2002 with transition provisions for certain matters. The
new rules on asset impairment supersede Statement No. 121, Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of (FAS
121), and provide a single accounting model for long-lived assets to be disposed
of. The Company does not expect the adoption of this statement to have a
material impact on the consolidated financial statements.




                                      -29-



2.     LOANS RECEIVABLE

The following is a summary of loans receivable (in thousands):




Loans to related parties (an entity whose ownership includes one Company
director) included above are at rates comparable to other third-party borrowers
equal to or greater than the Company's net interest cost on borrowings to
support such loans. The amount of interest income and commitment fees from
related parties amounted to $108,000, $152,000, and $914,000 for 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

The following is a summary of mortgage loans at December 31, 2001 (in
thousands):






                                      -30-



3.     REAL PROPERTY OWNED
The following table summarizes certain information about the Company's real
property owned as of December 31, 2001 (in thousands):






                                      -31-



3.     REAL PROPERTY OWNED (CONTINUED)

At December 31, 2001, future minimum lease payments receivable under operating
leases are as follows (in thousands):

                 2002                   $     102,636
                 2003                         104,240
                 2004                         103,362
                 2005                         105,486
                 2006                         107,273
                 Thereafter                   812,595
                                        -------------

                 TOTAL                  $   1,335,592
                                        =============


The Company converted $13,683,000, $60,648,000, and $16,309,000 of mortgage
loans into operating lease properties in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. In
2001, the Company acquired properties which included the assumption of mortgages
totaling $45,202,000. These noncash activities are appropriately not reflected
in the accompanying statements of cash flows.


4.     CONCENTRATION OF RISK

As of December 31, 2001, long-term care facilities, which include skilled
nursing and assisted living facilities, comprised 93% (92% at December 31, 2000)
of the Company's real estate investments and were located in 33 states.
Investments in assisted living facilities comprised 63% (66% at December 31,
2000) of the Company's real estate investments. The Company's investments with
the three largest operators totaled approximately 28% (27% at December 31,
2000). No single operator has a real estate investment balance, which exceeds
12% (11% at December 31, 2000) of total real estate investments, including
credit enhancements.

5.     ALLOWANCE FOR LOAN LOSSES

The following is a summary of the allowance for loan losses (in thousands):



In addition, the Company recorded a $2,000,000 loss during 2000 related to an
investment in the preferred stock of a private corporation that became
substantially diluted as a result of a recapitalization of that corporation.

6.     BORROWINGS UNDER LINE OF CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS
       AND RELATED ITEMS

The Company has an unsecured credit arrangement with a consortium of nine banks
providing for a revolving line of credit ("revolving credit") in the amount of
$150,000,000, which expires on March 31, 2003. The agreement specifies that
borrowings under the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods
no longer than three months on either the agent bank's base rate of interest or
1.5% over LIBOR interest rate (based at the Company's option). In addition, the
Company pays a commitment fee ranging from an annual rate of 0.20% to 0.375% and
an annual agent's fee of $50,000. Principal is due upon expiration of the
agreement. The Company has another unsecured line of credit with a bank for a
total of $25,000,000, which expires April 30, 2002. Borrowings under this line
of credit are subject to interest at the bank's prime rate of interest (4.75% at
December 31, 2001) and are due on demand. At December 31, 2001, there were no
borrowings under either of the unsecured lines of credit.



                                      -32-



6.     BORROWINGS UNDER LINE OF CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS
       AND RELATED ITEMS (CONTINUED)

The following information relates to aggregate borrowings under the unsecured
line of credit arrangements (in thousands, except percentages):



7.     SENIOR NOTES AND OTHER LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

The Company has $412,250,000 of Unsecured Senior Notes with interest ranging
from 7.39% to 8.34%.

During the year ended December 31, 2001, the Company repurchased $7,750,000 of
Unsecured Senior Notes due March 2002. The Company incurred expenses of $213,000
related to this repurchase, which was recorded as an extraordinary item.

The Company has five mortgage notes payable, collateralized by health care
facilities with interest ranging from 7.69% to 12.00%.

The Company has a $60,000,000 secured line of credit, collateralized by 16
health care facilities, with interest at 2% over LIBOR, with a floor of 7%
(7.00% at December 31, 2001). The Company had $33,000,000 in borrowings
outstanding at December 31, 2001.

The carrying values of the health care properties securing the mortgages and
secured debt totaled $204,603,000 at December 31, 2001.

At December 31, 2001, the annual principal payments on these long-term
obligations are as follows (in thousands):

                                         SECURED LINE OF
                      SENIOR NOTES           CREDIT             MORTGAGES
                    ----------------- ----------------------- --------------

        2002            $  12,250            $                  $     368
        2003               35,000                                     400
        2004               40,000               33,000                475
        2005                                                          860
        2006               50,000                                     398
        2007              175,000                                     430
        2008              100,000                                     464
  Thereafter                                                       42,571
                        ---------            ---------          ---------
      Totals            $ 412,250            $  33,000          $  45,966
                        =========            =========          =========


8.     STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS AND RETIREMENT ARRANGEMENTS

The Company's 1995 Stock Incentive Plan authorizes up to 3,464,000 shares of
Common Stock to be issued at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The 1995
Plan replaced the 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan. The options granted under
the 1985 Plan continue to vest through 2005 and expire ten years from the date
of grant. Officers and key salaried employees of the Company are eligible to
participate in the 1995 Plan. The 1995 Plan allows for the issuance of stock
options, restricted stock grants and Dividend Equivalency Rights. In addition,
the Company has a Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, which authorizes up to
336,000 shares to be issued.




                                      -33-



8.     STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS AND RETIREMENT ARRANGEMENTS (CONTINUED)

The following summarizes the activity in the Plans for the years ended December
31 (shares in thousands):




The stock options generally vest over a five-year period and expire ten years
from the date of grant. The Company issued 77,275, 77,250, and 86,250 restricted
shares during 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, including 8,000, 8,000, and
9,000 shares for directors in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Vesting periods
range from six months for directors to five years for officers and key salaried
employees. Expense, which is recognized as the shares vest based on the market
value at the date of the award, totaled $1,164,000, $1,090,000, and $1,080,000,
in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding at
December 31, 2001 (shares in thousands):



The Company has elected to follow APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock
Issued to Employees in accounting for its employee stock options as permitted
under FASB Statement No. 123 ("FASB 123"), Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, and, accordingly, recognizes no compensation expense for the stock
option grants when the market price on the underlying stock on the date of grant
equals the exercise price of the Company's employee stock option.

Pro forma information has been determined as if the Company had accounted for
its employee stock options and restricted shares under the fair value method.
The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using the
Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following range of assumptions:
risk-free interest rates from 3.44% to 7.60%, dividend yields of 8% to 12%,
expected lives of seven years, and expected volatility of .18% to .244%. Had
compensation cost for the stock-based compensation plans been determined in
accordance with FASB 123, net income would have been reduced by $465,000,
$267,000, and $621,000, in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively, and net income per
common share would have been lower by $.01, $.01 and $.02, in 2001, 2000 and
1999, respectively.

The Company has a 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan and Money Purchase Pension Plan
("the Plans") covering all eligible employees. Under the Plans, eligible
employees may make contributions, and the Company may make matching
contributions and a profit sharing contribution. Company contributions to these
Plans totaled $175,000, $171,000, and $144,000, in 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

The Company has a non-qualified senior executive retirement plan designed to
provide pension benefits for certain officers. Pension benefits are based on
compensation and length of service and the plan is unfunded. The accrued
liability for the plan was $41,000 at December 31, 2001.


                                      -34-



9.     PREFERRED STOCK

In January 1999, the Company sold 3,000,000 shares of Series C Cumulative
Convertible Preferred Stock. These shares have a liquidation value of $25.00 per
share and will pay dividends equivalent to the greater of (i) the annual
dividend rate of $2.25 per share (a quarterly dividend rate of $0.5625 per
share); or (ii) the quarterly dividend then payable per common share on an as
converted basis. The preferred shares are convertible into common stock at a
conversion price of $25.625 per share. The Company has the right to redeem the
preferred shares after five years.

The Company has 3,000,000 shares of 8.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable
Non-Voting Preferred Stock with a liquidation preference of $25.00 per share.
Dividends are payable quarterly in arrears. On and after May 1, 2003, the
Preferred Stock may be redeemed for cash at the option of the Company, in whole
or in part, at $25.00 per share, plus accrued and unpaid dividends thereon to
the redemption date.

10.    INCOME TAXES AND DISTRIBUTIONS

To qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal income tax purposes,
90% of taxable income (including capital gains) must be distributed to
stockholders. Real estate investment trusts that do not distribute a certain
amount of current year taxable income in the current year are also subject to a
4% federal excise tax. The principal reasons for the difference between
undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and financial statement
purposes are the recognition of straight-line rent for reporting purposes,
different useful lives and depreciation methods for real property and the
provision for losses for reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax
purposes. Cash distributions paid to stockholders, for federal income tax
purposes, are as follows:

                                             YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31
                                        2001          2000          1999
                                      -------        -------     ---------
Per Share:
       Ordinary income               $  1.673       $  2.330     $   2.217
       Return of capital                 .648           .000          .000
       Capital gains                     .019           .005          .053
                                      -------        -------     ---------
                  TOTALS              $ 2.340       $  2.335     $   2.270
                                      =======        =======     =========


11.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

The Company has agreements to purchase two health care facilities, or the loans
with respect thereto, in the event that the present owners default upon their
obligations. In consideration for these agreements, the Company receives and
recognizes fees annually related to these agreements. Although the terms of
these agreements vary, the purchase prices are equal to the amount of the
outstanding obligations financing the facility. These agreements expire through
the year 2005. In addition, the Company has an outstanding letter of credit
relating to one assisted living project. At December 31, 2001, obligations under
these agreements for which the Company was contingently liable aggregated
approximately $11,425,000.

12.    STOCKHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

Under the terms of a Stockholder Rights Plan approved by the Board of Directors
in July 1994, a Preferred Share Right ("Right") is attached to and automatically
trades with each outstanding share of Common Stock.

The Rights, which are redeemable, will become exercisable only in the event that
any person or group becomes a holder of 15% or more of the Common Stock, or
commences a tender or exchange offer, which, if consummated, would result in
that person or group owning at least 15% of the Common Stock. Once the Rights
become exercisable, they entitle all other stockholders to purchase one
one-thousandth of a share of a new series of junior participating preferred
stock for an exercise price of $48.00. The Rights will expire on August 5, 2004,
unless exchanged earlier or redeemed earlier by the Company for $.01 per Right
at any time before public disclosure that a 15% position has been acquired.


                                      -35-


13.    EARNINGS PER SHARE

The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted earnings per
share (in thousands, except per share data):



The diluted earnings per share calculation excludes the dilutive effect of
1,301,000, 1,954,000, and 1,813,000 options for 2001, 2000 and 1999,
respectively, because the exercise price was greater than the average market
price. The Series C Cumulative Convertible Preferred Stock was not included in
this calculation as the effect of the conversion was anti-dilutive.

14.  DISCLOSURE ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of
each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that
value.

Real Property Loans--The fair value of all real property loans is estimated by
discounting the future cash flows using the current rates at which similar loans
would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings and for the same
remaining maturities.

Working Capital Loans, Construction Loans and Subdebt Investments--The carrying
amount is a reasonable estimate of fair value based on the interest rates
received, which approximates current market rates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents--The carrying amount approximates fair value.

Marketable Securities--Marketable securities are recorded at their fair market
value.

Borrowings Under Line of Credit Arrangements --The carrying amount of the lines
of credit and secured debt approximates fair value because the borrowings are
interest rate adjustable.


Senior Unsecured Notes --The fair value of the senior unsecured notes payable
was estimated by discounting the future cash flow using the current borrowing
rate available to the Company for similar debt.

Mortgage Notes Payable--Mortgage notes payable is a reasonable estimate of fair
value based on the interest rates paid, which approximates current market rates.



                                      -36-


The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company's financial
instruments at December 31, 2001 and 2000, are as follows (in thousands):




15.    QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations of
the Company for the years ended December 31, 2001 and 2000 (in thousands, except
per share data):








                                      -37-



ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.
                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading "Election of Three Directors" and "Executive
Officers of the Company" in the definitive proxy statement of the Company which
will be filed with the Commission prior to April 5, 2002.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading "Remuneration" in the definitive proxy statement
of the Company which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 5, 2002.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading "Security Ownership of Directors and Management"
in the definitive proxy statement of the Company which will be filed with the
Commission prior to April 5, 2002.

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
in the definitive proxy statement of the Company which will be filed with the
Commission prior to April 5, 2002.




                                      -38-



ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K





                                      -39-





                                      -40-







(b) Reports on Form 8-K filed in the fourth quarter of 2001:

    None.

(c) Exhibits:

    The exhibits listed in Item 14(a)(3) above are either filed with this Form
    10-K or incorporated by reference in accordance with Rule 12b-32 of the
    Exchange Act.

(d) Financial Statement Schedules:

    Financial statement schedules are included in pages 43 through 50.

*   Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Company has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.


                                               HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.



                                        By:     /S/GEORGE L. CHAPMAN
                                           -----------------------------------
                                            Chairman, Chief Executive Officer,
                                            President and Director






                                      -41-




Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on March 22, 2002 by the following persons on behalf of
the Company and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.









                                      -42-



SCHEDULE III - Continued





                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III

                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 2001




                                      -43-

SCHEDULE III - Continued






                                      -44-

SCHEDULE III - Continued



                                      -45-

SCHEDULE III - Continued




                                      -46-

SCHEDULE III - Continued






                                      -47-






(1)  Represents mortgage loans converted to operating leases and $954,000 of
     land reclassed from other assets in 2001.

(2)  The aggregate cost for tax purposes for real property equals $1,035,650,000
     at December 31, 2001.




                                      -48-








                   SCHEDULE IV - MORTGAGE LOANS ON REAL ESTATE
                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                                DECEMBER 31, 2001





                                      -49-


SCHEDULE IV - Continued




                                                      (in thousands)
                                                 Year Ended December 31
                                          -----------------------------------
                                            2001         2000          1999
                                          --------     --------     --------

Reconciliation of mortgage loans:
   Balance at beginning of period         $280,601     $384,298     $398,682
   Additions during period:
      New mortgage loans                    17,791       28,244       44,656
                                          --------     --------     --------
                                          $298,392      412,542      443,338
   Deductions during period:
      Collections of principal(1)           72,166       70,567       42,731
      Charge-offs                                           726
      Other(2)                            $ 13,683       60,648       16,309
                                          --------     --------     --------

   Balance at end of period               $212,543     $280,601     $384,298
                                          ========     ========     ========

(1)   Includes collection of negative principal amortization.

(2)   Includes properties originally financed with mortgage loans that were
      purchased during the periods indicated.




                                      -50-




                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  -------------

The following documents are included in this Form 10-K as an Exhibit:





                                      -51-




                                      -52-



- --------------------

*   Management Contract or Compensatory Plan or Arrangement.


                                      -53-







                                      -54-



