
10-K405
HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.    10-K405



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                         SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                              ------------------------
  
For the fiscal year ended DECEMBER 31, 1996          Commission File No. 1-8923

                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         DELAWARE                                        34-1096634
(State or other jurisdiction of                         (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                       Identification Number)

 One SeaGate, Suite 1500, Toledo, Ohio                       43604
(Address of principal executive office)                    (Zip Code)

                                 (419) 247-2800
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                               Name of Each Exchange
         Title of Each Class                   on Which Registered
         ----------------------                ------------------------
         Shares of Common Stock                New York Stock Exchange
         $1.00 par value

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months; and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.

                                    Yes    X                   No  
                                       -----                     ------- 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment of this
Form 10-K.

                                       [X]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant on February 6, 1996 was $441,534,000 based on the reported closing
sales price of such shares on the New York Stock Exchange for that date.
As of February 6, 1996, there were 18,662,919 shares outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the annual
shareholders meeting to be held April 22, 1997, are incorporated by reference
into Part III.











                            HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                         1996 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
                                      
                              
                                    PART I










                                    PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL

Health Care REIT, Inc. (the "Company") is a self-administered real estate
investment trust that invests in health care facilities, primarily nursing
homes, assisted living facilities and retirement centers. The Company also
invests in specialty care facilities. As of December 31, 1996, long-term care
facilities, which include nursing homes, assisted living facilities and
retirement centers, comprised approximately 85% of the investment portfolio.
Founded in 1970, the Company was the first real estate investment trust to
invest exclusively in health care facilities.

As of December 31, 1996, the Company had $541,496,000 of real estate
investments, inclusive of credit enhancements, in 137 facilities located in 28
states and managed by 51 different operators. At that date, the portfolio       
included 56 nursing homes, 63 assisted living facilities, 11 retirement
centers, five specialty care facilities, and two behavioral care facilities. At
December 31, 1996, the Company had approximately $236,277,000 in unfunded
commitments.

The Company's primary objectives are to protect shareholders' capital and
enhance shareholder value. The Company seeks to pay consistent cash dividends to
shareholders and create opportunities to increase dividend payments from annual
increases in rental and interest income and portfolio growth. To meet these
objectives, the Company invests primarily in long-term care facilities managed
by experienced operators and diversifies its investment portfolio by form of
investment, operator and geographic location.

The Company anticipates providing mortgage financing for qualified health care
operators and acquiring additional health care facilities through operating
lease arrangements. Capital for future investments may be provided by borrowing
under the Company's revolving credit facilities, public offerings or private
placements of debt or equity, and the assumption of secured indebtedness.

PORTFOLIO OF PROPERTIES

The following table reflects the diversification of the Company's portfolio as
of December 31, 1996:






(2) Investments do not include $144,389,000 in commitments for financings for
    which the Company has not yet commenced funding.

(3) Due to a number of factors, it is possible that some portion of the
    commitments for financings will not result in permanent financing.

(4) Investment Per Bed/Unit was computed by using the total investment amount of
    $633,384,000 which includes real estate investments, unfunded commitments
    for which initial funding has commenced, and credit enhancements of, 
    $522,681,000, $91,888,000 and $18,815,000, respectively.

(5) The Company has investments in properties located in 28 states.

   Nursing Homes

Skilled nursing facilities provide inpatient skilled nursing and custodial
services as well as rehabilitative, restorative and transitional medical
services. In some instances, nursing facilities supplement hospital care by
providing specialized care for medically complex patients whose conditions
require intense medical and therapeutic services, but who are medically stable
enough to have these services provided in facilities that are less expensive
than acute care hospitals.

   Assisted Living Facilities

The assisted living facilities provide services to aid in everyday living, such
as bathing, meals, security, transportation, recreation, medication supervision
and limited therapeutic programs. More intensive medical needs of the resident
are often met within assisted living facilities by home health providers, close
coordination with the resident's physician and skilled nursing facilities.
Assisted living facilities are increasingly successful as lower cost, less
institutional alternatives to the health problems of the elderly or medically
frail.

   Retirement Centers

The retirement centers offer specially designed residential units for active and
ambulatory elderly residents and provide various ancillary services. Retirement
centers offer residents an opportunity for an independent lifestyle with a range
of social and health services.

   Specialty Care Facilities

The specialty care facilities provide specialized inpatient services for
specific illnesses or diseases, including, among others, coronary and
cardiovascular services. Specialty care facilities are lower cost alternatives
to acute care hospitals.

   Behavioral Care Facilities

The behavioral care facilities offer comprehensive inpatient and outpatient
psychiatric treatment programs. Programs are tailored to the individual and
include individual, group and family therapy.

                                       -4-






INVESTMENTS

The Company invests in income producing health care facilities with a primary
focus on long-term care facilities, which include skilled nursing facilities,
assisted living facilities and retirement centers. The Company also invests in
specialty care facilities. The Company intends to continue to diversify its
investment portfolio by type of health care facilities and form of financing.

In determining whether to finance a facility, the Company focuses on: (a) the
experience of the operator; (b) the financial and operational feasibility of the
property; (c) the financial strength of the borrower or lessee; (d) the security
available to support the financing; and (e) the amount of capital committed to
the property by the borrower or lessee. Management conducts market research and
analysis for all potential investments. In addition, Management reviews the
value of all properties, the interest rates and debt service coverage
requirements of any debt to be assumed and the anticipated sources for repayment
for such debt.

The Company's investments primarily take the form of operating lease
transactions, permanent mortgage loans and construction financings.
Substantially all of the Company's loans and leases are designed with escalating
rate structures that may result in principal payment or purchase prior to
maturity. The Company's policy is to structure long term financing to maximize
returns. The Company believes that appropriate new investments will be available
in the future with substantially the same spreads over its costs of borrowing
regardless of interest rate fluctuations.

Investments are typically structured using mortgage loans or operating leases
which are normally secured by guarantees and/or letters of credit. As of
December 31, 1996, letters of credit from commercial banks, and cash deposits
aggregating $26,012,000 were available to the Company as security for operating
lease, permanent mortgage loan and construction loan obligations. In addition,
the leases and loans are generally cross-defaulted and the loans are
cross-collateralized with any other mortgage loans, leases, or other agreements
between the operator or any affiliate of the operator and the Company.

The Company typically finances up to 90% of the appraised value of a property.
Economic terms normally include annual rate increases and fair market value
based purchase options in operating leases, and may include contingent interest
for mortgage loans.

The Company monitors its investments through a variety of methods, which are
determined by the type of health care facility and operator. The monitoring
process includes a review and analysis of facility, borrower or lessee, and
guarantor financial statements; periodic site visits; property reviews; and
meetings with operators. Such reviews of operators and facilities generally
encompass licensure and regulatory compliance materials and reports,
contemplated building improvements and other material developments.

For certain investments, the Company receives warrants or other similar equity
instruments that provide the Company with an opportunity to share in an
operator's enterprise value. As of December 31, 1996, the Company had obtained
warrants from seven operators to purchase their common stock or partnership
interest. None of the warrants are publicly traded. In one instance, the
underlying common stock that relates to one set of warrants is publicly traded,
and the market price of the common stock was below the exercise price of the
related warrants at December 31, 1996.

In connection with an investment in one operator, the Company also received
warrants that were converted into 87,823 shares of common stock at the time of
the operator's initial public offering. As of December 31, 1996, those shares of
common stock were recorded on the Company's balance sheet at a value of
$768,451.

   Operating Leases

Each facility, which includes the land, buildings, improvements and related
rights (the "Leased Properties") owned by the Company is leased to a health care
provider pursuant to a long-term lease (collectively, the "Leases"). The

                                       -5-








Leases generally have a fixed term of 10 to 13 years and contain multiple five
to ten-year renewal options. Each Lease is a triple net lease requiring the
lessee to pay rent and all additional charges incurred in the operation of the
Leased Property. The lessees are required to repair, rebuild and maintain the
Leased Properties.

The Company's Leased Properties aggregated approximately $153,623,000 at
December 31, 1996. The base rents range from approximately 8.3% to 15.9% per
annum of the Company's equity investment in the Leased Properties. The base
rents for the renewal periods are generally fixed rents set at a spread above
the Treasury yield for the corresponding period. In addition, the Company
typically charges a lease commitment fee at the initiation of the transaction.

   Permanent Mortgage Loans

The Company's investments in permanent mortgage loans are structured to provide
the Company with interest income, principal amortization and commitment fees.
Virtually all of the approximately $292,442,000 of permanent mortgage loans as
of December 31, 1996 were first mortgage loans.

The interest rate on the Company's investments in permanent mortgage loans for
operating facilities ranges from 10.3% to 13.0% per annum on the outstanding
balances. The yield to the Company on permanent mortgage loans depends upon a
number of factors, including the stated interest rate, average principal amount
outstanding during the term of the loan, the amount of the commitment fee
charged at the inception of the loan, the interest rate adjustments and the
additional interest earned.

The permanent mortgage loans for operating facilities made through December 31,
1996 are generally subject to seven to ten year terms with 25-year amortization
schedules that provide for a balloon payment of the outstanding principal
balance at the end of the term. Generally, the permanent mortgage loans provide
five to seven years of prepayment protection.

   Construction Financing

The Company provides construction financing that by their terms converts either
into a long-term operating lease or mortgage loan upon the completion of the
facilities. Generally, the rates on the outstanding balances of the Company's
construction financings are 250 to 350 basis points over the prime rate of a
specified financial institution. The Company also typically charges a commitment
fee at the commencement of the financing. The construction financing period
commences upon funding and terminates upon the earlier of the completion of
development of the applicable facility or the end of a specified period,
generally 12 to 18 months. During the term of the construction financing, funds
are advanced pursuant to draw requests made by the operator in accordance with
the terms and conditions of the applicable loan agreement, which terms require,
among other things, a site visit by a Company representative prior to the
advancement of funds. Monthly payments are made on the total amount of the
proceeds advanced during the development period.

During the construction financing period, the Company generally requires
additional security and collateral in the form of either payment and    
performance bonds and/or completion guarantees by either one, or a combination
of, the operator's parent entity, other affiliates of the operator, or one or
more of the individual principals of the operator.

At December 31, 1996, the Company had outstanding construction financings of
$71,912,000 and was committed to providing additional financing of approximately
$69,308,000 to complete construction.

                                       -6-








BORROWING POLICIES

The Company may arrange for long-term borrowing from banks, private placements
to institutional investors, or public offerings. For other short-term purposes,
the Company may, from time to time, negotiate lines of credit, or arrange for
other short-term borrowing from banks or others.

In addition, the Company may incur mortgage indebtedness on real estate that it
has acquired through purchase, foreclosure or otherwise. When terms are deemed
favorable, the Company may invest in properties subject to existing loans and
mortgages. In addition, the Company may obtain financing for unleveraged
properties in which it has invested or may refinance properties acquired on a
leveraged basis.

Under documents pertaining to existing indebtedness, the Company is subject to
various restrictions with respect to secured and unsecured indebtedness.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES

The Company maintains an allowance for possible losses that is evaluated
quarterly to determine its adequacy. See Notes 1 and 5 of Notes to Financial
Statements. At December 31, 1996, $6,000,000 of the total allowance of
$9,787,000 was allocated to two specific properties. The Company believes that
its allowance is adequate.

COMPETITION

The Company competes with other real estate investment trusts, real estate
partnerships, banks, insurance companies and other investors in the acquisition,
leasing and financing of health care facilities.

The operators of the facilities compete on a local and regional basis with
operators of facilities that provide comparable services. Operators compete for
patients and residents based on a number of factors, including quality of care,
reputation, physical appearance of facilities, services offered, family
preferences, physicians, staff and price.

EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1996, the Company employed 19 full-time employees.

CERTAIN GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS

The Company invests in single purpose health care facilities. The Company's
customers must comply with the licensing requirements of federal, state and
local health agencies, and with the requirements of municipal building codes,
health codes and local fire departments. In granting and renewing a facility's
license, the state health agency considers, among other things, the physical
buildings and equipment, the qualifications of the administrative personnel and
clinical staffs, the quality of health care programs and compliance with
applicable laws.

Many of the facilities operated by the Company's customers receive a substantial
portion of their revenues from the federal Medicare program and state Medicaid
programs; therefore, the Company's revenues may be indirectly affected by
changes in these programs. The amounts of program payments can be changed by
legislative or regulatory actions and by determinations by agents for the
programs. Since Medicaid programs are funded by both the states and the federal
government, the amount of payments can be affected by changes at either the
state or federal level. There is no assurance that payments under these programs
will remain at levels comparable to present levels or be sufficient to cover
costs allocable to these patients.

Under Medicare and Medicaid programs, acute care hospitals are generally paid a
fixed amount per discharge (based on the patient's diagnosis) for inpatient
services. Behavioral and rehabilitation hospitals are generally paid on a cost
basis, subject to certain limitations on allowable costs; however, proposals
have been made to change the system to a diagnosis-based fixed payment per
discharge.

                                       -7-









Medicare and Medicaid programs have traditionally reimbursed nursing facilities
for the reasonable direct and indirect allowable costs incurred in providing
routine services (as defined by the programs), subject to certain cost ceilings.
However, many states have converted to a system based on prospectively
determined fixed rates, which may be based in part on historical costs.

Medicare and Medicaid regulations could adversely affect the resale value of the
Company's health care facilities. Medicare regulations provide that when a
facility changes ownership (by sale or under certain lease transactions),
reimbursement for depreciation and interest will be based on the lesser of the
cost to the new owner or the historical cost of the original owner. Medicaid
regulations allow a limited increase in the valuation of nursing facilities (but
not hospitals) during the time the seller owned the facility. Other Medicare and
Medicaid regulations provide that upon resale, facilities are responsible to pay
back prior depreciation reimbursement payments that are "recaptured" as a result
of the sale.

Health care facilities that participate in Medicare or Medicaid must meet
extensive program requirements, including physical plant and operational
requirements, which are revised from time to time. Such requirements may include
a duty to admit Medicare and Medicaid patients, limiting the ability of the
facility to increase its private pay census beyond certain limits. Medicare and
Medicaid facilities are regularly inspected to determine compliance, and may be
excluded from the programs--in some cases without a prior hearing--for failure
to meet program requirements.

Under the Medicare program, "peer review organizations" have been established to
review the quality and appropriateness of care rendered by health care
providers. These organizations may not only deny claims that fail to meet their
criteria, but can also fine and/or recommend termination of participation in the
program.

Recent changes in the Medicare and Medicaid programs will likely result in
increased use of "managed care" organizations to meet the needs of program
beneficiaries. These organizations selectively contract with health care
facilities, resulting in some facilities being excluded from the ability to
serve program beneficiaries.

Health care facilities also receive a substantial portion of their revenues from
private insurance carriers, health maintenance organizations, preferred provider
organizations, self-insured employees and other health benefit payment
arrangements. Such payment sources increasingly pay facilities under contractual
arrangements that include a limited panel of providers and/or discounted or
other special payment arrangements, including arrangements that shift the risk
of high utilization to the providers. A number of states have established
rate-setting agencies which control inpatient health care facility rates,
including private pay rates.

Recent proposals to significantly reduce Medicare and Medicaid spending at the
federal level could reduce revenues of the Company's customers. President
Clinton recently proposed legislation that would, over six years, reduce
Medicare spending by an estimated $138 billion. The proposed reductions include
specific elements that would affect the Company's customers, including a
prospective payment system for skilled nursing facilities that would reduce
payments by approximately $9 billion. It is impossible to predict with any
certainty what form any such legislation may ultimately take.

In order to meet a federal requirement, most states required providers to obtain
certificates of need prior to construction of inpatient facilities and certain
outpatient facilities. However, in 1987, the federal requirement was repealed.
Some states have repealed these requirements, which may result in increased
competition, and other states are considering similar repeals.

Nursing facilities compete with other subacute care providers, including
rehabilitation centers and hospitals. Many of these providers have underutilized
facilities and are converting some or all of their facilities into nursing
facilities. Some of these entities operate on a tax-exempt basis, which gives
them a capital cost advantage. Furthermore, some states have granted rest homes
the ability to provide limited nursing care services.

                                       -8-








Certain states have adopted pre-admission screening and other programs to
promote utilization of outpatient and home-based services as an alternative to
inpatient facility services. Recent changes in Medicaid regulations allow states
to use Medicaid funding for home and community-based alternatives to inpatient
care.

TAXATION

   General

A corporation, trust or association meeting certain requirements may elect to be
treated as a "real estate investment trust." Beginning with its first fiscal
year and in all subsequent years, the Company has elected to be treated as a
real estate investment trust under Sections 856 to 860, inclusive, of the
Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "Code"). The Company intends to
operate in such manner as to continue to qualify as a real estate investment
trust for federal income tax purposes. No assurance can be given that the actual
results of the Company's operations for any one taxable year will satisfy such
requirements.

To qualify as a real estate investment trust, the Company must satisfy a variety
of complex requirements each year, including organizational and stock ownership
tests and percentage tests relating to the sources of its gross income, the
nature of its assets and the distribution of its income.

Generally, for each taxable year during which the Company qualifies as a real
estate investment trust, it will not be taxed on the portion of its taxable
income (including capital gains) that is distributed to shareholders. Any
undistributed income or gains will be taxed to the Company at regular corporate
tax rates. The Company will be subject to tax at the highest corporate rate on
its net income from foreclosure property, regardless of the amount of its
distributions. The highest corporate tax rate is currently 35%. The Company may
elect to treat any real property it acquires by foreclosure as foreclosure
property, including any property acquired in future foreclosure actions brought
with respect to the two loans in default. This would permit the Company to hold
such property for up to two years without adverse consequences. Subject to
certain limitations, the Company will also be subject to an additional tax equal
to 100% of the net income, if any, derived from prohibited transactions. A
prohibited transaction is defined as a sale or disposition of inventory-type
property or property held by the Company primarily for sale to customers in the
ordinary course of its trade or business, which is not property acquired on
foreclosure.

The Company is subject to a nondeductible federal excise tax equal to 4% of the
amount, if any, by which 85% of its ordinary income plus 95% of its capital gain
net income (plus distribution deficiencies from prior years) exceeds
distributions actually paid or treated as paid to stockholders during the
taxable year, plus current year income upon which the Company pays tax and any
overdistribution from prior years. Due to the growth of the Company's income,
primarily as a result of large capital gains from the exercise of purchase
options under leases, the Company did not satisfy this requirement in 1996, 1995
and 1994 and incurred an excise tax of approximately $317,000, $326,000 and
$575,000 respectively, in those years. There is a cumulative underdistribution
of $15,930,000 that will carry over to 1997 and later years until reduced by
distributions in a subsequent year that exceed the percentage of that year's
income that is required to be distributed currently.

   Failure To Qualify

While the Company intends to operate so as to qualify as a real estate
investment trust under the Code, if in any taxable year the Company fails to
qualify, and certain relief provisions do not apply, its taxable income would be
subject to tax (including alternative minimum tax) at corporate rates. If that
occurred, the Company might have to dispose of a significant amount of its
assets or incur a significant amount of debt in order to pay the resulting
federal income tax. Further distributions to its stockholders would not be
deductible by the Company nor would they be required to be made.

Distributions out of the Company's current or accumulated earnings and profits
would be taxable to stockholders as dividends and would be eligible for the
dividends received deduction for corporations. No portion of any distributions
would be eligible for designation as a capital gain dividend.

                                       -9-









Unless entitled to relief under specific statutory provisions, the Company also
would be disqualified from taxation as a real estate investment trust for the
four taxable years following the year during which qualification was lost.

The foregoing is only a summary of some of the significant federal income tax
considerations affecting the Company and is qualified in its entirety by
reference to the applicable provisions of the Code, the rules and regulations
promulgated thereunder, and the administrative and judicial interpretations
thereof. Stockholders of the Company are urged to consult their own tax advisors
as to the effects of these rules and regulations on them. In particular, foreign
stockholders should consult with their tax advisors concerning the tax
consequences of ownership of shares in the Company, including the possibility
that distributions with respect to the shares will be subject to federal income
tax withholding.

SUBSIDIARIES AND AFFILIATES

On November 1, 1993 and July 9, 1996, the Company formed two wholly-owned
subsidiaries, HCRI Pennsylvania Properties, Inc. and HCRI Overlook Green, Inc.,
respectively. These Pennsylvania corporations were created to own real estate in
the State of Pennsylvania.

On December 27, 1996 and December 30, 1996, the Company formed a wholly-owned
subsidiary, HCRI Texas Properties, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and HCRI Texas
Properties, Ltd., a Texas limited partnership, respectively. Both entities were
created in connection with real estate investments in the State of Texas.

                                      -10-








ITEM 2.     PROPERTIES

The Company's headquarters are currently located at One SeaGate, Suite 1500,
Toledo, Ohio 43604. The following table sets forth certain information regarding
the facilities that comprise the Company's investments as of December 31, 1996.


- --------------------------
(1) Reflects gross investment less specified allowance for losses, except for
    facilities under construction, for which the Company's total investment
    commitment is reflected.

(2) Reflects contract rate of annual base rent or interest received or to be
    received upon completion of construction.

                                      -11-








ITEM 3.     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

None.

ITEM 4.     SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5.     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
            STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low
prices of the Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange, as reported
on the Composite Tape and dividends paid per share. There were 5,446
shareholders of record as of December 31, 1996.






                                      -12-








ITEM 6.     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The following selected financial data for the five years ended December 31, 1996
are derived from the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company.


(1) General and administrative and other expenses include loan expense,
    management fees through November 30, 1995, provision for losses, expenses
    related to disposition of investments and other operating expenses.

(2) On November 30, 1995, the Company's advisor merged into the Company.
    Consideration for this transaction totaled approximately $5,048,000 which
    was solely comprised of 282,407 Shares. In addition, the Company acquired
    approximately $46,000 in net assets and incurred approximately $792,000 of
    related transaction expenses. The consideration, plus related transaction
    expenses, were accounted for as a settlement of a management contract.

(3) Cash available for distribution is defined as net cash provided from
    operating activities, but does not consider the effects of changes in
    operating assets and liabilities such as other receivables and accrued
    expenses. The Company uses cash available for distribution in evaluating
    investments and the Company's operating performance. Cash available for
    distribution does not represent cash generated from operating activities in
    accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, is not necessarily
    indicative of cash available to fund cash needs, and should not be
    considered as an alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's
    operating performance or as an alternative to cash flow as a measure of
    liquidity.

                                      -13-








ITEM 7.     MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At December 31, 1996, the Company's net real estate investments totaled
approximately $512,894,000, which included 56 nursing facilities, 63 assisted
living facilities, 11 retirement centers, five specialty care facilities and two
behavioral care facilities. The Company funds its investments through a
combination of long-term and short-term financing, utilizing both debt and
equity.

During 1996, the Company provided permanent mortgage financings of $69,970,000,
invested $31,900,000 in operating leases and made construction advances of
$93,993,000. During 1996, the Company received principal payments on real estate
mortgages of $3,080,000, net repayments on working capital loans of $2,053,000
and proceeds of $52,047,000 from the prepayment of mortgage loans.

Also during 1996, 16 of the above-mentioned construction loans completed the
construction phase of the Company's investment process and were converted to
investments in operating leases, with an aggregate investment of $26,418,000,
and 4 construction loans converted to permanent mortgage loans with an aggregate
investment balance of $24,298,000.

As of December 31, 1996, the Company had shareholders' equity of $325,536,000
and a total outstanding debt balance of approximately $184,395,000, which
represents a debt to equity ratio of 0.57 to 1.0.

In April 1996, the Company issued Senior Notes in the aggregate principal amount
of $30,000,000 which mature in 2001 and 2003, and have a weighted average
interest rate of 7.18%. The notes are secured by approximately $40,000,000 of
assets.

In May 1996, the Company issued 2,322,200 shares of Common Stock, $1.00 par
value per share, at the price of $22.00 per share, which generated net proceeds
of $48,103,000 to the Company.

In September 1996, the Company issued 1,587,800 shares of Common Stock, $1.00
par value per share, at the price of $22.00 per share, which generated net
proceeds to the Company of $34,111,000.

In December 1996, the Company issued 2,200,000 shares of Common Stock, $1.00 par
value per share, at the price of $23.875 per share, which generated net proceeds
to the Company of $49,898,000.

As of December 31, 1996, the Company had a secured revolving line of credit
expiring March 31, 1997 in the amount of $150,000,000 bearing interest at the
lender's prime rate or LIBOR plus 1.50%. In addition, the Company had unsecured
revolving lines of credit in the amounts of $25,000,000 and $10,000,000 bearing
interest at the lenders' prime rate expiring May 31, 1997 and April 30, 1997,
respectively. At December 31, 1996, under the Company's line of credit
arrangements, available funding totaled $92,875,000.

As of February 4, 1997, the Company has effective shelf registrations on file
with the Securities and Exchange Commission under which the Company may issue up
to $300,000,000 of securities including debt, convertible debt, common and
preferred stock. The Company anticipates issuing securities under such shelf
registrations to invest in additional health care facilities and to repay
borrowings under the Company's line of credit arrangements.

As of December 31, 1996, the Company had approximately $236,277,000 in unfunded
commitments. The Company believes its liquidity and various sources of available
capital are sufficient to fund operations, finance future investments, and meet
debt service and dividend requirements.

                                      -14-








RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DECEMBER 31, 1996 VS. DECEMBER 31, 1995

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 1996, were $54,402,000 compared to
$44,596,000 for the year ended December 31, 1995, an increase of $9,806,000 or
22%. Revenue growth resulted primarily from increased interest income of
$5,457,000, operating lease income of $3,496,000 and loan and commitment fees of
$941,000 resulting primarily from additional real estate investments made during
the past twelve to fifteen months.

Expenses for the year ended December 31, 1996, totaled $23,726,000, a decrease
of $7,235,000 from expenses of $30,961,000 for the year ended December 31, 1995.
Expenses for the year ended December 31, 1995, were negatively influenced by
nonrecurring charges, primarily related to a $4,800,000 provision for losses and
a $5,794,000 charge for the settlement of the management contract, an expense
associated with the merger of the Company's advisor into the Company.

The provision for depreciation for the year ended December 31, 1996, totaled
$2,427,000, an increase of $848,000 over the year ended 1995 as a result of
additional operating lease investments.

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 1996, was $14,635,000 compared
to $12,752,000 for the year ended December 31, 1995. The increase in interest
expense during 1996 was primarily due to the issuance of $30,000,000 Senior
Notes in April 1996 and higher average borrowings under the Company's line of
credit arrangements, which were offset by lower interest rates.

General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 1996 totaled
$4,448,000 as compared to $5,284,000 for the year ended December 31, 1995. The
expenses for the year ended December 31, 1996 were 8.18% of revenues as compared
to 11.85% for the year ended December 31, 1995.

It is the Company's intention to systematically eliminate its investments in
behavioral care facilities. As a result, at September 30, 1996, the Company
declared a disposition of investment associated with its behavioral care
portfolio. As a result, any gains realized through the repayment or sale of
investments associated with the Company's behavioral care facilities will be
added to the Company's general allowance for losses and applied against any
losses incurred through the repayment or sale of behavioral care related
investments. During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company recorded an
$808,000 disposition of investment expense as an offset to an $808,000
prepayment fee received from the repayment of two behavioral care related
mortgage loans. Additionally, the Company's general allowance for losses was
reduced by $481,000, resulting from the repayment of these loans.

As a result of the various factors mentioned above, net income for the year
ended December 31, 1996, was $30,676,000 as compared to $13,635,000 for the year
ended December 31, 1995. Net income per share for the year ended December 31,
1996, was $2.18 versus $1.16 for the year ended December 31, 1995. The per share
increase resulted from an increase in net income offset by an increase in
average shares outstanding during 1996.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS DECEMBER 31, 1995 VS. DECEMBER 31, 1994

Revenues for the year ended December 31, 1995, were $44,596,000 compared to
$42,732,000 for the year ended December 31, 1994, an increase of $1,864,000 or
4.4%. Revenue growth resulted primarily from increased interest income of
$6,731,000 and increased operating lease income of $872,000 resulting primarily
from additional real estate investments made during the previous twelve months.
The growth in interest income and rental income was offset by a high incidence
of prepayment fees and gains on the exercise of purchase options earned during
1994, which totaled $6,982,000 as compared to $4,082,000 for 1995.

Expenses for the year ended December 31, 1995, totaled $30,961,000, an increase
of $13,182,000 from expenses of $17,779,000 for the year ended December 31,
1994. Expenses for the year ended December 31, 1995, were negatively influenced
by nonrecurring charges, primarily related to a $4,800,000 provision for losses
and a $5,794,000 charge for the settlement of the management contract, an
expense associated with the merger of the Company's advisor into the Company.

                                      -15-









The provision for depreciation for the year ended December 31, 1995, totaled
$1,580,000, an increase of $194,000 over the year ended December 31, 1994 as a
result of additional operating lease investments.

Interest expense for the year ended December 31, 1995, was $12,752,000 compared
to $9,684,000 for the year ended December 31, 1994. The increase in interest
expense during 1995 was primarily due to higher average borrowings under the
Company's line of credit arrangements, and higher costs of borrowing.

General and administrative expense for the year ended December 31, 1995 totaled
$5,284,000 as compared to $5,072,000 for the year ended December 31, 1994. The
expenses for the year ended December 31, 1995 were 11.85% of revenues as
compared to 11.87% for the year ended December 31, 1994.

As a result of the various factors mentioned above, net income for the year
ended December 31, 1995, was $13,635,000 as compared to $24,953,000 for the year
ended December 31, 1994. Net income per share for the year ended December 31,
1995, was $1.16 versus $2.17 for the year ended December 31, 1994. The per share
decrease resulted from a decrease in net income.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

During the past three years, inflation has not significantly affected the
earnings of the Company because of the moderate inflation rate. Additionally,
earnings of the Company are primarily long-term investments with fixed interest
rates. These investments are mainly financed with a combination of equity,
senior notes and borrowings under the revolving lines of credit, of which a
portion is hedged with interest rate swaps. During inflationary periods, which
generally are accompanied by rising interest rates, the Company's ability to
grow may be adversely affected because the yield on new investments may increase
at a slower rate than new borrowing costs. Presuming the current inflation rate
remains moderate and long-term interest rates do not increase significantly, the
Company believes that equity and debt financing will be available.

                                      -16-








ITEM 8.     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

Shareholders and Directors
Health Care REIT, Inc.

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Health Care
REIT, Inc. as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1996. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 14(a). These financial
statements and schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Health Care REIT,
Inc. at December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules, when considered
in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly
in all material respects the information set forth therein.

                                                             ERNST & YOUNG LLP

January 31, 1997
Toledo, Ohio

                                      -17-







See accompanying notes

                                      -18-











See accompanying notes

                                      -19-








See accompanying notes

                                      -20-







See accompanying notes

                                      -21-








                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                DECEMBER 31, 1996

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS

INDUSTRY

The Company is a self-administered real estate investment trust that invests
primarily in long-term care facilities, which include nursing homes, assisted
living facilities, and retirement centers. The Company also invests in specialty
care facilities.

PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and
its wholly owned subsidiaries after the elimination of all significant
intercompany accounts and transactions.

USE OF ESTIMATES

The preparation of the financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and
accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

LOANS RECEIVABLE

Loans receivable consist of construction-period loans maturing in two years or
less, working capital loans to related parties, and long-term mortgage loans.
Interest income on loans is recognized as earned based upon the principal amount
outstanding. The loans are generally collateralized by a first or second
mortgage on or assignment of partnership interest in the related facilities
which consist of nursing homes, assisted living facilities, retirement centers,
behavioral care facilities and specialty care hospitals.

OPERATING-LEASE PROPERTIES

Certain properties owned by the Company are leased under operating leases. These
properties are recorded at the lower of cost or net realizable value.
Depreciation is provided for at rates which are expected to amortize the cost of
the assets over their estimated useful lives using the straight-line method. The
leases provide for payment of all taxes, insurance and maintenance by the
lessees. Operating lease income includes the rent payments, which are recognized
on a straight-line basis over the minimum lease period.

DIRECT FINANCING LEASES

Certain properties owned by the Company are subject to long-term leases which
are accounted for by the direct financing method. The leases provide for payment
of all taxes, insurance and maintenance by the lessees. The leases are generally
for a term of 20 years and include an option to purchase the properties
generally after a period of five years. Option prices equal or exceed the
Company's original cost of the property. Income from direct financing leases is
recorded based upon the implicit rate of interest over the lease term. This
income is greater than the amount of cash received during the first six to seven
years of the lease term.

                                      -22-







                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS (CONTINUED)

CAPITALIZATION OF CONSTRUCTION PERIOD INTEREST

The Company capitalizes interest costs associated with funds used to finance the
construction of facilities. The amount capitalized is based upon the borrowings
outstanding during the construction period using the rate of interest which
approximates the Company's cost of financing.

ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES

The allowance for losses is maintained at a level believed adequate to absorb
potential losses in the Company's real estate investments. The determination of
the allowance is based on a quarterly evaluation of these earning assets (in the
case of direct financing leases, estimated residual values), including general
economic conditions, estimated collectibility of loan and lease payments,
reappraisals (where appropriate), and the recoverability of the carrying amount
of these investments in relationship to their net realizable value.

DEFERRED LOAN EXPENSES

Deferred loan expenses are costs incurred in acquiring financing for properties.
The Company amortizes these costs by the straight-line method over the term of
the debt.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

Cash and cash equivalents consist of all highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less.

INVESTMENT SECURITIES AVAILABLE FOR SALE

Management determines the appropriate classification of a security at the time
of acquisition and reevaluates such designation as of each balance sheet date.
Investment securities available for sale are stated at fair value, with
unrealized gains and losses reported in a separate component of shareholders'
equity. At December 31, 1996, available-for-sale securities are the common stock
of a corporation, which were obtained by the Company at no cost.

LOAN AND COMMITMENT FEES

Loan and commitment fees are earned by the Company for its agreement to provide
direct and standby financing to, and credit enhancement for, owners of health
care facilities. The Company amortizes loan and commitment fees over the initial
fixed term of the lease, the mortgage or the construction period related to such
investments.

FEDERAL INCOME TAX

No provision has been made for federal income taxes since the Company has
elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust under the applicable
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, and the Company believes that it has
met the requirements for qualification as such for each taxable year. See Note
8.

                                      -23-







                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND RELATED MATTERS (CONTINUED)

STOCK OPTIONS

The Company typically grants stock options for a fixed number of shares to
employees with an exercise price equal to fair value of the shares at the date
of the grant. The Company has elected to follow APB Opinion No. 25, Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees in accounting for its employee stock options, and,
accordingly, recognizes no compensation expense for the stock option grants when
the market price on the underlying stock on the date of grant equals the
exercise price of the Company's employee stock option. The effect of applying
Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Statement No. 123, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation, fair value method to the Company's stock based awards
results in net income and earnings per share that are not materially different
from amounts reported.

NET INCOME PER SHARE

Net income per share has been computed by dividing net income by the weighted
average number of common stock and common stock equivalents outstanding during
the year.

2.  LOANS RECEIVABLE


Loans to related parties (various entities whose ownership includes three
Company directors and former officers) included above are at competitive rates,
and are equal to or greater than the Company's net interest cost on borrowings
to support such loans. The amount of interest income and loan and commitment
fees from related parties amounted to $3,089,376, $3,378,347 and $3,810,340 for
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

                                      -24-








One loan (in default) has a prior lien of approximately $1,195,000; and six
loans maturing in 2007 have prior liens aggregating $1,420,000.

                                      -25-







                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)


The leases contain an option to purchase the leased property. Total minimum
lease payments are computed assuming that the option will not be exercised.

At December 31, 1996, future minimum lease payments receivable (assuming that
the option will not be exercised) are as follows:



During 1994, the Company restructured two direct financing leases, one into a
$3,324,000 mortgage loan and the other into a $3,582,000 operating lease. During
1996, the Company restructured nineteen loans totalling $40,567,000 into
operating leases. This noncash investing activity is appropriately not reflected
in the accompanying statement of cash flows.

                                      -26-







                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

4.  CONCENTRATION OF RISK

As of December 31, 1996, long-term care facilities comprised 85% of the
Company's real estate investments and were located in 25 states. The Company's
investments with the three largest operators totaled approximately 30%. No
single operator has a real estate investment balance which exceeds 12% of total
real estate investments, including credit enhancements.

5.  ALLOWANCE FOR LOSSES



The allowance consists of $6,000,000 relating to specifically identified loans
and an unallocated amount for other potential losses in the portfolio. Interest
income on impaired loans is recognized as payments are received. The Company 
recognized $323,000 of interest income on impaired loans in 1995.

6.  BORROWINGS UNDER LINE OF CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS AND RELATED ITEMS

The Company has a credit arrangement with a consortium of ten banks providing
for a revolving line of credit (revolving credit) in the amount of $150,000,000
which expires on March 31, 1997. The agreement specifies that borrowings under
the revolving credit are subject to interest payable in periods no longer than
three months on either the agent bank's base rate of interest or 1.5% over LIBOR
interest rate (based at the Company's option). The effective interest rate at
December 31, 1996 was 7.39%. In addition, the Company pays a commitment fee at
an annual rate of .5% of the unused line and an annual agent's fee of $75,000.
At December 31, 1996, the revolving line of credit was collateralized by 41 real
estate investments in health care facilities. Principal is due upon expiration
of the agreement, but the total amount outstanding may not exceed a specified
percentage of the agreed-upon values of the collateral. The Company has two
other lines of credit with two banks for a total of $35,000,000 which expire at
various dates through May 31, 1997. Borrowings under these lines of credit are
subject to interest at each bank's prime rate of interest (8.25% at December 31,
1996) and are due on demand.

                                      -27-







                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

 6. BORROWINGS UNDER LINE OF CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS AND RELATED ITEMS (CONTINUED)


The Company has a five-year interest rate swap agreement totalling $20,000,000,
which expires in 1997, for the purpose of reducing the Company's interest rate
risk on its borrowings under the revolving credit. The maximum rate of interest
under the swap agreement is 8.77%. At December 31, 1996, the Company had elected
to borrow $20,000,000 at six-month LIBOR. The differential to be paid or
received is accrued as interest rates change and is recognized as an interest
expense. The related amount payable to or receivable from counterparties is
included in other liabilities or assets. The fair value of the swap agreements
are not recognized in the financial statements.

The Company may or may not elect to continue to match certain of its borrowings
with interest rate swap agreements. Such decisions are principally based on the
Company's policy to match its variable rate investments with comparable
borrowings, but is also based on the general trend in interest rates at the
applicable dates and the Company's perception of future volatility of interest
rates. At December 31, 1996, the Company was at risk for rising interest rates
because its variable interest rate debt exceeded its variable interest rate
assets.

Interest paid amounted to $14,210,532, $13,083,783 and $9,256,551 for 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively, which includes $298,562, $706,318 and $1,309,368,
respectively, for the net cost of the swaps. The Company capitalized interest
costs of $287,397 during 1996 related to construction of its facilities.

7.  SENIOR NOTES AND OTHER LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS

The Company has $82,000,000 of Senior Notes with interest ranging from 6.96% to
8.24% and maturing at various dates to 2003. These notes are collateralized by
23 real estate investments in health care facilities.

                                      -28-





                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

7.  SENIOR NOTES AND OTHER LONG-TERM OBLIGATIONS (CONTINUED)



At December 31, 1996, the annual principal payments on these long-term
obligations for the succeeding five years are 1997 - $695,134; 1998 -
$23,366,282; 1999 - $239,677; 2000 - $15,273,977; and 2001 - $10,319,285.

8.  STOCK OPTION PLANS AND RETIREMENT ARRANGEMENTS

The Company's 1995 Stock Incentive Plan authorized up to 600,000 shares of
Common Stock to be issued at the discretion of the Board of Directors. The 1995
Plan replaced the 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan. The options granted under
the 1985 Plan continue to vest through 2005 and expire ten years from the date
of grant. Officers and key salaried employees of the Company are eligible to
participate in the 1995 plan. Such options expire ten years from the date of
grant and one-fifth of all options granted become exercisable each year.

The following summarizes the activity in the Plans for the years ended December
31:


The Company has a 401(k) Profit Sharing Plan covering all eligible employees.
Under the Plan, eligible employees may make contributions, and the Company may
make a profit sharing contribution. Company contributions to this Plan totaled
$90,000 and $6,000 in 1996 and 1995, respectively.

                                      -29-







                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

9.  DISTRIBUTIONS

In order to continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust for federal
income tax purposes, 95% of taxable income (not including capital gains) must be
distributed to shareholders. Real estate investment trusts which do not
distribute a certain amount of current year taxable income in the current year
are also subject to a 4% federal excise tax. The Company's excise tax expense
was $317,000, $326,000 and $575,000 for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995
and 1994, respectively. Undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes
amounted to $15,930,000 at December 31, 1996. The principal reasons for the
difference between undistributed net income for federal income tax purposes and
financial statement purposes are the use of the operating method of accounting
for leases for federal income tax purposes and the provision for losses for
reporting purposes versus bad debt expense for tax purposes.

Cash distributions paid to shareholders, for federal income tax purposes, are as
follows:


10. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

At December 31, 1996, the Company has outstanding commitments to provide
financing for facilities in the approximate amount of $236,277,000. The above
commitments are generally on similar terms as existing financings of a like
nature with rates of return to the Company based upon current market rates at
the time of the commitment.

The Company has entered into several agreements to purchase health care
facilities, or the loans with respect thereto, in the event that the present
owners default upon their obligations. In consideration for these agreements,
the Company receives and recognizes fees annually related to these agreements.
Although the terms of these agreements vary, the purchase prices are equal to
the amount of the outstanding obligations financing the facility. These
agreements expire between the years 1997 and 2005. At December 31, 1996,
obligations under these agreements for which the Company was contingently liable
aggregated approximately $18,815,000, all of which were with related parties.

11. MANAGEMENT AGREEMENT

Through November 30, 1995, the Company had a management agreement with First
Toledo Advisory Company (the Manager). Two of the Company's directors were
officers and co-owners of the Manager. The Company accrued a fee to the Manager
as defined in the Management Agreement. On November 30, 1995, the Manager merged
with and into the Company pursuant to a Revised Merger Agreement (the "Merger").
Consideration for this transaction totaled approximately $5,048,000 which was
solely comprised of 282,407 shares of the Company's common stock. In addition,
the Company acquired approximately $46,000 in net assets and incurred
approximately $792,000 of related transaction expenses. The Merger was a
tax-free reorganization. The consideration, plus related transaction expenses,
were accounted for as a settlement of a management contract.

                                      -30-







                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

12. SHAREHOLDER RIGHTS PLAN

Under the terms of a Shareholder Rights Plan approved by the Board of Directors
in July 1994, a Preferred Share Right (Right) is attached to and automatically
trades with each outstanding share of Common Stock.

The Rights, which are redeemable, will become exercisable only in the event that
any person or group becomes a holder of 15% or more of the Common Stock, or
commences a tender or exchange offer which, if consummated, would result in that
person or group owning at least 15% of the Common Stock. Once the Rights become
exercisable, they entitle all other shareholders to purchase one one-thousandth
of a share of a new series of junior participating preferred stock for an
exercise price of $48.00. The Rights will expire on August 5, 2004 unless
exchanged earlier or redeemed earlier by the Company for $.01 per Right at any
time before public disclosure that a 15% position has been acquired.

13. DISCLOSURE ABOUT FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The following methods and assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of
each class of financial instruments for which it is practicable to estimate that
value.

Mortgage Loans--The fair value of all mortgage loans, except those matched with
debt, is estimated by discounting the future cash flows using the current rates
at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings
and for the same remaining maturities. Mortgage loans matched with debt are
presumed to be at fair value.

Working Capital and Construction Loans--The carrying amount is a reasonable
estimate of fair value for working capital and construction loans because the
interest earned on these instruments is variable.

Cash and Cash Equivalents--The carrying amount approximates fair value because
of the short maturity of these financial instruments.

Investment Securities Available-for-Sale--The asset is recorded at its fair
market value.

Borrowings Under Line of Credit Arrangements--The carrying amount of the line of
credit approximates fair value because the borrowings are interest rate
adjustable.

Senior Notes and Industrial Development Bonds--The fair value of the senior
notes payable and the industrial development bonds was estimated by discounting
the future cash flow using the current borrowing rate available to the Company
for similar debt.

Mortgage Loans Payable--Mortgage loans payable is a reasonable estimate of fair
value because they are matched with loans receivable.

                                      -31-







                             HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

The carrying amounts and estimated fair values of the Company's financial
instruments at December 31, 1996 and 1995 are as follows:


14. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)

The following is a summary of the unaudited quarterly results of operations of
the Company for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995:


                                      -32-








ITEM 9.     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
            FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.    DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading "Election of Directors" and "Executive Officers of
the Company" in the definitive proxy statement of the Company which will be
filed with the Commission prior to April 22, 1997.

ITEM 11.    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading "Remuneration" in the definitive proxy statement
of the Company which will be filed with the Commission prior to April 22, 1997.

ITEM 12.    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners"
in the definitive proxy statement of the Company which will be filed with the
Commission prior to April 22, 1997.

ITEM 13.    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the
information under the heading "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions"
in the definitive proxy statement of the Company which will be filed with the
Commission prior to April 22, 1997.

ITEM 14.    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K


                                      -33-








    2.      The following Financial Statement Schedules are included in Item 
            14 (d):

            III -  Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
            IV  -  Mortgage Loans on Real Estate

            All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
            accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are
            not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and
            therefore have been omitted.

    3.      Exhibit Index:

            3(i)        Second Restated Certificate of Incorporation.

            3(ii)       By-Laws, as amended.

            4           The Registrant, by signing this Report, agrees to
                        furnish the Securities and Exchange Commission upon its
                        request a copy of any instrument which defines the
                        rights of holders of long-term debt of Registrant and
                        which authorizes a total amount of securities not in
                        excess of 10% of the total assets of the Registrant.

            10(ii)(A)   Rights Agreement.

            10(ii)(B)   Note Purchase Agreement between Health Care REIT, Inc.
                        and each of the Purchasers a Party thereto, dated as of 
                        April 8, 1993.

            10(ii)(C)   Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
                        September 8, 1994 among Health Care REIT, Inc., certain
                        banks, and National City Bank, as Agent.

            10(ii)(D)   Note Purchase Agreement between Health Care REIT, Inc.
                        and each of the Purchasers a Party thereto, dated as of
                        April 15, 1995.

            10(iii)(A)  The 1985 Incentive Stock Option Plan of Health Care 
                        REIT, Inc. as amended.

            10(iii)(B)  The Health Care REIT, Inc. 1995 Stock Incentive Plan

            21          Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

            23          Consent of Independent Auditors.

            24          Powers of Attorney.

            27          Financial Data Schedule (Edgar version only).

(b) Reports on Form 8-K filed in the fourth quarter of 1996:

    Form 8-K filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on December 12,
    1996.

(c) Exhibits:

    The exhibits listed in Item 14(a)(3) above are filed with this Form 10-K.

(d) Financial Statement Schedules:

    Financial statement schedules are included in pages 36 through 40.

                                      -34-









Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                          HEALTH CARE REIT, INC.
                                               (Registrant)

                                         By:      GEORGE L. CHAPMAN
                                           ---------------------------------

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below on February ___, 1997 by the following persons on behalf
of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

/s/ William C. Ballard, Jr.*              /s/ Richard A. Unverferth*
- -------------------------------------    ----------------------------------
    William C. Ballard, Jr., Director         Richard A. Unverferth, Director

/s/ Pier C. Borra*                       
- ------------------------------------     ----------------------------------
    Pier C. Borra, Director                  Frederic D. Wolfe, Director

/s/ Bruce Douglas*                       /s/ George L. Chapman
- ------------------------------------     ----------------------------------
    Bruce Douglas, Director                  George L. Chapman, Chairman,
                                             Chief Executive Officer, President
                                             and Director (Principal Executive
                                             Officer)

/s/ Richard C. Glowacki*                 /s/ Edward F. Lange, Jr.*
- ------------------------------------     ----------------------------------
    Richard C. Glowacki, Director            Edward F. Lange, Jr., Chief 
                                             Financial Officer (Principal 
                                             Financial Officer)

/s/ Sharon M. Oster*                     /s/ Michael A. Crabtree*
- ------------------------------------     ----------------------------------
    Sharon M. Oster, Director                Michael A. Crabtree, Controller
                                             (Principal Accounting Officer)

/s/ Bruce G. Thompson*                  *By:  /s/ George L. Chapman
- ------------------------------------     ----------------------------------
    Bruce G. Thompson, Director                   George L. Chapman, 
                                                  Attorney-in-Fact


                                      -35-







                                      -36-







                                      -37-









                                      -38-







(A) For income tax purposes, the cost of investments is the carrying amount less
    $6,000,000, as disclosed in the schedule.

(B) The Company is in dispute with two operators, both of which are over three
    months past due on certain interest and principal payments. The Company has
    evaluated these investments and has allocated in the aggregate $6,000,000 of
    its allowance to reduce their carrying value to their estimated net
    realizable value.

                                      -39-







SCHEDULE IV - Continued



(1) During 1994, the Company restructured a direct financing lease into a
    mortgage loan.

(2)  Includes collection of negative principal amortization.

(3) During 1996, the Company restructured nineteen loans into operating leases.

                                      -40-








                                  EXHIBIT INDEX
                                  ------------- 


                                                      -41-








                                      -42-


