Items 1. and 2. Business and Properties.



All
of our periodic reports filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC)
pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, are available, free of charge, through our web site, www.fcx.com,
including our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q,
current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to those reports. These reports
and amendments are available through our web site as soon as reasonably
practicable after we electronically file or furnish such material to the
SEC.



References
to “we,” “us” and “our” refer to Freeport-McMoRan Copper & Gold Inc. (FCX)
and its consolidated subsidiaries, including, except as otherwise stated, Phelps
Dodge Corporation (Phelps Dodge) and its subsidiaries, which we acquired on
March 19, 2007. In 2008, we changed Phelps Dodge’s legal name to
Freeport-McMoRan Corporation (FMC); therefore, references to FMC and Phelps
Dodge represent the same entity. References to “Notes” refer to the “Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements” included herein (see Item 8. “Financial
Statements and Supplementary Data”).



GENERAL



We are a
leading international mining company with headquarters in Phoenix, Arizona. We
are one of the world’s largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in
terms of reserves and production. Our portfolio of assets includes the Grasberg
minerals district in Indonesia, which contains the largest single recoverable
copper reserve and the largest single gold reserve of any mine in the world
based on the latest available reserve data provided by third-party industry
consultants; significant mining operations in North and South America; and the
Tenke Fungurume minerals district in the Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC). We
also operate Atlantic Copper, our wholly owned copper smelting and refining unit
in Spain.



As a
mining company, our principal assets are our reserves. At December 31, 2009,
consolidated recoverable proven and probable reserves totaled 104.2 billion
pounds of copper, 37.2 million ounces of gold, 2.59 billion pounds of
molybdenum, 270.4 million ounces of silver and 0.78 billion pounds of cobalt.
Approximately 33 percent of our copper reserves were in Indonesia, approximately
33 percent were in South America, approximately 26 percent were in North America
and approximately eight percent were in Africa. Approximately 96 percent of our
gold reserves were in Indonesia, with the majority of our remaining gold
reserves located in South America. Our molybdenum reserves are primarily in
North America (approximately 80 percent), with our remaining molybdenum reserves
in South America (refer to “Ore Reserves”).



Our
mining revenues for 2009 include sales of copper (approximately 75 percent),
gold (approximately 17 percent) and molybdenum (approximately five percent). We
currently have six operating copper mines in North America, four in South
America, the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia and the Tenke Fungurume
minerals district in the DRC. We also have one operating primary molybdenum mine
in North America. During 2009, approximately 61 percent of our consolidated
copper production was from our Grasberg, Morenci and Cerro Verde mines, and more
than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate, approximately 25 percent
as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod (principally from our North
America operations). We also produce gold as a by-product at our copper mines,
primarily at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia, which accounted for
approximately 96 percent of our consolidated gold production for 2009. For 2009,
approximately 50 percent of our consolidated molybdenum production was from the
Henderson molybdenum mine and approximately 46 percent was produced as a
by-product at our North America copper mines. Refer to “Mines” for further
discussion of our mining operations.



Prior to
March 19, 2007, we operated our Grasberg mine in Indonesia and Atlantic Copper.
On March 19, 2007, we acquired Phelps Dodge, a fully integrated producer of
copper and molybdenum with mines in North and South America, and several
development projects, including Tenke Fungurume in the DRC. After completion of
the Phelps Dodge acquisition, our business strategy was focused on repaying
acquisition-related debt, defining the potential of our resources and developing
expansion and growth plans to deliver additional volumes to a growing
marketplace. During 2007, we repaid $10.0 billion in term loans using a
combination of equity proceeds and internally generated cash flows. Because of
the significant reduction in debt and historically high prices for copper, gold
and molybdenum, our financial policy during most of 2008 was designed to use our
cash flow to invest in growth projects with anticipated high rates of return and
to return excess cash flows to stockholders in the form of dividends and share
purchases. The dramatic declines in copper and molybdenum prices in late 2008
and the deterioration of the economic and credit environment limited our ability
to invest in growth projects and





required
us to make adjustments to our near-term plans in late 2008 and early 2009 (refer
to Note 2 for further discussion). However, during 2009 copper prices improved
from the January 2009 low of $1.38 per pound to $3.33 per pound on December 31,
2009, and subsequently closed at $3.11 per pound on January 29, 2010. Rising
copper prices, along with higher volumes from the Grasberg mine and lower costs
at our North America mines, enabled us to enhance our financial and liquidity
position during 2009, allowing us to manage volatile conditions effectively,
reduce debt and reinstate cash dividends to stockholders, while maintaining our
future growth opportunities. In addition, we have announced initiatives to
resume certain project development activities that were deferred in late 2008.
For additional information, refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”



In North
America, we currently have six operating copper mines – Morenci, Sierrita,
Bagdad, Safford and Miami in Arizona, and Tyrone in New Mexico. In addition to
copper, the Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines produce molybdenum as a
by-product. Although we currently are not conducting mining operations at our
Chino mine in New Mexico, we continue to produce copper from leaching
operations.



In South
America, we have four operating copper mines – Cerro Verde in Peru, and
Candelaria, Ojos del Salado and El Abra in Chile. In addition to copper, the
Cerro Verde mine produces molybdenum concentrate as a by-product and the
Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines produce gold and silver as
by-products.



In
Indonesia, PT Freeport Indonesia operates the Grasberg minerals district. Our
Grasberg minerals district also produces significant quantities of gold and
silver as by-products. PT Freeport Indonesia also owns 25 percent of PT
Smelting, a smelting and refining company in Gresik, Indonesia.



In
Africa, we operate the Tenke Fungurume minerals district. In addition to copper,
the Tenke Fungurume mine produces cobalt hydroxide. Copper production commenced
in March 2009, and Tenke achieved targeted copper production rates in September
2009. We are continuing to address start-up and quality issues in the cobalt
circuit and sustained targeted cobalt production rates are expected to be
reached during 2010.



We
produce molybdenum at our wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine in Colorado,
which is the largest primary producer of molybdenum in the world. Additionally,
we own the Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado which is currently on
care-and-maintenance status.



For
information about our operating segments and financial data by geographic area
refer to Note 20.



The
locations of our operating mines are shown on the map below.









The
diagram below shows our corporate structure.







COPPER,
GOLD AND MOLYBDENUM



Our mines
primarily produce copper, gold and molybdenum. A brief discussion of the
production and sales of these metals appears below; discussion of markets and
prices for these metals appears in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations.”



Copper

Copper,
in the form of copper cathode, is an internationally traded commodity, and its
prices are determined by the major metals exchanges – New York Mercantile
Exchange (COMEX), the London Metals Exchange (LME) and the Shanghai Futures
Exchange (SHFE). Prices on these exchanges generally reflect the worldwide
balance of copper supply and demand and can be volatile and
cyclical.



Our
copper ores are generally processed either by smelting and refining or by
solution extraction and electrowinning (SX/EW). Ore subject to the smelting
process is crushed and further treated to produce a copper concentrate with an
average copper content of about 30 percent. Copper concentrate is then smelted
(subjected to extreme heat) to produce copper anodes, which weigh between 800
and 900 pounds each and have an average copper content of 99.5 percent. The
anodes are further treated by electrolytic refining to produce copper cathodes,
which weigh between 100 and 350 pounds each and have a copper content of 99.99
percent.



In the
SX/EW process, copper is extracted from ore by dissolving it with a weak
sulphuric acid solution. The copper content of the solution is increased in two
additional solution-extraction stages and then the copper-bearing solution
undergoes an electrowinning process to produce cathode that is 99.99 percent
copper.



Our
copper cathodes are used as the raw material input for copper rod, brass mill
products and for other uses. In general, demand for copper reflects the rate of
underlying world economic growth, particularly in industrial production and
construction. According to Brook Hunt, a widely followed independent metals
market consultant, copper’s end-use markets (and their estimated shares of total
consumption) are:





Construction35%Electrical
      applications32%Industrial
      machinery12%Transportation11%Consumer
      products10%



Gold

Gold is
used for jewelry, coinage and bullion as well as various industrial and
electronic applications. Gold can be readily sold on numerous markets throughout
the world. Benchmark prices are generally based on London Bullion Market
Association quotations.



Molybdenum

Molybdenum
is a key alloying element in steel and the raw material for several
chemical-grade products used in catalysts, lubrication, smoke suppression,
corrosion inhibition and pigmentation. Molybdenum as a high-purity metal is also
used in electronics such as flat-panel displays and in super alloys used in
aerospace. Molybdenum’s end-use markets and their share of total consumption
are:



Construction
      steel37%Stainless
      steel21%Chemicals13%Tool
      and high-speed steel10%Cast
      iron8%Molybdenum
      metal7%Super
      alloys4%



Reference
prices for molybdenum are available in several publications, including
PlattsMetals Week,Ryan’s Notes and Metal
Bulletin.



PRODUCTS
AND SALES



Copper
Products

We are
one of the world’s leading producers of copper concentrate, cathode and
continuous cast copper rod. During 2009, approximately 61 percent of our
consolidated copper production was from our Grasberg, Morenci and Cerro Verde
mines, and more than half of our mined copper was sold in concentrate,
approximately 25 percent as cathodes and approximately 21 percent as rod
(principally from our North America operations).



Copper
Concentrate.  In 2009, we produced copper concentrate at seven
mines, of which PT Freeport Indonesia is our largest producer. Approximately 50
percent of PT Freeport Indonesia’s concentrate production in 2009 was refined at
affiliated smelters, Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting.



Copper
concentrate was also produced at our Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines in
Arizona, and was generally shipped to our Miami smelter in Arizona. In South
America, we produced copper concentrate at our Cerro Verde mine in Peru and our
Candelaria and Ojos del Salado mines in Chile. We are initiating activities to
restart the Morenci mill, which was temporarily idled in February 2009, to
process available sulfide material currently being mined.



Copper
Cathode.  In 2009, we produced copper cathode at two
electrolytic refineries and ten mines. Our refineries are located in El Paso,
Texas, and Huelva, Spain. PT Smelting also produces copper cathode. We produced
SX/EW cathode from our Morenci, Sierrita, Bagdad, Chino, Safford, Tyrone and
Miami mines in North America and our Cerro Verde and El Abra mines in South
America. In 2009, we began SX/EW production at our Tenke Fungurume mine in the
DRC.



Continuous
Cast Copper Rod.  We manufacture continuous cast copper rod at
our facilities in El Paso, Texas; Norwich, Connecticut and Miami,
Arizona.





Other
Copper Products.  We produce specialty copper products at our
Bayway operations in Elizabeth, New Jersey. These products include specialty
copper alloys in the forms of rod, bar and strip. We manufacture electrode wire
for use in welding steel cans at our Norwich, Connecticut and El Paso, Texas,
facilities. We also produce copper sulfate pentahydrate for use in agricultural
and industrial applications at our facility in Sierrita, Arizona.



Copper
Sales

North
America.  The majority of the copper produced at our North
America copper mines and refined in our El Paso refinery is consumed at our rod
plants in El Paso, Texas; Norwich, Connecticut and Miami, Arizona. The remainder
of our North America copper production is sold in the form of copper cathode or
copper concentrate to third parties. Generally, copper rod and cathode are sold
to wire and cable fabricators and brass mills under United States (U.S.)
dollar-denominated, annual contracts. Cathode and rod contract prices are
generally based on the prevailing COMEX monthly average spot price for the month
of shipment and include a premium.



South
America.Production from our
South America copper mines is generally sold as copper concentrate or copper
cathode under U.S. dollar-denominated, annual and multi-year contracts. Cerro
Verde sells approximately 70 percent of its production as concentrate and the
rest as cathode. Some of Cerro Verde’s cathode is sold under annual contract
terms to South American customers. Approximately 22 percent of Cerro Verde’s and
11 percent of Candelaria’s 2009 concentrate production was sold at market rates
to Atlantic Copper. A majority of our Ojos del Salado concentrate production is
sold to local Chilean smelters. El Abra’s cathode production is sold primarily
under annual or multi-year contracts to Asian or European rod or brass mill
customers, or to merchants. The remainder of the cathode and concentrate
production is primarily sold under long-term contracts to external customers,
largely located in Asia, with the balance sold on a spot basis.



Our South
America sales are priced based on the LME monthly average spot price. Cathode
sales are generally priced in the month of arrival at the buyer’s facilities and
generally include a premium. Substantially all of our concentrate sales are
priced in the third calendar month following the month of arrival at the buyer’s
facilities. Revenues from South America concentrate sales are recorded net of
treatment and refining charges. Treatment and refining charges are fees paid to
smelters and refiners and are generally negotiated annually. Moreover, because a
portion of the metals contained in copper concentrates is unrecoverable from the
smelting process, our revenues from concentrate sales are also recorded net of
allowances based on the quantity and value of these unrecoverable metals. These
allowances are a negotiated term of our contracts and vary by
customer.



Indonesia.PT Freeport Indonesia
sells its production in the form of copper concentrate, which contains
significant quantities of by-product gold and silver, under U.S.
dollar-denominated sales agreements. During 2009, approximately half of PT
Freeport Indonesia’s production was sold to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting. PT
Freeport Indonesia sells substantially all of its budgeted production of copper
concentrates under long-term contracts. In general, most of its concentrate
sales are priced on the basis of the LME average spot price for either the
first, second or third calendar month following the month of arrival at the
buyer’s facilities.



PT
Freeport Indonesia has a long-term contract to provide Atlantic Copper with
approximately 55 percent of its current concentrate requirements at market
prices.



PT
Freeport Indonesia’s contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100
percent of the copper concentrate requirements necessary to produce 205,000
metric tons of copper annually (essentially the smelter’s original design
capacity) on a priority basis. Refer to “Smelting Facilities” for further
discussion.



We
anticipate that PT Freeport Indonesia will sell approximately 60 percent of its
annual concentrate production to Atlantic Copper and PT Smelting in 2010. A
summary of PT Freeport Indonesia’s aggregate percentage concentrate sales to PT
Smelting, Atlantic Copper and to other parties for the last three years
follows:



200920082007PT
      Smelting32%41%39%Atlantic
      Copper18%15%25%Other
      parties50%44%36%100%100%100%





PT
Freeport Indonesia’s sales to PT Smelting represented approximately 13 percent
of our consolidated revenues in 2009, approximately eight percent in 2008 and
approximately 11 percent in 2007. No other customer accounted for more than 10
percent of our consolidated revenues in any of the three years ended December
31, 2009.



Revenues
from our Indonesia concentrate sales are recorded net of royalties (refer to
“Mines – Indonesia – Contracts of Work”), and treatment and refining charges
(including price participation charges, if applicable, based on the market
prices of metals). Similar to our South America mines, Indonesia concentrate
sales are net of allowances for unrecoverable metals. PT Freeport Indonesia
sells a small amount of copper concentrates in the spot market.



Africa.  Copper
produced at our Tenke Fungurume mining district is generally sold as copper
cathode under U.S. dollar denominated contracts priced based on the LME monthly
average spot price for the month after the month of shipment.



Europe.Atlantic Copper sells
copper cathode directly to rod and brass mills, primarily located in Europe.
Atlantic Copper has occasionally sold copper cathode to merchants. Copper
cathode is generally sold under annual contracts and priced based on the LME
average spot price for the month of arrival at the buyer’s
facilities.



Gold
Products and Sales

We also
produce gold as a by-product, primarily at the Grasberg minerals district, which
accounted for approximately 96 percent of our consolidated gold production in
2009. Gold is primarily sold as a component of our copper concentrate or in
slimes, which are a by-product of the smelting and refining process. Gold
generally is priced at the average London Bullion Market Association price for a
specified month near the month of shipment.



Molybdenum
Products and Sales

We are
the world’s largest producer of molybdenum and molybdenum-based chemicals. In
addition to production from our Henderson molybdenum mine, we produce by-product
molybdenum at our Morenci, Sierrita and Bagdad mines in Arizona and at our Cerro
Verde mine in Peru. For 2009, approximately half of our consolidated molybdenum
production was from the Henderson molybdenum mine and approximately 46 percent
was produced as a by-product at the North America mines.



The
majority of our molybdenum concentrates are processed in our own conversion
facilities. Technical-grade oxide is produced from molybdenum concentrates in
Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa and Rotterdam, the Netherlands.
Ferromolybdenum is produced from technical-grade oxide in Stowmarket, United
Kingdom through a metallothermic reduction process. High-quality molybdenum
concentrates are converted into molybdenum chemicals at Fort Madison, Iowa and
Rotterdam, the Netherlands. Molybdenum generally is priced based on the average
PlattsMetals Weekprice for the month of shipment. Approximately 90 percent of our expected 2010
molybdenum sales are expected to be priced at prevailing market
prices.



Other
Products and Sales

We
produce cobalt as a cobalt hydroxide intermediate by-product of copper
production at the Tenke Fungurume mine in the DRC and silver as a component of
our copper concentrate or in slimes. Cobalt hydroxide intermediate product is
priced based on a discount to the average monthly price published byMetal Bulletinfor a
specified month near the month of shipment and silver generally is priced at the
average London Bullion Market Association price for a specified month near the
month of shipment. Sales of cobalt and silver, along with other by-product
metals such as rhenium and magnetite, do not represent a significant component
of our total revenues.



For an
allocation of our consolidated revenues by geographic area, refer to Note
20.





MINES



Curtailed
Facilities

The
following table summarizes the temporary curtailments announced in late 2008 and
early 2009 in response to market conditions. For additional information, refer
to Note 2. In addition, refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” for further discussion of our
current development projects.



FacilityDate
      of AnnouncementAnnounced
      ReductionsCurrent
      Status

Copper

North America

·MorenciDecember
      2008 and January 200925
      percent reduction in mining and crushed-leach rates in December 2008 and
      an additional reduction in January 2009 for a total 50 percent reduction
      in mining and crushed-leach rates.Activities
      to restart mill commenced in 2010. Mine continues to operate at reduced
      rates.

·ChinoDecember
      2008Suspension
      of mining and milling activities. Leaching activities from stockpiles
      continues.No
      change.

·SaffordDecember
      percent reduction in mining and stacking rates.Continuing
      to operate at reduced rates.

·TyroneDecember
      percent reduction in mining rate.Operating
      at 80 percent of capacity.

·MiamiDecember
      2008Deferral
      of restart of the Miami mine.Restart
      activities resumed in late 2009.

South America

·Cerro
      VerdeJanuary
      2009Deferral
      of incremental mill expansionMill
      expansion activities resumed in late 2009; continue to study long-term
      expansion opportunities.

·Candelaria/Ojos del SaladoJanuary
      2009Reduction
      in mining rates.Continuing
      to operate at reduced rates.

·El
      AbraDecember
      2009Deferral
      of development of sulfide ores.Resumed
      development activities.



Molybdenum

·HendersonNovember
      2008 and January 200940
      percent reduction in mining and milling rates.Mining
      rates currently at 80 percent of capacity.

·ClimaxNovember
      2008Deferral
      of restart of the Climax mine.No
      change.

·Cerro
      VerdeJanuary
      2009Suspension
      of molybdenum by-product production.Molybdenum
      by-product production resumed in fourth quarter of
  2009.



We are
continuing to closely monitor market conditions and may make further adjustments
to our production and sales plans.



Following
are maps and descriptions of our North America (including Molybdenum
operations), South America, Indonesia and Africa mining operations.





North
America

In the
U.S., most of the land occupied by our copper and molybdenum mines,
concentrators, SX/EW facilities, smelter, refinery, rod mills, molybdenum
roasters and processing facilities is generally owned by us or is located on
unpatented mining claims owned by us. Certain portions of our Sierrita, Bagdad,
Miami, Tyrone, Chino, Cobre and Henderson operations are located on
government-owned land and are operated under a Mine Plan of Operations or other
use permit. Various federal and state permits or leases on government land are
held for purposes incidental to mine operations.



Morenci





We own an
85 percent undivided interest in Morenci, with the remaining 15 percent owned by
affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation. Each partner takes in kind its share of
Morenci’s production.



Morenci
is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in continuous operation since
1939 and previously was mined through underground workings. Morenci is located
in Greenlee County, Arizona, approximately 50 miles northeast of Safford on U.S.
Highway 191. The site is accessible by a paved highway and a railway spur. The
Morenci mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide
mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper
mineral is chrysocolla. Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper
sulfide mineral with chalcopyrite as the dominant primary copper sulfide. The
Morenci operation consists of a 49,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator, that
when operating produces copper and molybdenum concentrate; a 72,000 metric
ton-per-day crushed-ore leach pad and stacking system; a large low-grade
run-of-mine (ROM) leaching system; four SX plants; and three EW tank houses that
produce copper cathode. Total EW tank house capacity is approximately 916
million pounds of copper per year. Copper production for 2009 was 504 million
pounds, including our partner’s share, which reflects the revised operating plan
reducing the mining and crushed leach rate by 50 percent beginning in late 2008
and early 2009. The available mining fleet consists of 102 235-metric ton haul
trucks loaded by 18 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 47 to 55 cubic
meters, which are capable of moving over 750,000 metric tons of material per
day.



The
concentrate leach, direct-electrowinning facility at Morenci was commissioned in
third-quarter 2007 and produced copper concentrate until early 2009. We placed
this facility on care-and-maintenance in first-quarter 2009 as part of our
revised operating plan.



Morenci
is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 13 inches per year.
The highest bench elevation is 1,950 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit
bottom is expected to have an elevation of 900 meters above sea level. The
Morenci operation encompasses approximately 53,944 acres, comprising 47,609
acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, 5,914 acres of unpatented
mining claims, and 421 acres of land held by state or federal permits, easements
and rights-of-way.



Morenci
receives electrical power from Tucson Electric Power Company, Arizona Public
Service Company and the Luna Energy facility in Deming, New Mexico (in which we
own a one-third interest). Although we believe the Morenci operation has
sufficient water sources to support currently planned mining operations, we are
a party to litigation that could adversely affect our water rights at Morenci
and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,”
for information concerning the status of these proceedings.





Sierrita





Our
wholly owned Sierrita mine has been in operation since 1959 and is an open-pit
copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Pima County, Arizona,
approximately 20 miles southwest of Tucson and seven miles west of the town of
Green Valley and Interstate Highway 19. The site is accessible by a paved
highway and by rail. The Sierrita mine is a porphyry copper deposit that has
oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide mineralization.
The predominant oxide copper minerals are malachite, azurite and chrysocolla.
Chalcocite is the most important secondary copper sulfide mineral, and
chalcopyrite and molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides.



The
Sierrita operation includes a 102,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that
produces copper and molybdenum concentrates. Sierrita also produces copper from
a ROM oxide-leaching system. Cathode copper is plated at the Twin Buttes EW
facility, which has a design capacity of approximately 50 million pounds of
copper per year. In 2004, a copper sulfate crystal plant began production. The
facility has the capacity to produce 40 million pounds of copper sulfate per
year. The Sierrita operation also has molybdenum facilities consisting of a
leaching circuit, two molybdenum roasters and a packaging facility. The
molybdenum facilities process Sierrita concentrate, concentrate from our other
mines and concentrate from third-party sources. Copper production for 2009 was
170 million pounds and molybdenum production was 19 million pounds. The
available mining fleet has the capacity to move an average of 200,000 metric
tons of material per day using 24 235-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four
shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 34 to 56 cubic meters.



Sierrita
is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 12 inches per year.
The highest bench elevation is 1,350 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit
bottom is expected to be 550 meters above sea level. The Sierrita operation,
including the recently acquired Twin Buttes site, encompasses approximately
23,418 acres, comprising 13,282 acres of patented mining claims and other fee
lands, 9,644 acres of unpatented mining claims, 5,913 acres of Arizona state
mineral leases and 2,024 acres of leased lands.



Sierrita
receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Tucson Electric
Power Company. Although we believe the Sierrita operation has sufficient water
resources to support currently planned mining operations, we are a party to
litigation that could adversely affect our water rights at Sierrita and at our
other properties in Arizona. Refer to Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for
information concerning the status of these proceedings.



Bagdad







Bagdad is
a wholly owned open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex located in Yavapai
County in west-central Arizona. It is approximately 60 miles west of Prescott
and 100 miles northwest of Phoenix. The property can be reached by Arizona
Highway 96, which ends at the town of Bagdad. The closest railroad siding is at
Hillside, Arizona, approximately 24 miles southeast on Arizona Highway 96. The
open-pit mining operation has been ongoing since 1945, and prior mining was
conducted through underground workings. The Bagdad mine is a porphyry copper
deposit containing both sulfide and oxide mineralization. Chalcopyrite and
molybdenite are the dominant primary sulfides and are the primary economic
minerals in the mine. Chalcocite is the most common secondary copper sulfide
mineral, and the predominant oxide copper minerals are chrysocolla, malachite
and azurite.



The
Bagdad operation consists of a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator that
produces copper and molybdenum concentrates, an SX/EW plant that can produce up
to 25 million pounds per year of copper cathode from solution generated by
low-grade dump leaching and a pressure leach plant to process molybdenum
concentrate. Copper production for 2009 was 225 million pounds and molybdenum
production was six million pounds. The available mining fleet has the capacity
to move in excess of 180,000 metric tons of material per day using 24 235-metric
ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 40 to 56
cubic meters.



Bagdad is
located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 15 inches per year. The
highest bench elevation is 1,200 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit
bottom is expected to be 475 meters above sea level. The Bagdad operation
encompasses approximately 21,743 acres, comprising 21,143 acres of patented
mining claims and other fee lands, and 600 acres of unpatented mining
claims.



Bagdad
receives electrical power from Arizona Public Service Company. Although we
believe the Bagdad operation has sufficient water resources to support currently
planned mining operations, we are a party to litigation that could adversely
affect our water rights at Bagdad and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer
to Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for information concerning the status of these
proceedings.



Safford





Safford
is a wholly owned open-pit copper mining complex located in Graham County,
Arizona, approximately eight miles north of the town of Safford and 170 miles
east of Phoenix. The site is accessible by paved county road off U.S. Highway
70. The Safford mine includes two copper deposits that have oxide mineralization
overlaying primary copper sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper
minerals are chrysocolla and copper-bearing iron oxides with the predominant
copper sulfide material being chalcopyrite.



Initial
production commenced in late 2007 and ramped up to full production capacity
during 2008 before operating plans were revised in fourth-quarter 2008 to
curtail production.



The
property is a mine-for-leach project and produces copper cathodes. The operation
consists of two open pits feeding a crushing facility with a capacity of 103,000
metric tons per day of crushed ore. The crushed ore is delivered to a single
leach pad by a series of overland and portable conveyors. Leach solutions feed
an SX/EW facility with a capacity of 240 million pounds of copper per year.
Copper production for 2009 was 184 million pounds, which reflects the revised
operating plan reducing the mining and stacking rate by 50 percent beginning in
late 2008. The available mining fleet consists of 23 235-metric ton haul trucks
loaded by five shovels with





bucket
sizes ranging from 31 to 34 cubic meters, which are capable of moving an average
of approximately 285,000 metric tons of material per day.



Safford
is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 10 inches per year.
The highest bench elevation is 1,250 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit
bottom is expected to have an elevation of 750 meters above sea level. The
Safford operation encompasses approximately 24,957 acres, comprising 20,994
acres of patented lands, 3,932 acres of unpatented lands and 31 acres of land
held by federal permit.



The
Safford operation’s electrical power is provided by Morenci Water and Electric
Company, a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, through the transmission systems of
Southwest Transmission Cooperative, a subsidiary of Arizona Electric Power
Cooperative, Inc., with most of the power sourced from the Luna Energy facility.
Although we believe the Safford operation has sufficient water resources to
support currently planned mining operations, we are a party to litigation that
could adversely impact the water rights at Safford and at our other properties
in Arizona. Refer to Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for information concerning the
status of these proceedings.



Miami





Miami is
a wholly owned open-pit copper mining complex located in Gila County, Arizona,
approximately 90 miles east of Phoenix and six miles west of the city of Globe
on U.S. Highway 60. The site is accessible by a paved highway and by rail. The
Miami mine is developed on a porphyry copper deposit that has leachable oxide
and secondary sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are
chrysocolla, copper-bearing clays, malachite and azurite; chalcocite and
covellite are the most important secondary copper sulfide minerals.



Since
about 1915, the Miami mining operation had processed copper ore using both
flotation and leaching technologies; currently, and since 2002, operations have
consisted of residual leaching of stockpiles with copper recovered (from
solution) by the SX/EW process. The design capacity of the SX/EW plant is 200
million pounds of copper per year. Copper production for 2009 was 16 million
pounds. The available mining fleet consists of 24 227-metric ton haul trucks
loaded by 3 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 31 to 34-cubic meters, which
are capable of moving an average of approximately 155,000 metric tons of
material per day.



In
fourth-quarter 2009, we initiated plans to restart limited mining activities at
the Miami mine, which will improve efficiencies of ongoing reclamation projects
associated with historical mining activities at the site. During the approximate
five-year mine life, we expect to ramp up production to approximately 100
million pounds of copper per year by the second half of 2011. We will be
investing approximately $40 million in this project, which will benefit from the
use of existing mine equipment.



Miami is
located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 18 inches per year. The
highest bench elevation is 1,390 meters above sea level, and the ultimate pit
bottom will have an elevation of 810 meters above sea level. The Miami operation
encompasses approximately 9,058 acres comprising 8,725 acres of patented mining
claims and other fee lands, and 333 acres of unpatented mining
claims.



Miami
receives electrical power through long-term contracts with the Salt River
Project and natural gas through long-term contracts with El Paso Natural Gas as
the transporter. Although we believe the Miami operation has sufficient water
resources to support currently planned mining operations, we are a party to
litigation that could





adversely
impact the water rights at Miami and at our other properties in Arizona. Refer
to Item 3. “Legal Proceedings,” for information concerning the status of these
proceedings.



Tyrone





Our
wholly owned Tyrone mine is an open-pit copper mining complex which has been in
operation since 1967. It is located in southwestern New Mexico in Grant County,
approximately 10 miles south of Silver City, New Mexico, along State Highway 90.
The site is accessible by paved road. The Tyrone mine is a porphyry copper
deposit. Mineralization is predominantly secondary sulfide consisting of
chalcocite.



Copper
processing facilities consist of an SX/EW operation with a maximum capacity of
168 million pounds of copper cathodes per year. Copper production for 2009 was
86 million pounds, reflecting the revised operating plan which reduced the
mining rate by 50 percent beginning in late 2008. The mining rate increased
during 2009, and the mine is currently operating at approximately 80 percent of
capacity. The available mining fleet has the capacity to move an average of
120,000 metric tons of material per day using 15 240-metric ton haul trucks
loaded by three shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 17 to 42 cubic
meters.



Tyrone is
located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 16 inches per year. The
highest bench elevation is 2,000 meters above sea level and the ultimate pit
bottom is expected to have an elevation of 1,500 meters above sea level. The
Tyrone operation encompasses approximately 35,200 acres, comprising 18,755 acres
of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and 16,445 acres of unpatented
mining claims (includes 1,116 acres overlaying federal minerals on previously
counted fee lands).



Tyrone
receives electrical power from the Luna Energy facility and from the open
market. Tyrone also has the ability to self-generate power. We believe the
Tyrone operation has sufficient water resources to support currently planned
mining operations.



Henderson







Our
wholly owned Henderson molybdenum mine has been in operation since 1976 and is
located approximately 42 miles west of Denver, Colorado, off U.S. Highway 40.
Nearby communities include the towns of Empire, Georgetown and Idaho Springs.
The Henderson mill site is located approximately 15 miles west of the mine and
is accessible from Colorado State Highway 9. The Henderson mine and mill are
connected by a 10-mile conveyor tunnel under the Continental Divide and an
additional five-mile surface conveyor. The tunnel portal is located five miles
east of the mill. The Henderson mine is a porphyry molybdenum deposit with
molybdenite as the primary sulfide mineral.



The
Henderson operation consists of a large block-cave underground mining complex
feeding a concentrator with a current capacity of approximately 29,000 metric
tons-per-day. Henderson has the capacity to produce approximately 40 million
pounds of molybdenum per year. The majority of the molybdenum concentrate
produced is shipped to our Fort Madison, Iowa, processing facility. Molybdenum
production for 2009 was 27 million pounds, which reflects the revised operating
plan reducing Henderson’s annual production by 40 percent beginning in late 2008
and early 2009. Conditions improved somewhat during 2009 and Henderson is
currently operating at approximately 80 percent of capacity. The available
underground mining equipment fleet consists of 13 nine-metric ton load-haul-dump
(LHD) units and seven 36- and 73-metric ton haul trucks, which feed a gyratory
crusher feeding a series of three overland conveyors to the mill
stockpiles.



The
Henderson mine is located in a mountain region with the main access shaft at
3,180 meters above sea level. The main production levels are currently at
elevations of 2,200 and 2,350 meters above sea level. This region experiences
significant snowfall during the winter months.



The
Henderson mine and mill operations encompass approximately 11,878 acres,
comprising 11,843 acres of patented mining claims and other fee lands, and a
35-acre easement with the U.S. Forest Service for the surface portion of the
conveyor corridor.



Henderson
operations receive electrical power through long-term contracts with Xcel Energy
and natural gas through long-term contracts with BP Energy, with Xcel Energy as
the transporter. We believe the Henderson operation has sufficient water
resources to support currently planned mining operations.



Non-Operating
North America Mines

In
addition to the currently operating mines described above, we have three
non-operating copper mines in Arizona: Ajo, Bisbee and Tohono; two in New
Mexico: Chino (with limited residual copper production from leaching operations)
and Cobre; and the Climax molybdenum mine in Colorado, all of which are
currently on care-and-maintenance status.



In
response to market conditions during fourth-quarter 2008, we placed the Chino
mine on care-and-maintenance status in December 2008. The remainder of these
copper mines have been on care-and-maintenance status for several years and
would require significant capital investment to return them to operating status.
Several of the non-operating Arizona and New Mexico copper mines continue to
produce copper cathode from stockpiles. Copper production in 2009 from these
mines totaled 36 million pounds.



During
fourth-quarter 2008, we also suspended construction activities associated with
the project to restart the Climax molybdenum mine, which would have an annual
capacity of 30 million pounds of molybdenum with expansion options. We continue
to monitor market conditions to determine timing for restarting construction of
this project. Once a decision is made to resume construction activities, the
project could be completed within 18 months. Remaining costs for the project are
estimated to approximate $350 million.



South
America

At our
operations in South America, mine properties and facilities are controlled
through mining claims or concessions under the general mining laws of the
relevant country. The claims or concessions are owned or controlled by the
operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have an ownership interest.
Roads, power lines and aqueducts are controlled by easements.





Cerro
Verde





We have a
53.56 percent ownership interest in Cerro Verde. The remaining 46.44 percent is
held by SMM Cerro Verde Netherlands B.V. (21.0 percent), Compañia de Minas
Buenaventura S.A.A. (19.3 percent) and other stockholders whose shares are
publicly traded on the Lima Stock Exchange (6.14 percent).



Cerro
Verde is an open-pit copper and molybdenum mining complex that has been in
operation since 1976 and is located 20 miles southwest of Arequipa, Peru. The
site is accessible by paved highway. The Cerro Verde mine is a porphyry copper
deposit that has oxide and secondary sulfide mineralization, and primary sulfide
mineralization. The predominant oxide copper minerals are brochantite,
chrysocolla, malachite and copper “pitch.” Chalcocite and covellite are the most
important secondary copper sulfide minerals. Chalcopyrite and molybdenite are
the dominant primary sulfides.



Cerro
Verde’s current operation consists of an open-pit copper mine, concentrator and
SX/EW leaching facilities. Leach copper production is derived from a 39,000
metric ton-per-day crushed leach facility and a ROM leach system. This leaching
operation has a capacity of approximately 200 million pounds of copper per year.
A 108,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator was completed in late 2006 and began
processing of sulfide ore in the fourth quarter of 2006. Copper production for
2009 was 662 million pounds and molybdenum production was 2 million pounds. We
have commenced a project to optimize throughput at the concentrator. The
project, which is expected to be completed by the end of 2010, is designed to
add 30 million pounds of additional copper production per year by increasing
mill throughput from 108,000 metric tons of ore per day to 120,000 metric tons
of ore per day. The total capital investment for this project is expected to
approximate $50 million.



Cerro
Verde has sufficient equipment to move an average of 308,000 metric tons of
material per day using an available fleet of 28 180-metric ton and 230-metric
ton haul trucks loaded by five shovels with bucket sizes ranging in size from 21
to 53 cubic meters.



Approximately
one-third of Cerro Verde’s copper cathode production is sold locally and the
remaining copper cathodes and concentrate production are transported
approximately 70 miles by truck and rail to the Pacific Port of Matarani for
shipment to international markets.



Cerro
Verde is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging 1.5 inches per
year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 2,900
meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 2,000
meters above sea level. Cerro Verde has a mining concession covering
approximately 157,007 acres plus 24 acres of owned property and 79 acres of
rights-of-way outside the mining concession area.



Cerro
Verde receives electrical power under long-term contracts with Electroperu and
Empresa de Generación Eléctrica de Arequipa. Water for our Cerro Verde
processing operations comes from renewable sources through a series of storage
reservoirs on the Rio Chili watershed that collect water primarily from seasonal
precipitation. Cerro Verde’s participation in the Pillones Reservoir Project has
secured water rights that we believe will be sufficient to support Cerro Verde’s
currently planned operations. With the completion of the Bamputañe dam during
2009, an additional 40 million cubic meters of water storage was added to the
system. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability of water, see
Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”





El
Abra





We own a
51 percent interest in El Abra. The remaining 49 percent interest is held by the
state-owned copper enterprise Corporación Nacional del Cobre de Chile
(CODELCO).



El Abra
is an open-pit copper mining complex that has been in operation since 1996 and
is located 47 miles north of Calama in Chile’s El Loa province, Region II. The
site is accessible by paved highway and by rail. The El Abra mine is a porphyry
copper deposit that has oxide and sulfide mineralization. The predominant oxide
copper minerals are chrysocolla and pseudomalachite. There are lesser amounts of
copper-bearing clays and tenorite. The predominant primary sulfide copper
minerals are bornite and chalcopyrite. There is a minor amount of secondary
sulfide mineralization as chalcocite.



The El
Abra operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and an SX/EW facility with a
capacity of 500 million pounds of copper cathode per year from a 120,000 metric
ton-per-day crushed leach circuit and a similar-sized, ROM leaching operation.
Copper production for 2009 was 358 million pounds. The mining operation has
sufficient equipment to move an average of 223,000 metric tons of material per
day using an available fleet of 26 220-metric ton haul trucks loaded by four
shovels with buckets ranging in size from 26 to 41 cubic meters.



We have
resumed construction activities associated with the development of a large
sulfide deposit at El Abra that will extend the mine life by over ten years.
Production from the sulfide ore, which will be ramping up to approximately 300
million pounds of copper per year is expected to begin in 2012 and will replace
the current oxide copper production that is expected to decline over the next
several years. The project will use a portion of the existing facilities to
process the additional sulfide ore. Total capital for the project is estimated
to approximate $700 million through 2015, of which approximately $500 million is
for the initial phase of the project that is expected to be completed in
2012.



El Abra
is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch
per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 4,180
meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 3,410
meters above sea level. El Abra controls a total of 110,268 acres of mining
claims covering the ore deposit, stockpiles, process plant, and water wellfield
and pipeline. In addition, El Abra has acquired land surface rights for the road
between the processing plant and the mine, the water wellfield, power
transmission lines and for the water pipeline from the Salar de
Ascotán.



El Abra
currently receives electrical power under a contract with Electroandina, which
will expire at the end of 2017. Water for our El Abra processing operations
comes from pumping of groundwater from the Salar de Ascotán pursuant to
regulatory approval. We believe El Abra has sufficient water rights to support
current operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the availability
of water, see Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”





Candelaria
and Ojos del Salado





Candelaria.  We
have an 80 percent ownership interest in Candelaria. The remaining 20 percent
interest is owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation.



Candelaria’s
open-pit mine has been in operation since 1993 and the underground mine has been
in operation since 2005. The Candelaria copper mining complex is located
approximately 12 miles south of Copiapó in northern Chile’s Atacama province,
Region III. The site is accessible by two maintained dirt roads, one coming
through the Tierra Amarilla community and the other off of Route 5 of the
International Pan-American Highway.The
Candelaria mine is an iron oxide, copper/gold deposit. Primary sulfide
mineralization consists of chalcopyrite.



The
Candelaria operation consists of an open-pit copper mine and a 6,000 metric
ton-per-day underground copper mine, which is mined by sublevel stoping, feeding
a 75,000 metric ton-per-day concentrator. On average, open-pit mining operations
move 235,000 metric tons of material per day using an available fleet of 38
225-metric ton haul trucks loaded by six shovels with bucket sizes ranging from
13 to 43 cubic meters. Copper concentrates are transported by truck to the Punta
Padrones port facility located in Caldera, approximately 50 miles northwest of
the mine. Copper production for 2009 was 296 million pounds and gold production
was 74,000 ounces.



Candelaria
is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one inch
per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest bench elevation is 675
meters above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 30 meters
below sea level. The Candelaria property encompasses approximately 13,390 acres,
including approximately 125 acres for the port facility in Caldera. The
remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface
is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean law.Candelaria
receives electrical power through long-term contracts with Empresa Eléctrica
Guacolda S.A., a local energy company. Candelaria’s water supply comes from well
fields in the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiapó that draw water from the
Copiapó River aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of that aquifer in recent
years, ongoing studies are addressing the adequacy of this water supply for
Candelaria’s currently planned operations. For a discussion of risks associated
with the availability of water, see Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”



Ojos del
Salado.  We have an 80 percent ownership interest in Ojos del
Salado. The remaining 20 percentinterest
is owned by affiliates of Sumitomo Corporation.



The Ojos
del Salado operation began commercial production in 1929 and consists of two
underground copper mines (Santos and Alcaparrosa) and a 3,800 metric ton-per-day
concentrator. The operation is located approximately 10 miles east of Copiapó in
northern Chile’s Atacama province, Region III, and is accessible by paved
highway. The Ojos del Salado mines are iron oxide and copper/gold deposits.
Primary sulfide mineralization consists of chalcopyrite.



The Ojos
del Salado operation has a capacity of 3,800 metric tons per day of ore from the
Santos underground mine and 4,000 metric tons of ore per day from the
Alcaparrosa underground mine. The ore from both mines is mined by sublevel
stoping since both the ore and enclosing rocks are competent. The broken ore is
removed from the stopes using scoops and loaded into an available fleet of 18
28-metric ton trucks, which transport the ore to the surface. The ore from the
Santos mine is hauled directly to the Ojos del Salado mill for processing, and
the





ore from
the Alcaparrosa mine is reloaded into five 54-metric ton trucks and hauled seven
miles to the Candelaria mill for processing. The Ojos del Salado concentrator
has the capacity to produce over 30 million pounds of copper and 9,000 ounces of
gold per year. Copper production for 2009 was 74 million pounds and gold
production was 18,000 ounces. Tailings from the Ojos del Salado mill are pumped
to the Candelaria tailings facility for final deposition. The Candelaria
facility has sufficient capacity for the remaining Ojos del Salado tailings in
addition to Candelaria’s tailings.



Ojos del
Salado is located in a desert environment with rainfall averaging less than one
inch per year and is in an active seismic zone. The highest underground level is
at an elevation of 500 meters above sea level, with the lowest underground level
at 150 meters above sea level. The Ojos del Salado mineral rights encompass
approximately 15,815 acres, which includes approximately 6,784 acres of owned
land in and around the Ojos del Salado underground mines and plant site. The
remaining property consists of mineral rights owned by us in which the surface
is not owned but controlled by us, which is consistent with Chilean
law.



Ojos del
Salado receives electrical power through long-term contracts with Empresa
Eléctrica Guacolda S.A. Ojos del Salado’s water supply comes from well fields in
the area of Tierra Amarilla and Copiapó that draw water from the Copiapó River
aquifer. Because of rapid depletion of this aquifer in recent years, ongoing
studies are addressing the adequacy of this water supply for Ojos del Salado’s
currently planned operations. For a discussion of risks associated with the
availability of water, see Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”



Indonesia



Ownership



PT
Freeport Indonesia is a limited liability company organized under the laws of
the Republic of Indonesia and incorporated in Delaware. We directly own 81.28
percent of PT Freeport Indonesia, 9.36 percent indirectly through our wholly
owned subsidiary, PT Indocopper Investama, and the Government of Indonesia owns
the remaining 9.36 percent. In July 2004, we received a request from the
Indonesian Department of Energy and Mineral Resources that we offer to sell
shares in PT Indocopper Investama to Indonesian nationals at fair market value.
Refer to Note 15 for additional discussion.



In 1996,
we established certain unincorporated joint ventures with Rio Tinto plc (Rio
Tinto), an international mining company with headquarters in London, England.
Pursuant to the joint venture agreements, Rio Tinto has a 40 percent interest in
certain assets and future production exceeding specified annual amounts of
copper, gold and silver through 2021 in Block A, and, after 2021, a 40 percent
interest in all production from Block A.  Refer to Note 3 for further
discussion of the joint venture with Rio Tinto.



Contracts
of Work



Through a
Contract of Work (COW) with the Government of Indonesia, PT Freeport Indonesia
conducts its current exploration and mining operations in Indonesia. The COW
governs our rights and obligations relating to taxes, exchange controls,
royalties, repatriation and other matters, and was concluded pursuant to the
1967 Foreign Capital Investment Law, which expresses Indonesia’s foreign
investment policy and provides basic guarantees of remittance rights and
protection against nationalization, a framework for economic incentives and
basic rules regarding other rights and obligations of foreign investors.
Specifically, the COW provides that the Government of Indonesia will not
nationalize or expropriate PT Freeport Indonesia’s mining operations. Any
disputes regarding the provisions of the COW are subject to international
arbitration. We have experienced no disputes requiring arbitration during the 41
years we have operated in Indonesia.



PT
Freeport Indonesia’s COW covers both Block A, which was first included in a 1967
COW that was replaced by a new COW in 1991, and Block B in which we gained
rights in 1991. The initial term of our COW expires in December 2021, but we can
extend it for two 10-year periods subject to Indonesian government approval that
cannot be withheld or delayed unreasonably. The COW allows us to conduct
exploration, mining and production activities in the 24,700-acre Block A area,
located in Papua. All of PT Freeport Indonesia’s proven and probable mineral
reserves and current mining operations are located in Block A. Under the COW, PT
Freeport Indonesia also conducts exploration activities (which had been
suspended in 2009, but will resume in 2010) in the approximate 500,000-acre
Block B area, in Papua. We originally had the rights to explore 6.5 million
acres in Block B, but pursuant to the COW we have only retained the rights to
approximately 500,000 acres following





significant
geological assessment.



PT
Freeport Indonesia pays a copper royalty under its COW that varies from 1.5
percent of copper net revenue at a copper price of $0.90 or less per pound to
3.5 percent at a copper price of $1.10 or more per pound. The COW royalty rate
for gold and silver sales is 1.0 percent.



A large
part of the mineral royalties under Government of Indonesia regulations are
designated to the provinces from which the minerals are extracted. In connection
with our fourth concentrator mill expansion completed in 1998, PT Freeport
Indonesia agreed to pay the Government of Indonesia additional royalties
(royalties not required by our COW) to provide further support to the local
governments and the people of the Indonesia province of Papua. The additional
royalties are paid on production exceeding specified annual amounts of copper,
gold and silver expected to be generated when PT Freeport Indonesia’s milling
facilities operate above 200,000 metric tons of ore per day. The additional
royalty for copper equals the COW royalty rate and for gold and silver equals
twice the COW royalty rates. Therefore, PT Freeport Indonesia’s royalty rate on
copper net revenues from production above the agreed levels is double the COW
royalty rate, and royalty rates on gold and silver sales from production above
the agreed levels are triple the COW royalty rates. PT Freeport Indonesia’s
share of the combined royalties, including the additional royalties which became
effective January 1, 1999, totaled $147 million in 2009, $113 million in 2008
and $133 million in 2007.



PT Irja
Eastern Minerals (Eastern Minerals), of which we own 100 percent, conducts
exploration through a joint venture agreement, under a separate COW in an area
covering approximately 450,000 acres in Papua. The Eastern Minerals COW was
under suspension during 2009.



Under a
joint venture agreement through PT Nabire Bakti Mining (PTNBM), we conduct
exploration activities under a separate COW in an area covering approximately
500,000 acres in five parcels contiguous to PT Freeport Indonesia’s Block B and
one of Eastern Minerals’ blocks. The PTNBM COW was under suspension for much of
2009, but will resume in 2010.



In 2008,
Indonesia enacted a new mining law, which will operate under a licensing system
as opposed to the COW system that applies to PT Freeport Indonesia, Eastern
Minerals and PTNBM. In 2010, the Government of Indonesia promulgated regulations
under the 2008 mining law and certain provisions address existing COWs.
The regulations provide that COWs will continue to be honored until
their expiration. However, the regulations attempt to apply certain
provisions of the new law to any extension periods of COWs even though our COWs
provide for two ten-year extension periods under the existing terms of our COWs.





Grasberg Minerals District







PT
Freeport Indonesia operates in the remote highlands of the Sudirman Mountain
Range in the province of Papua, Indonesia, which is on the western half of the
island of New Guinea. We and our predecessors have conducted exploration and
mining operations in Block A since 1967 and have been the only operator of these
operations. We currently have two mines in operation: the Grasberg open pit and
the Deep Ore Zone (DOZ) underground block cave. We also have significant
development projects in the Grasberg minerals district, which are discussed in
more detail in “Development Projects and Exploration” below and in Item
7.  “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and
Results of Operations.”



Grasberg Open Pit.We began open-pit
mining of the Grasberg ore body in 1990. Open-pit operations are expected to
continue through mid 2016, at which time underground mining operations are
scheduled to begin at our Grasberg Block Cave mine, which is currently in
development. Production is currently at the 3,295- to 4,285-meter elevation
level and totaled 57 million metric tons of ore in 2009 and 49 million metric
tons of ore in 2008, which provided 70 percent of our 2009 mill feed and 67
percent of our 2008 mill feed. Remaining mill feed comes from our DOZ
mine.



The
current Grasberg equipment fleet consists of over 500 units. The larger mining
equipment directly associated with production includes an available fleet of 163
haul trucks with payloads ranging from approximately 215 metric tons to 330
metric tons and 18 shovels with bucket sizes ranging from 30 cubic meters to 42
cubic meters, which in 2009 moved an average of 725,000 metric tons per
day.



Grasberg
crushing and conveying systems are integral to the mine and provide the capacity
to transport up to 225,000 metric tons per day of Grasberg ore to the mill and
135,000 metric tons per day of overburden to the overburden stockpiles. The
remaining ore and overburden is moved by haul trucks.



Deep Ore Zone.The DOZ ore body lies
vertically below the now depleted Intermediate Ore Zone. We began production
from the DOZ ore body in 1989 using open stope mining methods, but we suspended
production in 1991 in favor of production from the Grasberg deposit. Production
resumed in September 2000 using the block-cave method. Production is at the
3,110-meter elevation level and totaled 26 million metric tons of ore in 2009
and 23 million metric tons in 2008. Production at the DOZ mine is expected to
continue through 2020 and we plan to ramp up production at our Deep Mill Level
Zone (DMLZ) block cave mine, which is currently under development, beginning in
2015.



During
2009, we completed over 11,000 meters of development drifting in support of the
block-cave mining method for the DOZ mine. Further expansion of the DOZ
operation to 80,000 metric tons of ore per day is substantially complete. The
success of the development of the DOZ mine, one of the world’s largest
underground





mines,
provides confidence in the future development of PT Freeport Indonesia’s
large-scale undeveloped underground ore bodies.



The DOZ
mine fleet consists of over 185 pieces of mobile heavy equipment, which in 2009
moved an average of 72,000 metric tons of ore per day. The primary mining
equipment directly associated with production and development includes an
available fleet of 49 load haul dump (LHD) units and 23 haul trucks. Our
production LHD units typically carry approximately 11 metric tons of ore. Using
ore passes and chutes, the LHD units transfer ore into 55-ton capacity haul
trucks. The trucks dump into two gyratory crushers and the ore is then conveyed
to the surface stockpiles.



PT
Freeport Indonesia’s total production for 2009 was 1.4 billion pounds of copper
and 2.6 million ounces of gold.



Our
principal source of power for all our Indonesian operations is a coal-fired
power plant that we built in conjunction with our fourth concentrator mill
expansion. Diesel generators supply peaking and backup electrical power
generating capacity. A combination of naturally occurring mountain streams and
water derived from our underground operations provides water for our operations.
Our Indonesian operations are in an active seismic zone and experience average
annual rainfall of approximately 200 inches.



Description of Ore
Bodies.Our
Indonesia ore bodies are located within and around two main igneous intrusions,
the Grasberg monzodiorite and the Ertsberg diorite. The host rocks of these ore
bodies include both carbonate and clastic rocks that form the ridge crests and
upper flanks of the Sudirman Range, and the igneous rocks of monzonitic to
dioritic composition that intrude them. The igneous-hosted ore bodies (the
Grasberg open pit and block cave, and portions of the DOZ block cave) occur as
vein stockworks and disseminations of copper sulfides, dominated by chalcopyrite
and, to a much lesser extent, bornite. The sedimentary-rock hosted ore bodies
occur as “magnetite-rich, calcium/magnesian skarn” replacements, whose location
and orientation are strongly influenced by major faults and by the chemistry of
the carbonate rocks along the margins of the intrusions.



The
copper mineralization in these skarn deposits is also dominated by chalcopyrite,
but higher bornite concentrations are common. Moreover, gold occurs in
significant concentrations in all of the district’s ore bodies, though rarely
visible to the naked eye. These gold concentrations usually occur as inclusions
within the copper sulfide minerals, though, in some deposits, these
concentrations can also be strongly associated with pyrite.



The
following diagram indicates the relative elevations (in meters) of our reported
ore bodies.









The
following map, which encompasses an area of approximately 42 square kilometers
(approximately 16 square miles), indicates the relative positions and sizes of
our reported ore bodies and their locations.





Africa

At Tenke
Fungurume, mine properties and facilities are controlled through mining
concessions under general mining laws and our mining rights remain in force as
long as the concessions are exploitable. The concessions are owned or controlled
by operating companies in which we or our subsidiaries have an ownership
interest.



Tenke
Fungurume





We own an
effective 57.75 percent interest in the Tenke Fungurume minerals district. The
remaining ownership interests are held by Lundin Mining Corporation (Lundin) (an
effective 24.75 percent interest) and La Générale des Carrières et des Mines
(Gécamines), which is wholly owned by the Government of the DRC (17.5 percent
non-dilutable interest).





In 2009,
we completed the approximate $2 billion initial project at the Tenke Fungurume
minerals district. Pursuant to our agreement with Lundin, we were responsible
for funding our share (70 percent) of the project development costs and 100
percent of certain cost overruns on the initial project. We and Lundin will be
repaid our advances prior to distributions to the stockholders of Tenke
Fungurume. Accordingly, we will receive a disproportionate share of cash flow
until the cost overrun financing and advances are repaid. Additionally, in
accordance with the terms of the agreement, Gécamines will receive asset
transfer payments totaling $100 million, $80 million of which have already been
paid and the remainder of which will be paid over the next two
years.



The Tenke
Fungurume deposits are located in the Katanga province of the DRC approximately
110 miles northwest of Lubumbashi. The deposits are accessible by unpaved roads
and by rail. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are sediment-hosted copper and cobalt
deposits with oxide, mixed oxide-sulfide and sulfide mineralization. The
dominant oxide minerals are malachite, pseudomalachite and heterogenite.
Important sulfide minerals consist of bornite, carrollite, chalcocite and
chalcopyrite.



Copper
and cobalt are recovered through an agitation-leach plant capable of processing
8,000 metric tons of ore per day. Copper production commenced in March 2009 and
achieved targeted production rates in September 2009. The cobalt and sulphuric
acid plants were commissioned in September 2009 and we continue to address
start-up and quality issues in the cobalt circuit and expect to reach sustained
targeted production rates during 2010. Current operations are designed to
produce approximately 250 million pounds of copper and 18 million pounds of
cobalt per year. The current equipment fleet includes 10 five-cubic meter
front-end loaders, 29 45-metric ton haul trucks, surface miners, production
drills, sampling machines and crawler dozers.



We
commenced a feasibility study in fourth-quarter 2009 to evaluate a second phase
of the project, which would include optimizing the current plant and potentially
increasing capacity by approximately 50 percent. The feasibility study is
expected to be completed by mid-year 2010. The timing of these expansions will
depend on a number of factors, including general economic and market
conditions.



Tenke
Fungurume is located in a tropical region; however, temperatures are moderated
by its higher altitudes. Weather in this region is characterized by a dry season
and a wet season, each lasting about six months with average rainfall of 47
inches per year. The highest bench elevation is expected to be 1,480 meters
above sea level and the ultimate pit bottom is expected to be 1,270 meters above
sea level. The Tenke Fungurume deposits are located within four concessions
totaling 394,455 acres.



Tenke
Fungurume has entered into long-term power supply and infrastructure funding
agreements with La Société Nationale d’Electricité (SNEL), the state-owned
electric utility company serving the region. The results of a recent water
exploration program, as well as the regional geological and hydro-geological
conditions, indicate that adequate water is available for the project, and for
hydro-electric generation during the expected life of the
operation.



In
February 2008, the Ministry of Mines, Government of the DRC, sent a letter
seeking comment on proposed material modifications to the mining contracts for
the Tenke Fungurume concession. We are continuing to work cooperatively with the
DRC government to resolve the ongoing contract review but cannot predict the
timing or outcome of the process. The contract review process has not affected
our development schedule and we are continuing to operate pursuant to the terms
of our contract. We believe the contract is fair and equitable, complies with
Congolese law and is enforceable without modification.





PRODUCTION
DATA



For
comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December
31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge
pre-acquisition data. As the pre-acquisition operating data represent the
results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is
not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX
management or of future operating results.



COPPERYears
      Ended December 31,

(millions
      of recoverable pounds)200920082007a2006a2005a



MINED COPPER(FCX’s net
      interest in %)

North America

Morenci
      (85%)b428626687693680

Bagdad
      (100%)225227202165201

Safford
      (100%)1841331--

Sierrita
      (100%)170188150162158

Tyrone
      (100%)8676506481

Chino
      (100%)36155190186210

Miami
      (100%)1619201925

Other
      (100%)26201610

Total
      North America1,1471,4301,320c1,3051,365



South America

Cerro
      Verde (53.56%)662694594222206

Candelaria/Ojos
      del Salado (80%)370446453429421

El
      Abra (51%)358366366482464

Total
      South America1,3901,5061,413c1,1331,091



Indonesia

Grasberg
      (90.64%)d1,4121,0941,1511,2011,456



Africa

Tenke
      Fungurume (57.75%)154----

Consolidated4,1034,0303,8843,6393,912



Less
      noncontrolling participants’ share754693653537543

Net3,3493,3373,2313,1023,369



GOLD

(thousands
      of recoverable ounces)



MINED GOLD(FCX’s net
      interest in %)



North
      America (100%)b414151917

South
      America (80%)92114116e112117

Indonesia
      (90.64%)d2,5681,1632,1981,7322,789

Consolidated2,6641,2912,3291,8632,923



Less
      noncontrolling participants’ share258132229184284

Net2,4061,1592,1001,6792,639



MOLYBDENUM

(millions
      of recoverable pounds)



MINED MOLYBDENUM(FCX’s
      net interest in %)



Henderson
      (100%)274039f3732

By-product
      – North America (100%)b2530303130

By-product
      – Cerro Verde (53.56%)231--

Consolidated5473706862



Less
      noncontrolling participants’ share11---

Net5372706862



a.For
      comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31,
      2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge
      pre-acquisition data. As the pre-acquisition data represent the results of
      these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not
      necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX
      management or of future operating
results.

b.Amounts
      are net of Morenci’s 15 percent joint venture partner
      interest.

c.Includes
      North America copper production of 258 million pounds and South America
      copper production of 259 million pounds for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.

d.Amounts
      are net of Grasberg’s joint venture partner’s interest, which varies in
      accordance with terms of the joint venture
  agreement.

e.Includes
      gold production of 21 thousand ounces for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.

f.Includes
      molybdenum production of 14 million pounds for Phelps Dodge’s
      pre-acquisition results.





SALES
DATA



For
comparative purposes, operating data shown below for the years ended December
31, 2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge
pre-acquisition data. As the pre-acquisition operating data represent the
results of these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is
not necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX
management or of future operating results.



Years
      Ended December 31,

COPPER(millions of recoverable pounds)200920082007a2006a2005a



MINED COPPER(FCX’s net
      interest in %)

North America

Morenci
      (85%)b459646693692680

Bagdad
      (100%)225226200165209

Safford
      (100%)176107---

Sierrita
      (100%)172184157161165

Tyrone
      (100%)8571536481

Chino
      (100%)52174186186209

Miami
      (100%)1620241929

Other
      (100%)26191610

Total
      North America1,1871,4341,332c1,3031,383



South America

Cerro
      Verde (53.56%)667701587214205

Candelaria/Ojos
      del Salado (80%)366455447425421

El
      Abra (51%)361365365487467

Total
      South America1,3941,5211,399c1,1261,093



Indonesia

Grasberg
      (90.64%)d1,4001,1111,1311,2011,457



Africa

Tenke
      Fungurume (57.75%)130----

Consolidated4,1114,0663,8623,6303,933



Less
      minority participants’ share746699647535545

Net3,3653,3673,2153,0953,388



Consolidated
      sales from mines4,1114,0663,8623,6303,933

Purchased
      copper166483650736821

Total
      consolidated sales4,2774,5494,5124,3664,754



Average
      realized price per pound$2.60$2.69$3.22e$2.80e$1.66e



GOLD(thousands
      of recoverable ounces)



MINED GOLD(FCX’s net
      interest in %)



North
      America (100%)b616211918

South
      America (80%)90116114f111117

Indonesia
      (90.64%)d2,5431,1822,1851,7362,790

Consolidated2,6391,3142,3201,8662,925



Less
      minority participants’ share256134228185285

Net2,3831,1802,0921,6812,640



Consolidated
      sales from mines2,6391,3142,3201,8662,925

Purchased
      gold1261212

Total
      consolidated sales2,6401,3162,3261,8782,937



Average
      realized price per ounce$993$861$682$566g$454



MOLYBDENUM(millions
      of recoverable pounds)



Consolidated
      sales from mines587169h6960



Less
      minority participants’ share11---

Net5770696960



Consolidated
      sales from mines5871696960

Purchased
      molybdenum689813

Total
      consolidated sales6479787773



Average
      realized price per pound$12.36$30.55$25.87$21.87$25.89





a.For
      comparative purposes, operating data for the years ended December 31,
      2007, 2006 and 2005, combines our historical data with Phelps Dodge
      pre-acquisition data. As the pre-acquisition data represent the results of
      these operations under Phelps Dodge management, such combined data is not
      necessarily indicative of what past results would have been under FCX
      management or of future operating
results.

b.Amounts
      are net of Morenci’s joint venture partner’s 15 percent
      interest.

c.Includes
      North America copper sales of 283 million pounds and South America copper
      sales of 222 million pounds for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.

d.Amounts
      are net of Grasberg’s joint venture partner’s interest, which varies in
      accordance with terms of the joint venture
  agreement.

e.Before
      charges for hedging losses related to copper price protection programs,
      amounts were $3.27 per pound for 2007, $3.08 per pound for 2006 and $1.76
      per pound for 2005.

f.Includes
      gold sales of 18 thousand ounces for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.

g.Amount
      was approximately $606 per ounce before a loss on redemption of our
      Gold-Denominated Preferred Stock, Series
II.

h.Includes
      molybdenum sales of 17 million pounds for Phelps Dodge’s pre-acquisition
      results.



DEVELOPMENT
PROJECTS AND EXPLORATION



We have
several projects and potential opportunities to expand our production volumes,
extend our mine lives and develop large-scale underground ore bodies. During
fourth-quarter 2008, we deferred several project development activities because
of the downturn in global economic conditions. Major development projects for
2009 consisted of underground development in the Grasberg minerals district and
the Tenke Fungurume project, for which construction activities on the initial
project are complete. During fourth-quarter 2009, we announced that we are
resuming certain project development activities that were deferred. For further
discussion of our development projects and exploration activities, refer to Item
7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations.”



As
discussed in Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations,” we have several projects in progress in
the Grasberg mineral district, including development of the Common
Infrastructure project, Grasberg Block Cave, the Big Gossan underground mine, a
further expansion of the DOZ underground mine (which is substantially complete)
and development of the Deep Mill Level Zone ore body. We also have an additional
long-term underground mine development project in the Grasberg minerals district
for the Kucing Liar ore body, which is discussed below and is based on our
latest mine plans and proven and probable reserves as of December 31,
2009.



The
Kucing Liar ore body lies on the southern flank of and underneath the southern
portion of the Grasberg open pit at the 2,605-meter elevation level. We expect
to mine the Kucing Liar ore body using the block-cave method. A pre-feasibility
study for the development of the Kucing Liar ore body was completed during 2009
and indicated aggregate capital costs of approximately $2.5
billion.



Based on
current estimates, we expect aggregate expenditures for underground mine
development in the Grasberg minerals district to average approximately $450
million annually during the next 15 years. These costs will be shared with Rio
Tinto in accordance with our joint venture agreement. Considering the long-term
nature and large size of these projects, actual costs could differ materially
from these estimates.



In
addition to the mine development costs above, our current mine development plans
include approximately $3 billion of capital expenditures at our processing
facilities to optimize the handling of underground ore types once Grasberg
open-pit operations cease. Substantially all of these expenditures will be made
between 2017 and 2029. We continue to review our mine development and processing
plans to maximize the value of our reserves.



SMELTING
FACILITIES



Atlantic Copper,
S.A.Atlantic Copper is our wholly owned copper smelter and
refinery located in Huelva, Spain. Atlantic Copper completed the last expansion
of its production capacity in 1997. The design capacity of the smelter is
290,000 metric tons of copper per year and the refinery currently has a capacity
of 260,000 metric tons of copper per year. We have no present plans to expand
Atlantic Copper’s production capacity. Atlantic Copper’s facilities are located
on land concessions from the Huelva, Spain port authorities and expire in
2027.



During
2009, Atlantic Copper treated 1,000,700 metric tons of concentrate and scrap and
produced 269,000 metric tons of copper anodes and 256,600 metric tons of copper
cathodes. During 2008, Atlantic Copper treated 1,028,100 metric tons of
concentrate and scrap and produced 259,900 metric tons of copper anodes and
257,100 metric tons of copper cathodes. In June 2007, Atlantic Copper completed
a scheduled 23-day maintenance turnaround. Major maintenance turnarounds
typically occur approximately every 12 years for Atlantic Copper, with
significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds occurring in the interim. The
next scheduled maintenance





activity
at Atlantic Copper is in 2011.



During
2009, Atlantic Copper purchased approximately 35 percent of its concentrate
requirements from PT Freeport Indonesia and approximately 25 percent from our
South America copper mines at market prices. Atlantic Copper has experienced no
significant operating problems.



We made
no capital contributions to Atlantic Copper from 2005 through 2009. We loan
funds to Atlantic Copper from time to time, and at December 31, 2009, these
loans totaled $381 million. Our net investment in Atlantic Copper at December
31, 2009, was approximately $70 million.



PT
Smelting.  PT Freeport Indonesia’s 1991 COW required us to
construct or cause to be constructed a smelter in Indonesia if we and the
Indonesian government determined that such a project would be economically
viable. In 1995, following the completion of a feasibility study, we entered
into agreements relating to the formation of PT Smelting, an Indonesian company,
and the construction of the copper smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia. PT
Freeport Indonesia, Mitsubishi Materials Corporation (Mitsubishi Materials),
Mitsubishi Corporation (Mitsubishi) and Nippon Mining & Metals Co., Ltd.
(Nippon) own 25 percent, 60.5 percent, 9.5 percent, and 5 percent, respectively,
of the outstanding PT Smelting common stock. PT Smelting owns and operates the
smelter and refinery in Gresik, Indonesia.



During
2006, PT Smelting completed an expansion of its production capacity to 275,000
metric tons of copper per year from 250,000 metric tons. PT Freeport Indonesia’s
contract with PT Smelting provides for the supply of 100 percent of the copper
concentrate requirements necessary for PT Smelting to produce 205,000 metric
tons of copper annually (essentially the smelter’s original design capacity) on
a priority basis. For the first 15 years of PT Smelting’s commercial operations,
beginning December 1998, PT Freeport Indonesia agreed that the combined
treatment and refining charges (fees paid to smelters by miners) would
approximate market rates, but will not fall below specified minimum rates. The
minimum rate, applicable to the period April 27, 2008 to April 27, 2014, is to
be determined annually and to be sufficient to cover PT Smelting’s annual cash
operating costs (net of credits and including costs of debt service) for 205,000
metric tons of copper. The maximum rate is $0.30 per pound. The agreement is an
amendment to the long-term contract, which was approved by the Department of
Energy and Mineral Resources of the Government of Indonesia in 2009. PT Freeport
Indonesia also sells copper concentrate to PT Smelting at market rates, which
are not subject to a minimum or maximum rate, for quantities in excess of
205,000 metric tons of copper annually.



During
2009, PT Smelting treated 1,073,900 metric tons of concentrate and produced
310,200 metric tons of copper anodes and 286,000 metric tons of copper cathodes.
During 2008, PT Smelting treated 978,100 metric tons of concentrate and produced
261,300 metric tons of copper anodes and 253,400 metric tons of copper cathodes.
Higher volumes of anodes in 2009, compared to 2008, primarily reflect a 25-day
maintenance turnaround in the second quarter of 2008. Major maintenance
turnarounds typically occur approximately every four years for PT Smelting, with
significantly shorter term maintenance turnarounds in the interim.



Miami
Smelter.  We own and operate a smelter at our Miami, Arizona
mining operation. The smelter processes concentrate primarily from our Arizona
mines. The smelter has been in production for over 80 years and has been
upgraded during that period to implement new technologies, to improve production
and to comply with current air quality standards. Concentrate processed through
the smelter totaled approximately 619,000 metric tons in 2009 and 719,000 metric
tons in 2008. The Miami smelter completed a 40-day major maintenance turnaround
in February 2009. Major maintenance turnarounds typically occur approximately
every 20 months for Miami, with significantly shorter term maintenance
turnarounds in the interim. Sulphuric acid is a by-product of smelting
concentrates, and the Miami smelter is the most significant source of sulphuric
acid for our U.S. leaching operations.



OTHER
PROPERTIES



Rod & Refining
Operations.Our Rod & Refining operations consist of conversion
facilities located in North America including a refinery in El Paso, Texas; rod
mills in El Paso, Texas, Norwich, Connecticut and Miami, Arizona; and a
specialty copper products facility in Bayway, New Jersey. We refine our copper
anode production from our smelter in Miami, Arizona, along with purchased
anodes, at our El Paso refinery. The El Paso refinery has an annual production
capacity of about 900 million pounds of copper cathode, which is sufficient to
refine all the copper anode we produce at Miami. Our El Paso refinery also
produces nickel carbonate, copper telluride, and autoclaved slimes material
containing gold, silver, platinum and palladium.





Molybdenum
Conversion Facilities.We process molybdenum concentrates
at our conversion plants in the U.S. and Europe into such products as
technical-grade molybdic oxide, ferromolybdenum, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium
molybdates, molybdenum disulfide and molybdenum metal powder. We operate
molybdenum roasters in Sierrita, Arizona; Fort Madison, Iowa; and Rotterdam, the
Netherlands.



The
conversion facility located at our Sierrita mine consists of two molybdenum
roasters that process molybdenum concentrates produced at our mines and on a
toll basis for third parties. The facility produces molybdenum oxide and related
products.



The Fort
Madison, Iowa, facility consists of two molybdenum roasters, a sulphuric acid
plant, a metallurgical (technical oxide) packaging facility, and a chemical
conversion plant, which includes a wet-chemicals plant, sublimation equipment
and molybdenum disulfide processing and packaging. In the chemical plant,
molybdic oxide is further refined into various high-purity molybdenum chemicals
for a wide range of uses by chemical and catalyst manufacturers. In addition to
metallurgical oxide products, the Fort Madison facility produces ammonium
dimolybdate, pure molybdic oxide, ammonium heptamolybdate, ammonium
octamolybdate, sodium molybdate, sublimed pure molybdic oxide and molybdenum
disulfide.



The
Rotterdam conversion facility consists of a molybdenum roaster, sulphuric acid
plant, metallurgical packaging facility and chemical conversion plant. The plant
produces metallurgical products primarily for third parties. Ammonium
dimolybdate and pure molybdic oxide are produced in the wet-chemicals
plant.



We also
produce ferromolybdenum for worldwide customers at our conversion plant located
in Stowmarket, United Kingdom. The plant is operated both as an internal and
external customer tolling facility.



SOURCES
AND AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS



Energy
(including electricity, diesel fuel, coal and natural gas), sulphuric acid and
water are the principal raw materials used in our operations. Most of our energy
is obtained from third parties under long-term contracts. For additional
information, refer to Item 7. “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations.”



Sulphuric
acid is used in the SX/EW process and is produced as a by-product of the
smelting process at our smelters. Sulphuric acid needs in excess of the
sulphuric acid produced by our operations are purchased from third parties as
needed.



Our
mining operations require significant quantities of water for mining, ore
processing and related support facilities. Although we believe our mining
operations have sufficient water rights, the loss of water rights for any of our
mines, in whole or in part, or shortages of water to which we have rights, could
require us to curtail or shut down mining operations. For a further discussion
of risks and legal proceedings associated with the availability of water, see
Item 1A. – “Risk Factors” and Item 3. – “Legal Proceedings.”



COMPETITION



We are
one of the world’s largest copper, gold and molybdenum mining companies in terms
of reserves and production. With respect to copper, which generated
approximately 75 percent of our mining revenues in 2009, the top 10 producers
comprise approximately 55 percent of total worldwide mined copper production. We
currently rank second among those producers at approximately 10 percent of total
worldwide estimated mined copper production. Our competitive position is based
on the quality and grade of our ore bodies and our ability to manage costs
compared with other producers. We have a diverse portfolio of mining operations
with varying ore grades and cost structures. Our costs are driven by the
location, grade and nature of our ore bodies and the input costs, including
energy, labor and equipment. The metals markets are cyclical and our ability to
maintain our competitive position over the long term is based on our ability to
acquire and develop quality deposits, hire and retain a skilled workforce and to
manage our costs.





LABOR
MATTERS



At
December 31, 2009, we employed approximately 28,400 people (approximately 11,900
in Indonesia, 8,400 in North America, 4,400 in South America, 2,900 in Africa
and 800 in Europe and other locations). Additionally, we have contractors that
have personnel at many of our operations, including approximately 8,600 at our
Grasberg minerals district, 4,900 at our South America operations, 2,100 at
Tenke Fungurume, 600 in North America and 400 at Atlantic Copper. Employees
represented by unions are listed below, with the approximate number of employees
represented and the expiration date of the applicable union
agreements.



Number
      ofUnion-Number
      ofRepresentedLocationUnionsEmployeesExpiration
      DatePT
      Freeport Indonesia – Indonesia16,794September
      2011Tenke
      Fungurume – DRC22,927May
      2010Cerro
      Verde – Peru11,023August
      2011El
      Abra – Chile2794July
      2012Candelaria
      – Chile2603July
      2013Atlantic
      Copper – Spain2402December
      2011Bayway
      – New Jersey150April
      2010Stowmarket
      – United Kingdom140May
      2011Aurex
      – Chile133December
      2013Rotterdam
      – The Netherlands222March
      2011Chino
      – New Mexico114November
      2009a



a.Negotiations
      are in progress while employees continue to work under the provisions of
      the expired contract.



FM
Services Company (FM Services), a wholly owned subsidiary of FCX, furnishes
certain executive, administrative, financial, accounting, legal, tax and similar
services to us. As of December 31, 2009, FM Services had 167 employees. FM
Services employees also provide these services to two other publicly traded
companies.



ENVIRONMENTAL
AND RECLAMATION MATTERS



The costs
of complying with environmental laws is a fundamental and substantial cost of
our business. For information about environmental regulation, litigation and
related costs, see Item 1A. – “Risk Factors;” Item 3. “Legal Proceedings;” Note
1 and Note 14.



COMMUNITY
AND HUMAN RIGHTS



We have
adopted policies that govern our working relationships with the communities
where we operate that are designed to guide our practices and programs in a
manner that respects basic human rights and the culture of the local people
impacted by our operations. We continue to make significant expenditures on
community development, education, training and cultural programs, which
include:



·comprehensive job training
programs

·basic education programs

·public health programs, including
malaria
control

·agricultural assistance
programs

·small and medium enterprise
development programs

·cultural preservation
programs

·water and sewage treatment projects

·clean water access

·charitable donations





In
December 2000, we endorsed the joint U.S. State Department-British Foreign
Office Voluntary Principles on Human Rights and Security (“Voluntary
Principles”). Several major natural resources companies and international human
rights organizations participated in developing the Voluntary Principles and
have endorsed them. We participated in developing these principles and they are
incorporated into our human rights policy.



We
believe that our social and economic development programs are responsive to the
issues raised by the local communities near our areas of operation and should
help us maintain good relations with the surrounding communities and avoid
disruptions of mining operations. Nevertheless, social and political instability
in the areas of our operations may adversely impact our mining operations. See
Item 1A. – “Risk Factors.”



South
America.  Cerro Verde has provided a variety of community
support projects over the years. During 2006, as a result of discussions with
local mayors in the Arequipa region, Cerro Verde agreed to contribute to the
design and construction of domestic water and sewage treatment plants for the
benefit of the region. These facilities are being designed in a modular fashion
so that initial installations can be readily expanded in the future. We have
funded approximately 150 million Peruvian nuevo soles (approximately $49
million) as of December 31, 2009, to a designated bank account to be used for
financing Cerro Verde’s share of the construction costs of these
facilities.



During
2006, the Peruvian government announced that all mining companies operating in
Peru will make annual contributions to local development funds for a five-year
period when copper prices exceed certain levels that are adjusted annually. The
contribution is equal to 3.75 percent of after-tax profits, of which 2.75
percent is contributed to a local mining fund and 1.00 percent to a regional
mining fund. Cerro Verde’s contributions totaled $28 million in both 2009 and
2008 and $49 million in 2007.



Indonesia.  In
1996, PT Freeport Indonesia established the Freeport Partnership Fund for
Community Development (formerly the Freeport Fund for Irian Jaya Development),
through which PT Freeport Indonesia has made available funding and technical
assistance to support the economic, health, education and social development of
the area. PT Freeport Indonesia has committed through 2011 to provide one
percent of its annual revenue for the development of the local people in its
area of operation through the Partnership Fund. Our share of contributions to
the Partnership Fund totaled $59 million in 2009, $34 million in 2008 and $48
million in 2007. Our joint venture partner, Rio Tinto, also contributes to this
fund and, including their share, the contributions totaled $69 million in 2009,
$35 million in 2008 and $53 million in 2007.



The
Amungme and Kamoro Community Development Organization (Lembaga Pembangunan Masyarakat
Amungme dan Kamoroor LPMAK) oversees disbursement of the program funds
we contribute to the Partnership Fund. LPMAK is governed by a board of
commissioners and a board of directors, which are comprised of representatives
from the local Amungme and Kamoro tribal communities, government leaders, church
leaders, and one representative of PT Freeport Indonesia on each board. The
Amungme and Kamoro people are original inhabitants of the land in our area of
operations.



Security Matters in
Indonesia.Consistent with our COW
in Indonesia and the requirement to protect our employees and property, we have
taken appropriate steps to provide a safe and secure working environment. As
part of its security program, PT Freeport Indonesia maintains its own internal
security department, which performs functions such as protecting company
facilities, monitoring the shipment of company goods through the airport and
terminal, assisting in traffic control and aiding rescue operations. PT Freeport
Indonesia’s civilian security employees (numbering approximately 725) are
unarmed and perform duties consistent with their internal security role. PT
Freeport Indonesia’s share of costs for its internal civilian security
department totaled approximately $18 million for 2009, $22 million for 2008 and
$17 million for 2007. The security department has received human rights training
and each member is required to certify his or her compliance with our human
rights policy.



PT
Freeport Indonesia, and all businesses and residents of Indonesia, rely on the
Government of Indonesia for the maintenance of public order, upholding the rule
of law and the protection of personnel and property. The Grasberg minerals
district has been designated by the Government of Indonesia as one of
Indonesia’s vital national assets. This designation results in the police and to
a lesser extent, the military, playing a significant role in protecting the area
of our operations. The Government of Indonesia is responsible for employing
police and military personnel and directing their operations.



From the
outset of PT Freeport Indonesia’s operations, the government has looked to PT
Freeport Indonesia to provide logistical and infrastructure support and
assistance for these necessary services because of the limited





resources
of the Indonesian government and the remote location of and lack of development
in Papua. PT Freeport Indonesia’s financial support for the Indonesian
government security institutions assigned to the operations area represents a
prudent response to its requirements to protect its workforce and property,
better ensuring that personnel are properly fed and lodged, and have the
logistical resources to patrol PT Freeport Indonesia’s roads and secure its
operating area. In addition, the provision of such support is consistent with PT
Freeport Indonesia’s obligations under the COW, reflects our philosophy of
responsible corporate citizenship, and is in keeping with our commitment to
pursue practices that will promote human rights.



PT
Freeport Indonesia’s share of support costs for the government-provided
security, currently involving approximately 3,000 Indonesian government security
personnel located in the general area of our operations, was $10 million for
2009, $8 million for 2008 and $9 million for 2007. This supplemental support
consists of various infrastructure and other costs, such as food, housing, fuel,
travel, vehicle repairs, allowances to cover incidental and administrative
costs, and community assistance programs conducted by the military and police.
PT Freeport Indonesia’s capital costs for associated infrastructure was
approximately $2 million in 2009 and less than $1 million a year in 2008 and
2007.



Since
July 2009, there have been a series of shooting incidents along the road leading
to our mining and milling operations at the Grasberg mining complex, including
an incident in January 2010. In connection with these incidents, there have been
three fatalities (including a PT Freeport Indonesia employee, a security
contractor and an Indonesian policeman) and several injuries. The Indonesian
government has responded with additional security forces and expressed a strong
commitment to protect the safety of the community and our operations. The
investigation of these matters is continuing, and we have taken precautionary
measures, including limiting use of the road to secured convoys. Our mining and
milling activities have continued uninterrupted; however, prolonged limitations
on access to the road could adversely affect operations at the mine. See Item
1A. – “Risk Factors.”



As
originally reported in January 2006, we received and responded to requests from
U.S. governmental authorities related to PT Freeport Indonesia’s support of
Indonesian security institutions. In May 2009, we were notified by the SEC that
the U.S. government’s investigation had been completed and no action has been
recommended.



Africa.  Tenke
Fungurume has committed to assist the communities living within its concession
in the Katanga province of the DRC. Initiatives that have commenced over the
past three years include a malaria control program, construction and operational
support for six elementary schools, installation of over 40 clean water wells
throughout the concession as well as five villages outside the concession, a
public sanitation (latrines and hand washing) program reaching over 2,000
households, a mobile clinic for rural villages, and economic development
programs supporting local entrepreneurs, farmers and women’s income generation,
and literacy groups. We have also made significant investments in infrastructure
in the region that will have lasting benefits to the country, including
upgrading a national road and the regional power generation and transmission
systems. Additionally, we have committed to contribute 0.3 percent of net sales
revenue from production to a community development fund to assist the local
communities with development of local infrastructure and related services, such
as those pertaining to health, education and economic development. This fund
will be a platform to work jointly with the local government and community to
further assist them to fulfill their local development plans, meet basic
community needs and promote good governance. Community development fund
contributions for 2009 totaled approximately $1 million.



Similar
to our operations in Indonesia, Tenke Fungurume is required to engage government
security institutions to assist with security matters at its concession area. In
this regard, Tenke Fungurume provides food, housing, monetary allowances and
logistical support as well as direct payments to the government for the
provision of the security assigned to the concession area. The total cost to
Tenke Fungurume for this support, including in-kind support, totaled less than
$1 million in 2009.





ORE
RESERVES





Our
reserve estimates are based on the latest available geological and geotechnical
studies. We conduct ongoing studies of our ore bodies to optimize economic
values and to manage risk. We revise our mine plans and estimates of recoverable
proven and probable mineral reserves as required in accordance with the latest
available studies. Our estimates of recoverable proven and probable reserves are
prepared by and are the responsibility of our employees, and a majority of these
estimates are reviewed and verified by independent experts in mining, geology
and reserve determination. Estimated recoverable proven and probable reserves at
December 31, 2009, were determined using long-term average prices of $1.60 per
pound for copper, $550 per ounce for gold, $8.00 per pound for molybdenum,
$12.00 per ounce for silver and $10.00 per pound for cobalt. The London spot
metal prices for the past three years averaged $2.91 per pound for copper and
$847 per ounce for gold, and molybdenum prices for the past three years averaged
approximately $23 per pound.



Recoverable
      Proven and Probable Reservesaat December 31, 2009CopperGoldMolybdenumSilverCobalt(billion
      pounds)(million
      ounces)(million
      pounds)(million
      ounces)(billion
      pounds)North
      America27.70.22,07256.5-South
      America34.01.551988.3-Indonesia34.135.5-125.6-Africa8.4---0.78Consolidated
      basisb104.237.22,591270.40.78Net
      equity interestc83.033.62,350224.10.45



a.Recoverable
      proven and probable reserves are estimated metal quantities from which we
      expect to be paid after application of estimated metallurgical recovery
      rates and smelter recovery rates, where applicable. Recoverable reserves
      are that part of a mineral deposit that we estimate can be economically
      and legally extracted or produced at the time of the reserve
      determination. Recoverable copper reserves in this table include
      2.7 billion pounds in leach stockpiles and 1.3 billion pounds in mill
      stockpiles, including our joint venture partner’s interest in the Morenci
      mine.



b.Consolidated
      basis reserves represent estimated metal quantities after reduction for
      joint venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and
      at the Grasberg minerals district in
Indonesia.

c.Net
      equity interest reserves represent estimated consolidated basis metal
      quantities further reduced for noncontrolling interest
      ownership.31
Recoverable Proven and Probable
      Reserves

Estimated at December 31,



Proven
      ReservesProbable
      Reserves

Average
      Ore GradeAverage
      Ore Grade

ProcessingMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobalt

Methodmetric
      tons%g/t%g/t%metric
      tons%g/t%g/t%

North America

MorenciMill1770.55-0.025--10.77----

Crushed
      leach3580.62----70.62----

ROM
      leach2,5540.20----690.24----

SierritaMill1,3100.26-b0.0291.51-1310.23-b0.0231.34-

ROM
      leach40.18----10.13----

BagdadMill6600.37-b0.0221.84-990.30-b0.0181.49-

ROM
      leach950.17----1100.15----

SaffordCrushed
      leach1470.45----960.43----

TyroneROM
      leach1380.32----420.24----

HendersonMill134--0.180--4--0.190--

ChinoMill540.660.030.0130.49-60.550.030.0140.42-

ROM
      leach680.41----140.30----

MiamiROM
      leach740.44----170.35----

ClimaxaMill76--0.189--114--0.137--

CobreaROM
      leach710.40----20.23----

5,9200.28-b0.0160.547130.23-b0.0300.46-



South America

Cerro
      VerdeMill7460.45-0.0171.28-2,0630.39-0.0151.12-

Crushed
      leach890.57----730.48----

ROM
      leach320.26----500.23----

El
      AbraCrushed
      leach4400.55----1120.50----

ROM
      leach2840.32----1400.30----

CandelariaMill3820.540.12-2.04-290.590.13-2.22-

Ojos
      del SaladoMill61.130.26-3.18-31.080.25-3.02-

1,9790.470.020.0060.89-2,4700.39-b0.0120.96-



Indonesia

Grasberg
      open pitMill1980.961.15-2.39-1340.810.86-2.04-

Deep
      Ore ZoneMill850.650.64-3.24-1690.570.68-2.58-

Grasberg
      block caveaMill3081.231.15-3.49-6980.940.66-3.19-

Kucing
      LiaraMill1561.321.15-7.51-2851.201.06-6.57-

Deep
      Mill Level ZoneaMill591.000.78-4.94-4420.870.74-4.38-

Big
      GossanaMill102.491.26-17.04-462.201.04-13.66-

8161.121.07-4.24-1,7740.950.77-4.16-



Africa

Tenke
      FungurumeAgitation
      leach503.37---0.399852.99---0.289



Total8,7650.420.110.0120.960.0025,0420.610.270.0102.000.005



a.Undeveloped
      reserves requiring significant capital investment to bring into
      production.

b.Grade
      not shown because of rounding.



The
      reserve table above and the tables on pages 33 to 35 and 40 utilize the
      following abbreviations:



·g/t
      – grams per metric ton



·Moly
      – Molybdenum



·ROM
      – Run of Mine













Recoverable Proven and Probable
      Reserves

Estimated at December 31,

(continued)

Average
      Ore GradeRecoveriesa

Proven
      and

Probable

ProcessingMillionCopperGoldMolySilverCobaltCopperGoldMolySilverCobalt

Methodmetric
      tons%g/t%g/t%%%%%%

North America

MorenciMill1780.55-0.025--79.3-27.8--

Crushed
      leach3650.62----77.9----

ROM
      leach2,6230.21----43.6----

SierritaMill1,4410.25-b0.0281.50-81.959.180.549.3-

ROM
      leach50.17----55.6----

BagdadMill7590.36-b0.0211.79-84.559.172.149.3-

ROM
      leach2050.16----28.9----

SaffordCrushed
      leach2430.44----69.3----

TyroneROM
      leach1800.30----62.2----

HendersonMill138--0.180----86.1--

ChinoMill600.650.030.0130.48-77.177.935.378.5-

ROM
      leach820.39----61.2----

MiamiROM
      leach910.43----63.1----

ClimaxMill190--0.158----88.8--

CobreROM
      leach730.39----65.4----

6,633



South America

Cerro
      VerdeMill2,8090.40-0.0151.16-86.4-52.659.5-

Crushed
      leach1620.53----76.1----

ROM
      leach820.24----43.3----

El
      AbraCrushed
      leach5520.54----55.5----

ROM
      leach4240.32----26.0----

CandelariaMill4110.540.12-2.05-91.079.0-76.3-

Ojos
      del SaladoMill91.120.26-3.12-89.859.6-66.1-

4,449



Indonesia

Grasberg
      open pitMill3320.901.03-2.25-83.581.6-43.4-

Deep
      Ore ZoneMill2540.600.67-2.80-84.275.9-57.8-

Grasberg
      block caveMill1,0061.030.81-3.29-85.566.9-60.6-

Kucing
      LiarMill4411.241.09-6.90-85.345.6-38.4-

Deep
      Mill Level ZoneMill5010.890.74-4.44-85.976.7-62.7-

Big
      GossanMill562.251.08-14.25-92.267.7-64.3-

2,590



Africa

Tenke
      FungurumeAgitation
      leach1353.13---0.3389.4---80.0



Total13,807



a.Recoveries
      are net of estimated mill and smelter losses.

b.Grade
      not shown because of rounding.





Recoverable Proven and Probable
      Reserves

Estimated at December 31,

(continued)

Recoverable
      Reserves

CopperGoldMolySilverCobalt

FCX’sProcessingbillionmillionbillionmillionbillion

InterestMethodlbs.ozs.lbs.ozs.lbs.

North America

Morenci85%Mill1.7-0.03--

Crushed
      leach3.9----

ROM
      leach5.2----

Sierrita100%Mill6.60.10.7334.2-

ROM
      leach-----

Bagdad100%Mill5.10.10.2621.6-

ROM
      leach0.2----

Safford100%Crushed
      leach1.6----

Tyrone100%ROM
      leach0.8----

Henderson100%Mill--0.47--

Chino100%Mill0.7-0.010.7-

ROM
      leach0.4----

Miami100%ROM
      leach0.5----

Climax100%Mill--0.58--

Cobre100%ROM
      leach0.4----

27.10.22.0856.5-

Recoverable
      metal in stockpiles2.3----

100%
      operations29.40.22.0856.5-

Consolidated
      basisa27.70.22.0756.5-

Net
      equity interestb27.70.22.0756.5-



South America

Cerro
      Verde53.56%Mill21.6-0.5062.3-

Crushed
      leach1.4----

ROM
      leach0.2----

El
      Abra51%Crushed
      leach3.6----

ROM
      leach0.8----

Candelaria80%Mill4.51.3-20.7-

Ojos
      del Salado80%Mill0.2--0.6-

32.31.30.5083.6-

Recoverable
      metal in stockpiles1.70.20.024.7-

100%
      operations34.01.50.5288.3-

Consolidated
      basisa34.01.50.5288.3-

Net
      equity interestb19.61.20.2853.7-



Indonesia

Grasberg
      open pit(c)Mill5.58.9-10.4-

Deep
      Ore Zone(c)Mill2.84.1-13.2-

Grasberg
      block cave(c)Mill19.517.5-64.5-

Kucing
      Liar(c)Mill10.37.1-37.6-

Deep
      Mill Level Zone(c)Mill8.49.2-44.8-

Big
      Gossan(c)Mill2.61.3-16.5-

49.148.1-187.0-

Recoverable
      metal in stockpiles-----

100%
      operations49.148.1-187.0-

Consolidated
      basisa34.135.5-125.6-

Net
      equity interestb30.932.2-113.9-



Africa

Tenke
      Fungurume57.75%Agitation
      leach8.3---0.78

Recoverable
      metal in stockpiles0.1----

100%
      operations8.4---0.78

Consolidated
      basisa8.4---0.78

Net
      equity interestb4.8---0.45



TOTAL
      –  100% operations120.949.82.60331.80.78

TOTAL
      –  Consolidated basisa104.237.22.59270.40.78

TOTAL
      –  Net equity interestb83.033.62.35224.10.45



a.Consolidated
      basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for joint
      venture partner interests at the Morenci mine in North America and at the
      Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.

b.Net equity
      interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further
      reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.

c.Our
      joint venture agreement with Rio Tinto provides that PT Freeport Indonesia
      will receive cash flow from specified annual amounts of copper, gold and
      silver through 2021, calculated by reference to its proven and probable
      reserves as of December 31, 1994, and 60 percent of all remaining cash
      flow.





In
defining our open-pit reserves, we apply a “variable cutoff grade” strategy. The
objective of this strategy is to maximize the net present value of our
operations. We use a break-even cutoff grade to define the in-situ reserves for
our underground ore bodies. The break-even cutoff grade is defined for a metric
ton of ore as that equivalent copper grade, once produced and sold, that
generates sufficient revenue to cover all operating and administrative costs
associated with our production.



Our
copper mines may contain other commercially recoverable metals, such as gold,
molybdenum, silver and cobalt. We value all commercially recoverable metals in
terms of a copper equivalent percentage to determine a single cutoff grade.
Copper equivalent percentage is used to express the relative value of
multi-metal ores in terms of one metal. The calculation expresses the relative
value of the ore using estimates of contained metal quantities, metals prices as
used for reserve determination, recovery rates, treatment charges and royalties.
Our molybdenum properties use a molybdenum cutoff grade. The table below shows
the minimum cutoff grade by process for each of our existing ore bodies as of
December 31, 2009:



Copper
      Equivalent Cutoff GradesMolybdenumCutoff
      GradeCopper
      Equivalent Cutoff Grade (Percent)(Percent)Crushed
      orROMMillAgitation
      LeachLeachMillNorth AmericaMorenci0.320.320.03N/ASierrita0.22N/A0.07N/ABagdad0.23N/A0.08N/ASaffordN/A0.12N/AN/ATyroneN/AN/A0.05N/AHendersonN/AN/AN/A0.12Chino0.31N/A0.08N/AMiamiN/AN/A0.04N/AClimaxN/AN/AN/A0.06CobreN/AN/A0.17N/ASouth AmericaCerro
      Verde0.200.240.18N/AEl
      AbraN/A0.200.07N/ACandelaria0.22N/AN/AN/AOjos
      del Salado0.59N/AN/AN/AIndonesiaGrasberg
      open pit0.15N/AN/AN/ADeep
      Ore Zone0.65N/AN/AN/AGrasberg
      block cave0.53N/AN/AN/AKucing
      Liar0.75N/AN/AN/ADeep
      Mill Level Zone0.69N/AN/AN/ABig
      Gossan1.41N/AN/AN/AAfricaTenke
      FungurumeN/A1.01N/AN/A





Drill
hole spacing data is used by mining professionals, such as geologists and
geological engineers, in determining the suitability of data coverage (on a
relative basis) in a given deposit type and mining method scenario so as to
achieve a given level of confidence in the resource estimate. Drill hole spacing
is only one of several criteria necessary to establish resource classification.
Drilling programs are typically designed to achieve an optimum sample spacing to
support the level of confidence in results that apply to a particular stage of
development of a mineral deposit. The following table sets forth the average
drill hole spacing based on average sample distance or drill pattern spacing for
proven and probable ore reserves by process type:



Average
      Drill Hole SpacingAverage
      Spacing in MetersProvenProbableMining
      UnitMillLeachMillLeachNorth AmericaMorenciOpen
      Pit8686122122SierritaOpen
      Pit693311575BagdadOpen
      Pit8686122122SaffordOpen
      PitN/A61N/A122TyroneOpen
      PitN/A86N/A86HendersonBlock
      Cave38N/A85N/AChinoOpen
      Pit438686122MiamiOpen
      PitN/A61N/A91ClimaxOpen
      Pit61N/A122N/ACobreOpen
      PitN/A61N/A91South AmericaCerro
      VerdeOpen
      Pit5050100100El
      AbraOpen
      PitN/A75N/A120CandelariaOpen
      Pit35N/A70N/AOjos
      del SaladoSublevel
      Stoping25N/A50N/AIndonesiaGrasbergOpen
      Pit36N/A92N/ADeep
      Ore ZoneBlock
      Cave20N/A51N/AGrasbergBlock
      Cave47N/A80N/AKucing
      LiarBlock
      Cave39N/A97N/ADeep
      Mill Level ZoneBlock
      Cave21N/A89N/ABig
      GossanOpen
      Stope13N/A42N/AAfricaTenke
      FungurumeOpen
      PitN/A50N/A100





Production
Sequencing



The
following chart illustrates our current plans for sequencing and producing the
December 31, 2009, proven and probable reserves at each of our ore bodies and
the years in which we currently expect production from each ore body. The chart
also shows the term of PT Freeport Indonesia’s COW. Production volumes are
typically lower in the first few years for each ore body as development
activities are ongoing and as the mine ramps up to full production and
production volumes may also be lower as the mine reaches the end of its life.
The ultimate timing of the start of production from our undeveloped mines is
dependent upon a number of factors, including the results of our exploration and
development efforts, and may vary from the dates shown below. In addition, we
develop our mine plans based on maximizing the net present value from the ore
bodies. Significant additional capital expenditures will be required at many of
these mines in order to achieve the life-of-mine plans reflected
below.







Mill
and Leach Stockpiles



Mill and
leach stockpiles generally contain lower-grade ores that have been extracted
from the ore body and are available for copper recovery. For mill stockpiles,
recovery is through milling, concentrating, smelting and refining or,
alternatively, by concentrate leaching. For leach stockpiles, recovery is
through exposure to acidic solutions that dissolve contained copper and deliver
it in solution to extraction processing facilities.



Because
it is generally impracticable to determine copper contained in mill and leach
stockpiles by physical count, reasonable estimation methods are employed. The
quantity of material delivered to mill and leach stockpiles is based on surveyed
volumes of mined material and daily production records. Sampling and assaying of
blasthole cuttings determine the estimated copper grades of material delivered
to mill and leach stockpiles.



Expected
copper recovery rates for mill stockpiles are determined by metallurgical
testing. The recoverable copper in mill stockpiles, once entered into the
production process, can be extracted into copper concentrate almost
immediately.



Expected
copper recovery rates for leach stockpiles are determined using small-scale
laboratory tests, small- to large-scale column testing (which simulates the
production-scale process), historical trends and other factors, including
mineralogy of the ore and rock type. Ultimate recovery of copper contained in
leach stockpiles can vary significantly from a low percentage to more than 90
percent depending on several variables, including type of copper recovery,
mineralogy and particle size of the rock. For newly placed material on active
stockpiles, as much as 70 percent of the copper ultimately recoverable may be
extracted during the first year, and the remaining copper may be recovered over
many years.



Processes
and recovery rates are monitored continuously, and recovery rate estimates are
adjusted periodically as additional information becomes available and as related
technology changes.



Following
are our stockpiles and the estimated recoverable copper contained within those
stockpiles as of December 31, 2009:



Recoverable
      Copper in StockpilesRecoverableMillions
      ofAverageRecoveryCopperMetric
      TonsGrade
      (%)Rate
      (%)(Billion
      Pounds)Mill stockpilesCerro
      Verde720.4681.90.6Candelaria910.3982.70.7Subtotal1630.4282.31.3Leach stockpilesMorenci4,5810.251.80.4Sierrita6480.1513.10.3Bagdad3910.283.00.1Safford690.4327.90.2Tyrone9670.282.20.1Chino1,6230.2512.21.1Miami4330.381.50.1Cerro
      Verde3540.542.70.1El
      Abra2780.3317.50.3Tenke
      Fungurume40.9886.10.1Subtotal9,3480.285.12.8Total
      100% basis4.1Consolidated
      basisa4.0Net
      equity interestb3.4a.Consolidated
      basis represents estimated metal quantities after reduction for our joint
      venture partner’s interest in the Morenci mine in North
      America.b.Net equity
      interest represents estimated consolidated basis metal quantities further
      reduced for noncontrolling interest ownership.





MINERALIZED
MATERIAL



We hold
various properties containing mineralized material that we believe could be
brought into production should market conditions warrant. However, permitting
and significant capital expenditures would be required before operations could
commence at these properties. Mineralized material is a mineralized body that
has been delineated by appropriately spaced drilling and/or underground sampling
to support the reported tonnage and average metal grades. Such a deposit may not
qualify as recoverable proven and probable reserves until legal and economic
feasibility are confirmed based upon a comprehensive evaluation of development
costs, unit costs, grades, recoveries and other material factors. Estimated
mineralized materials as presented on the following page were assessed using
prices of $2.00 per pound of copper, $750 per ounce of gold and $12.00 per pound
of molybdenum.





Mineralized
      Material

Estimated
      at December 31, 2009

Milling
      MaterialLeaching
      MaterialTotal
      Mineralized Material

MillionMillionMillion

FCX’smetricCopperGoldMolymetricCoppermetricCopperGoldMoly

Interesttons%g/t%tons%tons%g/t%

North America

Morenci85%3420.41-0.0161,9650.222,3070.25-0.002

Sierritaa100%2,3120.20-0.022370.152,3490.20-0.022

Bagdad100%5890.35-0.0191180.137070.31-0.016

Saffordb100%6430.450.080.0041030.297460.430.070.004

Tyrone100%----1350.311350.31--

Henderson100%65--0.131--65--0.131

Chino100%4620.42-0.010710.295330.40-0.009

Miami100%----410.45410.45--

Climax100%528--0.165--528--0.165

Cobre100%440.55--120.28560.49--

Ajoc100%6390.360.070.007--6390.360.070.007

Cochise/Bisbee100%----3010.443010.44--

Lone
      Star100%----7670.447670.44--

Sanchez100%----1900.281900.28--

Tohono100%2470.68--2800.675270.68--

Twin
      Buttesd100%6190.46-0.026670.226860.43-0.024



South America

Cerro
      Verde53.56%1,0070.37-0.01440.321,0110.37-0.014

El
      Abra51%7620.44--3300.261,0920.39--

Candelariae80%810.490.11---810.490.11-



Indonesia

Grasberg
      districtf54.38%k2,6220.590.53---2,6220.590.53-



Africa

Tenke
      Fungurumeg57.75%623.38--212.84833.24--

Kisanfuh95%572.30--503.011072.63--



Total
      100% basis11,0814,49215,573



Consolidated basisi9,9814,19814,179



Net equity interestj8,9484,02312,971



a.Sierrita
      stated tonnage also includes 1.2 grams of silver per metric
      ton.

b.Safford
      stated tonnage also includes 1.4 grams of silver per metric
      ton.

c.Ajo
      stated tonnage also includes 0.9 grams of silver per metric
      ton.

d.Twin
      Buttes stated tonnage also includes 5.2 grams of silver per metric
      ton.

e.Candelaria
      stated tonnage also includes 1.7 grams of silver per metric
      ton.

f.Grasberg
      district stated tonnage also includes 3.4 grams of silver per metric
      ton.

g.Tenke
      Fungurume stated tonnage also includes 0.30 percent
  cobalt.

h.Kisanfu
      stated tonnage also includes 1.08 percent cobalt.

i.Consolidated
      basis represents estimated mineralized materials after reduction for our
      joint ventures partners’ interest in the Morenci mine in North America and
      at the Grasberg minerals district in Indonesia.

j.Net
      equity interest represents estimated consolidated basis mineralized
      material further reduced for noncontrolling interest
      ownership.

k.FCX’s
      interest in the Grasberg minerals district reflects our 60 percent joint
      venture ownership further reduced by noncontrolling interest
      ownership.





