Item 1A. RISK FACTORS

In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, including MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS – FUTURE EARNINGS POTENTIAL in Item 7 of each registrant, and other documents filed by
Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries with the SEC from time to time, the following factors
should be carefully considered in evaluating Southern Company and its subsidiaries. Such factors
could affect actual results and cause results to differ materially from those expressed in any
forward-looking statements made by, or on behalf of, Southern Company and/or its subsidiaries.

Risks Related to the Energy Industry

Southern Company and its subsidiaries are subject to substantial governmental regulation.
Compliance with current and future regulatory requirements and procurement of necessary approvals,
permits, and certificates may result in substantial costs to Southern Company and its subsidiaries.

Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern
Power, are subject to substantial regulation from federal, state, and local regulatory agencies.
Southern Company and its subsidiaries are required to comply with numerous laws and regulations and
to obtain numerous permits, approvals, and certificates from the governmental agencies that
regulate various aspects of their businesses, including rates and charges, service regulations,
retail service territories, sales of securities, asset acquisitions and sales, accounting policies
and practices, and the operation of fossil-fuel, hydroelectric, and nuclear generating facilities.
For example, the rates charged to wholesale customers by the traditional operating companies and by
Southern Power must be approved by the FERC. These wholesale rates could be affected absent the
ability to conduct business pursuant to FERC market-based rate authority. Additionally, the
respective state PSCs must approve the traditional operating companies’ requested rates for retail
customers. While the retail rates of the traditional operating companies are designed to provide
for the full recovery of costs (including a reasonable return on invested capital), there can be no
assurance that a state PSC, in a future rate proceeding, will not attempt to alter the timing or
amount of certain costs for which recovery is sought or to modify the current authorized rate of
return.

Southern Company and its subsidiaries believe the necessary permits, approvals, and certificates
have been obtained for their respective existing operations and that their respective businesses
are conducted in accordance with applicable laws; however, the impact of any future revision or
changes in interpretations of existing regulations or the adoption of new laws and regulations
applicable to Southern Company or any of its subsidiaries cannot now be predicted. Changes in
regulation or the imposition of additional regulations could influence the operating environment of
Southern Company and its subsidiaries and may result in substantial costs.

Risks Related to Environmental and Climate Change Legislation and Regulation

Southern Company’s, the traditional operating companies’, and Southern Power’s costs of compliance
with environmental laws are significant. The costs of compliance with future environmental laws,
including laws and regulations designed to address global climate change, renewable energy
standards, air quality, coal combustion byproducts, and other matters and the incurrence of
environmental liabilities could affect unit retirement decisions and negatively impact the net
income, cash flows, and financial condition of Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, or Southern Power.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to extensive
federal, state, and local environmental requirements which, among other things, regulate air
emissions, water usage and discharges, and the management of hazardous and solid waste in order to
adequately protect the environment. Compliance with these legal requirements requires Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power to commit significant expenditures
for installation of pollution control equipment, environmental monitoring, emissions fees, and
permits at all of their respective facilities. These expenditures are significant and Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power expect that they will increase in
the future. Through 2009, Southern Company had invested approximately $7.5 billion in capital
projects to comply with these requirements, with annual totals of $1.3 billion, $1.6 billion, and
$1.5 billion for 2009, 2008, and 2007, respectively. Southern Company expects that capital
expenditures to assure compliance with existing and new statutes and regulations will be an
additional $545 million, $721 million, and $1.2 billion for 2010, 2011, and 2012,

I-16




respectively. Because the compliance strategy is impacted by changes to existing environmental
laws, statutes, and regulations, the cost, availability, and existing inventory of emissions
allowances, and the fuel mix, the ultimate outcome cannot be determined at this time.

If Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power fails to comply with
environmental laws and regulations, even if caused by factors beyond its control, that failure may
result in the assessment of civil or criminal penalties and fines. The EPA has filed civil actions
against Alabama Power and Georgia Power and issued notices of violation to Gulf Power and
Mississippi Power alleging violations of the new source review provisions of the Clean Air Act.
Southern Company is a party to suits alleging emissions of carbon dioxide, a greenhouse gas,
contribute to global warming. An adverse outcome in any of these matters could require substantial
capital expenditures that cannot be determined at this time and could possibly require payment of
substantial penalties. Such expenditures could affect unit retirement and replacement decisions,
and results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs are not recovered
through regulated rates or market-based rates for Southern Power.

Litigation over environmental issues and claims of various types, including property damage,
personal injury, common law nuisance, and citizen enforcement of environmental requirements such as
opacity and air and water quality standards, has increased generally throughout the United States.
In particular, personal injury and other claims for damages caused by alleged exposure to hazardous
materials, and common law nuisance claims for injunctive relief and property damage allegedly
caused by greenhouse gas and other emissions, have become more frequent.

In addition, the EPA is expected to issue additional regulations and designations with respect to
air quality under the Clean Air Act, including eight-hour ozone standards, sulfur dioxide
standards, a replacement Clean Air Interstate Rule relating to nitrogen oxide and sulfur dioxide
emissions, and a Maximum Achievable Control Technology rule for coal and oil-fired electric
generating units, which will likely address numerous hazardous air pollutants, including mercury.

In addition, the EPA is currently evaluating whether additional regulation of coal combustion
byproducts is merited under federal solid and hazardous waste laws. The EPA is expected to issue a
proposal regarding additional regulation of coal combustion byproducts in early 2010.

International climate change negotiations under the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate
Change also continue. A nonbinding agreement was announced during the most recent round of
negotiations in December 2009 that included a pledge from both developed and developing countries
to reduce their greenhouse gas emissions.

The cost impact of such legislation, regulation, new interpretations, or international negotiations
would depend upon the specific requirements enacted and cannot be determined at this time. For
example, the impact of currently proposed legislation relating to greenhouse gas emissions would
depend on a variety of factors, including the specific greenhouse gas emissions limits or renewable
energy requirements, the timing of implementation of these

I-17




limits or requirements, the level of emissions allowances allocated and the level that must be
purchased, the purchase price of emissions allowances, the development and commercial availability
of technologies for renewable energy and for the reduction of emissions, the degree to which
offsets may be used for compliance, provisions for cost containment (if any), the impact on coal
and natural gas prices, and cost recovery through regulated rates or
market-based rates for Southern Power.

Although the outcome cannot be determined at this time, legislation or regulation related to
greenhouse gas emissions, renewable energy standards, air quality, coal combustion byproducts and
other matters, individually or together, are likely to result in significant and additional
compliance costs, including significant capital expenditures, and could result in additional
operating restrictions. These costs could affect future unit retirement and replacement decisions,
and could result in the retirement of a significant number of coal-fired generating units of the
traditional operating companies. Additional compliance costs and costs related to potential unit
retirements could affect results of operations, cash flows, and financial condition if such costs
are not recovered from customers. Further, higher costs that are recovered through regulated rates
could contribute to reduced demand for electricity, which could negatively impact results of
operations, cash flows, and financial condition.

General Risks Related to Operation of Southern Company’s Utility Subsidiaries

The regional power market in which Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries compete may have
changing transmission regulatory structures, which could affect the ownership of these assets and
related revenues and expenses.

The traditional operating companies currently own and operate transmission facilities as part of a
vertically integrated utility. Transmission revenues are not separated from generation and
distribution revenues in their approved retail rates. Current FERC efforts that may potentially
change the regulatory and/or operational structure of transmission include rules related to the
standardization of generation interconnection. The financial condition, net income, and cash flows
of Southern Company and its utility subsidiaries could be adversely affected by future changes in
the federal regulatory or operational structure of transmission.

The net
income of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern
Power could be negatively impacted by competitive activity in the wholesale electricity markets.

Competition at the wholesale level continues to expand and evolve in the electricity markets. As a
result of changes in federal law and regulatory policy, competition in the wholesale electricity
markets has increased due to greater participation by traditional electricity suppliers,
non-utility generators, IPPs, wholesale power marketers, and brokers. FERC rules related to
transmission are designed to facilitate competition in the wholesale market on a nationwide basis
by providing greater flexibility and more choices to wholesale power customers, including
initiatives designed to promote and encourage the integration of renewable sources of supply.
Moreover, along with transactions contemplating physical delivery of energy, futures contracts and
derivatives are traded on various commodities exchanges. Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power cannot predict the impact of these and other such
developments, nor can they predict the effect of changes in levels of wholesale supply and demand,
which are typically driven by factors beyond their control.

Risks Related to Southern Company and its Business

Southern Company may be unable to meet its ongoing and future financial obligations and to pay
dividends on its common stock if its subsidiaries are unable to pay upstream dividends or repay
funds to Southern Company.

Southern Company is a holding company and, as such, Southern Company has no operations of its own.
Substantially all of Southern Company’s consolidated assets are held by subsidiaries. Southern
Company’s ability to meet its financial obligations and to pay dividends on its common stock is
primarily dependent on the net income and cash flows of its subsidiaries and their ability to pay
upstream dividends or to repay funds to Southern Company. Prior to funding Southern Company,
Southern Company’s subsidiaries have regulatory restrictions and financial obligations that must be
satisfied, including among others, debt service and preferred and preference stock dividends.
Southern Company’s subsidiaries are separate legal entities and have no obligation to provide
Southern Company with funds for its payment obligations.

I-18




The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries may be adversely affected if
they are unable to successfully operate their facilities or perform certain corporate functions.

The financial performance of Southern Company and its subsidiaries depends on the successful
operation of its subsidiaries’ electric generating, transmission, and distribution facilities.
Operating these facilities involves many risks, including:

•operator error or failure of equipment or processes;•operating limitations that may be imposed by environmental or other regulatory
requirements;•labor disputes;•terrorist attacks;•fuel or material supply interruptions;•compliance with mandatory reliability standards, including mandatory cyber security
standards;•information technology system failure;•cyber intrusion; and•catastrophic events such as fires, earthquakes, explosions, floods, droughts,
hurricanes, pandemic health events such as influenzas, or other similar occurrences.

A severe drought could reduce the availability of water and restrict or prevent the operation of
certain generating facilities. A decrease or elimination of revenues from the electric generation,
transmission, or distribution facilities or an increase in the cost of operating the facilities
would reduce the net income and cash flows and could adversely impact the financial condition of
the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company.

The traditional operating companies could be subject to higher costs and penalties as a result of
mandatory reliability standards.

As a result of the Energy Policy Act of 2005, owners and operators of bulk power transmission
systems, including the traditional operating companies, are subject to mandatory reliability
standards enacted by the North American Reliability Corporation and enforced by the FERC.
Compliance with the mandatory reliability standards may subject the traditional operating companies
and Southern Company to higher operating costs and may result in increased capital expenditures.
If any traditional operating company is found to be in noncompliance with the mandatory reliability
standards, the traditional operating company could be subject to sanctions, including substantial
monetary penalties.

The revenues of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power depend in
part on sales under PPAs. The failure of a counterparty to one of these PPAs to perform its
obligations, or the failure to renew the PPAs, could have a negative impact on the net income and
cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company.

Most of Southern Power’s generating capacity has been sold to purchasers under PPAs. In addition,
the traditional operating companies enter into PPAs with non-affiliated parties. Revenues are
dependent on the continued performance by the purchasers of their obligations under these PPAs.
Even though Southern Power and the traditional operating companies have a rigorous credit
evaluation process, the failure of one of the purchasers to perform its obligations could have a
negative impact on the net income and cash flows of the affected traditional operating company or
Southern Power and of Southern Company. Although these credit evaluations take into account the
possibility of default by a purchaser, actual exposure to a default by a purchaser may be greater
than the

I-19




credit evaluation predicts. Additionally, neither Southern Power nor any traditional operating
company can predict whether the PPAs will be renewed at the end of their respective terms or on
what terms any renewals may be made. If a PPA is not renewed, a replacement PPA cannot be assured.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power may incur additional
costs or delays in the construction of new plants or other facilities and may not be able to
recover their investments. The facilities of the traditional operating companies and Southern
Power require ongoing capital expenditures.

The businesses of the registrants require substantial capital expenditures for investments in new
facilities and capital improvements to transmission, distribution, and generation facilities,
including those to meet environmental standards. Certain of the traditional operating companies
and Southern Power are in the process of constructing new generating facilities and adding
environmental controls equipment at existing generating facilities. Southern Company intends to
continue its strategy of developing and constructing other new facilities, including new nuclear
generating units, combined cycle units, including the proposed integrated coal gasification
combined cycle facility, and the proposed biomass generating units, expanding existing facilities,
and adding environmental control equipment. These types of projects are long-term in nature and
may involve facility designs that have not been finalized or previously constructed. The
completion of these types of projects without delays or significant cost overruns is subject to
substantial risks, including:

•shortages and inconsistent quality of equipment, materials, and labor;•work stoppages;•contractor or supplier non-performance under construction or other agreements;•delays in or failure to receive necessary permits, approvals, and other regulatory
authorizations;•impacts of new and existing laws and regulations, including environmental laws and
regulations;•continued public and policymaker support for such projects;•adverse weather conditions;•unforeseen engineering problems;•changes in project design or scope;•environmental and geological conditions;•delays or increased costs to interconnect facilities to transmission grids;•unanticipated cost increases, including materials and labor; and•attention to other projects.

In addition, with respect to the construction of new nuclear units, a major incident at a nuclear
facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to delay or prohibit construction of new nuclear
units. If a traditional operating company or Southern Power is unable to complete the development
or construction of a facility or decides to delay or cancel construction of a facility, it may not
be able to recover its investment in that facility and may incur substantial cancellation payments
under equipment purchase orders or construction contracts. Even if a construction project is
completed, the total costs may be higher than estimated and there is no assurance that the
traditional operating company will be able to recover such expenditures through regulated rates.
In addition, construction delays and contractor performance shortfalls can result in the loss of
revenues and may, in turn, adversely affect the net income and financial position of a traditional
operating company or Southern Power and of Southern Company.

I-20




Furthermore, if construction projects are not completed according to specification, a traditional
operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company may incur liabilities and suffer reduced
plant efficiency, higher operating costs, and reduced net income.

Once facilities come into commercial operation, ongoing capital expenditures are required to
maintain reliable levels of operation. Significant portions of the traditional operating
companies’ existing facilities were constructed many years ago. Older generation equipment, even
if maintained in accordance with good engineering practices, may require significant capital
expenditures to maintain efficiency, to comply with changing environmental requirements, or to
provide reliable operations.

Changes in technology may make Southern Company’s electric generating facilities owned by the
traditional operating companies and Southern Power less competitive.

A key element of the business model of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and
Southern Power is that generating power at central station power plants achieves economies of scale
and produces power at a competitive cost. There are distributed generation technologies that
produce power, including fuel cells, microturbines, wind turbines, and solar cells. It is possible
that advances in technology will reduce the cost of alternative methods of producing power to a
level that is competitive with that of most central station power electric production. If this were
to happen and if these technologies achieved economies of scale, the market share of Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power could be eroded, and the value of
their respective electric generating facilities could be reduced. It is also possible that rapid
advances in central station power generation technology could reduce the value of the current
electric generating facilities owned by Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and
Southern Power. Changes in technology could also alter the channels through which electric
customers buy or utilize power, which could reduce the revenues or increase the expenses of
Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power.

Operation of nuclear facilities involves inherent risks, including environmental, health,
regulatory, terrorism, and financial risks, that could result in fines or the closure of Southern
Company’s nuclear units owned by Alabama Power or Georgia Power and which may present potential
exposures in excess of insurance coverage.

Alabama Power owns, and contracts for the operation of, two nuclear units and Georgia Power holds
undivided interests in, and contracts for the operation of, four existing nuclear units and the
construction of Plant Vogtle Units 3 and 4. The six existing units are operated by Southern
Nuclear and represent approximately 3,680 megawatts, or 8.6%, of Southern Company’s generation
capacity as of December 31, 2009. Nuclear facilities are subject to environmental, health, and
financial risks such as on-site storage of spent nuclear fuel, the ability to dispose of such spent
nuclear fuel, the ability to maintain adequate reserves for decommissioning, potential liabilities
arising out of the operation of these facilities, and the threat of a possible terrorist attack.
Alabama Power and Georgia Power maintain decommissioning trusts and external insurance coverage to
minimize the financial exposure to these risks; however, it is possible that damages could exceed
the amount of insurance coverage.

The NRC has broad authority under federal law to impose licensing and safety-related requirements
for the operation of nuclear generation facilities. In the event of non-compliance, the NRC has
the authority to impose fines or shut down any unit, depending upon its assessment of the severity
of the situation, until compliance is achieved. NRC orders or regulations related to increased
security measures and any future safety requirements promulgated by the NRC could require Alabama
Power and Georgia Power to make substantial operating and capital expenditures at their nuclear
plants. In addition, although Alabama Power, Georgia Power, and Southern Company have no reason to
anticipate a serious nuclear incident at their plants, if an incident did occur, it could result in
substantial costs to Alabama Power or Georgia Power and Southern Company. A major incident at a
nuclear facility anywhere in the world could cause the NRC to limit or prohibit the operation or
licensing of any domestic nuclear unit.

In addition, potential terrorist threats and increased public scrutiny of utilities could result in
increased nuclear licensing or compliance costs that are difficult or impossible to predict.

The generation operations and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks, many of which are beyond their
control, including

I-21




changes in power prices and fuel costs, that may reduce Southern Company’s, the traditional
operating companies’, and Southern Power’s revenues and increase costs.

The generation operations and energy marketing operations of Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to changes in power prices or fuel costs, which
could increase the cost of producing power or decrease the amount Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, and Southern Power receive from the sale of power. The market prices for
these commodities may fluctuate significantly over relatively short periods of time. Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power attempt to mitigate risks
associated with fluctuating fuel costs by passing these costs on to customers through the
traditional operating companies’ fuel cost recovery clauses or through PPAs. Among the factors
that could influence power prices and fuel costs are:

•prevailing market prices for coal, natural gas, uranium, fuel oil, and other
fuels used in the generation facilities of the traditional operating companies and
Southern Power including associated transportation costs, and supplies of such
commodities;•demand for energy and the extent of additional supplies of energy available
from current or new competitors;•liquidity in the general wholesale electricity market;•weather conditions impacting demand for electricity;•seasonality;•transmission or transportation constraints or inefficiencies;•availability of competitively priced alternative energy sources;•forced or unscheduled plant outages for the Southern Company system, its
competitors, or third party providers;•the financial condition of market participants;•the economy in the service territory, the nation, and worldwide, including the
impact of economic conditions on industrial and commercial demand for electricity and
the worldwide demand for fuels;•natural disasters, wars, embargos, acts of terrorism, and other catastrophic
events; and•federal, state, and foreign energy and environmental regulation and
legislation.

Certain of these factors could increase the expenses of the traditional operating companies or
Southern Power and Southern Company. For the traditional operating companies, such increases may
not be fully recoverable through rates. Other of these factors could reduce the revenues of the
traditional operating companies or Southern Power and Southern Company.

Historically, the traditional operating companies from time to time have experienced underrecovered
fuel cost balances and deficits in their storm cost recovery reserve balances and may experience
such balances in the future. While the traditional operating companies are generally authorized to
recover underrecovered fuel costs through fuel cost recovery clauses and storm recovery costs
through special rate provisions administered by the respective PSCs, recovery may be denied if
costs are deemed to be imprudently incurred and delays in the authorization of such recovery could
negatively impact the cash flows of the affected traditional operating company and Southern
Company.

I-22




A downgrade in the credit ratings of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or
Southern Power could negatively affect their ability to access capital at reasonable costs and/or
could require Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power to post
collateral or replace certain indebtedness.

There are a number of factors that rating agencies evaluate to arrive at credit ratings for
Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power, including capital
structure, regulatory environment, the ability to cover liquidity requirements, and other
commitments for capital. Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power
could experience a downgrade in their ratings if any of the rating agencies conclude that the level
of business or financial risk of the industry or Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, or Southern Power has deteriorated. Changes in ratings methodologies by the agencies
could also have a negative impact on credit ratings. If one or more rating agencies downgrade
Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, or Southern Power, borrowing costs would
increase, its pool of investors and funding sources would likely decrease, and, particularly for
any downgrade to below investment grade, collateral requirements may be triggered in a number of
contracts.

The use of derivative contracts by Southern Company and its subsidiaries in the normal course of
business could result in financial losses that negatively impact the net income of Southern Company
and its subsidiaries.

Southern Company and its subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies and Southern
Power, use derivative instruments, such as swaps, options, futures, and forwards, to manage their
commodity and interest rate exposures and, to a lesser extent, engage in limited trading
activities. Southern Company and its subsidiaries could recognize financial losses as a result of
volatility in the market values of these contracts or if a counterparty fails to perform. These
risks are managed through risk management policies, limits, and procedures. These risk management
policies, limits, and procedures might not work as planned and cannot entirely eliminate the risks
associated with these activities. In addition, derivative contracts entered for hedging purposes
might not off-set the underlying exposure being hedged as expected resulting in financial losses.
In the absence of actively quoted market prices and pricing information from external sources, the
valuation of these financial instruments can involve management’s judgment or use of estimates.
The factors used in the valuation of these instruments become more difficult to predict and the
calculations become less reliable the further into the future these estimates are made. As a
result, changes in the underlying assumptions or use of alternative valuation methods could affect
the value of the reported fair value of these contracts.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power may not be able to obtain adequate fuel
supplies, which could limit their ability to operate their facilities.

The traditional operating companies and Southern Power purchase fuel, including coal, natural gas,
uranium, and fuel oil, from a number of suppliers. Disruption in the delivery of fuel, including
disruptions as a result of, among other things, transportation delays, weather, labor relations,
force majeure events, or environmental regulations affecting any of these fuel suppliers, could
limit the ability of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power to operate their
respective facilities, and thus reduce the net income of the affected traditional operating company
or Southern Power and Southern Company.

The traditional operating companies are dependent on coal for much of their electric generating
capacity. Each traditional operating company has coal supply contracts in place; however, there
can be no assurance that the counterparties to these agreements will fulfill their obligations to
supply coal to the traditional operating companies. The suppliers under these agreements may
experience financial or technical problems which inhibit their ability to fulfill their obligations
to the traditional operating companies. In addition, the suppliers under these agreements may not
be required to supply coal to the traditional operating companies under certain circumstances, such
as in the event of a natural disaster. If the traditional operating companies are unable to obtain
their coal requirements under these contracts, the traditional operating companies may be required
to purchase their coal requirements at higher prices, which may not be fully recoverable through
rates.

In addition, Southern Power in particular, and the traditional operating companies to a lesser
extent, are dependent on natural gas for a portion of their electric generating capacity. Natural
gas supplies can be subject to disruption in

I-23




the event production or distribution is curtailed, such as in the event of a hurricane.

In addition, world market conditions for fuels can impact the availability of natural gas, coal,
and uranium.

Demand for power could exceed supply capacity, resulting in increased costs for purchasing capacity
in the open market or building additional generation capabilities.

Through the traditional operating companies and Southern Power, Southern Company is currently
obligated to supply power to retail customers and wholesale customers under long-term PPAs. At
peak times, the demand for power required to meet this obligation could exceed Southern Company’s
available generation capacity. Market or competitive forces may require that the traditional
operating companies or Southern Power purchase capacity on the open market or build additional
generation capabilities. Because regulators may not permit the traditional operating companies to
pass all of these purchase or construction costs on to their customers, the traditional operating
companies may not be able to recover any of these costs or may have exposure to regulatory lag
associated with the time between the incurrence of costs of purchased or constructed capacity and
the traditional operating companies’ recovery in customers’ rates. Under Southern Power’s
long-term fixed price PPAs, Southern Power would not have the ability to recover any of these
costs. These situations could have negative impacts on net income and cash flows for the affected
traditional operating company or Southern Power and Southern Company.

Demand for power could decrease or fail to grow at expected rates, resulting in stagnant or reduced
revenues, limited growth opportunities, and potentially stranded generation assets.

The operating results of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power
are affected by weather conditions and may fluctuate on a seasonal and quarterly basis. In
addition,  significant weather events, such as hurricanes, tornadoes, floods,
and droughts, or  a terrorist attack could result in substantial damage to or limit the operation of
the properties of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power and could negatively
impact results of operation, financial condition, and liquidity.

Electric power supply is generally a seasonal business. In many parts of the country, demand for
power peaks during the summer months, with market prices also peaking at that time. In other
areas, power demand peaks during the winter. As a result, the overall operating results of
Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power in the future may
fluctuate substantially on a seasonal basis. In addition, the traditional operating companies and
Southern Power have historically sold less power when weather conditions are milder. Unusually
mild weather in the future could reduce the revenues, net income, available cash, and borrowing
ability of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power.

In addition, volatile or significant weather events or a terrorist attack could result in
substantial damage to the transmission and distribution lines of the traditional operating
companies and the generating facilities of the

I-24




traditional operating companies and Southern Power. The traditional operating companies and
Southern Power have significant investments in the Atlantic and Gulf Coast regions which could be
subject to major storm activity. Further, severe drought conditions can reduce the availability of
water and restrict or prevent the operation of certain generating facilities.

Each traditional operating company maintains a reserve for property damage to cover the cost of
damages from weather events to its transmission and distribution lines and the cost of uninsured
damages to its generating facilities and other property. In the event a traditional operating
company experiences any of these weather events or any natural disaster, or other catastrophic
event, such as a terrorist attack, recovery of costs in excess of reserves and insurance coverage
is subject to the approval of its state PSC. While the traditional operating companies generally
are entitled to recover prudently incurred costs incurred in connection with such an event, any
denial by the applicable state PSC or delay in recovery of any portion of such costs could have a
material negative impact on a traditional operating company’s and Southern Company’s results of
operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

In addition, damages resulting from significant weather events within the service territory of any
traditional operating company or affecting Southern Power’s customers may result in the loss of
customers and reduced demand for electricity. For example, Hurricane Katrina hit the Gulf Coast of
Mississippi in August 2005 and caused substantial damage within Mississippi Power’s service
territory. As of December 31, 2009, Mississippi Power had approximately 4.6% fewer retail
customers as compared to pre-storm levels. Any significant loss of customers or reduction in
demand for electricity could have a material negative impact on a traditional operating company’s,
Southern Power’s, and Southern Company’s results of operations, financial condition, and liquidity.

Failure to attract and retain an appropriately qualified workforce could negatively impact Southern
Company’s and its subsidiaries’ results of operations.

Events such as an aging workforce without appropriate replacements, mismatch of skillset to future
needs, or unavailability of contract resources may lead to operating challenges or increased costs.
Such operating challenges include lack of resources, loss of knowledge, and a lengthy time period
associated with skill development, especially with the workforce needs associated with new nuclear
construction. Failure to hire and adequately obtain replacement employees, including the ability
to transfer significant internal historical knowledge and expertise to the new employees, or the
future availability and cost of contract labor may adversely affect Southern Company and its
subsidiaries’ ability to manage and operate their businesses. If Southern Company and its
subsidiaries, including the traditional operating companies, are unable to successfully attract and
retain an appropriately qualified workforce, results of operations could be negatively impacted.

Risks Related to Market and Economic Volatility

The business of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power is
dependent on their ability to successfully access funds through capital markets and financial
institutions. The inability of Southern Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern
Power to access funds may limit its ability to execute its business plan by impacting its ability
to fund capital investments or acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, or Southern Power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash flows.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power rely on access to both
short-term money markets and longer-term capital markets as a significant source of liquidity for
capital requirements not satisfied by the cash flow from their respective operations. If Southern
Company, any traditional operating company, or Southern Power is not able to access capital at
competitive rates, its ability to implement its business plan will be limited by impacting its
ability to fund capital investments or acquisitions that Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, or Southern Power may otherwise rely on to achieve future earnings and cash
flows. In addition, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power rely
on committed bank lending agreements as back-up liquidity which allows them to access low cost
money markets. Each of Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power
believes that it will maintain sufficient access to these financial markets based upon current
credit ratings. However, certain market disruptions may increase its cost of borrowing or
adversely affect its ability to raise capital through the issuance of securities or other borrowing
arrangements or its ability to secure committed bank lending agreements used as back-up sources of

I-25




capital. Such disruptions could include:

•an economic downturn or uncertainty;•the bankruptcy of an unrelated energy company or financial institution;•capital markets volatility and interruption;•financial institution distress;•market prices for electricity and gas;•terrorist attacks or threatened attacks on Southern Company’s facilities or
unrelated energy companies’ facilities;•war or threat of war; or•the overall health of the utility and financial institution industries.

Market performance and other changes may decrease the value of benefit plans and decommissioning
trust assets or may increase medical costs, which then could require significant additional
funding.

Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are subject to risks
associated with a changing economic environment, which could impact their ability to obtain
adequate insurance and the financial stability of the customers of the traditional operating
companies and Southern Power.

The financial condition of some insurance companies, the threat of terrorism, and the hurricanes
that affected the Gulf Coast, among other things, have had disruptive effects on the insurance
industry. The availability of insurance covering risks that Southern Company, the traditional
operating companies, Southern Power, and their respective competitors typically insure against may
decrease, and the insurance that Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and
Southern Power are able to obtain may have higher deductibles, higher premiums, and more
restrictive policy terms.

Additionally, Southern Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are exposed
to risks related to general economic conditions in their applicable service territory and are thus
impacted by the economic cycles of the customers each serves. Any economic downturn or disruption
of financial markets could negatively affect the financial stability of the customers and
counterparties of the traditional operating companies and Southern

I-26




Power. As territories served by the traditional operating companies and Southern Power experience
economic downturns, energy consumption patterns may change and revenues may be negatively impacted.
Additionally, customers could voluntarily reduce their consumption of electricity in response to
decreases in their disposable income or individual conservation efforts. If commercial and
industrial customers experience economic downturns, their consumption of electricity may decline.
As a result, revenues may be negatively impacted.

Further, the results of operations of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power are
affected by customer growth in their applicable service territory. Customer growth and customer
usage can be affected by economic factors in the service territory of the traditional operating
companies and Southern Power and elsewhere, including, for example, job and income growth, housing
starts, and new home prices. A population decline and/or business closings in the territory served
by the traditional operating companies or Southern Power or slower than anticipated customer growth
as a result of the current recession or otherwise could also have a negative impact on revenues and
could result in greater expense for uncollectible customer balances.

As with other parts of the country, the territories served by the traditional operating companies
and Southern Power have been impacted by the current economic recession. The traditional operating
companies have experienced some decline in the rate of residential and commercial sales growth, and
also have experienced declining sales to commercial and industrial customers due to the economic
recession. Southern Power is expected to experience reduced future revenues for its requirements
customers due to the economic recession. The timing and extent of the recovery cannot be
predicted.

These and the other factors discussed above could adversely affect Southern Company’s, the
traditional operating companies’, and Southern Power’s level of future net income.

Energy conservation and energy price increases could negatively impact financial results.

A number of regulatory and legislative bodies have proposed or introduced requirements
and/or incentives to reduce energy consumption by certain dates. Conservation programs
could impact the financial results of Southern Company, the traditional operating
companies, and Southern Power in different ways. To the extent conservation results in
reduced energy demand or significantly slows the growth in demand, the value of wholesale
generation assets of the traditional operating companies and Southern Power and other
unregulated business activities could be adversely impacted. In addition, conservation
could negatively impact the traditional operating companies depending on the regulatory
treatment of the associated impacts. If any traditional operating company is required to
invest in conservation measures that result in reduced sales from effective conservation,
regulatory lag in adjusting rates for the impact of these measures could have a negative
financial impact on such traditional operating company and Southern Company. Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power could also be impacted if
any future energy price increases result in a decrease in customer usage. Southern
Company, the traditional operating companies, and Southern Power are unable to determine
what impact, if any, conservation and increases in energy prices will have on financial
condition or results of operations.



