
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR FYE 12/31/97



 
================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K
[MARK ONE]
  [X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997

                                       OR

  [ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
          SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
     FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM            COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
                   TO                                  01-19826

                            MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

           DELAWARE                                        52-1604305
(STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                         (I.R.S. EMPLOYER 
INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                         IDENTIFICATION NO.)

P. O. BOX 12069, 160 S. INDUSTRIAL BLVD., CALHOUN, GEORGIA    30701
      (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)             (ZIP CODE)

      REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:  (706) 629-7721

Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  Common Stock, $.01 
                                                               par value
Securities Registered Pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [ ]

  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to the
Form 10-K. [X]

  The aggregate market value of the Common Stock of the Registrant held by non-
affiliates of the Registrant (22,159,639 shares) on March 10, 1998 was
$585,845,456. The aggregate market value was computed by reference to the
closing price of the Common Stock on such date.

  Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of March 10, 1998: 52,256,747
shares of Common Stock, $.01 par value.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

   Portions of the Definitive Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of
                             Stockholders--Part III
================================================================================

 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

GENERAL

  Mohawk Industries, Inc. ("Mohawk" or the "Company", a term which includes the
Company and its subsidiaries, including its primary operating subsidiaries,
Mohawk Carpet Corporation ("Mohawk Carpet") and Aladdin Manufacturing
Corporation ("Aladdin Manufacturing", formerly known as Mohawk Manufacturing
Corporation)) is a leading producer of woven and tufted broadloom carpet and
rugs for residential and commercial applications. The Company is the second
largest carpet and rug manufacturer in the United States, with 1997 net sales of
approximately $1.9 billion. The Company designs, manufactures and markets carpet
and rugs in a broad range of colors, textures and patterns. The Company is
widely recognized through its premier brand names, some of which are "Mohawk,"
"Alexander Smith," "Horizon," "Mohawk Commercial," "Harbinger," "Helios,"
"American Rug Craftsmen," "Karastan," "Bigelow," "Aladdin" and "Galaxy," and
markets its products primarily through carpet retailers, home centers, mass
merchandisers, department stores, commercial dealers and commercial end users.
Mohawk's operations are vertically integrated from the extrusion of resin into
fiber, to the conversion of fiber into yarn and to the manufacture and shipment
of finished carpet and rugs.

HISTORY

  The Company was organized in Delaware in 1988 to acquire Aladdin Manufacturing
from its predecessor owner, Mohasco Corporation, in a leveraged buyout
transaction. The Company completed its initial public offering of Common Stock
in April 1992, raising approximately $42.5 million in proceeds, which were used
to retire indebtedness and redeem preferred stock outstanding at that time.
Mohawk acquired Horizon Industries, Inc. ("Horizon") in October 1992 for cash of
approximately $63.9 million and 4,009,500 shares of Common Stock valued at
approximately $22.5 million. Mohawk purchased American Rug Craftsmen, Inc.
("American Rug") in April 1993 for approximately $32.0 million in cash and
Karastan Bigelow in July 1993 for approximately $155.5 million, which was
substantially all cash.  In May 1993, the Company completed an offering of
4,725,000 shares of Common Stock. Of the total number of shares, 3,600,000
shares were sold by the Company and 1,125,000 shares were sold by selling
stockholders.  The net proceeds to the Company were approximately $46.0 million.
On February 25, 1994, Mohawk acquired all of the common stock of Aladdin Mills,
Inc. ("Aladdin") in exchange for approximately 20,343,000 shares of Common
Stock, valued at $386.5 million, based upon the closing stock price at the date
the agreement was executed.  On January 13, 1995, Mohawk acquired all of the
capital stock of Galaxy Carpet Mills, Inc. ("Galaxy") for $42.2 million in cash.

  On July 23, 1997, the Company acquired certain assets of Diamond Rug & Carpet
Mills, Inc. ("Diamond") and other assets owned by Diamond's principal
shareholders for approximately $36.0 million, which consisted of $19.6 million
in cash at closing, $7.0 million in cash over the six-month period following
closing and a $9.4 million note payable in seven annual installments of
principal plus interest at 6%.  The acquisition was accomplished through a plan
of reorganization filed by Diamond under Chapter 11 of the United States
Bankruptcy Code.

  On October 23, 1997, the Board of Directors of the Company declared a 3-for-2
stock split that was paid as a 50% stock dividend on December 4, 1997, to
holders of record on November 4, 1997.  All share information presented herein
gives effect to this stock split.

INDUSTRY

  According to the most recent figures available from the United States
Department of Commerce, worldwide carpet and rug sales volume of American
manufacturers and their domestic divisions was 1.6 billion square yards in 1996.
This volume represents a market in excess of approximately $10.1 billion at the
"mill level", which management believes, based on standard industry mark-ups,
translates into approximately $16.2 billion to $18.2 billion at the retail
level.  Based upon data obtained from recent industry publications, the
worldwide carpet and rug sales volume of American manufacturers in 1997 was
approximately 1.6 billion square yards and $10.0 billion.  The overall level of


 
sales in the carpet industry is influenced by a number of factors, including
consumer confidence in spending for durable goods, interest rates, turnover in
housing, the condition of the residential and commercial construction industries
and the overall strength of the economy.

  Broadloom carpet (defined as carpet over six feet by nine feet in size)
represented 82% of the volume shipped by the industry in 1996. Tufted broadloom
carpet (a category that refers to the manner of construction in addition to
size) represented 96% of the broadloom industry volume shipped in 1996. The
broadloom carpet industry has two primary markets, residential and commercial,
with the residential market making up approximately 75% of industry volume
shipped and the commercial market comprising approximately 25% in 1996. An
estimated 56% of industry shipments is made in response to replacement demand,
which usually involves exact yardage (or "cut order") shipments that typically
provide higher profit margins than sales of carpet sold in full rolls. Because
the replacement business generally involves higher quality carpet cut to order
by the manufacturer, rather than the dealer, this business tends to be more
profitable for manufacturers than the new construction business.

PRODUCTS AND MARKETS

  The Company designs, manufactures and markets hundreds of styles of carpet,
rugs and mats in a broad range of colors, textures and patterns. Mohawk
positions its products in all price ranges and emphasizes quality, style,
performance and service. The Company is widely recognized through its premier
brand names, "Mohawk," "Alexander Smith," "Horizon," "Mohawk Commercial,"
"Karastan Contract," "Bigelow Commercial," "Harbinger," "Helios," "American Rug
Craftsmen," "Karastan," "Bigelow," "Aladdin," "Townhouse," "Ciboney," "Modesto,"
"Hamilton," "New Visions" and "Galaxy," and markets its products primarily
through carpet retailers, home centers, mass merchandisers, department stores,
commercial dealers, and commercial end users. Some products are also marketed
through private labeling programs.

  Mohawk markets certain of its products outside the United States, but does not
consider sales of such products to be material.

 Residential Broadloom Market
 
   The residential market is the largest segment of the industry and represents
 a significant portion of the Company's sales. The Company currently markets
 approximately 370 residential products to more than 25,000 customers which
 include independent retailers, department stores, mass merchandisers, buying
 groups, and building and tenant improvement contractors.

  The Company has positioned its premier residential brand names across all
price ranges with the Company product retail prices ranging from below $3 to
above $80 per square yard. "Mohawk," "Alexander Smith," "Horizon," "Galaxy,"
"New Visions," "Karastan" and "Bigelow" are positioned to sell primarily in the
medium-to-high retail price range in the residential broadloom market and these
lines are also sold under private labels. These lines have substantial brand
name recognition among carpet dealers and retailers with the "Karastan,"
"Mohawk," and "Bigelow" brands having the highest consumer recognition in the
industry.  "Karastan" is the leader in the exclusive high end market.  The
"Aladdin," "Townhouse," "Ciboney," "Modesto" and "Hamilton" brand names compete
in the low-to-medium retail price range.

  Based on a recent industry survey, the Company is considered a leader within
the industry of U.S. carpet manufacturers providing marketing support.  Through
dealer programs like Karastan Gallery, Mohawk Brand Excellence, New Visions,
Hamilton, Ciboney and Mohawk Carpet Color Center, the Company offers intensive
marketing and advertising support.  These programs offer varying degrees of
support to dealers in such areas of sales and management training, display
racks, exclusive promotions and assistance in certain administrative functions
such as computer systems, accounting and insurance.

  The Company generally markets its residential products through its Aladdin,
Galaxy and Mohawk sales forces. Although these sales forces have maintained
their separate identities, they report to common management on a regional basis.
All of the regional vice presidents report to one senior vice president of
sales.  Each region has responsibility 


 
for sales, distribution and inventory management in its region, all of which is
coordinated by the senior vice president of sales at a national level. The
inventory management on a regional level is accomplished by a hub-and-spoke
distribution network. In this system, Company trucks generally deliver carpet
from mill sites to regional warehouses. From there, it is shipped to local
distribution warehouses, then to retailers. The Company believes that the
current structure of the residential sales group has contributed to a more
efficient and profitable organization.
 
 Commercial Market

  The commercial market is divided into several segments: educational
institutions, corporate office space, hospitality facilities, retail space and
health care facilities. In addition, Mohawk produces and sells carpet for the
export market, the federal government and other niche businesses. Different
purchase decision makers and decision-making processes exist for each segment.
For example, in the corporate office segment, decisions are usually made by
architects or specifiers, whose responsibility is to manage the project budget
and coordinate interior design. In the institutional segment, by comparison,
decisions are often made by purchasing agents employed by the end user who have
longstanding relationships with carpet manufacturers. The commercial market is
generally a more complex market in which to sell than the residential market.
The Company's participation in the commercial market allows it to offset
partially the cyclical nature of its residential business.

  In the commercial market, the Company markets its products under the brand
names "Mohawk Commercial," "Harbinger," "Aladdin," "Karastan Contract" and
"Bigelow Commercial." The marketing strategy of the Mohawk Commercial,  Karastan
Contract and  Bigelow Commercial  brands is to leverage the brands' traditional
sales strength in the educational institution segment of the market to the
office, hospitality, retail and health care segments.  These brands are
comprised of specialized products for these segments that emphasize product
quality and specification rather than just price.

  The Harbinger brand is a specialized line of commercial carpet generally
specified by architects and designers for end users in the hospitality,
corporate, health care and institutional market sectors. Harbinger products are
largely custom designed and colored and are marketed through its sales
organization of commercial carpet sales specialists. The Harbinger brand is
considered to be an industry leader in product quality, styling and innovation
for the high-end commercial market. Harbinger products were the first to
introduce "graphics" tufting technology to the industry and have maintained
their product development leadership by employing tufting and dyeing
technologies that produce intricate multicolored patterns.

  The Aladdin brand is marketed primarily to the "mainstreet" segment of the
commercial market. The "mainstreet" segment is generally comprised of the low-
to-medium price range styles and is distributed primarily through retail dealers
for smaller installations.

  Woven commercial products accounted for a significant portion of the Company's
net sales of commercial product in 1997, including the Mohawk Commercial brand's
exclusive woven interlock products, which are manufactured by a unique weaving
process that increases performance, wear and durability. The Company's ability
to make woven carpet under the Mohawk Commercial, Karastan Contract and  Bigelow
Commercial brand names in large volume for commercial applications
differentiates it from other manufacturers, most of which produce tufted carpet
almost exclusively. Woven carpet and specifically the Company's woven interlock
products sell at higher prices than tufted carpet and generally produce higher
profit margins. Management believes that the Company is the largest producer of
woven carpet in the United States and that the Company has several carpet
weaving machines and processes that no other manufacturer has, thereby allowing
the Company to create carpet to meet specifications that its competitors cannot
duplicate.

 Residential Rug Market

  The machine-made rug market is currently the fastest growing segment of the U.
S. carpet and rug industry with an annual growth rate estimated to be
approximately 7% in 1997.  Much of this growth has occurred at the low-to-medium
retail price ranges. The distribution channels for the rug market primarily
include department stores, mass merchants, floorcovering stores, catalog stores,
home centers and furniture stores.


 
  The Company's product lines include a broad array of rugs. The Karastan brand
name rugs represent the higher retail price ranges with one of the most valued
brand names in the industry and are distributed through specialty stores, along
with department and furniture stores.  These are higher quality woven wool rugs
manufactured primarily on Axminster looms.

  The Company emphasizes the fast growing lower retail price ranges through its
American Rug Craftsmen brand name. The rugs sold under this brand are primarily
woven polypropylene area rugs, tufted border rugs and decorative mats, which are
made from purchased matting material that is cut, serged and screen printed by
the Company. These products are distributed primarily through mass merchants and
home centers.
 
  The Company also sells to the bath mat and washable bath rug segments of the
rug market through its Aladdin brand name. These are tufted nylon products which
are distributed through department stores and mass merchants.

ADVERTISING AND PROMOTION

  The Company promotes its products in the form of co-operative advertising,
point-of-sale displays and marketing literature provided to assist in marketing
various carpet styles.  Mohawk also continues to rely on the substantial brand
name identification of its "Mohawk," "Alexander Smith," "Horizon," "Mohawk
Commercial," "Harbinger," "Helios," "Karastan," "Bigelow," "Aladdin," "American
Rug Craftsmen" and "Galaxy" lines. The cost of producing display samples, a
significant promotional expense, is partially offset by sales of samples and
support from raw materials suppliers.

  In 1997, the Carpet and Rug Institute approved a four-year national industry
advertising campaign with a $25 million annual budget.  Funding for the program
will be raised from contributions from individual manufacturers in the carpet
industry, including suppliers of fiber, backing, latex and finished carpet and
rugs.  Mohawk is a participant in the campaign.  The purpose of the program is
to advance consumer confidence, satisfaction and preference of carpet as the
floorcovering of choice.

MANUFACTURING AND OPERATIONS

  The Company's manufacturing operations are vertically integrated and include
the extrusion of resin into polypropylene and nylon fiber, yarn processing,
tufting, weaving, dyeing, coating and finishing.  Capital expenditures are
primarily focused on increasing capacity, improving productivity and reducing
costs. Mohawk incurred $212.2 million in capital expenditures over the past
three years, including acquisitions.  These expenditures increased manufacturing
efficiency and capacity, while improving overall cost competitiveness.

RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIERS

  The principal raw materials the Company uses are nylon staple fibers; nylon
filament fibers; raw wool; polypropylene filament fibers; polyester staple
fibers; olefin resins; synthetic backing materials, polyurethane and latex; and
various dyes and chemicals. Mohawk obtains all of its major raw materials from
independent sources and all of its externally purchased nylon fibers from four
major suppliers: E.I. du Pont de Nemours and Company, Monsanto Company, BASF
Corporation and AlliedSignal, Inc. Most of the fibers the Company uses in carpet
production are treated with stain-resistant chemicals. The Company has not
experienced significant shortages of raw materials in recent years.  The Company
believes that the loss of any one supplier would not have a material effect on
the Company and that an alternative supply arrangement could be made in a
relatively short period of time.

COMPETITION

  All of the markets in which the Company does business are highly competitive,
with approximately 100 companies engaged in the manufacture and sale of carpet
in the United States. Carpet manufacturers also face competition from the hard
surface floorcovering industry.  Based on industry publications, the top twenty
North American carpet and rug manufacturers (including their American and
foreign divisions) in 1996 had worldwide sales in excess of $10 


 
billion, and the top twenty manufacturers in 1990 had sales in excess of $6
billion. Mohawk, with 1997 net sales of approximately $1.9 billion, is the
second largest producer of carpet and rugs (in terms of sales volume).

  Certain of the Company's competitors have greater financial and other
resources than the Company. In particular, the industry has one large
competitor, Shaw Industries, Inc. ("Shaw"), who in 1997 held the largest share
of the domestic wholesale market based on sales.  Shaw's size could permit
significant raw material purchasing power and certain other manufacturing cost
advantages compared with the rest of the industry.

  The principal methods of competition within the industry are price, style,
quality and service. In both the residential and commercial markets, price
competition and market coverage are particularly important because there is
relatively little perceived differentiation among competing product lines.
Mohawk's recent investments in modernized, advanced manufacturing and data
processing equipment, the extensive diversity of equipment in which it has
invested and its marketing strategy contribute to its ability to compete
primarily on the basis of performance, quality, style and service, rather than
just price.

TRADEMARKS

  Mohawk uses several trademarks that it considers important in the marketing of
its products, including "Mohawk (R)," "Tommy Mohawk (R)," "Mohawk Color Center
(R)," "Alexander Smith (R)," "Horizon (R)," "Mohawk Commercial," "Harbinger
(R)," "Helios (R)," "Commercial Horizons (R)," "Karastan (R)," "Bigelow (R),"
"Aladdin," "American Rug Craftsmen," "Townhouse," "Ciboney (R)," "Hamilton (R)"
and "Galaxy (R)."

SALES TERMS AND MAJOR CUSTOMERS

  The Company's sales terms are the same as those generally available throughout
the industry. The Company generally permits its customers to return broadloom
carpet purchased from it within 30 days from the date of sale if the customer is
not satisfied with the quality of the carpet. This return policy is consistent
with the Company's emphasis on quality, style and performance and promotes
customer satisfaction without generating enough returns to affect materially the
Company's operating results or financial position.

  During 1997, no single customer accounted for more than 4.5% of Mohawk's total
net sales. The Company believes the loss of one or a few major customers would
not have a material adverse effect on the Company's business.

BACKLOG

  Backlog of orders is generally insignificant in the carpet manufacturing
business because most residential orders are filled within several days and
commercial backlogs reflect the terms of the relevant contracts, which generally
require delivery within four to six weeks.

EMPLOYEES

  As of December 31, 1997, the Company employed approximately 12,600 persons.
Approximately 270 Mohawk employees are members of the Union of Needletrades,
Industrial and Textile Employees, AFL-CIO, CLC with which the Company is party
to a collective bargaining agreement. Other than with respect to these
employees, the Company is not a party to any collective bargaining agreements.
Additionally, the Company has not experienced any strikes or work stoppages. The
Company believes that its relations with its employees are good.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

  The Company's operations must meet federal, state and local regulations
governing the discharge of materials into the environment. All of the plants
operated by the Company were built or have been upgraded to meet current
environmental standards. The Company believes it is in material compliance with
all applicable regulations. The 


 
Company estimates that any expenses incurred in maintaining compliance with
these regulations will not materially affect earnings.

CYCLICAL NATURE OF INDUSTRY; CURRENT ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

  The carpet industry is a cyclical business, influenced by a number of general
economic factors, including consumer confidence and spending for durable goods,
disposable income, interest rates, turnover in housing and the condition of the
residential and commercial construction industries (including the number of new
housing starts and the level of commercial construction). During economic
downturns, the carpet industry can be expected to experience a general decline
in sales and profitability.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

  The Company owns a 47,500 square foot headquarters office in Calhoun, Georgia
on an eight acre site.  The following table lists the principal manufacturing
and distribution facilities owned by the Company:

(1)  Operations have been discontinued and these facilities are held for sale.


 
  The following table lists the Company's material leased office, manufacturing
and warehouse facilities:

(1) Include renewal options exercisable by the Company.
(2) Includes a number of separately leased adjoining or adjacent buildings with
    varying lease terms. The expiration date shown in the table is the earliest
    expiration date of the respective group of leases.

  The Company's properties are in good condition and adequate for its
requirements. The Company also believes its principal plants are generally
adequate to meet its production plans pursuant to its long-term sales goals. In
the ordinary course of its business, the Company monitors the condition of its
facilities to ensure that they remain adequate to meet long-term sales goals and
production plans.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

  The Company is involved in routine litigation from time to time in the regular
course of its business. Except as noted below, there are no material legal
proceedings pending or known to be contemplated to which the Company is a party
or to which any of its property is subject.

  In June 1994, the Company and several other carpet manufacturers received
subpoenas to produce documents from a grand jury of the United States District
Court in Atlanta.  The subpoenas were requested by the Antitrust Division of the
U. S. Department of Justice in connection with an investigation of the industry.
In October 1997, the Company was notified by the U. S. Department of Justice
that such investigation by the grand jury had been closed.

  In December 1995, the Company and four other carpet manufacturers were added
as defendants in a purported class action lawsuit, In re Carpet Antitrust
Litigation, pending in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia, Rome Division.  The amended complaint alleges price fixing
regarding polypropylene products in violation of Section One of the Sherman Act.
In September 1997, the Court determined that the plaintiffs met their burden of
establishing the requirements for class certification and granted the
plaintiffs' motion to certify the class. The Company is a party to two
consolidated lawsuits captioned Gaehwiler v. Sunrise Carpet Industries, Inc. et.
al. and Patco Enterprises, Inc. v. Sunrise Carpet Industries, Inc. et. al.; both
of which were filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, City and
County of San Francisco in 1996.  Both complaints were brought on behalf of a


 
purported class of indirect purchasers of carpet in the State of California and
seek damages for alleged violations of California antitrust and unfair
competition laws.  The Company believes both of these lawsuits are without merit
and intends to vigorously defend against them.  The complaints filed do not
specify any amount of damages but do request for any unlawful conduct to be
enjoined and treble damages plus reimbursement for fees and costs.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

  No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders of the Company during
the fourth quarter ended December 31, 1997.


                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS

MARKET FOR THE COMMON STOCK

  On December 16, 1997, the Common Stock began trading on the New York Stock
Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "MHK."  From the time of the Company's
initial public offering in April 1992 until December 15, 1997, the Common Stock
was listed on the Nasdaq National Market ("NNM") under the symbol "MOHK."   The
table below sets forth the high and low sales prices per share of the Common
Stock as reported on either the NNM or the NYSE Composite Tape, as applicable,
for each fiscal period indicated.



  As of March 10, 1998, there were 416 holders of record of Common Stock. Mohawk
has not paid or declared any cash dividends on shares of its Common Stock since
completing its initial public offering. The Company's policy is to retain all
net earnings for the development of its business, and it does not anticipate
paying cash dividends on the Common Stock in the foreseeable future. The payment
of future cash dividends will be at the sole discretion of the Board of
Directors and will depend upon the Company's profitability, financial condition,
cash requirements, future prospects and other factors deemed relevant by the
Board of Directors.  The payment of cash dividends is limited by certain
covenants in various of the Company's loan agreements.


 
Item 6. Selected Financial Data

  The following table sets forth the selected financial data of the Company for
the periods indicated, derived from the consolidated financial statements of the
Company. On April 30, 1993, the Company acquired all of the common stock of
American Rug. On July 30, 1993, the Company purchased the net assets of Karastan
Bigelow. The operating results of American Rug and Karastan Bigelow are included
in the Company's 1993 consolidated statement of earnings from their respective
acquisition dates. The acquisitions of American Rug and Karastan Bigelow were
recorded using the purchase method of accounting. On February 25, 1994, the
Company exchanged 20,343,336 shares of Common Stock for all of the outstanding
shares of Aladdin common stock in a transaction recorded using the pooling-of-
interests basis of accounting. All financial data were restated to include the
accounts and results of operations of Aladdin. On January 13, 1995, the Company
acquired all of the outstanding capital stock of Galaxy. The operating results
of Galaxy are included in the 1995 consolidated statement of earnings from the
date of its acquisition. On July 23, 1997, the Company acquired certain assets
of Diamond Rug & Carpet Mills, Inc. and other assets owned by Diamond's
principal shareholders. The acquisitions of Galaxy and Diamond were recorded
using the purchase method of accounting. The selected financial data should be
read in conjunction with "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations" and the Company's consolidated financial
statements and notes thereto included elsewhere herein.




 

- ----------------------
(a)  Certain of the Company's facilities suffered damage during the March 1993
     blizzard, and the Company finalized settlement of the insurance claim
     during the first quarter of 1994. The Company recorded reductions of $6.0
     million in cost of sales in each of the years 1993 and 1994 for
     reimbursements of business interruption costs and $4.7 million in other
     income in 1993 related to gains on fixed asset replacements.
(b)  During 1995 and 1996, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring costs of
     $8.4 million and $0.7 million, respec-tively, related to certain mill
     closings whose operations have been consolidated into other Mohawk
     facilities. During 1993, the Company recorded pre-tax restructuring costs
     of $2.4 million related to the closing of a woven carpet manufacturing
     operation and the relocation and consolidation of this operation with a
     facility acquired in the purchase of Karastan Bigelow.
(c)  During 1995, the Company adopted FAS No. 121, "Accounting for the
     Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed
     Of," as of January 1, 1995. A charge of $23.7 million was recorded for the
     reduction of the carrying value of property, plant and equipment at certain
     mills. During 1996, the Company recorded a charge of $3.1 million arising
     from the write-down of property, plant and equipment to be disposed of
     related to the closing of a manufacturing facility in 1996 and a revision
     in the estimate of fair value of certain property, plant and equipment
     based on current market conditions related to mill closings in 1995. During
     1997, the Company recorded a charge of $5.5 million arising from a revision
     in the estimated fair value of certain property, plant and equipment held
     for sale based on current appraisals and other market information related
     to a mill closing in 1995.
(d)  Charges of $4.0 million and $2.6 million were recorded in 1995 and 1997,
     respectively, for income tax reimburse-ments to be made to certain
     executives related to the exercise of stock options granted in 1988 and
     1989 in connec-tion with the Company's 1988 leveraged buyout.
(e)  The Company recorded a one-time charge of $10.2 million in 1994 for
     transaction expenses related to the Aladdin Merger that were incurred
     during the first quarter of 1994.
(f)  During 1994, the Company reduced income tax expense by $2.0 million to
     reflect a reduction in its effective tax rate and certain other changes in
     the Company's federal and state income tax status.
(g)  The Board of Directors declared a 3-for-2 stock split on October 23, 1997,
     which was paid on December 4, 1997 to holders of record on November 4,
     1997. Earnings per share and weighted-average common share data have been
     restated to reflect the split.



 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

GENERAL

  During the three-year period ended December 31, 1997, the Company continued to
experience significant growth both internally and through acquisitions.  In
January 1995, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding capital
stock of Galaxy for $42.2 million in cash, including acquisition costs.  On July
23, 1997, the Company acquired certain assets of Diamond and other assets owned
by Diamond's principal shareholders for $36.0 million, including acquisition
costs, which consisted of $19.6 million in cash, at closing, $7.0 million in
cash over the six-month period following closing and a $9.4 million note payable
in seven annual installments of principal plus interest at 6%.  Both the Galaxy
and the Diamond business combinations were accounted for using the purchase
method of accounting.

  These acquisitions have created other opportunities to enhance Mohawk's
operations by (i) broadening price points, (ii) increasing vertical integration
efforts, (iii) expanding distribution capabilities and (iv) facilitating entry
into niche businesses, such as rugs.

  The Company has considered the impact of the year 2000 issues on its computer
systems and applications and has developed a remediation plan.  The Company
believes the plan is sufficient to make its computer systems and applications
year 2000 compliant.  This will not have a material impact on the operations or
the financial condition of the Company.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 AS COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Net sales for the year ended December 31, 1997 were $1,901.4 million,
reflecting an increase of $122.0 million, or approximately 7%, over the $1,779.4
million reported in the year ended December 31, 1996.  All major product
categories achieved sales increases in 1997 as compared to 1996.  These sales
increases were attributable to an improvement in the Company's market share
which the Company believes primarily resulted from competitive changes in the
retail segment of the industry, strong customer acceptance of new product
introductions, expansion of residential warehousing operations, and further
refinement of the sales organization to achieve better regional customer focus.

  Quarterly net sales and the percentage changes in net sales by quarter for
1997 versus 1996 were as follows (dollars in thousands):



  Gross profit for 1997 was $436.7 million (23.0% of net sales) and represented
an increase over the gross profit of $407.4 million (22.9% of net sales) for
1996.  Gross profit dollars for the current year were impacted favorably by
manufacturing improvements from restructuring and consolidating the residential
operations, higher production levels resulting in better absorption of fixed
costs and a reduction in certain raw material prices.

  Selling, general and administrative expenses for 1997 were $287.0 million
(15.1% of net sales) compared to $284.2 million (16.0% of net sales) for 1996.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
decreased primarily due to lower administrative, bad debt and sample expenses.

  During the fourth quarter of 1997, the Company revised its estimate of the
fair value of certain property, plant and equipment held for sale. The revision
resulted in a $5.5 million write-down to the carrying value of those assets. The
revision was based upon current appraisals and other market information. In
addition, a $2.6 million charge was recorded for additional income tax
reimbursements to be made to certain executives for the exercise of stock
options. The income tax reimbursements were recorded in connection with stock
options granted in 1988 and 1989 related to the Company's 1988 leveraged buyout.
The after-tax effect of these charges was $4.9 million, or $0.09 per diluted
share.


 
  During 1996, the Company recorded nonrecurring charges of (i) $3.1 million
which included $0.9 million, primarily to reduce the carrying value of certain
assets, related to the decision to close a spinning mill in Belton, South
Carolina and $2.2 million primarily arising from a revision in the estimate of
the fair value of certain land and buildings that were recently sold and (ii)
$0.7 million related to restructuring costs for the Belton spinning mill
closing.  The after-tax effect of these charges was $2.2 million, or $0.04 per
diluted share.

  Interest expense for the current year was $26.5 million compared to $31.5
million in 1996.  The primary factor contributing to the decrease was a
significant reduction in debt levels.

  In the current year, income tax expense was $44.4 million, or 39.5% of
earnings before income taxes.  In 1996, income tax expense was $33.7 million,
representing 40.7% of earnings before income taxes.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996 AS COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Net sales for the year ended December 31, 1996 were $1,779.4 million,
reflecting an increase of $130.9 million, or approximately 8%, over the $1,648.5
million reported in the year ended December 31, 1995.  This sales increase was
attributable to an improvement in the Company's market share which the Company
believes primarily resulted from competitive changes in the retail segment of
the industry, Mohawk's realignment of its residential sales forces under a
regional structure, and Mohawk's strong product lines.  The Company experienced
a significant increase in unit shipments as a result of these factors with
average net selling prices remaining flat as compared to 1995.

  Quarterly net sales and the percentage changes in net sales by quarter for
1996 versus 1995 were as follows (dollars in thousands):



  Gross profit for 1996 was $407.4 million (22.9% of net sales) and represented
an increase over the gross profit of $366.6 million (22.2% of net sales) for
1995.  Gross profit dollars for 1996 were impacted favorably by manufacturing
improvements from restructuring and consolidating  the residential operations,
higher production levels resulting in better absorption of fixed costs, a
reduction in certain raw material prices and manufacturing improvements in other
divisions. The manufacturing consolidations included the closing of five
residential manufacturing facilities during 1995 as well as the realignment of
the remaining residential mills to better utilize the strengths of each mill.

  Selling, general and administrative expenses for 1996 were $284.2 million
(16.0% of net sales) compared to $282.5 million (17.1% of net sales) for 1995.
Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales
decreased primarily due to better control of discretionary spending and better
leveraging of costs on strong sales growth.

  During 1996, the Company recorded nonrecurring charges of (i) $3.1 million
which included $0.9 million, primarily to reduce the carrying value of certain
assets, related to the decision to close a spinning mill in Belton, South
Carolina and $2.2 million primarily arising from a revision in the estimate of
the fair value of certain land and buildings that were sold in 1996 and (ii)
$0.7 million related to restructuring costs for the Belton spinning mill
closing.  The after-tax effect of these charges was $2.2 million, or $0.04 per
diluted share.

  The Company recorded restructuring costs of $8.4 million during 1995 related
to certain mill closings whose operations were consolidated into other Mohawk
facilities.  The after-tax effect of these costs was $5.2 million or $0.10 per
diluted share.

  During 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
Assets to Be Disposed Of" (FAS No. 121) as of January 1, 1995. An impairment
loss of $23.7 million was recorded for the write-down of property, plant and
equipment at certain mills. The after-tax effect of the impairment loss was
$14.5 million, or $0.29 per diluted share.


 
  A one-time charge of $4.0 million was recorded during 1995 for income tax
reimbursements to be made to certain executives for the exercise of stock
options.  The income tax reimbursements were recorded in connection with stock
options granted in 1988 and 1989 related to the Company's 1988 leveraged buyout.
The agreements allowed the Company to receive an income tax benefit on its tax
return for the tax effect of the taxable compensation provided to the
individuals upon exercise of these options.  Such income tax benefit resulted in
a direct increase in stockholders' equity. The after-tax effect of the charge
was $2.5 million, or $0.05 per diluted share.

  Interest expense for 1996 was $31.5 million compared to $35.0 million in 1995.
The primary factors contributing to the decrease were a reduction in debt levels
and lower interest rates on the Company's revolving credit agreement.

  In 1996, income tax expense was $33.7 million, or 40.7% of earnings before
income taxes.  In 1995, income tax expense was $4.0 million, representing 38.7%
of earnings before income taxes.  The primary reason for the lower effective tax
rate in 1995 was certain nonrecurring deductions that were treated as permanent
differences in 1995.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

  The Company's primary capital requirements are for working capital, capital
expenditures and acquisitions.  The Company's capital needs are met through a
combination of internally-generated funds, bank credit lines and credit terms
from suppliers.

  The level of accounts receivable increased from $215.6 million at the
beginning of 1997 to $238.6 million at December 31, 1997.  The $23.0 million
increase is attributable to strong sales growth.  Inventories decreased from
$302.8 million at the beginning of 1997 to $291.3 million at December 31, 1997,
due primarily to better management of inventory levels through improved
production processes.

  Capital expenditures totaled $67.7 million during 1997, which includes $36.0
million for the Diamond acquisition. The capital expenditures made during 1997
were  incurred primarily to modernize and expand manufacturing facilities and
equipment.  The Company's capital projects are primarily focused on increasing
capacity, improving productivity and reducing costs.  Capital expenditures for
Mohawk, including the $78.2 million for acquisitions and $21.2 million of
equipment used for the extrusion of polypropylene yarn that was acquired in a
noncash transaction in 1996, have totaled $212.2 million over the past three
years.  Capital spending during 1998 is expected to range from $65 million to
$70 million, the majority of which will be used to purchase equipment to
increase production capacity and productivity.

  On April 15, 1997, the Company amended and restated its revolving credit
agreement to provide for an interest rate of either (i) LIBOR plus 0.2% to 0.5%,
depending upon the Company's performance measured against specific coverage
ratios, or (ii) the prime rate less 1.0%.  Additionally, the termination date of
the credit agreement was extended to May 15, 2002.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

  Inflation affects the Company's manufacturing costs and operating expenses.
The carpet industry has experienced moderate inflation in the prices of raw
materials and outside processing for the last three years.  The Company has
generally passed along nylon fiber price increases to its customers.

SEASONALITY

  The carpet business is seasonal, with the Company's second, third and fourth
quarters typically producing higher net sales and operating income.  By
comparison, results for the first quarter tend to be the weakest.  This
seasonality is primarily attributable to consumer residential spending patterns
and higher installation levels during the spring and summer months.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

  Certain of the matters discussed in the preceding pages, particularly
regarding anticipating future financial performance, business prospects, growth
and operating strategies, proposed acquisitions, new products and similar
matters, and those preceded by, followed by or that otherwise include the words
"believes," "expects," "anticipates," 


 
"intends," "estimates," or similar expressions constitute "forward-looking
statements" within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as
amended. For those statements, Mohawk claims the protection of the safe harbor
for forward-looking statements contained in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements involve a number of risks and
uncertainties. The following important factors, in addition to those discussed
elsewhere in this document, affect the future results of Mohawk and could cause
those results to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking
statements: materially adverse changes in economic conditions generally in the
carpet, rug and floorcovering markets served by Mohawk; competition from other
carpet, rug and floorcovering manufacturers, raw material prices, timing and
level of capital expenditures, the successful integration of acquisitions
including the challenges inherent in diverting Mohawk's management attention and
resources from other strategic matters and from operational matters for an
extended period of time, the successful introduction of new products, the
successful rationalization of existing operations, and other risks identified
from time to time in the Company's SEC reports and public announcements.

ITEM 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA



 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
                          ----------------------------


The Board of Directors and Stockholders
Mohawk Industries, Inc.:

We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Mohawk Industries, Inc.
and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index.  In connection with our
audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the
financial statement schedules as listed in Item 14(a)2.  These consolidated
financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Mohawk Industries,
Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 1996, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles.  Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedules,
when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken
as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth
therein.
 



                                                     KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP



Atlanta, Georgia
February 6, 1998


 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          Consolidated Balance Sheets
                          December 31, 1997 and 1996

                     (In thousands, except per share data)



                   See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      Consolidated Statements of Earnings
                 Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                     (In thousands, except per share data)


         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
                 Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                                (In thousands)



         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                 Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                                (In thousands)




         See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



 

                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                       December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                     (In thousands, except per share data)


(1)  Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     (a)  Basis of Presentation

          The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Mohawk
Industries, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the "Company" or "Mohawk").  All
significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

          The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period.  Actual results could differ from those estimates.

     (b)  Accounts Receivable and Revenue Recognition

          The Company is a broadloom carpet and rug manufacturer and sells
carpet and rugs throughout the United States for residential and commercial use.
The Company grants credit to customers, most of whom are retail carpet dealers,
under credit terms that are customary in the industry.

          Revenues are recognized when goods are shipped. The Company provides
allowances for expected cash discounts, returns, claims and doubtful accounts
based upon historical bad debt and claims experience and periodic evaluations of
the aging of the accounts receivable.

     (c)  Inventories

          Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market (net realizable
value). Cost is determined using the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method, which
matches current costs with current revenues, for substantially all inventories
and the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method for the remaining inventories.

     (d)  Property, Plant and Equipment

          Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost, including interest on
funds borrowed to finance the acquisition or construction of major capital
additions.  Depreciation is calculated on a straight-line basis over the
estimated remaining useful lives of the respective assets.

     (e)  Income Taxes

          Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method.
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax
bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates
expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary
differences are expected to be recovered or settled.  The effect on deferred tax
assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the
period that includes the enactment date.

     (f)  Earnings per Share ("EPS")

          In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued FAS
No. 128, Earnings per Share, which supersedes APB No. 15, Earnings per Share.
This statement, which the Company was required to adopt in the fourth quarter of
1997, requires companies to replace the presentation of primary EPS and fully
diluted EPS with basic EPS and diluted EPS.  Basic EPS excludes dilution and is
computed by dividing income available to common stockholders by the weighted-
average number of common shares outstanding for the period.  Diluted EPS
reflects the dilution that could occur if securities or other contracts to issue
common stock were exercised or converted into common


 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)

stock or resulted in the issuance of common stock that then shared in the
earnings of the company.  The implementation of FAS No. 128 did not have a
material effect on the Company's consolidated financial statements for the
periods presented.

          The Company's weighted-average common and dilutive potential common
shares outstanding have been adjusted for the 3-for-2 stock split approved by
the Board of Directors on October 23, 1997 and paid on December 4, 1997 to
holders of record on November 4, 1997.  Dilutive common stock options are
included in the diluted EPS calculation using the treasury stock method.
Dilutive potential common shares outstanding for the fourth quarter of 1995
(1,368 potential shares) are excluded from the diluted EPS computation for 1995
as the effect on loss per share for such quarter would have been antidilutive.
Common stock options that were not included in the diluted EPS computation
because the options' exercise price was greater than the average market price of
the common shares for the periods presented are immaterial.

     (g)  Financial Instruments

          The Company's financial instruments consist primarily of cash,
accounts receivable, accounts payable, notes payable and long-term debt.  The
carrying amount of cash, accounts receivable, accounts payable and notes payable
approximates their fair value because of the short-term maturity of such
instruments.  Interest rates that are currently available to the Company for
issuance of long-term debt with similar terms and remaining maturities are used
to estimate the fair value of the Company's long-term debt.  The estimated fair
value of the Company's long-term debt at December 31, 1997 and 1996 was $304,307
and $371,736, compared to a carrying amount of $293,197 and $366,380,
respectively.

     (h)  Fiscal Year

          The Company ends its fiscal year on December 31. Each of the first
three quarters in the fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest the calendar
quarter end.

     (i)  Goodwill

          Goodwill arises in connection with business combinations accounted for
as purchases. Goodwill is amortized on a straight-line basis over 40 years.
Amortization charged to earnings was $1,488 in 1997 and $1,481 in 1996 and 1995.

     (j)  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

          In 1995, the Company adopted FAS No. 121, Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of, as
of January 1, 1995.  Under FAS No. 121, the Company evaluates impairment of 
long-lived assets on a business unit basis, rather than on an aggregate entity
basis, whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying
amount of such assets may not be recoverable.  If the sum of the expected future
undiscounted cash flows is less than the carrying amount of the asset, an
impairment loss is recognized.  Measurement of an impairment loss for long-lived
assets is based on the fair value of the asset.

     (k)  Effect of Accounting Pronouncement Not Yet Adopted

          In 1997, the FASB issued FAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information, which supersedes FAS No. 14, Financial
Reporting for Segments of a Business Enterprise.  This statement, which the
Company is required to adopt in fiscal year 1998, requires public companies to
report certain financial and descriptive information about their reportable
operating segments, including related disclosures about products and services,
geographic areas and major customers.  The Company does not believe the
implementation of FAS No. 131 will have a material effect on its consolidated
financial statements.

     (l)  Reclassifications

          Certain prior period financial statement balances have been
reclassified to conform with the current period's presentation.


 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)

(2)  Acquisitions

     On January 13, 1995, the Company acquired all of the issued and outstanding
capital stock of Galaxy Carpet Mills, Inc. ("Galaxy") for $42,232 in cash,
including acquisition costs.  Galaxy was a manufacturer and distributor of
broadloom carpet, primarily for the residential market.  The acquisition was
accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and, accordingly, the
purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on the estimated fair values at the date of acquisition.  The fair values
allocated were $112,583 for the assets acquired and $70,351 for the liabilities
assumed.  Galaxy's results of operations are included in the Company's 1995
consolidated statement of earnings from the date of acquisition.

     On July 23, 1997, the Company acquired certain assets of Diamond Rug &
Carpet Mills, Inc. ("Diamond") and other assets owned by Diamond's principal
shareholders for approximately $36,000, including acquisition costs, which
consisted of $19,600 in cash, at closing, $7,000 in cash over the six-month
period following closing and a $9,350 note payable in seven annual installments
of principal plus interest at 6%.  The acquisition was accomplished through a
plan of reorganization filed by Diamond under Chapter 11 of the United States
Bankruptcy Code.

(3)  Receivables

     Receivables are as follows:



(4)  Inventories

     The components of inventories are as follows:



(5)  Property, Plant and Equipment

     Following is a summary of property, plant and equipment:

 
      Property, plant and equipment includes capitalized interest of $799,
$1,180 and $2,169 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

      During 1997, the Company recorded a charge of $5,500 arising from a
revision in the estimated fair value of certain property, plant and equipment
held for sale based on current appraisals and other market information related
to a mill closing in 1995. The after-tax effect of the charge for the year was
$3,328, or $0.06 diluted earnings per share.


 

                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)

      During 1996, the Company recorded a charge of $3,060 arising from (a) the
write-down of property, plant and equipment to be disposed of related to the
closing of a manufacturing facility in 1996 and (b) a revision in the estimate
of fair value of certain property, plant and equipment based on current market
conditions related to mill closings in 1995. The after-tax effect of the charge
for the year was $1,815, or $0.04 diluted earnings per share.

      In connection with the adoption of FAS No. 121 in 1995, the Company
recorded impairment losses of $21,000 for the write-down of property, plant and
equipment to be held and used at certain mills and $2,711 for the write-down of
property, plant and equipment to be disposed of related to these mill closings.
The after-tax effect of these impairment losses for the year was $14,535, or
$0.29 diluted earnings per share. The Company primarily used a discounted cash
flow analysis to estimate the fair value of these assets.

(6) Other Assets

    The components of other assets are summarized below:



(7) Note Payable and Long-Term Debt

    In June 1996, the Company acquired certain equipment, primarily used for the
extrusion of polypropylene yarn, valued at $21,200 in exchange for a promissory
note due in April 1997. The promissory note paid interest at a variable rate
that ranged from 0.25% to 0.875% above LIBOR. The note was paid in full in
January 1997.

    On April 15, 1997, the Company amended and restated its credit agreement to
provide for an interest rate of either (i) LIBOR plus 0.2% to 0.5%, depending
upon the Company's performance measured against certain financial ratios, or
(ii) the prime rate less 1.0%. Additionally, the termination date of the credit
agreement was extended to May 15, 2002. At December 31, 1997, the Company had
credit availability of $250,000 under its revolving credit line of which
$201,200 was unused. The credit agreement contains customary financial and other
covenants and restricts cumulative dividend payments to $10,000 as adjusted
based on the Company's performance and dividend payments. The Company must pay
an annual facility fee ranging from .0015 to .0025 of the total credit
commitment, depending upon the Company's performance measured against specific
coverage ratios, under the revolving credit line.

    The capital stock of each of the Company's subsidiaries has been pledged as
collateral under the credit agreement, the term loans and the senior notes.

    Long-term debt consists of the following:
 

 


 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)
 

(8) Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses

       Accounts payable and accrued expenses are as follows:

(9) Stock Options and Stock Compensation
            
       Under the Company's 1992 and 1993 stock option plans, options may be
granted to directors and key employees through 2002 and 2003 to purchase a
maximum of 2,250 and 675 shares of common stock, respectively. During 1997,
options to purchase 43 and 22 shares, respectively, were granted under these
plans. Options granted under each of these plans expire ten years from the date
of grant and become exercisable at such dates and at prices as determined by the
Compensation Committee of the Company's Board of Directors.

       During 1996, the Company adopted the 1997 Non-Employee Director Stock
Compensation Plan. The plan provides for awards of common stock of the Company
for non-employee directors to receive in lieu of cash for their annual
retainers. During 1997, a total of 5 shares were awarded to the non-employee
directors under the plan.

       During 1997, the Board of Directors adopted the 1997 Long-Term Incentive
Plan whereby the Company reserved 2,550 shares of common stock for issuance in
connection with options and awards. As of December 31, 1997, no options or
awards were granted under the plan.

       Additional information relating to the Company's stock option plans
follows:




 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)
 

       Charges of $2,600 and $4,000 were recorded in the fourth quarter of 1997
and 1995, respectively, for income tax reimbursements to be made to certain
executives for the exercise of stock options. The income tax reimbursements were
recorded in connection with stock options granted in 1988 and 1989 related to
the Company's 1988 leveraged buyout. The agreements allowed the Company to
receive an income tax benefit on its tax return for the tax effect of the
taxable compensation provided to the individuals upon the exercise of these
options. Such income tax benefit resulted in a direct increase in stockholders'
equity of $7,606 in 1996 primarily from the exercise of these options.

          In 1995, the FASB issued FAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation, which establishes a new method of accounting for stock-based
compensation arrangements with an entity's employees. The new method is a fair
value based method rather than the intrinsic value based method prescribed by
APB No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. FAS No. 123 allows
entities to retain the current approach set forth in APB No. 25 for recognizing
stock-based compensation expense in the basic financial statements. Entities
electing to apply the provisions of APB No. 25 are required to make pro forma
disclosures of net earnings and earnings per share as if the fair value based
method had been used. The Company continues to apply the provisions of APB No.
25 for purposes of measuring compensation cost in adopting FAS No. 123. The
disclosure requirements of FAS No. 123 were effective for 1996 and 1997, but the
effect of the pro forma disclosures on the Company's results of operations for
the years presented is immaterial.

(10) Employee Benefit Plans

          The Company has a 401(k) retirement savings plan (the "Plan") open to
substantially all of its employees who have completed one year of eligible
service. The Company contributes $0.50 for every $1.00 of employee contributions
up to a maximum of 4% of the employee's salary. Employee and employer
contributions to the Plan were $9,334 and $3,075 in 1997, $6,499 and $2,132 in
1996 and $7,105 and $2,245 in 1995, respectively.

          A portion of the employees who were not eligible to participate in the
Plan participated in a defined contribution profit sharing plan through June
1997. After June 1997, the employee balances in the profit sharing plan were
rolled over into the 401(k) retirement savings plan. Contributions were
discretionary and the Company expensed $991, $2,130 and $1,875 for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

(11) Restructuring Costs

          During the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company decided to close a
spinning mill in Belton, South Carolina, the operations of which are being
consolidated into other Mohawk facilities. For the year ended December 31, 1996,
the Company recorded restructuring costs of $700 related to employee termination
benefits, environmental clean-up and other costs associated with the mill
closing. The after-tax effect of the restructuring costs for the year was $415,
or $0.01 diluted earnings per share. Additionally, in 1996 the Company made
payments of $1,125 and reclassed $5,266 to other liability or reserve accounts
in connection with mill closings in 1996 and prior years.

          During 1995, the Company closed five residential manufacturing
facilities, the operations of which are being consolidated into other Mohawk
facilities. During the year ended December 31, 1995, the Company recorded
restructuring costs of $8,439 related to employee termination benefits,
environmental clean-up and other costs associated with the mill closings. The
amount of termination benefits accrued and charged to expense was $2,250 for the
year ended December 31, 1995. The benefits accrued were for 945 employees, who
were principally involved in manufacturing operations. The amount of actual
termination benefits paid and charged against the liability as of December 31,
1995 was $2,186, covering approximately 930 employees. The after-tax effect of
the restructuring costs for the year was $5,173, or $0.10 diluted earnings per
share. Additionally, in 1995 the Company made payments of $2,308 and reclassed
$7,372 to other liability or reserve accounts in connection with mill closings
in 1995 and prior years.


 

                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)

(12) Income Taxes

          Income tax expense attributable to earnings before income taxes for
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 consists of the following:


            
         Income tax expense attributable to earnings before income taxes differs
from the amounts computed by applying the U.S. federal income tax rate of 35% to
earnings before income taxes as follows:

 
          The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 31,
1997 and 1996 are presented below:

 
          At December 31, 1997, as a result of the Galaxy acquisition, the
Company had net operating loss carryforwards for income tax purposes of $10,046.
These net operating loss carryforwards are available to offset future taxable
income, if any, and expire in 2009. Utilization of the net operating loss
carryforwards is subject to certain limitations under the Internal Revenue Code.
 

 
                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)

(13)  Commitments and Contingencies

   The Company is obligated under various operating leases for office and
manufacturing space, machinery and equipment.

   Future minimum lease payments under noncancelable operating leases (with
initial or remaining lease terms in excess of one year) at December 31, 1997
are:

 

   Rental expense under operating leases was $19,823, $17,240 and $18,249 in
1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

   In June 1994, the Company and several other carpet manufacturers received
subpoenas to produce documents from a grand jury of the United States District
Court in Atlanta. The subpoenas were requested by the Antitrust Division of the
U.S. Department of Justice in connection with an investigation of the industry.
In October 1997, the Company was notified by the U.S. Department of Justice that
such investigation by the grand jury has been closed.

   In December 1995, the Company and four other carpet manufacturers were added
as defendants in a purported class action lawsuit, In re Carpet Antitrust
Litigation, pending in the United States District Court for the Northern
District of Georgia, Rome Division. The amended complaint alleges price fixing
regarding polypropylene products in violation of Section One of the Sherman Act.
In September 1997, the Court determined that the plaintiffs met their burden of
establishing the requirements for class certification and granted the
plaintiffs' motion to certify the class. The Company is a party to two
consolidated lawsuits captioned Gaehwiler v. Sunrise Carpet Industries, Inc. et.
al. and Patco Enterprises, Inc. v. Sunrise Carpet Industries, Inc. et. al.; both
of which were filed in the Superior Court of the State of California, City and
County of San Francisco in 1996. Both complaints were brought on behalf of a
purported class of indirect purchasers of carpet in the State of California and
seek damages for alleged violations of California antitrust and unfair
competition laws. The Company believes both of these lawsuits are without merit
and intends to vigorously defend against them. The complaints filed do not
specify any amount of damages but do request for any unlawful conduct to be
enjoined and treble damages plus reimbursement for fees and costs.

(14) Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows Information

     Supplemental disclosures of cash flow information are as follows:
 


 


                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements - (Continued)

(15) Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)

     The supplemental quarterly financial data are as follows:

 


 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

  None.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
information contained in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders under the following headings: "Election of Directors--
Director, Director Nominee and Executive Officer Information"; "--Nominees for
Director"; "--Continuing Directors"; and "--Executive Officers."

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
information contained in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders under the following headings: "Executive Compensation
and Other Information--Summary of Cash and Certain Other Compensation"; "--
Option Grants"; "--Option Exercises and Holdings"; "--Pension Plans"; "--
Employment and Consulting Contracts"; and "Election of Directors--Meetings and
Committees of the Board of Directors."

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
information contained in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders under the following heading: "Executive Compensation and
Other Information--Principal Stockholders of the Company."

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

  The information required by this item is incorporated by reference to
information contained in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders under the following heading: "Executive Compensation and
Other Information--Certain Relationships and Related Transactions."


 
                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

  (a) 1. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

  The Consolidated Financial Statements of Mohawk Industries, Inc. and
subsidiaries listed in Item 8 of Part II are incorporated by reference into this
item.

  2. CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

    Schedule I-Condensed Financial Information of Registrant..........42
    Schedule II-Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts........45

  Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not applicable
or the required information is included in the consolidated financial statements
or notes thereto.

  3. EXHIBITS

  The exhibit number for the exhibit as originally filed is included in
parentheses at the end of the description.

  MOHAWK
  EXHIBIT
  NUMBER                                DESCRIPTION
  ------                                -----------

  *2.1     Amended and Restated Agreement and Plan of Merger, including exhibits
             thereto, by and among Mohawk, Horizon Acquisition Corp. and Horizon
             dated as of July 29, 1992 and amended as of September 29, 1992.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2 in Mohawk's
             Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No. 33-52542.)

  *2.2     Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of March 8, 1993 among Mohawk, John
             C. Thornton, William Robert Fowler, Dave M. Reynolds and American
             Rug Craftsmen, Inc. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 5
             in Mohawk's Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 8, 1993.)

  *2.3     Asset Purchase Agreement dated as of June 3, 1993 between Fieldcrest
             Cannon, Inc. and Mohawk (Incorporated herein by reference to
             Exhibit 5 in Mohawk's Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 3,
             1993.)

  *2.4     Agreement and Plan of Merger dated as of December 3, 1993 and amended
             as of January 17, 1994 among Mohawk, AMI Acquisition Corp., Aladdin
             and certain Shareholders of Aladdin. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 2(i)(a) in Mohawk's Registration Statement on
             Form S-4, Registration No. 33-74220.)

  *2.5     Stock Purchase Agreement by and among Mohawk, Galaxy and the
             Stockholder of Galaxy dated December 1, 1994. (Incorporated herein
             by reference to Exhibit 2 in Mohawk's Current Report on Form 8-K
             dated January 13, 1995.)

  *3.1     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Mohawk.

  *3.2     Amended and Restated Bylaws of Mohawk.

  *4.1     See Article 4 of the Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Mohawk.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.1 in Mohawk's Annual
             Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996.)


 
  *4.2     See Articles 2, 6, and 9 of the Amended and Restated Bylaws of
             Mohawk. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 3.2 in
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1996.)

  *10.1    Leases dated February 25, 1993 between Mohawk and Forsyth/Airport
             Partners & Petula Associates, Ltd. concerning Greensboro, North
             Carolina offices. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9
             of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1993.)

  *10.2    Lease dated April 18, 1984 between Horizon and William Norris Little,
             James D. Miller, Jr., and Dean Cassidy d/b/a Cassidy & Associates
             concerning Dyenamics Plant at South Industrial Boulevard in
             Calhoun, Georgia. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3
             of Horizon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             September 28, 1985 (SEC File No. 0-11492).)

  *10.3    Lease dated August 1, 1985 between Horizon and Kay D. Owens
             concerning Coater I and General Administration Offices and Plant at
             South Industrial Boulevard in Calhoun, Georgia. (Incorporated
             herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Horizon's Annual Report on
             Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 28, 1985 (SEC File
             No. 0-11492).)

  *10.4    Lease dated April 1, 1988 between Horizon and Kay D. Owens concerning
             the addition between the Tufting and Coater Buildings on South
             Industrial Boulevard in Calhoun, Georgia. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.24 in Mohawk's Registration Statement on
             Form S-1, Registration No. 33-53932.)

  *10.5    Lease dated March 22, 1978 between Horizon and John Wayne Hall and
             James S. Owens concerning the Printing Plant at South Industrial
             Boulevard in Calhoun, Georgia. (Incorporated herein by reference to
             Exhibit 10.9 of Registration Statement No. 2-84128 and to Exhibit
             10.13 of Registration Statement No. 2-87625.)

  *10.6    Lease dated December 12, 1983 between Horizon and James S. Owens
             concerning the expanded Tufting Plant at South Industrial Boulevard
             in Calhoun, Georgia. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
             10.12.1 of Horizon's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
             ended October 1, 1983 (SEC File No. 0-11492).)

  *10.7    Lease dated June 1, 1991 between Horizon and Don R. Owens concerning
             the Maintenance Plant at South Industrial Boulevard in Calhoun,
             Georgia. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.27 in the
             Registrant's Form S-1 Registration No. 33-53932.)

  *10.8    Lease dated September 1, 1991 between Horizon and Don R. Owens
             concerning the Roll Storage Plant at South Industrial Boulevard in
             Calhoun, Georgia. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
             10.28 in Mohawk's Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration
             No. 33-53932.)

  *10.9    Lease dated June 1, 1992 between Horizon and Don R. Owens concerning
             the Roll Storage Plant at South Industrial Boulevard in Calhoun,
             Georgia. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 in
             Mohawk's Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-
             53932.)

  *10.10   Lease dated October 1, 1992 between Horizon and Don R. Owens
             concerning two additions to the Maintenance Plant at South
             Industrial Boulevard in Calhoun, Georgia. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.30 in Mohawk's Registration Statement on
             Form S-1, Registration No. 33-53932.)


 
  *10.11   Lease dated August 15, 1989 between Joan Jones Webb and assigns and
             Aladdin related to a finished goods distribution warehouse in
             Miami, Florida. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.27
             of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1993.)

  *10.12   Lease dated October 15, 1990 between NBD Trust Company of Illinois
             and Aladdin related to a finished goods distribution warehouse in
             Romeoville, Illinois. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
             10.28 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
             ended December 31, 1993.)

  *10.13   Lease dated June 21, 1994 between Ventura County Employees'
             Retirement Association and Aladdin related to a finished goods
             distribution warehouse in Fullerton, California. (Incorporated
             herein by reference to Exhibit 10.28 of Mohawk's Annual Report on
             Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.)

  *10.14   Lease dated October 3, 1994 between Almoda and Aladdin related to a
             finished goods distribution warehouse in Columbus, Ohio.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.29 of Mohawk's
             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1994.)

  *10.15   Lease dated March 31, 1994 between Alfred Sanzari and Aladdin related
             to a finished goods distribution warehouse in Elmwood Park, New
             Jersey. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.30 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1994.)

  *10.16   Lease dated May 1, 1994 between Columbware Associates and Aladdin
             related to a finished goods distribution warehouse in Jessup,
             Maryland. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.31 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1994.)

  *10.17   Lease dated January 7, 1994, as amended January 18, 1994, between
             Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company and Aladdin related to a
             finished goods distribution warehouse in Grand Prairie, Texas.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.32 of Mohawk's
             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1994.)

  *10.18   Lease dated November 21, 1994 between Roundup Co. and Aladdin related
             to a finished goods distribution warehouse in Kent, Washington.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.33 of Mohawk's
             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1994.)

  *10.19   Lease dated October 17, 1994 between Ventura County Employees'
             Retirement Association and Aladdin related to a finished goods
             distribution warehouse in Kent, Washington. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.34 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.)

  *10.20   Lease dated March 1, 1994 between Design Leasing and Holding Company,
             Inc. and American Rug Craftsmen, Inc. related to a manufacturing
             facility and warehouse in Calhoun, Georgia. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.35 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.)
             
  *10.21   Consolidated Amended and Restated Note Agreement dated as of
             September 3, 1993 for $70 million of senior notes, including $20
             million uncommitted shelf facility, among Mohawk, Mohawk Carpet and
             The Prudential Insurance Company of America. (Incorporated herein
             by reference to Exhibit 10.2 in Mohawk's quarterly report on Form
             10-Q for the quarter ended October 2, 1993.)

  *10.22   Letter dated February 24, 1994 amending the Consolidated, Amended and
             Restated Note Agreement dated September 3, 1993 among Mohawk,
             Mohawk Carpet and The Prudential Insurance Company 


 
             of America. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1993.)

  *10.23   Letter dated as of September 16, 1994 of the Second Modification to
             the Consolidated, Amended and Restated Note Agreement dated
             September 3, 1993 among Mohawk, Mohawk Carpet Corporation and The
             Prudential Insurance Company of America. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
             for the quarter ended October 1, 1994.)

  *10.24   Letter dated as of July 19, 1995 of the Third Modification to the
             Consolidated, Amended and Restated Note Agreement dated as of
             September 3, 1993 among Mohawk, Mohawk Carpet Corporation and The
             Prudential Insurance Company of America. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.6 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
             for the quarter ended September 30, 1995.)

  *10.25   Letter dated as of September 29, 1995 of the Fourth Modification to
             the Consolidated, Amended and Restated Note Agreement dated as of
             September 3, 1993 among Mohawk, Mohawk Manufacturing Corporation
             (f/k/a Mohawk Carpet Corporation) and The Prudential Insurance
             Company of America. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
             10.10 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
             ended September 30, 1995.)

  *10.26   Letter dated as of March 12, 1996 of the Fifth Modification to the
             Consolidated, Amended and Restated Note Agreement dated September
             3, 1993 among Mohawk, Mohawk Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a
             Mohawk Carpet Corporation) and The Prudential Insurance Company of
             America. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.26 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1995.)

  *10.27   Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January 13,
             1995 among Mohawk Carpet, Mohawk, Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A.
             and First Union National Bank of Georgia. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.)

  *10.28   Third Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of April 15,
             1997 among Mohawk Aladdin Manufacturing Corporation, Wachovia Bank
             of Georgia, N.A. and First Union National Bank of Georgia.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10 of Mohawk's
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 29,
             1997.)

  *10.29   First Amendatory Agreement dated as of June 23, 1995 to the Second
             Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January 13, 1995
             among Mohawk Carpet Corporation, Mohawk, Wachovia Bank of Georgia,
             N.A. and First Union National Bank of Georgia. (Incorporated herein
             by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q for the quarter ended July 1, 1995.)

  *10.30   Second Amendatory Agreement and Waiver dated as of July 19, 1995 to
             the Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of
             January 13, 1995 among Mohawk Carpet Corporation, Mohawk, Wachovia
             Bank of Georgia, N.A. and First Union National Bank of Georgia.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Mohawk's
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
             1995.)

  *10.31   Third Amendatory Agreement dated as of September 28, 1995 to the
             Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January
             13, 1995 among Mohawk Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk
             Carpet Corporation), Mohawk, Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A. and
             First Union National Bank of Georgia. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
             for the quarter ended September 30, 1995.)


 
  *10.32   Fourth Amendatory Agreement dated as of December 22, 1995 to the
             Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January
             13, 1995 among Mohawk Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk
             Carpet Corporation), Mohawk, Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A. and
             First Union National Bank of Georgia. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.31 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.)

  *10.33   Fifth Amendatory Agreement dated as of December 31, 1995 to the
             Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January
             13, 1995 among Mohawk Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk
             Carpet Corporation), Mohawk, Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A. and
             First Union National Bank of Georgia. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.32 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.)

  *10.34   Sixth Amendatory Agreement dated as of December 31, 1996 to the
             Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement dated as of January
             13, 1995 among Aladdin Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk
             Manufacturing Corporation and prior to that known as Mohawk Carpet
             Corporation), Mohawk, Wachovia Bank of Georgia, N.A. and First
             Union National Bank of Georgia.
              
  *10.35   Note Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for 9.5% Senior
             Notes due April 1, 1998 among Mohawk Carpet, Mohawk, Horizon,
             American Rug Craftsmen, Burton Carpets & Rugs, Inc. and The
             Harbinger Company, Inc., and Alexander Hamilton Life Insurance
             Company of America, Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, The
             Franklin Life Insurance Company and Principal Mutual Life Insurance
             Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.5 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1993.)

  *10.36   First Amendment and Waiver Agreement dated as of February 25, 1994 of
             the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for 9.5%
             Senior Notes due April 1, 1998 among Mohawk Carpet, Mohawk,
             American Rug Craftsmen, Inc., Burton Carpets & Rugs, Inc., Aladdin,
             Mohawk Marketing, Inc., Alexander Hamilton Life Insurance Company
             of America, Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, Principal
             Mutual Life Insurance Company and The Franklin Life Insurance
             Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.6 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1993.)

  *10.37   Second and Third Amendment Agreements dated as of September 16, 1994
             of the Note PurchaseAgreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for 9.5%
             Senior Notes due April 1, 1998 among the Company, Mohawk Carpet
             Corporation, American Rug Craftsmen, Aladdin, Mohawk Marketing,
             Inc., Alexander Hamilton Life Insurance Company of America,
             Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, The Franklin Life
             Insurance Company and Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Mohawk's
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1,
             1994.)

  *10.38   Fourth Amendment and Waiver Agreement dated as of July 19, 1995 of
             the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for 9.5%
             Senior Notes due April 1, 1998 among Mohawk Carpet Corporation,
             Mohawk, Aladdin Mills, Inc., Mohawk Marketing, Inc., Galaxy Carpet
             Mills, Inc., Mohawk Mills, Inc., Mohawk Manufacturing Corporation,
             Alexander Hamilton Life Insurance Company of America, Connecticut
             Mutual Life Insurance Company, The Franklin Life Insurance Company
             and Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company. (Incorporated herein
             by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995.)

  *10.39   Fifth Amendment Agreement dated as of September 29, 1995 of the Note
             Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for 9.5% Senior
             Notes due April 1, 1998 among Mohawk Manufacturing Corporation
             (f/k/a Mohawk Carpet Corporation), Mohawk, Aladdin Mills, Inc.,
             Mohawk Marketing, Inc., Galaxy Carpet Mills, Inc., Mohawk Mills,
             Inc., Mohawk Carpet Corporation, Alexander 


 
             Hamilton Life Insurance Company of America, Connecticut Mutual Life
             Insurance Company, American General Life Insurance Company and
             Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.7 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
             for the quarter ended September 30, 1995.)

  *10.40   Sixth Amendment Agreements dated as of March 12, 1996 of the Note
             Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for 9.5% Senior
             Notes due April 1, 1998 among the Company, Mohawk Manufacturing
             Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk Carpet Corporation), Aladdin, Mohawk
             Marketing, Inc., Galaxy Carpet Mills, Inc., Mohawk Mills, Inc.,
             Mohawk Carpet Corporation, Alexander Hamilton Life Insurance
             Company of America, Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, The
             Franklin Life Insurance Company and Principal Mutual Life Insurance
             Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.38 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1995.)

  *10.41   Note Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for $85 million
             of Senior Notes due September 1, 2005 among Mohawk Carpet, Mohawk,
             Horizon, American Rug Craftsmen, Burton Carpets & Rugs, Inc. and
             The Harbinger Company, Inc., and John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
             Company, John Hancock Variable Life Insurance Company, John Hancock
             Life Insurance Company of America, Principal Mutual Life Insurance
             Company, Principal National Life Insurance Company, UNUM Life
             Insurance Company of America and The Franklin Life Insurance
             Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1993.)

  *10.42   First Amendment and Waiver Agreement dated as of February 25, 1994 of
             the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for $85
             million Senior Notes due September 1, 2005 among Mohawk Carpet,
             Mohawk, American Rug Craftsmen, Inc., Burton Carpets & Rugs, Inc.,
             Aladdin, Mohawk Marketing, Inc., John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance
             Company, John Hancock Variable Life Insurance Company, John Hancock
             Life Insurance Company of America, Principal Mutual Life Insurance
             Company, Principal National Life Insurance Company, UNUM Life
             Insurance Company and The Franklin Life Insurance Company.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of Mohawk's
             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1993.)

  *10.43   Second and Third Amendment Agreements dated as of September 16, 1994
             of the Note PurchaseAgreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for $85
             million Senior Notes due September 1, 2005 among the Company,
             Mohawk Carpet Corporation, American Rug Craftsmen, Aladdin, Mohawk
             Marketing, Inc., John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, John
             Hancock Variable Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Life
             Insurance Company of America, Principal Mutual Life Insurance
             Company, Principal National Life Insurance Company, UNUM Life
             Insurance Company and The Franklin Life Insurance Company.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of Mohawk's
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended October 1,
             1994.)

  *10.44   Fourth Amendment and Waiver Agreement dated as of July 19, 1995 of
             the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for $85
             million of Senior Notes due September 1, 2005 among Mohawk Carpet
             Corporation, Mohawk, Aladdin Mills, Inc., Mohawk Marketing, Inc.,
             Galaxy Carpet Mills, Inc., Mohawk Mills, Inc., Mohawk Manufacturing
             Corporation, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, John
             Hancock Variable Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Life
             Insurance Company of America, Principal Mutual Life Insurance
             Company, UNUM Life Insurance Company of America and The Franklin
             Life Insurance Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to
             Exhibit 10.4 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1995.)

  *10.45   Fifth Amendment Agreement dated as of September 29, 1995 of the Note
             Purchase Agreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for $85 million of
             Senior Notes due September 1, 2005 among Mohawk 


 
             Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk Carpet Corporation),
             Mohawk, Aladdin Mills, Inc., Mohawk Marketing, Inc., Galaxy Carpet
             Mills, Inc., Mohawk Mills, Inc., Mohawk Carpet Corporation, John
             Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Variable Life
             Insurance Company, John Hancock Life Insurance Company of America,
             Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company, UNUM Life Insurance
             Company of America and American General Life Insurance Company.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of Mohawk's
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30,
             1995.)

  *10.46   Sixth Amendment Agreement dated as of March 12, 1996 of the Note
             PurchaseAgreement dated as of August 15, 1993 for $85 million
             Senior Notes due September 1, 2005 among the Company, Mohawk
             Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk Carpet Corporation),
             Aladdin, Mohawk Marketing, Inc.,Galaxy Carpet Mills, Inc., Mohawk
             Mills, Inc., Mohawk Carpet Corporation, John Hancock Mutual Life
             Insurance Company, John Hancock Variable Life Insurance Company,
             John Hancock Life Insurance Company of America, Principal Mutual
             Life Insurance Company, Principal National Life Insurance Company,
             UNUM Life Insurance Company and The Franklin Life Insurance
             Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.44 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1995.)

  *10.47   Note Purchase Agreement dated as of September 16, 1994 for $100
             million of Senior Notes due September 16, 2004 among the Company,
             Mohawk Carpet Corporation, American Rug Craftsmen, Aladdin, Mohawk
             Marketing, Inc., The Prudential Insurance Company of America,
             Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Mutual Life
             Insurance Company, Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company,
             Alexander Hamilton Life Insurance Company of America and The
             Franklin Life Insurance Company. (Incorporated herein by reference
             to Exhibit 4.1 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended October 1, 1994.)

  *10.48   Letter dated as of July 19, 1995 of the First Modification to the
             Note Purchase Agreement dated as of September 16, 1994 for $100
             million of Senior Notes due September 16, 2004 among Mohawk, Mohawk
             Carpet Corporation, The Prudential Insurance Company of America,
             Principal Mutual Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Mutual Life
             Insurance Company, Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company,
             Alexander Hamilton Life Insurance Company of America and The
             Franklin Life Insurance Company. (Incorporated herein by reference
             to Exhibit 10.5 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1995.)

  *10.49   Letter dated as of September 29, 1995 of the Second Modification to
             the Note Purchase Agreement dated as of September 16, 1994 for $100
             million of Senior Notes due September 16, 2004 among Mohawk, Mohawk
             Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk Carpet Corporation), The
             Prudential Insurance Company of America, Principal Mutual Life
             Insurance Company, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company,
             Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, Alexander Hamilton Life
             Insurance Company of America and American General Insurance
             Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.9 of
             Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
             September 30, 1995.)

  *10.50   Letter dated as of March 12, 1996 of the Third Modification to the
             Note Purchase Agreement dated as of September 16, 1994 for $100
             million of Senior Notes due September 16, 2004 among Mohawk, Mohawk
             Manufacturing Corporation (f/k/a Mohawk Carpet Corporation), The
             Prudential Insurance Company of America, Principal Mutual Life
             Insurance Company, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company,
             Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, Alexander Hamilton Life
             Insurance Company of America and American General Insurance
             Company. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.48 of
             Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
             December 31, 1995.)


 
  *10.51   Second Amended and Restated Intercreditor Agreement among the
             Collateral Agent, First UnionNational Bank of Georgia, Wachovia
             Bank of Georgia, N.A., The Prudential Insurance Company of America,
             John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Variable
             Life Insurance Company, John Hancock Life Insurance Company of
             America, Principal Mutual Life InsuranceCompany, Principal National
             Life Insurance Company, UNUM Life Insurance Company, The Franklin
             Life Insurance Company, Alexander Hamilton Life Insurance Company
             of America and Connecticut Mutual Life Insurance Company, and the
             related Amended and Restated Security Agreements dated as of
             September 16, 1994 between the Collateral Agent for the benefit of
             the parties to that Intercreditor Agreement and the Company and
             Mohawk Carpet Corporation. (Incorporated herein by reference to
             Exhibit 10.5 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended October 1, 1994.)

  *10.52   Registration Rights Agreement by and among Mohawk, Citicorp
             Investments, Inc., ML-Lee Acquisition Fund, L.P. and Certain
             Management Investors. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
             10.14 of Mohawk's Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration
             No. 33-45418.)

  *10.53   Voting Agreement, Consent of Stockholders and Amendment to 1992
             Registration Rights Agreement dated December 3, 1993 by and among
             Aladdin, Mohawk, Citicorp Investments, Inc., ML-Lee Acquisition
             Fund, L.P., David L. Kolb, Donald G. Mercer, Frank A. Procopio and
             John D. Swift. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10(b)
             of Mohawk's Registration Statement on Form S-4, Registration No. 
             33-74220.)

  *10.54   Registration Rights Agreement by and among Mohawk and the former
             shareholders of Aladdin. (Incorporated herein by reference to
             Exhibit 10.32 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
             year ended December 31, 1993.)

  *10.55   Waiver Agreement between Alan S. Lorberbaum and Mohawk dated as of
             March 23, 1994 to the Registration Rights Agreement dated as of
             February 25, 1994 between Mohawk and those other persons who are
             signatories thereto. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
             10.3 of Mohawk's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
             ended July 2, 1994.)

Exhibits Related to Executive Compensation Plans, Contracts and other
Arrangements:

  *10.56   Mohawk Carpet Corporation Retirement Savings Plan, as amended.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Mohawk's
             Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-45418.)

  *10.57   Mohawk Carpet Corporation Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan, as
             amended. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
             Mohawk's Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-
             45418.)

  *10.58   Mohawk Industries, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan together with
             forms of related Management Investment Agreement, Non-Qualified
             Stock Option Agreement, and amendments thereto. (Incorporated
             herein by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of Mohawk's Registration
             Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-45418.)

  *10.59   Stock Purchase Agreement dated as of December 30, 1988 between Mohawk
             and Mohasco as supplemented by Supplement to Stock Purchase
             Agreement dated December 30, 1988. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.4 of Mohawk's Registration Statement on
             Form S-1, Registration No. 33-45418.)

  *10.60   Securities Purchase and Holders Agreement dated as of December 31,
             1988, as amended and restated March 30, 1989, together with
             amendments thereto and forms of related Non-Qualified Stock Option


 
             Agreement and amendments thereto. (Incorporated herein by reference
             to Exhibit 10.5 of Mohawk's Registration Statement on Form S-1,
             Registration No. 33-45418.)

  *10.61   Investment Agreement dated as of March 31, 1989 among Mohawk, Mohawk
             Carpet, Citicorp Capital Investors Ltd., Citicorp Venture Capital
             Ltd. and ML-Lee Acquisition Fund, L.P. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.6 of Mohawk's Registration Statement on
             Form S-1, Registration No. 33-45418.)

  *10.62   Equity Securities Agreement dated March 31, 1989 among Mohawk, ML-Lee
             Acquisition Fund, L.P. and Citicorp Venture Capital Ltd.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.7 of Mohawk's
             Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration No. 33-45418.)

  *10.63   Securities Holders Agreement among Mohawk and Certain Management
             Investors dated as of March 6, 1992. (Incorporated herein by
             reference to Exhibit 10.40 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-K
             for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1993.)

  *10.64   Mohawk Industries, Inc. 1992 Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated herein
             by reference to Exhibit 10.8 of Mohawk's Registration Statement on
             Form S-1, Registration No. 33-45418.)

  *10.65   Amendment dated July 22, 1993 to the Mohawk Industries, Inc. 1992
             Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit
             10.2 in Mohawk's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
             ended July 3, 1993.)

  *10.66   Mohawk Industries, Inc. 1992 Mohawk-Horizon Stock Option Plan.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.15 of Mohawk's
             Registration Statement on Form S-1, Registration Number 33-53932.)

  *10.67   Amendment dated July 22, 1993 to the Mohawk Industries, Inc. 1992
             Mohawk-Horizon Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated herein by reference
             to Exhibit 10.1 of Mohawk's quarterly report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended July 3, 1993.)

  *10.68   Mohawk Industries, Inc. 1993 Stock Option Plan. (Incorporated herein
             by reference to Exhibit 10.39 of Mohawk's Annual Report on Form 10-
             K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1992.)

  *10.69   Form of Promissory Note between Mohawk and each of the following;
             David L. Kolb, John D. Swift and Frank A. Procopio. (Incorporated
             herein by reference to Exhibit 10.75 of Mohawk's Annual Report on
             Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995.)

  *10.70   The Mohawk Industries, Inc. Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.65 of Mohawk's
             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1994.)

  *10.71   The Mohawk Industries, Inc. Management Deferred Compensation Plan.
             (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 10.66 of Mohawk's
             Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 31,
             1994.)

  *10.72   1997 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan.

  *10.73   1997 Long-Term Incentive Plan.

   10.74   Amendment No. 1 to 1997 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation
             Plan.

   11      Statement re: Computation of Per Share Earnings.


 
   21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

   23.1    Independent Auditors' Consent - KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.

   27  Financial Data Schedule.
________
  *  Indicates exhibit incorporated by reference.


  (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

  1.   Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 23, 1997.
  2.   Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 5, 1998.


 
                                   SIGNATURES

  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON ITS
BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                    Mohawk Industries, Inc.

Dated: March 14, 1998
                                 By:         /s/  David L. Kolb
                                      ------------------------------------------
                                                  David L. Kolb,
                                      Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
                                                     Officer

  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.


Dated: March 14, 1998                        /s/  David L. Kolb
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                                  David L. Kolb,
                                    Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
                                                    Officer
                                          (principal executive officer)



Dated: March 14, 1998                        /s/  John D. Swift
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                                  John D. Swift,
                                 Chief Financial Officer, Vice President-Finance
                                             and Assistant Secretary
                                   (principal financial and accounting officer)



Dated: March 14, 1998                        /s/  Leo Benatar
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                                  Leo Benatar,
                                                    Director


Dated: March 14, 1998                        /s/  Bruce C. Bruckmann
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                                  Bruce C. Bruckmann,
                                                     Director


Dated: March 14, 1998                        /s/ Alan S. Lorberbaum
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                                 Alan S. Lorberbaum,
                                                      Director


Dated: March 14, 1998                        /s/ Jeffrey S. Lorberbaum
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                                 Jeffrey S. Lorberbaum,
                                                       Director


Dated: March 14, 1998                        /s/ Larry W. McCurdy
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                                 Larry W. McCurdy,
                                                    Director


Dated: March 14, 1998                        /s/ Robert N. Pokelwaldt
                                 -----------------------------------------------
                                                 Robert N. Pokelwaldt,
                                                      Director


 
                                                                      SCHEDULE I

                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 Condensed Financial Information Of Registrant
                            Mohawk Industries, Inc.

                                Balance Sheets

                          December 31, 1997 and 1996

                     (In thousands, except per share data)
 


 
                                                                  SCHEDULE I
                                                                  (continued)


                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 Condensed Financial Information Of Registrant
                            Mohawk Industries, Inc.

                            Statements of Earnings

                 Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                                (In thousands)




 
                                                                     SCHEDULE I
                                                                     (continued)



                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 Condensed Financial Information Of Registrant
                            Mohawk Industries, Inc.

                           Statements of Cash Flows

                 Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                                (In thousands)



 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                   MOHAWK INDUSTRIES, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES

                Consolidated Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

                 Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995

                                (In thousands)

 
_______________
(1) Purchase price allocated to valuation accounts in connection with
    acquisitions.

(2) Represents charge offs, net of recoveries, to the reserves.


 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

    MOHAWK
    EXHIBIT
    NUMBER                                DESCRIPTION
    ------                                -----------

   10.74  Amendment No. 1 to 1997 Non-Employee Director Stock Compensation Plan.

   11     Statement re: Computation of Per Share Earnings.

   21     Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

   23.1   Independent Auditors' Consent - KPMG Peat Marwick LLP.

   27     Financial Data Schedule.

