
10-K405
FORM 10-K405 FOR FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 28, 1997



 
================================================================================
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 28, 1997
 
                                       OR
[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
         FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM _____________ TO _____________
 
                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-8703
 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE (714) 932-5000
 
                   REGISTRANT'S WEB SITE: HTTP://WWW.WDC.COM
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
        SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES [X]  NO [ ]
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]
 
     As of August 23, 1997, the aggregate market value of the voting stock of
the Registrant held by non-affiliates of the Registrant was $4.6 billion.
 
     As of August 23, 1997, the number of outstanding shares of Common Stock,
par value $.01 per share, of the Registrant was 87,172,541.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Information required by Part III is incorporated by reference to portions
of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders,
which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after the close of the 1997 fiscal year.
 
================================================================================

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
                      INDEX TO ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED JUNE 28, 1997
 

 

 
     THE INFORMATION CONTAINED IN THIS REPORT INCLUDES FORWARD-LOOKING
STATEMENTS. WHEN USED IN THIS REPORT, THE WORDS "ANTICIPATES," "BELIEVES,"
"EXPECTS," "INTENDS," "FORECASTS," "PLANS," "FUTURE," "STRATEGY," OR WORDS OF
SIMILAR IMPORT ARE INTENDED TO IDENTIFY FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. OTHER
STATEMENTS OF THE COMPANY'S PLANS AND OBJECTIVES MAY ALSO BE CONSIDERED TO BE
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. SUCH STATEMENTS ARE SUBJECT TO CERTAIN RISKS AND
UNCERTAINTIES WHICH COULD CAUSE ACTUAL RESULTS TO DIFFER MATERIALLY FROM THOSE
EXPRESSED IN THE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS. READERS ARE CAUTIONED NOT TO PLACE
UNDUE RELIANCE ON THESE FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS, WHICH SPEAK ONLY AS OF THE
DATE HEREOF. THE COMPANY UNDERTAKES NO OBLIGATION TO PUBLISH REVISED
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS TO REFLECT EVENTS OR CIRCUMSTANCES AFTER THE DATE
HEREOF OR TO REFLECT THE OCCURRENCE OF UNANTICIPATED EVENTS. READERS ARE URGED
TO CAREFULLY REVIEW AND CONSIDER THE VARIOUS DISCLOSURES MADE BY THE COMPANY TO
ADVISE INTERESTED PARTIES OF CERTAIN RISKS AND OTHER FACTORS THAT MAY AFFECT THE
COMPANY'S BUSINESS AND OPERATING RESULTS, INCLUDING THE DISCLOSURES MADE UNDER
THE CAPTION "MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS" IN THIS REPORT, AS WELL AS THE COMPANY'S OTHER PERIODIC
REPORTS ON FORMS 10-K, 10-Q AND 8-K FILED WITH THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE
COMMISSION.
 
     The Company's fiscal year is a 52 or 53-week year ending on the Saturday
nearest June 30. Accordingly, the 1995, 1996 and 1997 fiscal years ended on July
1, June 29, and June 28, respectively.
 
     Unless otherwise indicated, references herein to specific years and
quarters are to the Company's fiscal years and fiscal quarters.
 
     The Company's principal executive offices are located at 8105 Irvine Center
Drive, Irvine, California 92618; its telephone number is (714) 932-5000 and its
web site is http://www.wdc.com.
 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Western Digital Corporation (the "Company" or "Western Digital") designs,
develops, manufactures and markets hard drives for use in computer systems
ranging from notebook and desktop personal computers ("PC") to high-performance
workstations, LAN servers and multi-user ("enterprise") systems. The Company is
one of the top three independent manufacturers of hard drives.
 
     The Company's product lines include 3.5-inch form factor hard drives for
desktop PC systems ("WD Caviar"), 3.5-inch form factor hard drives for
enterprise systems ("WD Enterprise"), and 3.0-inch form factor hard drives for
mobile PCs ("WD Portfolio"). The WD Caviar family of products offers storage
capacities ranging from 1.2 gigabytes to 5.1 gigabytes ("GB"). These hard drives
utilize the Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics ("EIDE") interface.
 
     The Company began shipping the WD Enterprise class of products in 1997. The
WD Enterprise product line currently offers hard drives with storage capacities
of 2.1 GB and 4.3 GB and the Company intends to begin shipments of a 9 GB WD
Enterprise hard drive in 1998. These products use the 3.5-inch form factor and
the Small Computer System Interface ("SCSI") required by the
processing-intensive, multi-tasking workstation, LAN server and multi-user
system marketplace.
 
     In 1997, Western Digital also began shipping a new product designed for
mobile PCs. The WD Portfolio product line is a low profile, 3.0-inch form factor
hard drive offering capacities from 1 GB to 2.1 GB.
 

 
MARKETS
 
     The global market for hard drive products is divided into three major
markets: (1) desktop PC systems, (2) mobile PCs, and (3) workstation systems and
server/multi-user systems. Each market has unique characteristics that affect
hard drive requirements, but all of them require hard drive manufacturers to
continually offer more storage capacity to meet the needs of increasingly
sophisticated users. The Company expects that new operating systems, desktop
publishing, video editing, database management, and the explosion of the
Internet will continue to drive growth in demand for data storage capacity.
 
     The Company believes that the computer industry, of which the hard drive
industry is a part, is maturing. Overall computer industry growth rates are
beginning to slow somewhat although the industry is still experiencing double
digit year-over-year growth in both unit shipments and revenues.
 
     Hard drives are sold as components in computer systems and as upgrade
components to end-users. Accordingly, the hard drive market is closely aligned
with the PC market but, because of sales in the end-user upgrade market, the
hard drive market is currently growing faster than the PC market in general.
 
  Desktop PC Market
 
     The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets hard drives to meet
the storage needs of desktop PC systems. The desktop component of the worldwide
personal computing market represented greater than 75% of all hard drives
shipped by the industry in calendar 1996. Over 90% of Western Digital's hard
drive unit shipments in 1997 were sold to this market. Desktop personal
computers for entry level to experienced users are used in both commercial and
consumer environments.
 
     The WD Caviar family's model uses common platforms for various products
with different capacities to serve the differing needs of the desktop PC market.
This platform strategy results in commonality of components across different
products, which reduces exposure to changes in demand, facilitates inventory
management and allows the Company to achieve lower costs through economies of
scale purchasing. The platform strategy also enables non-retail customers to
leverage their qualification efforts onto successive product models. The WD
Caviar family's product strategy helped Western Digital capture the number two
desktop supplier position in calendar year 1996.
 
  Enterprise Market
 
     The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets hard drives to meet
the demanding storage needs of enterprise systems. Workstations include high
performance microcomputers, technical workstations, servers, and minicomputers.
Enterprise systems typically require higher performance hard drives with a
minimum of 2 GB of storage capacity. Data integrity is paramount in this
environment. Performance of the hard drive is also important because the
multi-user environment requires rapid access to data. Western Digital serves
this component of the market with the WD Enterprise hard drives.
 
  Mobile PC Market
 
     The mobile PC market is characterized by desktop-type computing performance
in a smaller "footprint" to allow portability of the system. The mobile PC
market has different classes of products, such as laptop, notebook and
sub-notebook computers, all of which have differing "footprints" to accommodate
their respective system features. The nature of the smaller "footprint" requires
a smaller hard drive that is rugged enough to sustain the shocks resulting from
portability of the system. Most portable computers utilize a 2.5-inch form
factor hard drive and, therefore, have less storage capacity than desktop PC
systems. The WD Portfolio product line utilizes a 3.0-inch form factor and
provides desktop-like capacities while maintaining the durability, power and
weight characteristics of its competitors' current mobile product offerings.
 
     The mobile hard drive market is unique in that it is dominated by two large
suppliers, IBM and Toshiba, which supply to themselves and the market. It is
also different from either the desktop or enterprise markets in that there are
almost no sales to the distribution or retail channel. Approximately ninety-five
percent of mobile
 

 
hard drives are sold to original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") or their
subcontractors. These factors make a successful time-to-market strategy critical
for success.
 
  Potential Change in Market
 
     The information services business community is currently debating the "thin
client architecture" or "Net PC" model, which emphasizes central servers for
data storage and reduces the need for local desktop storage. The Company expects
that widespread conversion to this model, if it occurs, would increase demand
for enterprise storage products, which the Company recently began distributing,
and reduce demand for desktop storage products, which have been the Company's
strength. The WD Enterprise product line is the primary component of the
Company's strategic plan to prepare for the possibility of widespread adoption
of the thin client architecture.
 
PRODUCTS
 
     Revenues from hard drive products were $1.9, $2.8, and $4.2 billion for
1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. Revenues from microcomputer products were
$191.0 million and $70.1 million for 1995 and 1996, respectively. (The Company
sold its microcomputer products businesses in 1996.)
 
  Technology and Product Development
 
     Hard drives are used to record, store and retrieve digital data. Their
performance attributes are currently better than floppy disks, optical disk
drives and tape, and more cost effective than semiconductor technology. The
primary measures of hard drive performance include:
 
          "Storage capacity" -- the amount of data that can be stored on the
     hard drive -- commonly expressed in gigabytes.
 
          "Average seek time" -- the time needed to position the heads over a
     selected track on the disk surface -- commonly expressed in milliseconds.
 
          "Internal data transfer rate" -- the rate at which data is transferred
     to and from the disk -- commonly expressed in megabits per second.
 
          "Spindle rotational speed" -- the rotational speed of the disks inside
     the hard drive -- commonly expressed in revolutions per minute.
 
     All of the Company's hard drive products employ similar technology
consisting of one or more rigid disks attached to a spindle assembly which
rotates the disks at a constant speed around a hub. The rate at which the disks
spin affects the drive performance -- generally, the faster the disks spin the
higher the performance. The disks, or media, are where the actual data is stored
and retrieved. Each disk typically consists of a substrate of finely machined
aluminum or glass on which is deposited a thin layer of magnetic material.
 
     One read/write head is generally associated with each side of each disk and
flies just above its surface. The heads are attached to arms that are linked
together to form the head stack assembly. Guided by instructions from the
internal controller, the head stack assembly is pivoted and swung across the
disk by a head actuator or motor until it reaches the selected track of a disk,
where the data is recorded or retrieved. The hard drive communicates with the
computer through its internal controller, which controls the drive and
interfaces with the host computer. There are several industry standard
interfaces which can be used, including SCSI (Small Computer System Interface),
EIDE (Enhanced Integrated Drive Electronics), and FC-AL (Fibre Channel
Arbitrated Loop). As drive performance improves, the hard drive will deliver
information faster than these current interfaces can handle. Accordingly, the
industry plans to transition to high speed serial interfaces such as 1394 to
handle the higher speed drives. The Company is working to develop products that
will support the new 1394 interface, which is anticipated to replace EIDE as the
new industry standard for PCs.
 
     Storage capacity of the hard drive is determined by the number of disks and
the hard drive's areal density, which is a measure of the amount of data that
can be stored on the recording surface of the disk. Areal density
 

 
is generally measured in megabits per square inch of disk surface. The higher
the areal density, the more information can be stored on a single platter. The
Company employs a range of advanced technologies to achieve high densities,
including PRML (Partial Response Maximum Likelihood) read/write channels,
advanced servo systems, and close contact heads.
 
     Western Digital plans to continue to increase areal densities of its hard
drive products to meet the growing storage demands created by more sophisticated
applications and users. Head technology is one of the variables affecting areal
density. The Company is in the process of introducing new products with magneto-
resistive ("MR") head technology, which allows significantly higher storage
capacities than thin film or metal-in-gap head technologies. Some of the
Company's competitors introduced products with MR heads last year, but Western
Digital has taken a deliberate, planned approach for its transition to MR heads,
thereby allowing it to take advantage of the hard drive industry's MR technology
learning curve. The Company's suppliers and customers have now had substantial
experience with MR-based products, and Western Digital expects to benefit from
that experience. MR is the current technology transition for heads, media and
related components, similar to metal-in-gap and thin film in the past, and
eventually, as technology evolves, MR heads are expected to be replaced by the
next head technology.
 
     For additional discussion of MR head technology transition, refer to Part
II, Item 7, Risk Factors Affecting the Company and/or the Hard Drive
Industry -- Development and Production of Drives with MR Recording Heads.
 
  Product Offerings
 
     The Company's three categories of hard drive products (WD Caviar, WD
Portfolio, and WD Enterprise products) are designed to serve three distinct
areas of the hard drive market. The WD Caviar family consists of 1.0" high,
3.5-inch form factor products with capacities ranging from 1.2 GB to 5.1 GB for
the desktop personal computer market. The WD Caviar products feature CacheFlow,
the Company's proprietary adaptive disk caching system, which enhances the
drive's read/write performance as measured by the rate at which it can deliver
information to or receive information from the computer. The WD Caviar products
utilize the EIDE interface, providing high performance while retaining ease of
use and overall low cost of connection.
 
     Introduced in 1996, the WD Portfolio family consists of 10.5mm high,
3.0-inch form factor hard drives with capacities ranging from 1.0 GB to 2.1 GB
for the mobile PC market. WD Portfolio products are designed to fit into the
smaller cabinets of portable computers, yet feature most of the attributes of WD
Caviar products.
 
     The Company began shipping WD Enterprise products in 1997. The first two
products offer storage capacities of 2.1 GB and 4.3 GB, respectively, are 1.0"
high, use the 3.5-inch form factor, and are targeted at workstations, LAN
servers and multi-user systems. The WD Enterprise products utilize the SCSI
interface combined with a 7200 rpm spin rate to provide the high performance
required to meet the storage needs of enterprise systems. The designs have
minimized power consumption for enhanced reliability. WD Enterprise products
leverage many of the successful WD Caviar product and process attributes.
 
SALES AND DISTRIBUTION
 
     The Company sells its products globally to OEMs, OEM subcontractors
("ODMs"), distributors, value-added resellers, dealers, system integrators and
retailers. Sales to OEMs accounted for 73%, 68% and 72% of consolidated revenues
in 1995, 1996, and 1997, respectively. Western Digital hard drives are either
incorporated into computer systems for resale or installed into end user systems
as upgrades.
 
     The business models of computer manufacturers, which account for the
majority of the Company's sales, are in the process of changing, and these
changes will impact Western Digital's sales, inventory and distribution
patterns. The forecast-driven, long-production-run logistics model, which most
of the computer industry has used, exposes OEMs and others in the distribution
chain to the risk of carrying excess or obsolete component inventories. The
historical model limits the OEMs' flexibility to react to rapid technology
changes and component pricing fluctuations. The Company is beginning to
experience a new customer supply chain
 

 
logistics model that combines "build-to-order" (OEM does not build until there
is an order backlog) and "channel assembly" (OEM supplies kits to distributors
or assembly houses who assemble the computers). Western Digital is adapting its
logistics model to effectively align with this industry shift. Western Digital
already operates within these models with two of its major OEM customers. These
changes will require greater skill in managing finished goods inventory and may
require more flexibility in manufacturing, both of which in turn will require
even closer relationships between the Company and its OEM customers. For an
additional discussion of the changes in customer models, refer to Part II, Item
7, Risk Factors Affecting the Company and/or the Hard Drive Industry -- Customer
Concentration and Changing Customer Models.
 
     The Company maintains sales offices throughout North America, Eastern and
Western Europe, Japan and Southeast Asia. Field application engineering is
provided to strategic OEM accounts, and end-user technical support services are
provided within the United States and Europe. The Company's end-user technical
support is supplied by both employees and qualified third-party support
organizations through no-charge toll telephone support during business hours in
the United States, prepaid telephone cards in Europe and via the Company's web
site.
 
     The Company's sales organization is structured so that each OEM customer is
served by a sales team. Each sales team is responsible for providing timely
feedback to engineering regarding the customer's new product requirements. This
structure promotes early identification of and response to the customer's full
range of product needs. Later, in the production stage, the team focus enables
the Company to improve customer fulfillment and overall service. The Company's
major OEM customers include Apple Computer, AST Research, Compaq Computer, Dell
Computer, Digital Equipment Corporation, Fujitsu, Gateway 2000, Hewlett-Packard,
IBM, Intel, Micron Technology, NEC and Siemens. During 1995 and 1996, sales to
Gateway 2000 accounted for 11% of revenues. During 1997, sales to IBM accounted
for 13% of revenues. For an additional discussion of customer concentration,
refer to Part II, Item 7, Risk Factors Affecting the Company and/or the Hard
Drive Industry -- Customer Concentration and Changing Customer Models.
 
     The Company also sells its products through its sales force to selected
resellers, which include major distributors, mass merchandisers and value-added
resellers. The Company's major distributor customers include Decision Support
Systems, Frank and Walter, Ingram Micro, Loeffelhardt, Supercom, Synnex and Tech
Data. Major mass merchandiser customers include Best Buy, Computer City,
CompUSA, Egghead Software and Office Depot. In accordance with standard industry
practice, the Company's agreements with its resellers provide price protection
for inventories held by the resellers at the time of published list price
reductions and, under certain circumstances, stock rotation for slow-moving
items. These agreements may be terminated upon written notice by either party.
In the event of termination, the Company may be obligated to repurchase a
certain portion of the resellers' inventory.
 
     The Company's international sales, which include sales to foreign
subsidiaries of U.S. companies, represented 44%, 51%, and 47% of revenues for
1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. Sales to international customers may be
subject to certain risks not normally encountered in domestic operations,
including exposure to tariffs, various trade regulations and fluctuations in
currency exchange rates.
 
     For information concerning revenue recognition, sales by geographic region
and significant customer information, see Notes 1 and 7, respectively, of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
     The Company's marketing and advertising functions are performed both
internally and through outside firms. Advertising, direct marketing, worldwide
packaging, and marketing materials are targeted to various end-user segments.
Western Digital utilizes both consumer media and trade publications. The Company
has programs under which qualifying resellers and OEMs are reimbursed for
certain advertising expenditures. Western Digital has also invested in direct
marketing and customer satisfaction programs. The Company maintains ongoing
contact with end users through primary and secondary market research, focus
groups, product registrations, and technical support databases. The Company
recently launched a new global campaign emphasizing the Western Digital brand
attributes of being accessible, secure, smart and empowering.
 

 
COMPETITION
 
  General
 
     The hard drive industry is a highly competitive high-technology commodity
marketplace. Similar to general commodities, hard drives are highly
substitutable due to the industry mandate of technical form, fit, and function
standards. Hard drive manufacturers compete on the basis of product quality and
reliability, storage capacity, unit price, product performance, production
volume capabilities, and ease of doing business. The relative importance of
these factors varies among different customer and market segments. The Company
believes that it is generally competitive in all of these factors. The Company
believes that in a high-technology commodity business, it cannot differentiate
its product based on attributes such as storage capacity; therefore, the Company
differentiates itself by emphasizing rapid response with its OEM and
distribution customers and brand equity with its end users. Rapid response
requires accelerated design cycles, customer delivery and production flexibility
which contribute to customer satisfaction. Brand equity is a relatively new area
for the hard drive industry. However, as data storage has become strategically
critical for all computer end users, the Company believes that trust in a
manufacturer's reputation has become key in the selection of a component,
particularly within such a rapidly changing technology environment.
 
     The Company's principal competitors are Seagate Technology, Inc.
("Seagate"), Quantum Corporation ("Quantum"), Hyundai Electronics America
(Maxtor Corporation), and large computer manufacturers such as IBM that
manufacture hard drives for use in their own products and for sale to others.
Additionally, several large foreign companies such as Samsung and Fujitsu have
entered the data storage business. While the Company believes that its products
and its marketing efforts will continue to be competitive, there can be no
assurance that its competitors will not improve their position in the market
through aggressive pricing, new product introduction or other means.
 
     The Company also competes with other companies offering products based on
alternative data storage technologies. Technological advances in optical or
other technologies could result in the introduction of products with superior or
equal performance and lower costs, which could adversely affect the Company's
competitive position.
 
     The competition in the information storage product business can be further
discussed on the basis of product lines as follows:
 
  Desktop Storage Products
 
     Western Digital's desktop products compete primarily with the product
offerings of Seagate and Quantum, each of which has a market share of
approximately 20% to 25%. The Company's market share in desktop storage is
approximately 25%. Hyundai, IBM and Fujitsu are the other competitors of note.
The Company was able to gain market share in the desktop market during the past
two years because of higher volume product availability at desired capacity
points, marketing missteps by the Company's competitors, and brand equity.
However, the Company's rapid gain in desktop market share over the previous two
years is not expected to continue.
 
     The desktop market is characterized by more competitors and shorter product
life cycles than the hard drive market in general; therefore, it has
traditionally been subject to periods of severe price competition and factors
such as time-to-market can have a more pronounced effect on the success of any
particular product.
 
  Enterprise Storage Products
 
     The competitive landscape in the enterprise hard drive market is dominated
by Seagate with a market share in excess of 50%. The Company entered this market
in 1997 to compete with Seagate, Quantum, IBM and Fujitsu. Quantum is also a
relatively recent entrant into this market. Because of the increase in the
number of competitors, the Company expects that price competition in the
enterprise market will increase. The Company expects to respond to the increased
competition by applying the business principles of superior quality, rapid
production and strong customer relations. Introduction of the first generation
of WD Enterprise drives has been successful because of high product quality,
competitive product performance, and the
 

 
Company's ability to leverage its customer and supplier relations from the
desktop market; however, the Company's continued success in the high-capacity
market is heavily dependent on the successful development, timely introduction
and market acceptance of new products.
 
  Mobile Storage Products
 
     IBM and Toshiba, who supply to themselves as mobile computer manufacturers
as well as to other manufacturers, have a combined mobile hard drive market
share of approximately 80%. Western Digital currently offers mobile hard drives
with a maximum capacity of 2.1GB, which is less capacity than is being offered
by its competitors in the marketplace. The Company is working to increase the
capacity of its mobile hard drives. The Company believes that the WD Portfolio
3-inch form factor provides significant packaging benefits because of its low
height and potentially significant capacity benefits because it has more surface
area per disk than the 2.5-inch form factor. However, the Company has not yet
been able to realize this higher capacity potential. Notebook manufacturers
other than IBM and Toshiba(who may be reluctant to buy hard drives from their
competitors) are key to the successful adoption of the 3-inch form factor.
Long-term success of the Company's current mobile hard drive products depends on
other industry hard drive suppliers producing 3-inch form factor hard drives.
The Company anticipates that more OEMs will design the larger slot needed to
accommodate the 3-inch form factor into their computers if these hard drives are
available from multiple vendors.
 
     For an additional discussion of competition, refer to Part II, Item 7, Risk
Factors Affecting the Company and/or the Hard Drive Industry -- Highly
Competitive Industry.
 
SERVICE AND WARRANTY
 
     Western Digital warrants its newly manufactured desktop and mobile products
against defects in materials and workmanship for a period of three years from
the date of sale. The Company's enterprise storage products have similar
warranties for up to five years from the date of sale. The Company's warranty
obligation is generally limited to repair or replacement. The Company
refurbishes or repairs its products at an in-house service facility located in
Singapore and at a third-party return facility located in Germany. As a response
to the large increase in theft of high technology products and in an effort to
deter the sale of Western Digital products on the "'black market", the Company
does not warrant product which is stolen.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company devotes substantial resources to development of new products
and improvement of existing products. The Company focuses its engineering
efforts on coordinating its product design and manufacturing processes in order
to bring its products to market in a cost-effective and timely manner. Research
and development expenses totaled $130.8, $150.1 and $150.2 million in 1995, 1996
and 1997, respectively. Although total expenditures were level from 1996 to
1997, research and development expenditures in 1996 included $24.5 million for
microcomputer products. The microcomputer businesses were sold in 1996.
Accordingly, research and development expenditures for hard drive products
increased by approximately $24.6 million from 1996 to 1997.
 
     For a discussion of product development, refer to Part II, Item 7, Risk
Factors Affecting the Company and/or the Hard Drive Industry -- Rapid
Technological Change and Product Development.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
     As a manufacturing company with a high-technology commodity product,
Western Digital must manufacture significant volumes of high quality hard drives
at low unit cost. The Company strives to maintain manufacturing flexibility,
rapidly achieve high manufacturing yields, and acquire high-quality components
in required volumes at competitive prices. The critical elements of Western
Digital's hard drive production are high volume low cost assembly and
reliability testing, and establishment and maintenance of key vendor
relationships in order to create "virtual vertical integration."
 

 
     Hard drive manufacturing is a complex process involving the assembly of
precision components with narrow tolerances and extensive testing to ensure
reliability. The assembly process occurs in a "clean room" environment which
demands skill in process engineering and efficient utilization of the "clean
room" layout in order to reduce the high operating costs of this manufacturing
environment.
 
     The Company produces hard drives in its three plants, two in Singapore and
one in Malaysia. These plants have complete responsibility for all hard drives
in volume production, including manufacturing, purchasing, inventory management,
assembly, testing, quality assurance and shipping of finished units. The Company
purchases most of the standard mechanical components and micro controllers for
its hard drives from external suppliers, although the Company has a media
manufacturing facility in Northern California which supplies a portion of its
media requirements. The Company's media manufacturing facility runs substrates,
acquired from third party vendors, through various manufacturing processes of
layering, coating and lubricating in order to achieve the proper degree of final
surface smoothness. After conducting final quality assurance tests, the media
plant delivers finished media to the Company's overseas manufacturing
facilities.
 
     The Company continually evaluates its manufacturing processes in an effort
to increase productivity and decrease manufacturing costs. The Company believes
that more automated manufacturing processes may be required in the future in
order to be competitive in the hard drive industry and selectively evaluates
which steps in the manufacturing process would benefit from automation and how
automated manufacturing processes support the Company's business plans.
 
     For an additional discussion of manufacturing, refer to Part II, Item 7,
Risk Factors Affecting the Company and/or the Hard Drive Industry -- Foreign
Manufacturing Risks.
 
MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
 
     The principal components currently used in the manufacture of the Company's
hard drives are magnetic heads (thin film, metal-in-gap ("MIG") and MR) and
related head stack assemblies, media, controllers, spindle motors and mechanical
parts used in the head-disk assembly. The Company also uses standard
semiconductor components such as logic, memory and microprocessor devices
obtained from other manufacturers as well as proprietary semiconductor devices
designed by and manufactured for the Company and a wide variety of other parts,
including connectors, cables, and switches.
 
     Unlike some of its competitors, except for a portion of its media
requirements, the Company acquires all of the components for its products from
third-party suppliers. Substantially all of the Company's thin film head
requirements are purchased from Read-Rite, SAE and AMC Corporation. These same
vendors plus IBM are expected to be the Company's primary suppliers of MR heads.
The Company also uses MIG heads, which are supplied by multiple vendors. Media
requirements not fulfilled internally are purchased through several outside
vendors including Komag Inc., Trace Storage, Akashic, HMT Technology and Showa
Denko. The Company has an agreement with SGS Thompson to purchase finished
integrated circuits, which were previously manufactured internally.
 
     For an additional discussion of component supplies, refer to Part II, Item
7, Risk Factors Affecting the Company and/or the Hard Drive
Industry -- Dependence on Suppliers of Components.
 
BACKLOG
 
     At August 15, 1997, the Company's backlog, consisting of orders scheduled
for delivery within the next twelve months, was approximately $620 million,
compared with a backlog at August 15, 1996 of approximately $410 million.
Historically, a substantial portion of the Company's orders has been for
shipments within 30 to 60 days of the placement of the order. The Company's
sales are made under contracts and purchase orders that, pursuant to industry
practice, may be canceled with relatively short notice to the Company, subject
to payment of certain costs, or modified by customers to provide for delivery at
a later date. Also, certain of the Company's sales to OEMs are made under
"just-in-time" delivery contracts that do not generally require firm order
commitments by the customer until the time of sale. Therefore, backlog
 

 
information as of the end of a particular period is not necessarily indicative
of future levels of the Company's revenue and profit.
 
PATENTS, LICENSES AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION
 
     The Company owns numerous patents and has many patent applications in
process. The Company believes that, although its patents and patent applications
have significant value, the successful manufacturing and marketing of its
products depends primarily upon the technical competence and creative ability of
its personnel. Accordingly, the patents held and applied for do not assure the
Company's future success.
 
     In addition to patent protection of certain intellectual property rights,
the Company considers elements of its product designs and processes to be
proprietary and confidential. The Company believes that its nonpatentable
intellectual property, particularly some of its process technology, is an
important factor in its success. Western Digital relies upon employee,
consultant, and vendor non-disclosure agreements and a system of internal
safeguards to protect its proprietary information. Despite these safeguards,
there is a risk that competitors may obtain and use such information. The laws
of foreign jurisdictions in which the Company does business also may provide
less protection for confidential information than the United States.
 
     The Company relies on certain technology that is licensed from other
parties in order to manufacture and sell its products. The Company has
cross-licensing agreements with several competitors, customers, and suppliers
and the Company believes that it has adequate licenses and other agreements in
place in addition to its own intellectual property portfolio to compete
successfully in the hard drive industry.
 
     From time to time, the Company receives claims of alleged patent
infringement or notice of patents from patent holders which typically contain an
offer to grant the Company a license. It is the Company's policy to evaluate
each claim and, if appropriate, enter into a licensing arrangement on
commercially reasonable terms. However, there is no assurance that such licenses
are presently obtainable, or if later determined to be required, could be
obtained.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATION
 
     The Company is subject to a variety of regulations in connection with its
operations, and believes that it has obtained or is in the process of obtaining
all necessary permits for its domestic operations. See Part I, Item 3, Legal
Proceedings.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     As of July 26, 1997, the Company employed a total of 13,507 full-time
employees worldwide. The Company employed 2,410 employees in the United States,
of whom 1,244, 416 and 750 were engaged in engineering, sales and
administration, and manufacturing, respectively. The Company employed 5,287
employees at its hard drive manufacturing facilities in Malaysia, 5,656 at its
hard drive manufacturing facilities in Singapore, and 154 at its international
sales offices.
 
     Many of the Company's employees are highly skilled, and the Company's
continued success depends in part upon its ability to attract and retain such
employees. In an effort to attract and retain such employees, the Company
continues to offer employee benefit programs which it believes are at least
equivalent to those offered by its competitors. Despite these programs, the
Company has, along with most of its competitors, experienced difficulty at times
in hiring and retaining certain skilled personnel. In critical areas, the
Company has utilized consultants and contract personnel to fill these needs
until full-time employees could be recruited. The Company has never experienced
a work stoppage, none of its domestic employees are represented by a labor
organization, and the Company considers its employee relations to be good.
 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
     The Company's headquarters, located on leased property in Irvine,
California (expiring in 2000), house management, research and development,
administrative and sales personnel. The Company also leases facilities in San
Jose, California, and Rochester, Minnesota for research and development
activities. The
 

 
Company operates two hard drive manufacturing facilities in Singapore. One
Singapore facility is leased and is used to produce desktop hard drives. The
other Singapore facility is owned and is used to produce enterprise hard drives.
Western Digital also owns a hard drive manufacturing facility in Kuala Lumpur,
Malaysia which provides the Company with additional capacity to produce desktop
hard drives. The Company's media processing facilities are located on leased
property in Santa Clara, California. The leases referenced above expire at
various times beginning in 1998 through 2006.
 
     The Company also leases office space in various other locations throughout
the world primarily for sales and technical support. The Company's present
facilities are adequate for its current needs, although the process of upgrading
its facilities to meet technological and market requirements is expected to
continue. The hard drive industry does not generally require long lead time to
develop and begin operations in new manufacturing facilities.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     The Company was sued by Amstrad plc ("Amstrad") in December 1992 in Orange
County Superior Court. The complaint alleges that hard drives supplied by the
Company in 1988 and 1989 were defective and caused damages to Amstrad of $186.0
million for out-of-pocket expenses, lost profits, injury to Amstrad's reputation
and loss of goodwill. The Company filed a counterclaim for $3.0 million in
actual damages plus exemplary damages in an unspecified amount.
 
     The Company's errors and omissions insurance carrier has acknowledged its
responsibility to defend the case and to afford coverage. The policy limits,
however, are well below the amount of damages sought by Amstrad. The Company
believes that it has meritorious defenses to Amstrad's claims and intends to
vigorously defend itself against the Amstrad claims and to press its claims
against Amstrad in this action. Although the Company believes the final
disposition of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position, results of operations or liquidity, if Amstrad
were to prevail on its claims, a judgment in a material amount could be awarded
against the Company.
 
     On June 10, 1994, Papst Licensing ("Papst") brought suit against the
Company in the United States District Court for the Central District of
California. The suit alleged infringement by Western Digital of five hard drive
motor patents owned by Papst. The patents relate to disk drive motors that the
Company purchases from motor vendors. On December 1, 1994, Papst dismissed its
case without prejudice, but has recently notified the Company that it intends to
reinstate the suit if the Company does not agree to enter into a license
agreement with Papst. Papst has also put the Company on notice with respect to
several additional patents. The Company does not believe that the outcome of
this matter will have a material adverse effect on its financial position,
results of operations or liquidity.
 
     On May 9, 1997, the Bay Area Air Quality Management District ("District")
filed suit against the Company in Santa Clara Superior Court. The complaint
alleges that isopropyl alcohol dryers at the Company's Santa Clara media
facility do not comply with the District's emission control requirements and the
conditions of the permit issued by the District to the Company for the dryers.
The complaint seeks damages of $300,000. The Company is in discussion with the
District concerning the complaint and has proposed a resolution of the matter.
The Company does not believe that the outcome of this matter will have a
material adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or
liquidity.
 
     The Company is also subject to other legal proceedings and claims which
arise in the ordinary course of its business. Although occasional adverse
decisions or settlements may occur, the Company believes that the final
disposition of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on its
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1997.
 

 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     The names, ages and positions of all the executive officers of the Company
as of August 1997 are listed below, followed by a brief account of their
business experience during the past five years. Executive officers are normally
appointed annually by the Board of Directors at a meeting of the directors
immediately following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders. There are no family
relationships among these officers nor any arrangements or understandings
between any officer and any other person pursuant to which an officer was
selected.
 

 
     Messrs. Haggerty, Massengill, Nussbaum, Schafer, Slavin and Williams and
Ms. Braun have been employed by the Company for more than five years and have
served in various executive capacities with the Company before being appointed
to their present positions.
 
     Mr. Cornelius joined the Company in January 1995. Prior to joining the
Company, he served in various positions with U.S. affiliates of Nissan Motor
Company, Inc. for 19 years. From 1990 to 1992, he served as Nissan North
America's Vice President of Legal and Public Affairs. Immediately prior to
joining the Company, he held the position of Vice President of Corporate Affairs
for Nissan North America.
 
     Mr. Van Berkel joined the Company in January 1995 as Director of Human
Resources for the Personal Storage Division and was promoted to his current
position in May 1997. Prior to joining the Company, he served as Vice President
of Human Resources for Walker Interactive Systems for five years.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
     Western Digital's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange
("NYSE"). The approximate number of holders of record of common stock of the
Company as of August 20, 1997 was 3,160.
 
     The Company has not paid any cash dividends on its common stock and does
not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. The Company's
line of credit agreement restricts the payment of cash dividends.
 
     The high and low sales prices (retroactively adjusted for the two-for-one
stock split effected as a stock dividend in June 1997) of the Company's common
stock, as reported by the NYSE, for each quarter of 1996 and 1997 are as
follows:
 

 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS
 

 
No cash dividends were paid for the years presented.
- ---------------
 
* Reflects retroactive recognition of the two-for one stock split effected as a
stock dividend in June 1997.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
OVERVIEW
 
     Western Digital operates in an highly competitive industry which has
experienced a great deal of growth, competitive consolidation and technological
change over the past several years. This industry is characterized as a
high-tech commodity business with short product life cycles, dependence upon
highly skilled engineering and other personnel, significant expenditures for
product development and recurring periods of under and over supply.
 

 
     The Company has invested a significant amount during the past two years in
the development of a new hard drive product line for the enterprise storage
market. The Company began shipping these products in volume during 1997. The
Company anticipates that the enterprise product line will be profitable in 1998.
 
     The Company's strategy is to be the time-to-market and time-to-volume
leader as well as a time-to-quality innovator. Successful implementation of a
quality-driven strategy during the past four years has resulted in a significant
increase in unit shipments of desktop hard drives with attendant improvements in
factory utilization and manufacturing efficiency, lower component costs, overall
reductions in the defective product rate and increased brand loyalty. The
Company has achieved these quality improvements through design with its
"platform" based architecture and through a virtual vertically integrated
business model with key strategic suppliers. Virtual integration allows the
Company to be more flexible in choosing when to incorporate technology advances
into its products.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  Comparison of 1995, 1996 and 1997
 
     In 1995, the Company reported net income of $123.3 million compared with
net income of $96.9 million for 1996 and $267.6 million for 1997. Net income for
1996 included a one-time, pre-tax gain of $17.3 million on the sale of the
Company's multimedia products business. The decrease in net income from 1995 to
1996 occurred because of a decline in gross profit margin percentage of
approximately five percentage points and an increase in operating expenses as
the Company invested in new storage-related product lines. The increase in net
income in 1997 over 1996 resulted from a 46% increase in revenues, a two
percentage point increase in gross margin percentage, and a two percentage point
decline in operating expenses as a percentage of revenues. A five percentage
point increase in the consolidated income tax rate from 1996 to 1997 and the
one-time gain recorded in 1996 partially offset these improvements.
 
     Sales of hard drive products were $1.9, $2.8 and $4.2 billion in 1995, 1996
and 1997, respectively. Beginning in 1997, 100% of the Company's revenues were
generated from the sale of hard drive products. During 1996, unit shipments
increased 50% which, combined with a modest decline in average selling prices
("ASPs") resulted in hard drive revenues increasing 44% over 1995. Although
increased sales to OEMs during 1996 accounted for the majority of the increase
in unit shipments, a year-over-year increase in reseller units was also a
significant factor. During 1997, unit shipments increased 51% from 1996, but
declining ASPs reduced the 1996 to 1997 hard drive revenue growth rate to 49%.
The revenue increase in 1997 primarily resulted from increased business with
OEMs and, to a lesser extent, incremental unit shipments to resellers. Also in
1997, the Company began shipping products from its enterprise storage product
line. During the past few years, the Company has grown its hard drive unit
shipments and revenues at a considerably higher rate than the industry average,
but this extraordinary rate of growth is not expected to continue and the
Company expects future growth in unit shipments and revenues to be closer to
industry norms.
 
     Gross profit margins were as follows:
 

 
     The decrease in gross profit margin in 1996 was primarily due to three
factors. First, in 1996 higher-capacity products were introduced at lower
average selling prices as a result of competitive pricing pressures. Second, the
Company shipped a broader mix of hard drives during 1996. This resulted in
higher shipments of lower-capacity products at lower price points, which
generally have smaller gross margins. Finally, fewer microcomputer products
(which had higher average gross margin percentages) were sold during 1996
because of the sale of the MCP businesses.
 
     The decline in microcomputer product gross margin in 1996 was generally
attributable to the relationship between fixed costs and the lower revenue base
experienced as the non-drive related products lines were divested in 1996.
 

 
     The increase in gross profit margin for hard drive products in 1997 was
primarily the result of a change in sales mix to a greater percentage of
higher-capacity desktop storage products combined with initial shipments of
enterprise storage products. The Company began shipping products from its
enterprise storage product line in 1997. These products had a higher average
gross margin percentage than the Company's desktop storage products. Also
contributing to the improvement in gross profit margin for hard drive products
were year-over-year reductions in the average cost of the Company's desktop
storage products.
 
     Research and development expense ("R&D") was $130.8 million, or 6.1% of
revenues, $150.1 million, or 5.2% of revenues, and $150.2 million, or 3.6% of
revenues in 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. The $19.3 million increase in R&D
expenses in 1996 was primarily the result of higher expenditures to support the
development of enterprise and mobile storage products, partially offset by lower
expenditures for microcomputer products. R&D expense remained consistent from
1996 to 1997 as higher expenditures incurred to develop desktop, enterprise and
mobile hard drive products were offset by the elimination of expenditures
related to the MCP businesses which were sold in 1996. R&D expenses declined as
a percentage of revenues primarily as a result of the higher revenue base in
1997 as compared to 1996 and 1995.
 
     Selling, general and administrative expenses ("SG&A") were $130.3 million,
or 6.1% of revenues, $154.5 million, or 5.4% of revenues and $198.5 million, or
4.8% of revenues, in 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. The increases in the
absolute dollars of SG&A expenses incurred in 1997 as compared to 1996 and 1995
were primarily due to incremental selling, marketing and other related expenses
in support of the higher revenue levels. The other major factors that
contributed to the increases in SG&A expenses were higher expenditures for the
Company's pay-for-performance and profit sharing plans in 1997 and higher
royalty expense in 1996. The decline in SG&A expenses as a percentage of
revenues in 1997 as compared to 1996 and 1995 was primarily due to the higher
revenue base.
 
     Net interest and other income was $12.0 million in 1995, $13.1 million in
1996 and $13.2 million in 1997. The improvement from 1995 to 1996 was the result
of the elimination of the Company's outstanding debt in June 1995, partially
offset by lower average cash and short-term investment balances.
 
     The Company's effective tax rate of 15%, 10% and 15% recorded in 1995, 1996
and 1997, respectively, results primarily from the earnings of certain
subsidiaries which are taxed at substantially lower tax rates as compared with
United States statutory rates and changes in the deferred tax asset valuation
allowance (see Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). The
fluctuation in the tax rate reflects a change in earnings among the Company's
subsidiaries operating in various tax jurisdictions.
 
DISCLOSURE ABOUT FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK
 
     Although the majority of the Company's transactions are in U.S. Dollars,
some transactions are based in various foreign currencies. The Company enters
into short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the impact of foreign
currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets, liabilities and anticipated
cash flows for operating expenses denominated in foreign currencies. The purpose
of entering into these hedge transactions is to minimize the impact of foreign
currency fluctuations on the results of operations. A majority of the increases
or decreases in the Company's local currency operating expenses are offset by
gains and losses on the hedges. The contracts have maturity dates that do not
exceed twelve months. The unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are
deferred and recognized in the results of operations in the period in which the
hedged transaction is consummated.
 

 
     As of June 28, 1997, the Company had outstanding the following foreign
currency forward contracts (in millions, except average contract rate):
 

 
- ---------------
 
* The unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are deferred and recognized
  in the results of operations in the period in which the hedged transactions
  are consummated.
 
NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
 
     In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per Share" (SFAS No. 128).
This statement is effective for both interim and annual periods ending after
December 15, 1997, and replaces the presentation of "primary" earnings per share
with "basic" earnings per share and the presentation of "fully diluted" earnings
per share with "diluted" earnings per share. Earlier application is not
permitted. When adopted, all previously reported earnings per share amounts must
be restated based on the provisions of the new standard. Pro forma basic and
diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 128 is
provided below:
 

 
     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 130 and 131, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income" ("SFAS 130") and "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information" ("SFAS 131"), respectively (collectively, the
"Statements"). The Statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997. SFAS 130 establishes standards for reporting of comprehensive
income and its components in annual financial statements. SFAS 131 establishes
standards for reporting financial and descriptive information about an
enterprise's operating segments in its annual financial statements and selected
segment information in interim financial reports. Reclassification or
restatement of comparative financial statements or financial information for
earlier periods is required upon adoption of SFAS 130 and SFAS 131,
respectively. Application of the Statements' requirements is not expected to
have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results
of operations or earnings per share data as currently reported.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
     At June 28, 1997, the Company had $208.3 million in cash and short-term
investments as compared with $219.2 million at June 29, 1996. Net cash provided
by operating activities was $254.2 million during 1997. Cash flows from
earnings, depreciation and amortization, and an increase in current liabilities
were partially offset by cash used to fund higher accounts receivable and
inventory balances. Other significant uses of cash during 1997 were capital
expenditures of $156.0 million, which were incurred primarily to support
increased production of hard drives and related components, and the acquisition
of 5.2 million shares of the Company's common stock in the open market for
$144.6 million. Partially offsetting these uses of cash was $43.1 million
 

 
received in connection with stock option exercises (including tax benefit) and
Employee Stock Purchase Plan ("ESPP") purchases. The Company anticipates that
capital expenditures in 1998 will total approximately $250 million and will
relate to increased hard drive and media capacity and normal replacement of
existing assets. In addition, the Company may purchase up to an additional 10.0
million shares of its common stock under the current Board of Directors'
authorization, which expires in March 1999.
 
     The Company has an $150 million revolving credit agreement with certain
financial institutions extending through April 2000. This facility is intended
to meet short-term working capital requirements which may arise from time to
time. The Company believes that its current cash balances combined with cash
flow from operations and its revolving credit agreement will be sufficient to
meet its working capital needs for the foreseeable future. However, the
Company's ability to sustain its favorable working capital position is dependent
upon a number of factors that are discussed below under the heading "Risk
Factors Affecting the Company and/or the Hard Drive Industry."
 
RISK FACTORS AFFECTING THE COMPANY AND/OR THE HARD DRIVE INDUSTRY
 
     The Company's business is subject to a number of risks, trends and
uncertainties, some of which are related to the hard drive industry in general
and others related more specifically to Western Digital. As a result of the
risks and uncertainties described below as well as other risks presented
elsewhere in this report, there can be no assurance that the Company will
continue to be as successful as it was in the past few years or maintain its
current market position. Some of these factors have affected the Company's
operating results in the past, and all of these factors could affect its future
operating results. The Company does not expect that the percentage increases in
revenues, operating income and net income during the past few years represent a
consistent reliable trend that can be expected to continue in the future. The
hard drive business remains challenging and cyclical.
 
  Rapid Technological Change and Product Development
 
     The information storage industry is characterized by rapid technological
developments, short product life cycles and competitive pressures, including
price erosion. This business environment results in rapid erosion of gross
margins on specific hard drive products. The demands of hard drive customers for
greater storage capacity and higher performance have led to short product life
cycles which require the Company to constantly develop and introduce new drive
products on a cost effective and timely basis. The availability of research and
development funds to support the rapid technological change depends upon the
Company's revenues and profitability, and reductions in such expenditures could
impair the Company's ability to innovate and compete.
 
     The Company experiences fluctuations in manufacturing yields that can
materially affect the Company's operations, particularly in the start-up phase
of new products or new manufacturing processes. With the continued pressures to
shorten the time required to introduce new products, the Company must accelerate
production learning curves to shorten the time to achieve acceptable
manufacturing yields and costs. The Company's future is therefore dependent upon
its ability to develop new products, to qualify these new products with its
customers, to successfully introduce these products to the market on a timely
basis, and to commence volume production to meet customer demands. If not
carefully planned and executed, the introduction of new products may adversely
affect sales of existing products and increase risk of inventory obsolescence. A
delay in the introduction or production of more cost-effective and/or more
advanced products also can result in lower sales and smaller gross margins.
Because of rapid technological changes, the Company anticipates that sales of
older products will decline as in the past and that sales of new products will
continue to account for a significant portion of its sales in the future.
Failure of the Company to execute its strategy of achieving time-to-market in
sufficient volume with new products, or any delay in introduction of advanced
and cost effective products, could result in significantly lower revenue and
gross margins.
 
     Technological advances in magnetic, optical or other technologies, or the
development of entirely new technologies, could result in the creation of
competitive products which have superior performance to and/or lower prices than
the Company's products. Companies such as TeraStor and Seagate are currently
developing
 

 
optically assisted recording technologies; the initial products are expected to
be high capacity and high price, although cost effective per gigabyte. The
optically assisted recording approaches used by these two companies are
different at this time and have created some short term confusion for the
industry. Accordingly, the Company's strategy is to view optically assisted
recording as a valid solution at some point in time but to assume that the hard
drive technologies currently in use will serve the Company for the foreseeable
future. However, if the Company's assumption proves to be wrong, the Company
could be late in its integration of optically assisted recording technology
which could have an adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results
of operations or liquidity.
 
  Highly Competitive Industry
 
     During the years preceding the merger between Seagate Technology, Inc. and
Conner Peripherals, Inc. in 1996, the desktop hard drive industry consisted of
many competitors of various sizes and financial resources. Competition during
these years was based largely on price. Although price competition and price
erosion were not as severe in 1997, the Company still expects price competition
and price erosion will continue for the foreseeable future for various reasons.
In general, the unit price for a given product in all of the Company's markets
decreases over time as increases in industry supply and cost reductions occur
and as technological advancements are achieved. Cost reductions are primarily
achieved as volume efficiencies are realized, component cost reductions are
achieved, experience is gained in manufacturing the product and design
enhancements are made. Competitive pressures and customer expectations result in
these cost improvements being passed along as reductions in selling prices. The
rate of general price decline can be and has been accelerated when some
competitors lower prices to absorb excess capacity, liquidate excess
inventories, or attempt to gain market share. The competition and continuing
price erosion could adversely affect the Company's results of operations in any
given quarter, and such adverse affect often cannot be anticipated until late in
the quarter.
 
  Fluctuating Product Demand
 
     Demand for the Company's hard drive products depends on the demand for the
computer systems manufactured by its customers and storage upgrades to computer
systems, which in turn are affected by computer system product cycles, end user
demand for increased storage capacity, and prevailing economic conditions.
Although market research indicates total computer system unit shipments will
grow at an annual compounded rate of approximately 13% through fiscal year 2000,
near term demand may experience significant fluctuations. Such fluctuations have
in the past and may in the future result in deferral or cancellation of orders
for Western Digital products, which could have a material adverse effect on the
Company.
 
     The hard drive industry has also experienced seasonal fluctuations in
demand. The Company has historically experienced relatively flat demand in the
first quarter of the fiscal year as compared to the fourth quarter, while demand
in the second quarter has historically been much higher than in the first
quarter. Additionally, product shipments tend to be greatest in the third month
of each quarter, although this pattern may be affected by changes in customer
requirements, which are discussed below. To the extent this trend continues,
failure by the Company to adequately prepare itself for such fluctuations or to
complete shipments at the end of each quarter could adversely affect the
Company's operating results for that quarter.
 
  Customer Concentration and Changing Customer Models
 
     High purchase-volume customers for hard drives are concentrated within a
small number of OEMs, distribution channels and system integrators. While
Western Digital believes its relationships with key customers such as these are
very good, the concentration of sales to a relatively small number of major
customers represents a business risk that loss of one or more accounts could
adversely affect the Company's operating results. Western Digital's customers
are generally not obligated to purchase any minimum volume and are generally
able to terminate their relationship with the Company at will. If any such
change resulted in decreased demand for the Company's drives, whether by loss of
or delays in orders, the Company's operating results could be materially
adversely affected.
 

 
     The hard drive industry is experiencing changes in its OEM customer
ordering models. The trend among computer manufacturers using the
"build-to-order" model is to meet more "just-in-time" ("JIT") customer
requirements; therefore, Western Digital's customers are holding smaller
inventories of components such as hard drives. This JIT ordering model requires
the Company to maintain a certain base stock of product in a location adjacent
to its customers' manufacturing facilities. JIT ordering complicates the
Company's inventory management strategies and makes it increasingly difficult to
balance manufacturing plans with projected customer demand. The Company's
failure to manage its inventory in response to JIT demands could have a material
adverse effect on its financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
     Large OEMs are also considering or have implemented a "channel assembly"
model in which the OEM ships a minimal computer system to the dealer or
assembler, and component suppliers such as hard drive manufacturers are
requested to ship parts directly to the dealer for installation at its location.
With this model, fragmentation of manufacturing facilities exposes the Company
to some risk of inventory mismanagement by both the OEMs and the assembly
houses. The shift requires effective inventory management by the Company, and
any increase in the number of "ship to locations" may increase freight costs and
the number of accounts to be managed. Additionally, if the assemblers are not
properly trained in manufacturing processes, it could also increase the number
of product returns resulting from damage during assembly or improper
installation. This model requires proper alignment between the OEM and the
Company and requires the Company to retain more of its product in inventory. The
Company is therefore exposed to the increased risk of inventory obsolescence
with the channel assembly model as well as the JIT model. The Company's OEM
customer relationships have traditionally been strong, but a material negative
change in an OEM relationship could adversely affect demand for Western Digital
products, especially with the impact of these new models.
 
  Development and Production of Drives with MR Recording Heads
 
     The majority of the Company's hard drive products currently utilize
conventional thin film or metal-in-gap ("MIG") inductive head technologies. The
Company believes that magneto-resistive ("MR") heads, which enable higher
capacity per hard drive than conventional thin film or MIG inductive heads, have
replaced thin film and MIG inductive heads as the leading recording head
technology. Several of the Company's major competitors have incorporated MR head
technology into some of their current products and, with higher capacity drives
using MR heads, the Company's competitors have achieved time-to-market
leadership. The Company is already shipping mobile products with MR head
technology and expects to ship a desktop product with MR head technology that
will achieve time-to-market areal density leadership early in 1998. As with most
new products, the Company anticipates that the new MR products will have lower
initial manufacturing yields and higher initial component costs than some more
mature products. Failure of the Company to successfully manufacture and market
products incorporating MR head technology in a timely manner and/or in
sufficient volume during 1998 could cause erosion of the Company's market share
and have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and financial
position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
  Dependence on Suppliers of Components
 
     The Company is dependent on qualified suppliers for components, including
recording heads, head stack assemblies, media, and integrated circuits. A number
of the components used by the Company are available from a single or limited
number of outside suppliers. Some of these materials may periodically be in
short supply, and the Company has, on occasion, experienced temporary delays or
increased costs in obtaining these materials. Because the Company is less
vertically integrated than its competitors, an extended shortage of required
materials and supplies could have a more severe effect on the Company's revenues
and earnings as compared to its competition. The Company must allow for
significant lead times when procuring certain materials and supplies. The
Company has more than one available source for most of its required materials,
but where there is only one source of supply, the Company has entered into close
technical and manufacturing relationships, has access to more than one
manufacturing location in most instances, and believes that a second source
could be obtained over a period of time. However, no assurance can be given that
the Company's results of operations would not be adversely affected until a new
source could be secured.
 

 
     Although the Company obtains headstack assemblies from several sources, the
supply of these components at the desired technology levels is a critical issue
for the Company as it plans to meet the anticipated demand for desktop storage
products. The Company believes that the supply of headstack assemblies may
continue to be a constraint over the next 12 months, and a continued shortage at
the desired technology levels could adversely affect the Company's ability to
meet anticipated increases in customer demand for its products.
 
  Foreign Manufacturing Risks
 
     Western Digital products are currently manufactured in Singapore and
Malaysia. Although the manufacturing is performed by the Company's subsidiaries,
the Company is subject to certain risks associated with foreign manufacturing,
including obtaining requisite United States and foreign governmental permits and
approvals, currency exchange fluctuations, currency restrictions, political
instability, transportation delays, labor problems, trade restrictions, import,
export, exchange and tax controls and reallocations, and changes in tariff and
freight rates.
 
  Volatility of Stock Price
 
     The Company's stock price, like other high-technology companies' stock
prices, is subject to wide fluctuations. The stock price volatility can be a
response to actual or anticipated variations in operating results, announcements
of new products or developments by the Company or its competitors, developments
in relationships with customers or suppliers and other events or factors. Even a
modest underperformance against the expectations of the investment community by
the Company can lead to a significant decline in the market price of the
Company's stock. Broad stock market fluctuations, which may be unrelated to the
operating performance of the Company, may also adversely affect the market price
of the Company's stock.
 
  Other Risk Factors
 
     The Company's operating results have been and may in the future be subject
to significant periodic fluctuations as a result of a number of other factors.
These factors have included the timing of orders from and shipment of products
to major customers, product mix, pricing, delays in product development and/or
introduction to production, competing technologies, variations in product cost,
component availability due to single or limited sources of supply, foreign
exchange fluctuations, increased competition and general economics and industry
fluctuations, both foreign and domestic. The Company's future operating results
may also be adversely affected by an adverse judgment or settlement in the legal
proceedings in which the Company is currently involved (see "Part I, Item 3.
Legal Proceedings").
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE
 

 

 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
The Board of Directors
Western Digital Corporation:
 
     We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Western Digital
Corporation and subsidiaries as listed in the accompanying index. In connection
with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited
the financial statement schedule as listed in the accompanying index. These
consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement
schedule based on our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Western
Digital Corporation and subsidiaries as of June 29, 1996 and June 28, 1997, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended June 28, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.
 
                                          KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP
 
Orange County, California
July 16, 1997
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                    (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 
                                     ASSETS
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                        THREE YEARS ENDED JUNE 28, 1997
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
                See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
NOTE 1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
     Western Digital Corporation ("Western Digital" or the "Company") has
prepared its financial statements in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and has adopted accounting policies and practices which
are generally accepted in the industry in which it operates. Following are the
Company's significant accounting policies:
 
  Fiscal Year
 
     Effective July 1, 1994, the Company changed its fiscal year end from June
30 to a 52 or 53-week year ending on the Saturday nearest June 30. Accordingly,
the 1995, 1996 and 1997 fiscal years ended on July 1, June 29 and June 28,
respectively. All general references to years relate to fiscal years unless
otherwise noted.
 
  Basis of Presentation
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and its wholly owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. The accounts of foreign
subsidiaries have been remeasured using the U.S. dollar as the functional
currency. As such, foreign exchange gains or losses resulting from remeasurement
of these accounts are reflected in the results of operations. Monetary and
nonmonetary asset and liability accounts have been remeasured using the exchange
rate in effect at each year end and using historical rates, respectively. Income
statement accounts have been remeasured using average monthly exchange rates.
 
  Cash Equivalents and Short-Term Investments
 
     The Company's cash equivalents represent highly liquid investments,
primarily money market funds and commercial paper, with original maturities of
three months or less. Short-term investments represent investments in U.S.
Treasury Bills with original maturities beyond three months and less than twelve
months and are considered held to maturity.
 
  Concentration of Credit Risk
 
     The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets hard drives to
personal computer manufacturers, resellers and retailers throughout the world.
The Company performs ongoing credit evaluations of its customers' financial
condition and generally requires no collateral. The Company maintains reserves
for potential credit losses, and such losses have historically been within
management's expectations. The Company also has cash equivalent and short-term
investment policies that limit the amount of credit exposure to any one
financial institution or investment instrument, and require that investments be
made only with financial institutions or in investment instruments evaluated as
highly credit-worthy.
 
  Inventory Valuation
 
     Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or net realizable value. Cost
is on a first-in, first-out basis for raw materials and is computed on a
currently adjusted standard basis (which approximates first-in, first-out) for
work in process and finished goods.
 
  Depreciation and Amortization
 
     The cost of property and equipment is depreciated over the estimated useful
lives of the respective assets. Depreciation is computed on a straight-line
basis for financial reporting purposes and on an accelerated basis for income
tax purposes. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the lesser of the
estimated useful lives of the assets or the related lease terms. Goodwill and
purchased technology, which are included in other assets, are capitalized at
cost and amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated lives of five
to fifteen years.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     In accordance with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121
("SFAS 121"), "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of," the Company reviews identifiable
intangibles, goodwill and other long-lived assets for impairment whenever events
or circumstances indicate the carrying amounts may not be recoverable. If the
sum of the expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without interest
charges) is less than the carrying amount of an asset, an impairment loss is
recognized.
 
  Revenue Recognition
 
     The Company recognizes revenue at time of shipment and records a reserve
for price adjustments, warranty and estimated sales returns. In accordance with
standard industry practice, the Company's agreements with its resellers provide
price protection for inventories held by the resellers at the time of published
list price reductions and, under certain circumstances, stock rotation for
slow-moving items. These agreements may be terminated upon written notice by
either party. In the event of termination, the Company may be obligated to
repurchase a certain portion of the resellers' inventory.
 
  Advertising Expense
 
     Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Selling, general and
administrative expenses of the Company include advertising costs of $4.4
million, $9.5 million and $16.3 million in 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.
 
  Income Taxes
 
     The Company accounts for income taxes using the asset and liability method.
This method generally provides that deferred tax assets and liabilities be
recognized for temporary differences between the financial reporting basis and
the tax basis of the Company's assets and liabilities and expected benefits of
utilizing net operating loss ("NOL") carryforwards. The Company records a
valuation allowance for certain temporary differences for which it is not
certain it will receive future tax benefits. The impact on deferred taxes of
changes in tax rates and laws, if any, are applied to the years during which
temporary differences are expected to be settled and reflected in the financial
statements in the period of enactment.
 
  Two-For-One Stock Split
 
     On May 2, 1997, the Company declared a two-for-one stock split, effected in
the form of a stock dividend on June 3, 1997 to shareholders of record on May
20, 1997. All share and per share amounts included in the consolidated financial
statements reflect retroactive recognition of the two-for-one stock split.
 
  Per Share Information
 
     Primary earnings per share amounts are based upon the weighted average
number of shares and dilutive common stock equivalents for each period
presented. For 1995, fully diluted earnings per share also include the dilutive
effects of shares assumed to be issued upon conversion of the Company's
convertible subordinated debentures which were all converted or redeemed in
1995.
 
  Increase in Authorized Common Stock and Change in Par Value of Common Stock
and Preferred Stock
 
     On March 11, 1997, the Company's shareholders approved the amendment to the
Company's Certificate of Incorporation to increase the Company's authorized
common stock and to reduce the par value of the common stock and preferred stock
from $.10 to $.01 per share. Par value information in the consolidated financial
statements reflects retroactive recognition of the change in the par value.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
  Stock-Based Compensation
 
     Effective June 30, 1996, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation" (SFAS
No. 123). SFAS No. 123 establishes the financial accounting and reporting
standards for stock-based compensation plans. The Company elected to continue
accounting for stock-based employee compensation plans in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees" and related interpretations (APB Opinion No. 25), as SFAS No. 123
permits, and to follow the pro forma net income, pro forma earnings per share,
and stock-based compensation plan disclosure requirements set forth in SFAS No.
123. See Note 6 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
  New Accounting Pronouncements
 
     In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per Share" (SFAS No. 128).
This statement is effective for both interim and annual periods ending after
December 15, 1997, and replaces the presentation of "primary" earnings per share
with "basic" earnings per share and the presentation of "fully diluted" earnings
per share with "diluted" earnings per share. Earlier application is not
permitted. When adopted, all previously reported earnings per share amounts must
be restated based on the provisions of the new standard. Pro forma basic and
diluted earnings per share calculated in accordance with SFAS No. 128 is
provided below:
 

 
     In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards Nos. 130 and 131, "Reporting Comprehensive
Income" ("SFAS 130") and "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information" ("SFAS 131"), respectively (collectively, the
"Statements"). The Statements are effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1997. SFAS 130 establishes standards for reporting of comprehensive
income and its components in annual financial statements. SFAS 131 establishes
standards for reporting financial and descriptive information about an
enterprise's operating segments in its annual financial statements and selected
segment information in interim financial reports. Reclassification or
restatement of comparative financial statements or financial information for
earlier periods is required upon adoption of SFAS 130 and SFAS 131,
respectively. Application of the Statements' requirements is not expected to
have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial position, results
of operations or earnings per share data as currently reported.
 
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
     The carrying amount of cash and cash equivalents approximates fair value
for all periods presented because of the short-term maturity of these financial
instruments. The carrying amounts of all other financial instruments in the
consolidated balance sheets approximate fair values.
 
  Foreign Exchange Contracts
 
     The Company enters into short-term, forward exchange contracts to hedge the
impact of foreign currency fluctuations on certain underlying assets,
liabilities and anticipated cash flows for operating expenditures denominated in
foreign currencies. These contracts are not entered into for trading purposes,
have maturity dates that do not exceed twelve months, and are accounted for as
hedges. The unrealized gains and losses on these contracts are deferred and
recognized in the results of operations in the period in which the hedged
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
transactions are consummated. Costs associated with entering into such contracts
are typically amortized over the life of the instrument. At June 29, 1996 and
June 28, 1997, the Company had outstanding $177.6 and $266.6 million,
respectively, of forward exchange contracts with commercial banks. As of June
29, 1996 and June 28, 1997, the unrealized gains and losses on outstanding
forward exchange contracts were not material. Realized gains and losses are
primarily recorded in cost of revenues in the accompanying consolidated
statements of income.
 
     In response to the Company's underlying foreign currency exposures, the
Company may, from time to time, adjust its foreign currency hedging position by
taking out additional contracts or by terminating or offsetting existing foreign
currency forward exchange contracts. Gains or losses on terminated contracts and
offsetting contracts are recognized in the results of operations in the periods
in which the hedged transactions occur.
 
  Use of Estimates
 
     Company management has made a number of estimates and assumptions relating
to the reporting of assets and liabilities in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Actual results could differ from these estimates.
 
  Reclassifications
 
     Certain prior years' amounts have been reclassified to conform to the
current year presentation.
 
NOTE 2. SUPPLEMENTAL FINANCIAL STATEMENT DATA (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 
NOTE 3. DEBT
 
  Line of Credit
 
     In April 1996, the Company entered into an unsecured revolving credit
agreement with certain financial institutions which provides for borrowings up
to $150 million. Borrowings under the agreement bear interest at either the
banks' base rate or the Federal Funds Effective Rate plus a margin. The
agreement, which expires
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
in April 2000, is intended to meet short-term working capital requirements which
may arise from time to time. The agreement requires the Company to maintain
certain financial ratios and restricts payment of dividends. The Company was in
compliance with the terms of this agreement as of June 28, 1997. No borrowings
were made under this agreement during 1996 or 1997.
 
  Subordinated Debt
 
     During 1995, $58.1 million of the Company's 9% convertible subordinated
debentures, due 2014, were converted into 8.1 million shares of the Company's
common stock. In connection with this conversion, the Company charged $.7
million of unamortized costs to shareholders' equity. The remaining $.5 million
of the Company's debentures were redeemed for cash.
 
NOTE 4. COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 
  Operating Leases
 
     The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under long-term,
non-cancelable operating leases which expire at various dates through 2006.
Rental expense under these leases, including month-to-month rentals, was $25.5,
$27.2, and $32.2 million in 1995, 1996, and 1997, respectively.
 
     Future minimum rental payments under non-cancelable operating leases as of
June 28, 1997 are as follows (in thousands):
 

 
  Legal Proceedings
 
     The Company was sued by Amstrad plc ("Amstrad") in December 1992 in Orange
County Superior Court. The complaint alleges that hard drives supplied by the
Company in 1988 and 1989 were defective and caused damages to Amstrad of $186.0
million for out-of-pocket expenses, lost profits, injury to Amstrad's reputation
and loss of goodwill. The Company filed a counterclaim for $3.0 million in
actual damages plus exemplary damages in an unspecified amount.
 
     The Company's errors and omissions insurance carrier has acknowledged its
responsibility to defend the case and to afford coverage. The policy limits,
however, are well below the amount of damages sought by Amstrad. The Company
believes that it has meritorious defenses to Amstrad's claims and intends to
vigorously defend itself against the Amstrad claims and to press its claims
against Amstrad in this action. Although the Company believes the final
disposition of this matter will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position, results of operations or liquidity, if Amstrad
were to prevail on its claims, a judgment in a material amount could be awarded
against the Company.
 
     The Company is also subject to other legal proceedings and claims which
arise in the ordinary course of its business. Although occasional adverse
decisions or settlements may occur, the Company believes that the final
disposition of such matters will not have a material adverse effect on its
financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 5. INCOME TAXES
 
     The domestic and international components of income before income taxes are
as follows (in thousands):
 

 
     The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows (in
thousands):
 

 
     The tax benefits associated with the exercise of non-qualified stock
options, the disqualifying disposition of stock acquired with incentive stock
options, and the disqualifying disposition of stock acquired under the employee
stock purchase plan reduced taxes currently payable as shown above by $4.0
million, $0 and $20.2 million for 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. Such
benefits are credited to additional paid-in capital when realized.
 
     The total cash paid for income taxes was $4.9 million, $4.5 million and
$19.2 million for the years ended July 1, 1995, June 29, 1996 and June 28, 1997,
respectively.
 
     Temporary differences and carryforwards which give rise to a significant
portion of deferred tax assets and liabilities at June 29, 1996 and June 28,
1997 are as follows (in thousands):
 

 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     SFAS 109 requires deferred taxes to be determined for each tax paying
component of an enterprise within each tax jurisdiction. Certain of the deferred
tax assets indicated above are attributable to tax jurisdictions where a history
of earnings has not been established. The taxable earnings in these tax
jurisdictions is subject to volatility. Therefore, the Company believes a
valuation allowance is needed to reduce the total deferred tax asset to an
amount that is more likely than not to be realized. Due to recent improvements
of the earnings in the jurisdictions to which these certain deferred assets
relate, the Company has reduced its valuation allowance by $32.0 million.
 
     Reconciliation of the United States Federal statutory rate to the Company's
effective tax rate is as follows:
 

 
     Certain income of selected subsidiaries is taxed at substantially lower
income tax rates as compared with local statutory rates. The lower rates reduced
income taxes and increased net earnings by $33.2 million ($.32 per share, fully
diluted), $30.1 million ($.31 per share, fully diluted) and by $58.5 million
($.62 per share, fully diluted) in 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. These
lower rates are in effect through 2004.
 
     At June 28, 1997, the Company had federal net operating loss carryforwards
and tax credits of $31.7 million and $21.0 million, respectively. The loss
carryforward expires in fiscal year 2008, and the credit carryforwards expire in
fiscal years 1998 through 2012.
 
     Net undistributed earnings from international subsidiaries at June 28, 1997
were $460.7 million. The net undistributed earnings are intended to finance
local operating requirements. Accordingly, an additional United States tax
provision has not been made.
 
NOTE 6. SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
     The following table summarizes all shares of common stock reserved for
issuance at June 28, 1997 (in thousands):
 

 
  Stock Option Plans
 
     Western Digital's Employee Stock Option Plan ("Employee Plan") is
administered by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors, which
determines the vesting provisions, the form of payment for the shares and all
other terms of the options. Terms of the Employee Plan require that the exercise
price of options be not less than the fair market value on the date of grant.
Options granted generally vest 25% one year from the date of grant and in twelve
quarterly increments thereafter and have a ten-year term. As of June 28, 1997,
2,915,631 options were exercisable and 7,204,154 options were available for
grant. Participants in the
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
Employee Plan may be permitted to utilize stock purchased previously as
consideration to exercise options or to exercise on a cashless basis, pursuant
to the terms of the Employee Plan.
 
     In 1985, the Company adopted the Stock Option Plan for Non-Employee
Directors ("Director Plan") and reserved 1.6 million shares for issuance
thereunder. The Director Plan was restated and amended in 1995. The Director
Plan provides for initial option grants to new directors of 30,000 shares per
director and additional grants of 7,500 options per director each year upon
their reelection as a director at the annual shareholders' meeting. Terms of the
Director Plan require that options have a ten-year term and that the exercise
price of options be not less than the fair market value at the date of grant. As
of June 28, 1997, 103,125 options were exercisable and 805,464 options were
available for grant. The following table summarizes activity under the Employee
and Director Plans combined (in thousands, except per share amounts):
 

 
     The following tables summarize information about options outstanding and
exercisable under the Employee and Director Plans combined at June 28, 1997 (in
thousand, except per share amounts):
 

 
  Stock Purchase Rights
 
     In 1989, the Company implemented a plan to protect shareholders' rights in
the event of a proposed takeover of the Company. Under the plan, each share of
the Company's outstanding common stock carries one Right to Purchase Series "A"
Junior Participating Preferred Stock ("the Right"). The Right enables the
holder, under certain circumstances, to purchase common stock of Western Digital
or of the acquiring Company at a substantially discounted price ten days after a
person or group publicly announces it has acquired or has tendered an offer for
15% or more of the Company's outstanding common stock. The Rights are redeemable
by the Company at $.01 per Right and expire in 1999.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
  Employee Stock Purchase Plan
 
     During 1994, the Company implemented an employee stock purchase plan
("ESPP") in accordance with Section 423 of the Internal Revenue Code whereby
eligible employees may authorize payroll deductions of up to 10% of their salary
to purchase shares of the Company's common stock at 85% of the fair market value
of common stock on the date of grant or the exercise date, whichever is less.
Approximately 5.0 million shares of common stock have been reserved for issuance
under this plan. Approximately 968,000, 1,292,000 and 1,136,000 shares were
issued under this plan during 1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively.
 
  Savings and Profit Sharing Plan
 
     Effective July 1, 1991, the Company adopted an annual Savings and Profit
Sharing Plan covering eligible domestic employees. The Company authorized 8%,
6.5% and 4.1% of defined pre-tax profits to be allocated to the participants in
1995, 1996 and 1997, respectively. Payments to participants of the Savings and
Profit Sharing Plan were $11.3, $7.1, and $12.6 million in 1995, 1996 and 1997,
respectively.
 
  Pro Forma Information
 
     Pro forma information regarding net income and earnings per share is
required by SFAS No. 123. This information is required to be determined as if
the Company had accounted for its stock options (including shares issued under
the Stock Option Plans and the ESPP, collectively called "options") granted
subsequent to July 1, 1995, under the fair value method of that statement.
 
     The fair value of options granted in 1996 and 1997 reported below has been
estimated at the date of grant using a Black-Scholes option pricing model with
the following weighted average assumptions:
 

 
     The following is a summary of the per share weighted average fair value of
stock options granted in the years listed below:
 

 
     The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 in accounting for its stock option
and ESPP plans and, accordingly, no compensation expense has been recognized for
the options in the consolidated financial statements. Had the Company determined
compensation expense based on the fair value at the grant date for its options
under SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and net earnings per share would
have been reduced to the amounts indicated below:
 

 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
     Pro forma net income and net earnings per share reflects only options
granted in the years ended June 29, 1996 and June 28, 1997. Therefore, the full
impact of calculating compensation expense for options under SFAS No. 123 is not
reflected in the pro forma net income amounts presented above because
compensation expense is reflected over the options' vesting period and
compensation expense for options granted before July 2, 1995 is not considered.
 
NOTE 7. BUSINESS SEGMENT AND INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS
 
     Western Digital currently operates in one industry segment -- the design,
development, manufacture and marketing of hard drives for the computer
marketplace. During 1995 and 1996, sales to Gateway 2000 accounted for 11% of
the Company's revenues. During 1997, sales to IBM accounted for 13% of the
Company's revenues.
 
     The Company's operations outside the United States include manufacturing
facilities in Singapore and Malaysia as well as sales offices throughout the
world.
 
     The following table summarizes operations by entities located within the
indicated geographic areas for the past three years. United States revenues to
unaffiliated customers include export sales to various countries in Eastern
Europe and Asia of $399.2, $674.1, and $763.5 million in 1995, 1996, and 1997,
respectively.
 
     Transfers between geographic areas are accounted for at prices comparable
to normal sales through outside distributors. General and corporate expenses of
$49.6, $61.5, and $62.8 million in 1995, 1996, and 1997, respectively, have been
excluded in determining operating income by geographic region.
 

 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 8. SALE OF BUSINESSES
 
  Sale of Multimedia Business
 
     In October 1995, the Company sold its multimedia business to Philips
Semiconductors, Inc. ("Philips") for $51.9 million cash, resulting in a
one-time, pre-tax gain of $17.3 million. Through this transaction, Philips
acquired specific intellectual properties and assumed certain liabilities
directly related to the multimedia business.
 
  Sale of High Speed Fiber-Optic Communication Links Business
 
     In March 1996, the Company sold its high speed fiber-optic communication
links business to Vixel Corporation for $1.2 million cash as well as other
non-cash consideration. This transaction was not material to the Company's
financial position or results of operations.
 
  Sale of Input/Output Products Business
 
     During April 1996, the Company disposed of its input/output products
business, which represented the final element of its microcomputer products
group. The transaction included the sale of related assets and resulted in a
restructuring of the Company's other support organizations. The restructuring
resulted in a personnel reduction of 102 people, not including employees that
were hired by the purchaser, Adaptec, Inc. The net result of the asset sale and
related restructuring charges is included in selling, general and administrative
expenses and was not material to the Company's 1996 results of operations. The
consideration received and related costs associated with the sale of the
input/output products business are as follows (in millions):
 

 
     As of June 29, 1996, $8.7 million of the accruals for severance,
facilities, contractual commitments and other miscellaneous items remained.
Substantially all of these accruals were utilized in 1997 to settle obligations
resulting from the sale and related restructuring.
 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
 
NOTE 9. QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
 

 

 
                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
         SCHEDULE II -- CONSOLIDATED VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                        THREE YEARS ENDED JUNE 28, 1997
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)
 

 

 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
     There is incorporated herein by reference the information required by this
Item included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders under the captions "Election of Directors" and "Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance," which will be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the
fiscal year ended June 28, 1997.
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     There is incorporated herein by reference the information required by this
Item included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders under the captions "Executive Compensation," "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation" and "Stock Performance Graph,"
which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than
120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended June 28, 1997.
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     There is incorporated herein by reference the information required by this
Item included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders under the caption "Security Ownership of Beneficial Owners," which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days
after the close of the fiscal year ended June 28, 1997.
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     There is incorporated herein by reference the information required by this
Item included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders under the caption "Certain Relationships and Related Transactions,"
which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than
120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended June 28, 1997.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
     (a) DOCUMENTS FILED AS A PART OF THIS REPORT:
 
         (1) INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
             The financial statements included in Part II, Item 8 of this
             document are filed as part of this Report.
 
         (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
             The financial statement schedule included in Part II, Item 8 of
             this document is filed as part of this Report.
 
     All other schedules are omitted as the required information is inapplicable
or the information is presented in the consolidated financial statements or
related notes.
 
     Separate financial statements of the Company have been omitted as the
Company is primarily an operating company and its subsidiaries are wholly owned
and do not have minority equity interests and/or indebtedness to any person
other than the Company in amounts which together exceed 5% of the total
consolidated assets as shown by the most recent year-end consolidated balance
sheet.
 

 
(3) EXHIBITS
 

 

 

 

 

 
- ---------------
 
   * New exhibit filed with this Report.
 
  ** Compensation plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed as an
     exhibit pursuant to applicable rules of the Securities and Exchange
     Commission.
 
 (1) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 1992.
 
 (2) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration
     Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-54968) as filed with the Securities and
     Exchange Commission on January 26, 1993.
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
     S-8 (No. 33-51725) as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
     December 28, 1993.
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 5, 1994.
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 1994.
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 23, 1994.
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 1995.
 
 (8) Subject to confidentiality order dated November 21, 1988.
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 27, 1995.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 16, 1996.
 
(11) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange commission on November 11, 1996.
 
(12) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 10, 1997.
 
(13) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 5, 1997.
 
(14) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 1997.
 
     (b) REPORTS ON FORM 8-K:
 
         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of 1997.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          WESTERN DIGITAL CORPORATION
 
                                          By:         DUSTON M. WILLIAMS
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                     Duston M. Williams
                                                   Senior Vice President
                                                and Chief Financial Officer
 
Dated: September 12, 1997
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated on September 12, 1997.
 

 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 


 


 

 
- ---------------
 
   * New exhibit filed with this Report.
 
  ** Compensation plan, contract or arrangement required to be filed as an
     exhibit pursuant to applicable rules of the Securities and Exchange
     Commission.
 
 (1) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 28, 1992.
 
 (2) Incorporated by reference to Amendment No. 2 to the Company's Registration
     Statement on Form S-1 (No. 33-54968) as filed with the Securities and
     Exchange Commission on January 26, 1993.
 
 (3) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Registration Statement on Form
     S-8 (No. 33-51725) as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on
     December 28, 1993.
 
 (4) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 5, 1994.
 
 (5) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 1994.
 
 (6) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 23, 1994.
 
 (7) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 16, 1995.
 
 (8) Subject to confidentiality order dated November 21, 1988.
 
 (9) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 27, 1995.
 
(10) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on September 16, 1996.
 
(11) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange commission on November 11, 1996.
 
(12) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 10, 1997.
 
(13) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 5, 1997.
 
(14) Incorporated by reference to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q as
     filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on May 9, 1997.

