
10-K



                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark one)                            FORM 10-K

(X)              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

     For the fiscal year ended         September 24, 1999
                                       ------------------

                                      OR

( )      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
         For the transition period from                 to
                                       -----------------  ------------

                  Commission file number        1-9109
                                                ------

                              RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Florida                                           No. 59-1517485
 ------------------------------                               ---------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                             Identification No.)

880 Carillon Parkway, St. Petersburg, Florida                       33716
- ---------------------------------------------                     ---------
   (Address of principal executive offices)                      (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code            (727) 573-3800
                                                               -------------
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered
- ----------------------------          -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, $.01 Par Value                  New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        None
                                                             ---------------
                                                             (Title of class)

Indicate  by  check  mark  whether the registrant (1)  has  filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange  Act  of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or such shorter period that the registrant
was  required  to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to  such  filing
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X No
                                       ---  ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item  405
of  Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,  to  the
best  of  registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated  by  reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any  amendment  to
this Form 10-K.  [ X ]

Aggregate  market  value  of the voting stock held  by  non-affiliates  of  the
registrant as of December 14, 1999:  $847,330,199

Number of common shares outstanding (December 14, 1999): 46,588,602

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                      -----------------------------------

Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on February 10,
2000.  (The Company intends to file with the Commission a definitive proxy
statement pursuant to Regulation 14A prior to January 10, 2000.)

                                   PART I
                                   ------

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS
          --------

     (a)  General Description of Business
          -------------------------------

     Raymond James Financial, Inc. ("RJF") is a Florida-based holding company
that  was  incorporated  in 1974 as a successor to the  original  corporation
founded  in  1962.  Its  principal  subsidiaries  include  Raymond  James   &
Associates,  Inc. ("RJA"), Raymond James Financial Services,  Inc.  ("RJFS"),
Eagle  Asset  Management,  Inc. ("Eagle"), Heritage  Asset  Management,  Inc.
("Heritage")   and  Raymond  James  Bank,  FSB  ("RJBank").  All   of   these
subsidiaries  are  wholly-owned  by  RJF.   RJF  and  its  subsidiaries   are
hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Company".

      RJF's principal subsidiary, RJA, was organized in Florida in 1962.  RJA
is  a  full  service  broker-dealer engaged in  most  aspects  of  securities
distribution  and  investment banking.  RJA also  offers  financial  planning
services for individuals and provides clearing services for RJFS and  several
unaffiliated  broker-dealers.  The  Company  is  the  largest  brokerage  and
investment  firm headquartered in the state of Florida.  RJA is a  member  of
the  New  York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), American Stock Exchange, Philadelphia
Stock  Exchange, Boston Stock Exchange, Chicago Board Options  Exchange,  New
York  Futures Exchange, Pacific Exchange and Chicago Stock Exchange.   It  is
also a member of the Securities Industry Association, National Association of
Securities  Dealers ("NASD"), and Securities Investors Protection Corporation
("SIPC").  SIPC provides insurance protection for clients' accounts of up  to
$500,000 each (limited to $100,000 for claims for cash) in the event of RJA's
liquidation.   In  addition, RJA carries $49,500,000 per  account  of  excess
client insurance.  For the year ended September 24, 1999 the revenues of  RJA
accounted for 54% of the consolidated revenues of the Company.

     On May 28, 1999 the Company purchased Roney & Co. ("Roney"), a broker-
dealer  headquartered  in  Detroit, Michigan.   Immediately  subsequent  to
fiscal  year  Roney was contributed and merged into RJA.  Roney  added  320
Financial Advisors and 28 offices to RJA.

      RJFS  was  formed in January 1999, when the Company  merged  its  two
independent contractor broker-dealer subsidiaries, Investment Management  &
Research,  Inc. ("IM&R") and Robert Thomas Securities, Inc. ("RTS").   IM&R
was  formed  in  1973  as  an  independent  contractor  financial  planning
organization  and  participates in the distribution  of  all  products  and
services offered by RJA to its retail clients.  RTS was organized in  1981,
and  serves  independent  contractor brokers who do  a  majority  of  their
business in individual securities.  RJFS is a member of the NASD and  SIPC,
but  not  of  any exchange, as it clears all of its business  on  a  fully-
disclosed basis through RJA.

      Eagle was formed in 1984 as a registered investment advisor to serve as
the discretionary manager for individual equity portfolios.

      Heritage  was organized in 1985 to act as the manager of the  Company's
internally sponsored Heritage family of mutual funds.

      Raymond  James Bank was formed in 1994 in conjunction with the purchase
from the Resolution Trust Corporation of certain branches of a failed thrift.
Its  primary purpose is to provide traditional banking products and  services
to the
clients of the Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries.
     (b)  Financial Information - Revenues by Source

      The Company's operations consist of various financial services provided
to  its  clients. The following table shows revenues by source for  the  last
three years:
                                            Year Ended
                         ------------------------------------------------------
                          Sept. 24,          Sept. 25,         Sept. 26,
                            1999       %       1998       %      1997       %
                         ----------  -----  ----------  ----- ----------  -----
                                    (dollar amounts in thousands)
Securities commissions:
- -----------------------
   Listed  products      $  161,240   13.1  $  132,211   12.2   $115,818   12.9
   Over-the-counter         186,258   15.1     163,410   15.1    148,791   16.6
   Mutual  funds            169,377   13.7     150,536   13.9    117,748   13.1
   Asset-based  fees        130,359   10.6     100,055    9.2     61,444    6.8
   Annuities and other
    insurance  products     110,899    9.0      85,322    7.9     70,944    7.9
   Other                          3     .0         127     .0        219     .1
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----   --------  -----
        Total               758,136   61.5     631,661   58.3    514,964   57.4
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----   --------  -----

Investment banking:
- -------------------
  Underwriting management
    fees                     11,852    1.0      27,569    2.5     43,434    4.8
  Merger and acquisition
    fees                     16,304    1.3      20,153    1.9      7,929     .9
  New issue sales credits    37,400    3.0      51,446    4.8     47,639    5.3
  Limited partnerships and
    other                     9,192     .8      10,537    1.0     10,086    1.2
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----   --------  -----
        Total                74,748    6.1     109,705   10.2    109,088   12.2
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----   --------  -----

Investment advisory fees     91,920    7.5      79,485    7.3     55,194    6.2
Interest                    229,806   18.6     202,255   18.7    155,746   17.4
Correspondent clearing        4,655     .4       4,429     .4      4,502     .5
Net trading and investment
    profits                  17,034    1.4       6,300     .6     12,797    1.4
Financial service fees       36,101    2.9      24,797    2.3     20,786    2.3
Other                        19,806    1.6      24,275    2.2     23,884    2.6
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----   --------  -----
                          1,232,206  100.0   1,082,907  100.0    896,961  100.0
                                     =====              =====             =====
Gain on sale of Liberty
   Investment Mgmt., Inc.*        -                  -            30,646
                         ----------         ----------          --------
       Total revenues    $1,232,206         $1,082,907          $927,607
                         ==========         ==========          ========

Securities commissions by
- -------------------------
 broker-dealer:
- ---------------
  Raymond James & Associates,
    Inc.                    284,139   37.5  $  262,966   41.6   $222,771   43.3
   Roney  & Co.              23,825    3.1           -      -          -      -
  Raymond James Financial
    Services,  Inc.         448,864   59.2     368,695   58.4    292,193   56.7
  Raymond James Financial
    International, Ltd.       1,308     .2           -      -          -      -
                          ---------  -----  ----------  -----   --------  -----
        Total             $ 758,136  100.0  $  631,661  100.0   $514,964  100.0
                          =========  =====  ==========  =====   ========  =====

* See Note 16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details.



     (c)  Narrative Description of Business
          ---------------------------------

      At  September  24,  1999 the Company employed 4,480  individuals.   RJA
employed  4,018  of  these  individuals, 915 of whom  were  full-time  retail
Financial  Advisors.   In addition, 2,949 full-time Financial  Advisors  were
affiliated with the Company as independent contractors.  Through its  broker-
dealer  subsidiaries, the Company provides securities services to  more  than
one  million  client  accounts.  No single client  accounts  for  a  material
percentage of the Company's total business.

      The Company currently divides its business into five segments based  on
the  products  and services offered. These segments are retail  distribution,
institutional distribution, investment banking, asset management, and other.

                             RETAIL DISTRIBUTION
                             -------------------

      The  Company  provides securities transaction and  financial  planning
services  to  its retail clients through the RJA retail branch  system,  its
independent contractor firm (RJFS), and a general insurance agency.

                             RJA - Retail Sales

      RJA's 79 retail branches and 8 satellites are located primarily in the
southeastern  U.S., with a concentration in Florida, and the Midwest,  as  a
result  of  the  acquisition  of Roney.  The  Roney  transaction  added  320
Financial Advisors and 28 offices in Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.  RJA's  915
retail  Financial Advisors provide a broad range of financial  products  and
services  to their clients.  In most cases, RJA charges commissions  to  its
retail  clients, on both exchange and over-the-counter equity  transactions,
in   accordance  with  its  established  commission  schedule.   In  certain
instances,  varying discounts from the schedule are given,  generally  based
upon  the  client's  level of business, the trade size  and  other  relevant
factors.   RJA  also  distributes both taxable and tax-exempt  fixed  income
products  to its retail clients, including municipal, corporate,  government
agency  and  mortgage-backed  bonds, preferred  stock  and  unit  investment
trusts.   In  addition, a growing number of clients are electing asset-based
fee alternatives to the traditional commission structure.

      The retail Financial Advisors sell a number of professionally managed,
load mutual funds and offer, in addition, a selection of no-load funds.  RJA
maintains  dealer-sales  agreements with most major distributors  of  mutual
fund   shares  sold  through  broker-dealers.   Commissions  on  such  sales
generally  range  from  1%  to 5% of the dollar value  of  the  transaction.
Alternative  sales  compensation  structures  typically  include   front-end
charges,  "back-end"  or contingent deferred sales charges,  and  an  annual
charge in the form of a fund expense.

      At  September 24, 1999, the Company had 14 internally sponsored mutual
funds  for  which RJA acts as distributor.  (See Heritage Asset  Management,
Inc. description on page 7.)  As the distributor of these funds, RJA has the
right to enter into dealer agreements with other broker-dealers for the sale
of Heritage funds to their clients.

                                    RJFS

      RJFS participates in the distribution of all the products and services
offered  by  RJA to its retail clients through 2,949 independent  contractor
Financial  Advisors in 1,193 offices and 323 satellite  offices  in  all  50
states.

      The  Company  operates with three separate divisions.  The  Investment
Management  division has 687 offices and 1,597 Financial  Advisors  and  are
better  characterized as financial planners than as stock  brokers  although
they are not required to conduct their business as financial planners.   The
Securities  Division primarily offers individual securities  and  investment
advice  to  individual  investors  and institutions  through  919  Financial
Advisors in 322 branch offices.  The Financial Institutions Division  offers
securities  on  a  third party basis to customers of financial  institutions
such  as banks, thrifts and credit unions and has 433 Financial Advisors  in
184 locations.

      The  number of Financial Advisors in all offices ranges from 1 to  26.
Such Financial Advisors devote all or substantially all of their time to the
sale of securities and, while these independent contractors must conduct all
securities  business through RJFS, their contracts permit  them  to  conduct
insurance, real estate brokerage, accounting services or other business  for
others  or  for their own account.  Independent contractors are  responsible
for  all  of  their  direct  costs  and are  paid  a  larger  percentage  of
commissions and fees to compensate them for their added expenses.

                       Planning Corporation of America

      Planning Corporation of America ("PCA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary  of
RJA,  is  a  general insurance agency and represents a number  of  insurance
companies.   Through  the Financial Advisors of the Company's  broker-dealer
subsidiaries, PCA provides product and marketing support for a  broad  range
of  insurance  products, principally fixed and variable annuities,  numerous
forms of life insurance, disability insurance and long-term care coverage.



      Clients' transactions in securities are effected on either a  cash  or
margin  basis.   In margin transactions, the client pays a  portion  of  the
purchase  price,  and  RJA  makes a loan to  the  client  for  the  balance,
collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities  owned  by
the  client.   Interest  is charged to clients on  the  amount  borrowed  to
finance  margin  transactions.  The financing  of  margin  purchases  is  an
important  source  of revenue to RJA, since the interest rate  paid  by  the
client  on  funds loaned by RJA exceeds RJA's cost of short-term funds.  The
interest  rate charged to a client on a margin loan depends on  the  average
loan  balance in the client's account and ranges from prime plus 1% to prime
minus .75%.

      Typically, broker-dealers utilize secured bank borrowings  and  equity
capital  as the primary sources of funds to finance clients' margin  account
borrowings.  Since  the inception of the Client Interest  Program  in  1981,
however,  the  Company's primary source of funds to finance clients'  margin
account  balances  has  been cash balances in clients'  accounts  which  are
awaiting  investment.   In  addition, pursuant to  written  agreements  with
clients,  broker-dealers are permitted by Securities and Exchange Commission
("SEC") and NYSE rules to lend client securities in margin accounts to other
brokers.   SEC  regulations, however, restrict the  use  of  clients'  funds
derived  from  pledging and lending clients' securities, as  well  as  funds
awaiting investment, to the financing of margin account balances, and to the
extent  not  so used, such funds are required to be deposited in  a  special
account   for  the  benefit  of  clients.   The  regulations  also   require
broker-dealers, within designated periods of time, to obtain  possession  or
control  of,  and  to  segregate, clients'  fully  paid  and  excess  margin
securities.
                         INSTITUTIONAL DISTRIBUTION
                         --------------------------

       The   Company's  institutional  clients  are  serviced  by  RJA's
Institutional Equity and Fixed Income Departments.

      The 53 domestic professionals in the Institutional Equity Sales and
Sales Trading Departments maintain relationships with 776 institutional clients.
In addition to the Company's headquarters in St. Petersburg, FL, institutional
equity offices are located in New York, Houston, Dallas, Princeton, San Diego,
Toronto,  Calgary, Brussels, Brugte, Dusseldorf, Geneva, London (Raymond James
Financial International, Ltd., a UK broker-dealer), Luxembourg,
Milan and Paris.

      In addition, RJA distributes to its institutional clients both taxable
and  tax-exempt  fixed  income  products,  primarily  municipal,  corporate,
government   agency  and  mortgage-backed  bonds.   RJA  carries   inventory
positions  of  taxable  and municipal securities in  both  the  primary  and
secondary  market.   In  addition  to  St.  Petersburg,  the  Fixed   Income
Department  maintains institutional sales and trading offices in  New  York,
Chicago, Houston, Boston, Atlanta, Boca Raton, and Dublin, Ohio.  To  assist
our  institutional  clients, the department's Fixed  Income  Research  Group
provides  value-added  analytical services and  publishes  research  reports
containing  both specific product information and information on  topics  of
interest such as market and regulatory developments.

       In providing these securities brokerage services to its institutional
clients,  RJA discounts its commissions substantially on transactions  based
on  trade  size  and  the amount of business conducted  annually  with  each
institution.



     The revenues and costs of RJA's back office operations are attributable
primarily   to  the  two  distribution  segments  above.   RJA's  operations
personnel  are  responsible  for  the execution  of  orders,  processing  of
securities   transactions,   custody   of   client   securities,    receipt,
identification  and  delivery  of  funds  and  securities,  compliance  with
regulatory  and  legal  requirements,  internal  financial  accounting   and
controls  and  general  office administration  for  most  of  the  Company's
securities brokerage operations.

                     INVESTMENT BANKING/CAPITAL MARKETS
                     ----------------------------------

      Investment  Banking activities include both equity and  fixed  income
products. This segment consists of the departments described below:

      Investment  Banking Group.  The 47 professionals of  RJA's  Investment
Banking Group, located primarily in St. Petersburg with satellite offices in
New York, Dallas, Houston, Calgary, and Chicago are involved in a variety of
activities  including  public  and private equity  financing  for  corporate
clients,  merger  and acquisition advisory services, fairness  opinions  and
evaluations.  The Company focuses on specific industry groups  or  strategic
business units ("SBUs") including Consumer, Financial and Business Services,
Healthcare, Information Technology,  Environmental, Real Estate, and Energy.

      In  addition, RJA acts as an underwriter or selling group  member  for
corporate  bonds, agency bonds, preferred stock and unit investment  trusts.
When  underwriting  new issue securities, RJA agrees to purchase  the  issue
through a negotiated sale or submits a competitive bid.

      Research  Department.   The  45 analysts in  this  department  publish
research on over 340 companies, primarily focused on emerging growth and mid-
cap  companies  in a broad range of industries.  Approximately  28%  of  the
companies  covered  are  investment banking clients.   Proprietary  research
reports  are  provided  to both retail and institutional  clients,  and  are
supplemented  by  research purchased from outside  services  to  accommodate
retail  clients.  This  department  has  distinguished  itself  through  its
extremely  successful  long-term comparative results as  reported  by  Zacks
Investment Research each quarter in the Wall Street Journal.

      Over-the-Counter Equity Trading. Trading securities in  the  over-the-
counter  ("OTC") market involves the purchase of securities  from,  and  the
sale  of securities to, clients of the Company or other dealers who  may  be
purchasing  or selling securities for their own account or acting  as  agent
for  their clients.  Profits and losses are derived from the spreads between
bid and asked prices, as well as market trends for the individual securities
during  the holding period. At September 24, 1999, RJA made markets in  over
250  common  stocks in the OTC market. RJA frequently acts as agent  in  the
execution  of OTC orders for its clients and as such transacts these  trades
with other dealers.  When RJA receives a client order in a security in which
it makes a market, it may act as principal as long as it matches or improves
upon  the  best  price  in the dealer market, plus or  minus  a  mark-up  or
mark-down  not exceeding the equivalent agency commission charge.   Recently
adopted  regulations require that client limit orders be satisfied prior  to
the  brokerage firm buying securities into or selling securities from  their
own inventory at the same price.

       Syndicate  Department.   The  Syndicate  Department  coordinates  the
marketing,  distribution, pricing and stabilization of Raymond James'  lead-
and  co-managed equity underwritings. In addition to Raymond James'  managed
and  co-managed offerings, this department coordinates the firm's  syndicate
and  selling  group activities in transactions managed by  other  investment
banking  firms.  Marketing and distribution activities are  focused  on  the
firm's  institutional and retail clients. The Syndicate Department  is  also
responsible for the Corporate Client Services group which serves the  firm's
Investment  Banking and Research clients by providing specialized  brokerage
services for corporations and their executives.

      Public  Finance.  The 21 professionals in the Public Finance  division
operate  out  of  7  offices  (2 located in the State  of  Florida,  one  in
Birmingham, AL, one in New York, NY, one in Pittsburgh, PA, one in  Detroit,
MI,  and one in San Antonio, TX), acting as Financial Advisor or underwriter
to various municipal agencies or political subdivisions.

      Partnership  Investment  Banking.  The Company  acts  as  the  general
partner  in  equipment leasing and real estate limited  partnerships.   Most
significantly,  Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. is the general  partner
in  funds that have invested nationwide in properties that qualify  for  low
income housing tax credits.

ASSET MANAGEMENT
- ----------------

      The  Company's  asset  management segment includes  proprietary  asset
management  operations,  internally sponsored mutual  funds,  outside  money
management
alternatives, and other asset-based fee programs.

                        Eagle Asset Management, Inc.

      Eagle  is  a  registered  investment advisor with  approximately  $5.1
billion  under  management at September 24, 1999.  Eagle's  clients  include
pension and profit sharing plans, retirement funds, foundations, endowments,
trusts, life insurance and mutual fund portfolios and individuals.  Accounts
are  managed  on  a  discretionary basis in accordance with  the  investment
objective(s)  specified  by  the client.  Eagle manages  approximately  $1.2
billion for institutional clients and $3.9 billion for retail accounts.

     Eagle's investment management fee generally ranges from .30% to 1.0% of
asset balances per year depending upon the size and investment objective  of
the account. In addition to the management fees, clients are required to pay
brokerage  commissions  (or  more commonly,  a  fee  in  lieu  thereof)  for
transactions in their accounts.

                       Heritage Asset Management, Inc.

      Heritage  Asset  Management, Inc. ("Heritage")  serves  as  investment
advisor  to  the Heritage Family of Mutual Funds.  Heritage also  serves  as
transfer  agent or sub-transfer agent for all of the open-end funds  and  as
fund  accountant  or sub-fund accountant for all Heritage funds  except  the
Eagle  International Equity Portfolio. Portfolio management for the  Income-
Growth  Trust,  Aggressive Growth Fund, Growth Equity Fund, Mid  Cap  Growth
Fund,  Value  Equity Fund, and the First Puerto Rico Growth and Income  Fund
are  subcontracted.  Portfolio management for the Small Cap  Stock  Fund  is
subcontracted  to Eagle and the Company's Awad Asset Management  subsidiary.
Unaffiliated  advisors  are employed for the Municipal  Money  Market  Fund,
Capital Appreciation Trust, High Yield Bond Fund and the Eagle International
Equity Portfolio.

      Heritage  also  serves as an advisor to Raymond James  Bank  to  make
recommendations  and monitor the Bank's investment portfolio  of  mortgage-
backed securities.

     Net assets at September 24, 1999 were as follows (in thousands):

     Heritage Cash Trust:
       Money Market Fund                              $3,197,446
       Municipal Money Market Fund                       644,679
     Heritage Capital Appreciation Trust                 228,855
     Heritage Income-Growth Trust                         93,419
     Heritage Income Trust:
       High Yield Bond Fund                               50,845
       Intermediate Government Fund                       13,369
     Heritage Series Trust:
       Small Cap Stock Fund                              201,312
       Growth Equity Fund                                139,028
       Eagle International Equity Portfolio               15,127
       Value Equity Fund                                  27,179
       Mid Cap Stock Fund                                 26,535
       Aggressive Growth Fund                             47,975
     Heritage U.S. Govt Income Fund
       (closed-end)                                       35,643
     First Puerto Rico Growth & Income Fund
       (available to Puerto Rico Residents only)          59,335
                                                      ----------

                                                      $4,780,747
                                                      ==========
                         Awad Asset Management, Inc.

      Awad  Asset Management, Inc. ("Awad") is primarily a small and mid-cap
equity portfolio management subsidiary.  Clients pay fees and/or commissions
for  management of their accounts.  Present fees range from .50% to 1.0%  of
asset balances annually.  In addition to private accounts, Awad also manages
a  portion  of  the Heritage Small Cap Stock Fund Portfolio and  other  non-
affiliated mutual fund portfolios. Exclusive of the Heritage Small Cap Fund,
Awad had approximately $569 million under management at September 24, 1999.

                       RJA - Asset Management Services

      RJA's  Asset  Management Services ("AMS") Department manages  programs
which offer investment advisory services to clients, as well as certain non-
advisory   programs  which  offer  fee-based  alternatives  to   traditional
commission  charges for transactions.  The primary advisory service  offered
by  AMS is the Investment Advisory Services ("IAS") program.  IAS  maintains
an approved list of investment managers, most of which are unaffiliated with
the  Company,  establishes  custodial facilities,  monitors  performance  of
client  accounts, provides clients with accounting and other  administrative
services  and  assists investment managers with certain  trading  management
activities.   IAS earns fees generally ranging from .50% to  1.0%  of  asset
balances  per  annum, a portion of which is paid to investment managers  who
direct the investment of the clients' accounts. At September 24, 1999,  this
program  had  approximately $3.1 billion in assets under management  through
agreements with 29 independent investment advisors and Awad.

      Passport and a similar program offered by RJFS, known as IMPAC,  offer
both  a  discretionary and  non-discretionary advisory fee alternative  that
allows  clients to pay a quarterly fee plus low transaction charges in  lieu
of  commissions.  Fees are based on the individual account size and are also
dependent  on  the  type of securities in the accounts.   In  addition,  AMS
collects  an  administrative fee of up to .175% of asset balances  annually,
for   which  clients  receive  quarterly  performance  reporting  and  other
services.   As  of September 24, 1999, Passport and IMPAC had  approximately
$5.23  billion  and  $1.43  billion  in assets,  respectively,  serviced  by
Financial Advisors.

      In  addition  to  the foregoing programs, AMS also  offers  fee  based
programs  to  clients who have contracted for portfolio management  services
from  outside  money  managers that are not  a  part  of  the  IAS  program.
Further, AMS administers other less significant asset-based fee programs.

                                    OTHER
                                    -----

      Aside  from  the  retail  and institutional distribution,  investment
banking  and  asset  management businesses, the Company  operates  a  stock
borrow/stock loan program, offers bank and trust services, and has  several
international joint ventures.  These operations are grouped in the  "other"
segment.

                        RJA - Stock Borrow/Stock Loan

      RJA  commenced this program in July 1987, involving the borrowing  and
lending of securities from and to other broker-dealers.  RJA generally  acts
as  an intermediary between broker-dealers and other financial institutions,
where  it borrows from one party and lends to another.  The borrower of  the
securities puts up a cash deposit, commonly 102% of the market value of  the
securities.   This  deposit, which is adjusted daily to reflect  changes  in
current market value, earns interest at a negotiated rate.

                           Raymond James Bank, FSB

      Raymond James Bank, FSB, ("RJBank") received its federal savings  bank
charter on May 6, 1994. RJBank provides residential, consumer and commercial
loans  as well as FDIC-insured deposit accounts to clients of RJF's  broker-
dealer subsidiaries and to the general public nationwide.

      Access  to  RJBank's  products and services  is  available  nationwide
through  the offices of its affiliated investment firms as well  as  through
convenient  telephonic  and  electronic banking  services,  including  debit
cards,  ATM/point-of-sale, 24-hour TeleDirect automated  telephone  banking,
Internet  Banking with Electronic Bill-Paying, checkwriting, direct  deposit
and  ACH  payments.  As of September 24, 1999, RJBank had  total  assets  in
excess of $635 million.

                         Raymond James Trust Company
                             Sound Trust Company

      Raymond  James Trust Company was chartered and opened for business  in
1992.  This  wholly-owned subsidiary of RJF was formed primarily to  provide
personal   trust   services  to  existing  clients  of   the   broker-dealer
subsidiaries.   Portfolio management of trust assets is often  subcontracted
to  the  asset management operations of the Company.  In October  1993,  the
Company  acquired  a second trust company, Sound Trust Company,  in  Tacoma,
Washington.   This subsidiary provides personal trust services primarily  to
broker-dealer clients outside the State of Florida.  These two  subsidiaries
had a combined total of $548 million in client assets at September 24, 1999.

                      Raymond James Credit Corporation

      Raymond  James Credit Corporation ("RJCC") was formed  in  1996  as  a
regulated  finance company. To date, this subsidiary has primarily  provided
loans  collateralized by control or restricted securities.  RJCC  is  funded
with  internal capital and by a $50 million line of credit with a commercial
bank.  At  September 24, 1999, RJCC had $66 million in outstanding loans  to
customers.

                 Raymond James International Holdings, Inc.

      Raymond  James  International Holdings, Inc.  ("RJIH")  is  a  Delaware
corporation  formed in 1994 to house the Company's foreign  operations.  RJIH
now  has  ownership  in  unconsolidated joint ventures in  Argentina,  India,
Turkey  and  France.   These joint ventures operate in securities  brokerage,
investment banking and asset management.

                                 COMPETITION

     The Company's subsidiaries compete with many larger, better capitalized
providers of financial services, including other securities firms,  some  of
which  are  affiliated  with major financial services  companies,  insurance
companies, banking institutions and other organizations.  They also  compete
with  a  number of firms offering discount brokerage services, usually  with
lower  levels of service, to individual clients.  The Company's subsidiaries
compete principally on the basis of service, product selection, location and
reputation in local markets.

                                 REGULATION

     Most of the Company's operations are subject to regulatory oversight by
governmental agencies and/or self regulatory organizations.

      The  securities industry in the United States is subject to  extensive
regulation  under  federal and state laws.  The SEC is  the  federal  agency
charged  with administration of the federal securities laws.   Much  of  the
regulation of broker-dealers, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory
organizations,  principally  the NASD and the NYSE.   These  self-regulatory
organizations  adopt rules (which are subject to approval by  the  SEC)  for
governing  the industry and conduct periodic examinations of member  broker-
dealers.   Securities  firms  are  also  subject  to  regulation  by   state
securities commissions in the states in which they are registered.  RJA  and
RJFS are currently registered in all 50 states.

      See  Note  13  of the Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements  for
further  description of certain SEC regulations pertaining to  broker-dealer
Net Capital Requirements.

      The  Company's investment advisory operations, including  the  Company-
sponsored mutual funds, are also subject to extensive regulation by the SEC.

      Raymond  James  Bank, FSB, is subject to regulation by various  federal
banking  agencies, including the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation.

      The  Company's  two trust companies are subject to  regulation  by  the
states in which they are chartered.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
          ----------

      The  Company  owns a 610,000 square foot headquarters  complex  in  St.
Petersburg,  FL  (three home office buildings, a bank and trust  headquarters
building,  and  a five deck parking garage). The complex covers approximately
forty-five  acres,  and the Company has the ability to build  up  to  another
460,000 square feet on this site.  The Company also leases 70,000 square feet
in  a nearby office building, and has committed to lease an additional 30,000
sq.  feet as of April 2000.  In addition the Company acquired a 45,000 square
foot,  eight  story  building  in Detroit, Michigan  as  part  of  the  Roney
transaction.   With  the  exception  of a  Company-owned  RJA  branch  office
building  in  Crystal  River,  FL,  RJA  branches  are  leased  with  various
expiration  dates  through  2008.   The RJFS Investment  Management  division
headquarters  office in Atlanta and Sound Trust Company facility  in  Seattle
are  also  under lease.  See Note 9 to Consolidated Financial Statements  for
further information regarding the Company's leases.

      Leases  for  branch  offices  of RJFS are  the  responsibility  of  the
respective independent contractor registered representatives.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
          -----------------

      The  Company  is  a  defendant  or  co-defendant  in  various  lawsuits
incidental  to  its  securities  business.  The  Company  is  contesting  the
allegations  of  the complaints in these cases and believes  that  there  are
meritorious  defenses in each of these lawsuits.  In view of the  number  and
diversity of claims against the Company, the number of jurisdictions in which
litigation  is pending and the inherent difficulty of predicting the  outcome
of  litigation and other claims, the Company cannot state with certainty what
the eventual outcome of pending litigation or other claims will be.

     As  a result of the extensive regulation of the securities industry, the
Company's  broker-dealer  subsidiaries are subject  to  regular  reviews  and
inspections by regulatory authorities and self regulatory organizations which
can result in imposition of sanctions for regulatory violations, ranging from
non-monetary  censure to fines and, in serious cases, temporary or  permanent
suspension from business.  In addition, from time to time regulatory agencies
and  self  regulatory  organizations institute investigations  into  industry
practices  which can result in the imposition of such sanctions.  During  the
course   of  the  past  fiscal  year,  the  Company's  primary  broker-dealer
subsidiary resolved a number of regulatory and self regulatory investigations
by payment of fines that were immaterial in amount.

     The Securities and Exchange Commission has initiated an investigation of
certain  trading practices in the over-the-counter securities  market  during
1994  and  1995.   Along  with  many other market  makers,  the  Company  has
submitted documents and cooperated with the S.E.C. in this investigation. The
Company does not anticipate that the resolution of this proceeding will  have
a material effect on its business or operations.  The Securities and Exchange
Commission,  the  Internal Revenue Service, and the National  Association  of
Securities Dealers, Inc., have been conducting reviews of investment  banking
practices   in   connection   with   advance   refunding   transactions   for
municipalities.   The  investigation has focused on the mark-ups  charged  by
investment  banking  firms  for  securities purchased  by  municipalities  in
connection  with  these  refundings.  Along with other  participants  in  the
municipal  bond  market,  the  Company  has  been  providing  documents   and
furnishing  information to regulators in connection with this  investigation,
which is ongoing.

      In  the  opinion of management, based on discussions with counsel,  the
outcome of these matters will not result in a material adverse effect on  the
financial position or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
          ---------------------------------------------------
     None.

                                   PART II
                                   -------


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK
          ----------------------------------------
          AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
          -------------------------------

     The Company's common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol "RJF".
The  following table sets forth for the periods indicated the  high  and  low
trades for the common stock.

                                  1999                 1998
                             -----------------    -----------------
                              High        Low      High        Low
                             ------     ------    ------     ------
      First Quarter          $26.25     $16.75    $26.63     $18.00
      Second Quarter          22.63      18.00     29.13      21.63
      Third Quarter           24.19      18.88     36.50      28.50
      Fourth Quarter          25.19      18.81     32.63      17.07

           Since  the Company initiated payment of a cash dividend  in  1985,
there  have  been 17 increases in the dividend rate, 7 of which were  in  the
form of stock splits and stock dividends.

     The payment of dividends on the Company's common stock is subject to the
availability of funds from the Company's subsidiaries, including the  broker-
dealer  subsidiaries  which  may be subject to  restrictions  under  the  net
capital  rules of the SEC and the NYSE.  Such restrictions have never  become
applicable with respect to the Company's dividend payments.  (See Note 13  of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

      At  December  14, 1999 there were approximately 11,000 holders  of  the
Company's common stock.

ITEM 6.                                 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                                        -----------------------
                              (in thousands, except per share data)

                                              Year Ended
                    -----------------------------------------------------------
                     Sept. 24,   Sept. 25,   Sept. 26,   Sept. 27,    Sept. 29,
                        1999        1998        1997**      1996        1995
Operating Results:  ----------  ---------- ----------- -----------   ----------
- ------------------
Revenues            $1,232,206  $1,082,907 $   927,607 $   721,752   $  554,070
Net  income         $   85,090  $   92,704 $    98,915 $    65,978   $   46,141
Net income per
  share - basic:*   $     1.79  $     1.92 $      2.09 $      1.41   $      .99
Net income per
  share - diluted:* $     1.76  $     1.86 $      2.04 $      1.39   $      .98

Weighted average
 common shares
  outstanding - basic:* 47,606      48,160      47,383      46,781       46,607
Weighted average common
 and common equivalent
 shares outstanding -
   diluted:*            48,449      49,951      48,387      47,307       47,083

Cash dividends declared
 per share*         $      .28  $      .24  $      .21  $      .17  $       .16


Financial Condition:
- --------------------
Total assets        $5,030,715  $3,852,737  $3,278,645  $2,566,381   $2,012,715
Long-term  debt     $   44,183  $   44,767  $   12,715  $   12,909   $   13,084

Shareholders' equity$  558,486  $  509,898  $  423,276  $  326,632   $  266,193
Shares outstanding*     47,242      48,268      47,695      47,012       46,382

Equity per share
  at end of period* $    11.82  $    10.56  $     8.87  $     6.95   $     5.74

     *    Gives effect to the common stock splits paid on April 2, 1998
          and April 3, 1997.


     **   Amounts include the $30.6 million gain on the sale of Liberty
          Investment Management, Inc. Excluding this gain, revenues were
          $896,961,000, net income was $80,126,000, and basic and diluted
          net income per share were $1.69 and $1.66, respectively.  See Note
          16 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details.


     ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
              -------------------------------------------------------------
              AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
              -----------------------

Results of Operations - Three Years Ended September 24, 1999
- ------------------------------------------------------------

      Fiscal  1999  was the Company's fifteenth consecutive  year  of  record
revenues,  with total revenues of $1,232,206,000 representing an increase  of
14% over the prior year. In contrast, net income of $85,090,000 represented a
decline  of  8%  from the prior year.  Earnings were negatively  impacted  by
costs  associated with a corporate branding campaign, the creation of Raymond
James  Financial  Services,  Inc. ("RJFS"), the expansion  of  the  corporate
headquarters, Y2K preparation, and the acquisition of Roney & Co. ("Roney").

      Not only did the Company incur the aforementioned expenses, certain  of
which  will  be  non-recurring,  but operational  expenses  grew  at  a  rate
exceeding  revenue growth and investment banking results were  down  sharply.
The  Company's  retail  business,  the  independent  contractor  portion   in
particular, continued its steady growth with exceptionally strong  recruiting
results.   The  Company  has  also  been successful  in  its  focus  on  non-
transaction  dependent  fee  revenues,  such  as  investment  advisory  fees,
interest and asset-based commission alternatives.  For fiscal 1999, such fee-
based  revenues represented approximately 44% of total revenues, up from  31%
five years ago.


                                                  Year Ended
                               ------------------------------------------------
                                Sept. 24, % Incr.  Sept. 25, % Incr.  Sept. 26,
                                  1999*   (Decr.)    1998    (Decr.)    1997
                               ---------- -------  --------- -------  ---------
Revenues:                        (000's)            (000's)            (000's)
Securities commissions
  and fees                     $  758,136    20%  $  631,661    23%  $  514,964
Investment banking                 74,748   (32%)    109,705     1%     109,088
Investment advisory fees           91,920    16%      79,485    44%      55,194
Interest                          229,806    14%     202,255    30%     155,746
Correspondent clearing              4,655     5%       4,429    (2%)      4,502
Net trading profits                17,034   170%       6,300   (51%)     12,797
Financial service fees             36,101    46%      24,797    19%      20,786
Other                              19,806   (18%)     24,275     2%      23,884
                               ----------         ----------         ----------
                                1,232,206    14%   1,082,907    21%     896,961
Gain on sale of Liberty                 -                  -             30,646
                               ----------         ----------         ----------
  Total revenues               $1,232,206    14%  $1,082,907    17%  $  927,607
                               ==========         ==========         ==========
     *  Includes $36,177 from Roney.


      The  record  transaction volumes in fiscal years 1999,  1998  and  1997
resulted  in  increased securities commissions from the sales of all  product
lines during the period, with the largest increases occurring in equities and
annuities.
                                                   YEAR ENDED
                               -------------------------------------------------
                                 Sept. 24, %Incr.   Sept. 25,          Sept. 26,
                                   1999    (Decr.)    1998     %Incr.    1997
                               ----------- -------  ---------  ------  ---------
Number of retail Financial
  Advisors at yearend*               3,864   24%        3,117   10%        2,825
Retail commission revenues
  (000's)                      $   631,572   21%  $   523,890   24%  $   422,316
Retail new issue sales credits
  (000's)                      $    16,345  (35%) $    24,976    2%  $    24,472
Number of institutional
  salesmen at yearend                  150   12%          134    9%          123
Institutional commission
  revenues (000's)             $   126,564   17%  $   107,771   16%  $    92,648
Institutional new issue sales
  credits (000's)              $    21,055  (20%) $    26,470   14%  $    23,167
Number of trades processed       4,107,000   23%    3,328,000   19%    2,803,000

    * Includes Roney.  Excluding Roney:  3,548 Financial Advisors, a 14%
      increase.

       Investment  banking  revenues,  including  new  issue  sales  credits,
decreased considerably to $75 million in 1999 from the record $110 million in
the  prior  year.  Fiscal  1997  was a record year  for  equity  underwriting
activity,  both in number of new issues and average offering size. This  pace
continued only through the first half of fiscal 1998, at which time small and
mid-cap  stocks  began to weaken, particularly in certain  industry  sectors,
which  severely slowed the new issue deal flow.  Investment banking  revenues
in  fiscal 1999 were well below recent prior years as a result of several  of
the Company's major sectors of emphasis (energy, real estate and health care)
being out of favor for most of the year and the Company being behind schedule
in  developing  a  significant  technology investment  banking  and  research
effort.   The  number  of  managed  and co-managed  underwritings,  the  vast
majority  of  which were equity-related offerings, and the dollar  volume  of
these  transactions were as follows: 1999 - 23 new issues for  $3.0  billion;
1998  -  57  new issues for $6.0 billion; and 1997 - 65 new issues  for  $7.8
billion.   Merger and acquisition fees, which have been a consistent  revenue
source during the past few years, also declined in fiscal 1999 to $16 million
after reaching a record $20 million in 1998.

      Investment  advisory fees have risen commensurate  with  the  generally
strong  growth  in  assets under management, which has shown  an  annual  21%
increase  for  the period.  Asset management growth has benefited  from  both
overall  asset  appreciation and net sales during the past  two  years.   For
fiscal  1997,  investment advisory fees included $2.6 million  in  fees  from
Liberty,  which  was sold in January 1997.  During 1998, the  Company's  real
estate  portfolio  management  operation was sold,  and  its  employees  were
transferred  to  the new owner.  This transaction generated $3.7  million  of
performance fees, which are included in investment advisory fees.

                             Sept. 24, %Incr.    Sept. 25,  %Incr.    Sept. 26,
                                1999   (Decr.)      1998    (Decr.)      1997
                           ----------- ------- -----------  -------  ----------
                               (000's)             (000's)             (000's)
Eagle Asset Mgmt., Inc.*   $ 5,138,064    7%   $ 4,804,967    29%    $3,714,407
Heritage Family of Mutual
 Funds                       4,780,747   21%     3,947,394    25%     3,160,910
Investment Advisory Services 3,110,000   73%     1,798,260    25%     1,433,018
Awad Asset Management*         569,000  (13%)      656,336   (19%)      814,315
Carillon Asset Management            -                   -               53,448
                           -----------         -----------           ----------
Total Financial Assets
 Under Management          $13,597,811   21%   $11,206,957    22%    $9,176,098
                           ===========         ===========           ==========

*  Excludes balances included in the Heritage Family of Mutual Funds.
      Net  interest  income  continues to be a growing  source  of  recurring
earnings. The components of interest earnings are as follows:

                     Sept. 24,            Sept. 25,            Sept. 26,
                       1999                 1998                 1997
                     ---------            ---------            ---------
                                     (balances in 000's)
Margin balances:
   Average balance  $  908,671           $  701,742           $  480,203
   Average rate           7.6%                 8.2%                 8.1%
                    ----------           ----------           ----------
                               $  69,059            $ 57,697             $39,087

Assets segregated
 pursuant to Federal
 Regulations:
   Average balance   1,063,350              776,768              601,902
   Average rate           4.9%                 5.6%                 5.3%
                    ----------           ----------           ----------
                                  51,630              43,163              32,148

Stock borrowed:
   Average balance   1,270,112            1,154,703            1,004,735
   Average rate           4.6%                 4.9%                 4.8%
                    ----------           ----------           ----------
                                  58,209              57,049              48,606

Raymond James Bank, FSB           28,756              22,937              17,739

Other interest revenue            22,152              21,409              18,166
                                 -------             -------             -------

Total interest revenue           229,806             202,255             155,746
                                 -------             -------             -------

Client interest program:
   Average balance   1,540,966           1,201,398              880,026
   Average rate           4.3%                4.8%                 4.7%
                     ---------           ---------             --------
                                  66,260              57,627              41,693
Stock loaned:
   Average balance   1,292,791            1,119,287              980,000
   Average rate           4.3%                 4.7%                 4.5%
                     ---------            ---------            ---------
                                  55,590              53,200              44,238

Raymond James Bank, FSB           20,270              17,249              12,997

Other interest expense             9,374               2,933               2,413
                                --------            --------            --------
Total interest expense           151,494             131,009             101,341
                                --------            --------            --------
Net interest income             $ 78,312*    +10%   $ 71,246      +31%  $ 54,405
                                ========            ========            ========

     *  Includes $2,383 from Roney.


      Net trading profits increased dramatically over fiscal 1998, reflecting
improved  corporate  and  government bond  trading  results  in  addition  to
somewhat improved over-the-counter equity trading results.  However,  due  to
the  changes in the over-the-counter equity trading regulations and practices
in  fiscal  1998,  the Company expects that flat or negative over-the-counter
equity  trading results will be the norm, not the exception.  Through  fiscal
1997,  the  Company's  trading  profits had remained  relatively  consistent,
derived primarily from client order flow in both over-the-counter equity  and
fixed income securities.

      The  growth  in the Company's retail client base during  the  past  two
fiscal  years has led to increased financial service fees.  In the  past  two
years  there  has  been a 54% increase in the number of IRA accounts,  a  61%
increase  in money market processing fees, and a 151% increase in transaction
fees  arising  from retail asset-based fee account programs, an  increasingly
popular alternative to the traditional commission-based pricing structure.

      Other income is composed predominantly of postage and handling fees and
floor  brokerage  income.   Fiscal 1998's other  income  also  included  $1.7
million  related  to  the  sale  of the real estate  portfolio  and  property
management  operations  and  $2.4 million from  the  sale  of  the  Company's
specialist  operations on the Chicago Exchange.  For the first half  of  1998
and  in  previous years, other income included property management fees  from
the  operations which were sold by the Company in March 1998.  These fees had
been  increasing substantially through the years as the number  of  apartment
units  under  management increased.  Other income in fiscal 1997  included  a
gain  of  $2.5  million  from the Company's sale of its  former  headquarters
building.

                                                   Year Ended
                                -----------------------------------------------
                                  Sept. 24, % Incr. Sept. 25, % Incr. Sept. 26,
                                    1999*   (Decr.)   1998    (Decr.)   1997
                                ----------- ------- --------- ------- ---------
Expenses:                          (000's)           (000's)           (000's)
  Employee compensation:
   Sales commissions            $   517,280    20%   $430,556    24%   $346,770
   Administrative and
      benefit costs                 146,254    21%    120,935    25%     96,549
   Incentive compensation            91,213    (6%)    96,723     3%     94,091
                                -----------          --------          --------
       Total employee compensation  754,747    16%    648,214    21%    537,410

Communications and information
  processing                         53,071    22%     43,485    16%     37,491
   Occupancy and equipment           40,059    21%     33,029    22%     27,175
   Clearance and floor brokerage     13,456    16%     11,607    (1%)    11,708
   Interest                         151,494    16%    131,009    29%    101,341
   Business development              38,395    22%     31,514    52%     20,755
   Other                             43,465    29%     33,813     8%     31,212
                                 ----------          --------          --------

                                 $1,094,687    17%   $932,671    22%   $767,092
                                 ==========          ========          ========

     *  Includes $34,625 from Roney.

      Sales  commission  expense  again increased  at  a  rate  approximately
proportionate  to  the  related revenues.  The slightly  higher  increase  in
Financial  Advisor  compensation in fiscal  1998  over  the  related  revenue
reflects  the  increase  in the proportion of independent  contractor  versus
employee Financial Advisors.

      Administrative and benefit compensation costs had been increasing at  a
rate  consistent with the growth in total revenues.  However, the fiscal 1999
increase  exceeded the growth in revenues as a result of continued hiring  to
support  transaction volume, including the personnel acquired  in  the  Roney
transaction,  and the recruiting of investment bankers and research  analysts
during a period of decreased investment banking revenues.

      Incentive  compensation expenses, including contributions to  qualified
retirement  plans,  are  based  on  departmental,  subsidiary  and  firm-wide
profitability.  Lower investment banking results in fiscal 1999  resulted  in
significantly   lower  incentive  compensation  accruals   for   this   area.
Simultaneously,  improved  results in other segments  partially  offset  this
decline,  holding the decrease in total incentive compensation expense  to  a
rate  below  the  decrease in net income.  In contrast,  strong  underwriting
activity  in 1998 and 1997 resulted in record investment banking departmental
profits, having a dramatic impact on incentive compensation.

      While  the  costs  associated with overall growth continued  to  affect
communications  and information processing, fiscal 1999 also  included  costs
associated with the integration of Roney, preparation for Y2K, and the merger
creating  RJFS.   The increases in communications and information  processing
expense  in  fiscal 1998 and 1997 reflected the costs of further  enhancement
and  expansion  of  the  Company's  systems  of  internal  communication  and
information  dissemination, as well as higher general business volume,  which
gave rise to increased costs for telephone, printing and supplies.

      The completion and occupancy of the third headquarters building in  the
spring  of  1998 gave rise to much of the increased occupancy  and  equipment
expenses for that year.  Fiscal 1999 includes the first full annual effect of
this expansion.

      For  the  first  time  in several years, clearing and  floor  brokerage
increased,  a result of increased transaction volume and higher international
clearing  costs.   As  in  the  past, clearing and  floor  brokerage  expense
increased  at  a rate lower than the growth in related revenues  due  to  the
increased  productivity  of  floor brokers and  other  cost  saving  measures
implemented.

       Several  of  the  Company's  branding  initiatives  impacted  business
development in fiscal 1999, such as the first full year of the stadium naming
rights,   general   image  advertising  costs  (primarily  television),   and
recruiting-related  programs  capitalizing  on  the  creation  of  RJFS.   In
addition,  certain  costs  related to the Roney  acquisition  and  subsequent
communication   and   training  are  included  in  this  expense.    Business
development  expenses rose dramatically in 1998 due to increased advertising,
both  to  recruit  Financial Advisors and increase  brand  name  recognition;
increased  travel and related expenses, particularly by the larger  staff  of
investment bankers and research analysts; the inception of the stadium naming
rights contract; and costs associated with larger conferences throughout  the
Company's operations.

     While the Company was able to hold other expenses relatively constant in
1998,  these  expenses increased from 1998 to 1999 at a  pace  exceeding  the
growth  in revenues. These expenses include fees paid to outside managers  in
the  Company's  investment advisory services program, bank  service  charges,
legal expenses and provisions, and amortization of goodwill arising from  the
Roney acquisition.

Year 2000
- ---------

      The  widespread  use of computer programs that rely on  two-digit  date
programs  to  perform  computations and decision-making functions  may  cause
computer  systems  to  malfunction in the Year 2000 and lead  to  significant
business delays and disruptions in the U.S. and internationally.

      The  Company  has  revised  all critical  information  technology  (IT)
internal  computer code that it has identified as requiring modification  for
Year  2000 compliance, and has successfully tested the revised code  for  the
transition  between  December  29, 1999 and January  3,  2000;  testing  will
continue throughout 1999 and may be continued into January 2000 with  respect
to  other dates that could be affected by this problem.  The company will  be
limiting the introduction of new computer code during this period to  protect
the integrity of the changes made during this year.

      All  of the Company's securities transactions are processed on software
provided  by  Securities Industry Software (SIS), a subsidiary  of  Automatic
Data Processing, Inc., and the Company has closely monitored the progress  of
SIS  in  revising its software.  Based on information received to  date,  the
Company believes that SIS completed revision and testing of its software on a
timely basis.  The Company is also monitoring information received from third-
party vendors regarding their progress in modification of other software used
by  the  Company,  as  well as the progress of other industry  suppliers,  in
addressing this issue.

      With  respect  to  non-IT  systems,  primarily  those  located  at  its
headquarters  campus  and  those  provided  by  its  telecommunications   and
satellite service providers, the Company has completed the inventory  of  all
systems  and confirmed the compliance status of its vendors.  Most  of  these
vendors  are  major  national  or international  companies  which  have  been
addressing the Year 2000 issue for some time.

      With  the  exception  of those discussed below, all  of  the  Company's
subsidiaries  are  substantially  dependent  upon  the  Company's  Year  2000
compliance program.  Raymond James Bank, FSB, Raymond James Trust Company and
Heritage Asset Management, Inc. have received revised computer software  from
the third-party vendors on whom they are dependent and have completed testing
of these systems.  Eagle Asset Management, Inc. has installed a new portfolio
management  system  which  has been designed to be Year  2000  compliant  and
completed testing of its mission critical systems in September 1999.

      The  Company  has  developed a contingency plan  for  mission  critical
business  functions.  In accordance with industry requirements,  the  company
has  established a command center which will operate 24 hours a  day  between
December  29,  1999  and January 3, 2000 to monitor the  functioning  of  its
systems and processes.

      The  securities industry conducted a series of industry-wide tests  for
Year 2000 compliance between April and July 1999; the Company participated in
all  tests and did not experience any material problems relating to its  Year
2000  code and data revisions.  In general, representatives of the securities
industry  were  satisfied  that the tests confirmed  substantial  success  in
dealing with the Year 2000 issue.  The testing process did identify a  number
of minor communications problems, most of them unrelated to Year 2000 issues;
these problems were identified and successfully resolved during the course of
the testing.

     The  Company  estimates  that its costs for these  efforts  during  this
fiscal  year  were approximately $2,500,000, an additional $800,000  will  be
spent  during  fiscal  2000.  Because many of the Company's  basic  operating
systems  are  provided  by  third  party vendors,  as  indicated  above,  the
Company's  costs for Year 2000 remediation have been substantially less  than
the  costs incurred by companies which have developed and maintain all  their
own operating systems.

      The impact of this problem on the securities industry will be material,
however,  since  virtually every aspect of the sale  of  securities  and  the
processing of transactions will be affected.  Due to the enormous task facing
the   securities   industry,   the  interdependent   nature   of   securities
transactions,   and  reliance  on  third  parties  such  as   utilities   and
telecommunications providers, the Company may be adversely affected  by  this
problem  in the Year 2000 depending on whether it and the entities with  whom
it does business address this issue successfully.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

      Net  cash  from operating activities during the current year  was  $250
million.   Cash was generated by increased stock loan balances exceeding  the
increased stock borrowed balances, increased balances in the client  interest
program  net  of increased customer margin balances, decreased  broker-dealer
receivables net of increased trading account securities, and the fluctuations
in various other asset and liability accounts.

      Investing activities required $107 million during the year.   The  cash
used for the purchase of Roney included the $71 million purchase price net of
the  $3 million in cash received as part of Roney.  Additions to fixed assets
consumed  $21  million, predominantly for the purchase of  computers,  office
furniture  and equipment. Net purchases, sales and maturations of investments
required  $18  million.   These  investments were  primarily  mortgage-backed
securities purchased by Raymond James Bank, FSB ("RJBank").

      Financing  activities used $33 million, the result of the  purchase  of
treasury stock and the payment of cash dividends net of the exercise of stock
options and employee stock purchases.

      The  Company has loans payable consisting of debt in the amount of  $39
million  in the form of a mortgage on its headquarters office complex,  a  $5
million  Federal  Home Loan Bank advance at RJBank, $60  million  at  Raymond
James  Credit  Corporation, $65 million in short-term financing  of  customer
settlements  and  $33  million  at  the parent  company  to  fund  the  Roney
acquisition.   Subsequent to yearend the Company secured a $50  million  term
loan to repay the $33 million advance on its line of credit.

     The parent company has a commitment from a group of commercial banks for
an  unsecured $100 million line of credit for general corporate purposes.  In
addition,  Raymond  James & Associates, Inc. has uncommitted  bank  lines  of
credit aggregating $480 million.

      The Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to requirements of
the   SEC  relating  to  liquidity  and  capital  standards  (see  Notes   to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

Effects of Recently Issued Accounting Standards
- -----------------------------------------------

      In  March  1998,  the Accounting Standards Executive Committee  of  the
American  Institute  of  Certified  Public Accountants  issued  Statement  of
Position  ("SOP")  No. 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of  Computer  Software
Developed or Obtained for Internal Use", effective for fiscal years beginning
after  December 15, 1998.  SOP 98-1 requires that certain costs  of  computer
software  developed or obtained for internal use be capitalized and amortized
over the useful life of the related software.  The Company currently expenses
the  costs of all software development in the period in which it is incurred.
The Company intends to adopt this statement beginning in fiscal 2000 and does
not anticipate that it will have a material impact on the financial position,
results of operations, earnings per share or cash flows.



Market Risk
- -----------

      During fiscal 1997 the Securities and Exchange Commission issued market
risk  disclosure  requirements to enhance disclosures of accounting  policies
for  derivatives and other financial instruments and to provide  quantitative
and  qualitative  disclosures about market risk inherent in  derivatives  and
other  financial  instruments.  The Company manages risk  exposure  involving
various  levels  of  management.  Position limits in  trading  and  inventory
accounts  are  established and monitored on an ongoing  basis.   Current  and
proposed  underwriting,  corporate development, merchant  banking  and  other
commitments  are  subject to due diligence reviews by senior  management,  as
well as professionals in the appropriate business and support units involved.
Credit  risk  related  to  various financing activities  is  reduced  by  the
industry  practice  of  obtaining and maintaining  collateral.   The  Company
monitors its exposure to counterparty risk through the use of credit exposure
information,  the  monitoring of collateral values and the  establishment  of
credit limits.

      The  Company  maintains  inventories as  detailed  in  Note  2  to  the
Consolidated  Financial Statements.  The fair value of  these  securities  at
September  24,  1999, was $181 million in long positions and $33  million  in
short  positions.   The  Company performed an  entity-wide  analysis  of  the
Company's financial instruments and assessed the related risk and materiality
in  accordance  with the rules.  Based on this analysis, in  the  opinion  of
management,   the  market  risk  associated  with  the  Company's   financial
instruments at September 24, 1999 will not have a material adverse effect  on
the consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Company.

Effects of Inflation
- --------------------

      The  Company's  assets  are primarily liquid  in  nature  and  are  not
significantly   affected  by  inflation.   Management   believes   that   the
replacement  cost  of  property and equipment  would  not  materially  affect
operating  results.  However,  the rate of inflation  affects  the  Company's
expenses,  including employee compensation and benefits,  communications  and
occupancy, which may not be readily recoverable through charges for  services
provided by the Company.

Factors Affecting "Forward-Looking Statements"
- ----------------------------------------------

      From time to time, the Company may publish "forward-looking statements"
within  the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and  Section  21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  or
make  oral  statements  that  constitute forward-looking  statements.   These
forward-looking  statements  may  relate  to  such  matters  as   anticipated
financial  performance  future  revenues  or  earnings,  business  prospects,
projected ventures, new products, anticipated market performance, and similar
matters.   The  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  provides  a
safe  harbor  for  forward-looking statements.  In order to comply  with  the
terms  of  the  safe harbor, the Company cautions readers that a  variety  of
factors  could  cause the Company's actual results to differ materially  from
the  anticipated  results or other expectations expressed  in  the  Company's
forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, many of which  are
beyond  the  Company's  control,  include,  but  are  not  limited  to:   (i)
transaction  volume  in the securities markets, (ii) the  volatility  of  the
securities  markets, (iii) fluctuations in interest rates,  (iv)  changes  in
regulatory  requirements which could affect the cost of doing  business,  (v)
fluctuations  in  currency  rates,  (vi) general  economic  conditions,  both
domestic  and  international, (vii) changes in  the  rate  of  inflation  and
related  impact  on  securities  markets, (viii)  competition  from  existing
financial institutions and other new participants in the securities  markets,
(ix) legal developments affecting the litigation experience of the securities
industry,  (x) changes in federal and state tax laws which could  affect  the
popularity  of  products  sold by the Company, and (xi)  disruptions  in  the
Company's  business  or  general  economic  conditions  caused  by   computer
malfunctions  in  2000.   The Company does not undertake  any  obligation  to
publicly update or revise any forward-looking statements.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
          -------------------------------------------

     (a)  Financial statements, schedules and exhibits filed under this item are
          listed in the index appearing on page F-1 of this report.

     (b)                   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                    (In thousands, except per share data)

1999                                1st Qtr.    2nd Qtr.    3rd Qtr.    4th Qtr.
                                    --------    --------    --------    --------
Revenues                            $264,507    $299,191    $324,390    $344,118
Income before income taxes            28,337      35,319      37,989      35,874
Net income                            17,479      21,869      23,490      22,252
Net income per share - basic             .36         .46         .50         .47
Net income per share - diluted           .36         .45         .49         .46

1998                                1st Qtr.    2nd Qtr.    3rd Qtr.    4th Qtr.
                                    --------    --------    --------    --------
Revenues                            $252,304    $267,538    $275,791    $287,274
Income before income taxes            36,886      40,534      36,341      36,475
Net income                            22,745      24,700      22,791      22,468
Net income per share - basic*            .48         .51         .47         .46
Net income per share - diluted*          .45         .50         .46         .45

       *     Gives effect to the 3-for-2 common stock split paid on April 2,
             1998.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         ---------------------------------------------------------------
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
         --------------------
     None.

                                  PART III
                                  --------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
          --------------------------------------------------

       Executive  officers  of  the  registrant  (including  its  significant
subsidiaries) who are not Directors of the registrant are as follows:

           Richard K. Riess     50     Executive Vice President - RJF,
                                       President and CEO of Eagle, and
                                       Managing Director - Asset Management.

           Jeffrey P. Julien    43     Vice President - Finance and Chief
                                       Financial Officer, Director and/or
                                       officer of certain RJF subsidiaries.

           Barry S. Augenbraun  60     Senior Vice President and
                                       Corporate Secretary.

           Jennifer C. Ackart   35     Controller.

The  information required by Item 10 relating to Directors of the  registrant
is  incorporated  herein  by reference to the registrant's  definitive  proxy
statement  for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Such proxy statement
will be filed with the SEC prior to January 10, 2000.

ITEMS 11,12 AND 13.

      The  information required by Items 11, 12 and 13 is incorporated herein
by  reference  to the registrant's definitive proxy statement  for  the  2000
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Such proxy statement will be filed with  the
SEC prior to January 10, 2000.


                                   PART IV
                                   -------


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
          -------------------------------------------
          REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
          -------------------

(a)  Exhibits  required by this Item are either listed in the index appearing
     on
     page F-1 of this report or have been previously filed with the SEC.

(b)  Financial  statement schedules required by this Item are listed  in  the
     index
     appearing on page F-1 of this report.


                                 SIGNATURES
      Pursuant  to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on  its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City  of
St. Petersburg, State of Florida, on the 17th day of December, 1999.

                                            RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.
                                         By      /s/ THOMAS A. JAMES
                                            -----------------------------
                                            Thomas A. James, Chairman

      Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act  of  1934,
this  report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of  the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
     Signature                      Title                           Date
     ---------                      -----                           ----

/s/ THOMAS A. JAMES            Chairman and Chief             December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Thomas A. James                Executive Officer

/s/ FRANCIS S. GODBOLD         President and Director         December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Francis S. Godbold

/s/ M. ANTHONY GREENE          Executive Vice President       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
M. Anthony Greene              and Director

/s/ J. STEPHEN PUTNAM          Executive Vice President       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
J. Stephen Putnam              and Director

/s/ ROBERT F. SHUCK            Vice Chairman and Director     December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Robert F. Shuck

/s/ JEFFREY P. JULIEN          Vice President - Finance       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Jeffrey P. Julien              (Chief Financial Officer)

/s/ JENNIFER C. ACKART         Controller (Chief              December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Jennifer C. Ackart             Accounting Officer)

/s/ ANGELA M. BIEVER           Director                       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Angela M. Biever

/s/ JONATHAN A. BULKLEY        Director                       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Jonathan A. Bulkley

/s/ ELAINE L. CHAO             Director                       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Elaine L. Chao


/s/ THOMAS S. FRANKE           Director                       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Thomas S. Franke

/s/ HARVARD H. HILL, JR.       Director                       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Harvard H. Hill, Jr.

/s/ HUNTINGTON A. JAMES        Director                       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Huntington A.  James

/s/ PAUL W. MARSHALL           Director                       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Paul W. Marshall

/s/ DENNIS W. ZANK             Director                       December 17, 1999
- --------------------------
Dennis W. Zank

RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
- ----------------------------------------------
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS
- -----------------------------------------------------

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                   PAGE(S)
- --------------------

Reports and Consents of Independent Accountants                         F-2-3

Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition
  as of September 24, 1999 and September 25, 1998                       F-4

Consolidated Statement of Income for the Three Years
  Ended September 24, 1999                                              F-5

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
  for the Three Years Ended September 24, 1999                          F-6

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
  for the Three Years Ended September 24, 1999                          F-7-8

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies                              F-9-12

EXHIBITS
- --------

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                            F-13-26

 3.1  Amended and restated Articles of Incorporation of Raymond James Financial,
      Inc. as filed with the Secretary of State Florida on March 9, 1998, and
      as Exhibit 3 of Form 10Q filed on May 11, 1998

 3.2  Amended and restated By-Laws of the Company, filed as Exhibit 3
      of Form 10Q filed February 9, 1998

10.1  Raymond James Financial, Inc. Amended Stock Option Plan for Outside
      Directors, dated December 12, 1986, incorporated by reference to
      Exhibit 4.1 (b) to Registration Statement on Form S-8, No. 33-38350

10.2  Raymond James Financial, Inc. 1992 Incentive Stock Option Plan effective
      August 20, 1992, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Registration
      Statement  on Form S-8, No. 33-60608; and amended on Form S-8, No. 333-
      59449 filed July 20, 1998

10.3  Raymond James Financial, Inc. Deferred Management Bonus
      Plan, effective as of October 1, 1989

10.4  Raymond James Financial, Inc. 1996 Stock Option Plan for
      Key Management Personnel, dated November 21, 1996 and Incorporated by
      reference as filed with the Company's Form 10-K on December 24, 1998

10.5  Termination and Release Agreement between Liberty
      Asset Management, Inc. and Raymond James Financial, Inc. and Incorporated
      by reference as filed with the Company's Form 10-K on December 24, 1997

10.6  Raymond James Financial, Inc.'s 1999 Employee Stock
      Purchase Plan S-8, No. 333-68821, filed December 14, 1998

10.7  Purchase  agreement between BANK ONE CORPORATION as seller, and RAYMOND
      JAMES FINANCIAL, INC., filed as Exhibit 10 of Form 10Q filed May 7, 1999

10.8  Term Credit Agreement for $50 million dated as of October 26, 1999

10.9  Revolving Credit Agreement for $100 million dated as of October 26, 1999

11    Computation of Earnings per Share                                 X-1

21    List of Subsidiaries                                              X-2

23    Consent of Independent Accountants                                F-2-3

27    Financial Data Schedule - EDGAR version only

*    Incorporated by reference as filed with the Company's Form 10-K on December
     24, 1997.
**   Incorporated by reference as filed with the Company's Form 10-K on December
     24, 1998.

SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS EXCLUDED
- -------------------------------

       All  schedules  and  exhibits not included are  not  applicable,  not
     required or would contain information which is included in the Consolidated
     Financial Statements, Summary of Significant Accounting Policies, or the
     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
                        ---------------------------------

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Raymond James Financial, Inc.

In our opinion, based upon our audits and the report of other auditors, the
accompanying  consolidated  financial  statements  listed  in   the   index
appearing  on  page  F-1  present fairly, in  all  material  respects,  the
financial position of Raymond James Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries at
September  24,  1999  and  September 25, 1998, and  the  results  of  their
operations  and their cash flows for each of the three years in the  period
ended   September  24,  1999,  in  conformity  with  accounting  principles
generally  accepted in the United States.  These financial  statements  are
the  responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility  is  to
express  an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.   We
did not audit the financial statements of Raymond James Bank, FSB, a wholly-
owned subsidiary, which statements reflect total assets of $638,970,000 and
$510,580,000  at  September 24, 1999 and September 25, 1998,  respectively,
and total revenues of $29,200,000, $23,199,000 and $17,712,000 for each  of
the  three  years in the period ended September 24, 1999.  Those statements
were  audited by other auditors whose report thereon has been furnished  to
us,  and our opinion expressed herein, insofar as it relates to the amounts
included for Raymond James Bank, FSB, is based solely on the report of  the
other  auditors.   We  conducted our audits of the  consolidated  financial
statements in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,  which
require  that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable  assurance
about  whether  the financial statements are free of material misstatement.
An  audit  includes  examining, on a test basis,  evidence  supporting  the
amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial  statements,  assessing   the
accounting  principles used and significant estimates made  by  management,
and  evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.   We  believe
that our audits and the report of other auditors provide a reasonable basis
for the opinion expressed above.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
October 19, 1999

Exhibit 23


CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
- ----------------------------------

We  hereby  consent to the incorporation by reference in  the  Registration
Statements on Form S-8 (Nos. 333-68821, 333-59449 and 33-38390) of  Raymond
James  Financial,  Inc. of our report dated October 19, 1999  appearing  on
page F-2 of this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
December 10, 1999



                          Independent Auditors' Report


The Board of Directors
Raymond James Bank, FSB (A wholly-owned
 subsidiary of Raymond James Financial, Inc.):


We   have  audited  the  balance  sheets  of  Raymond  James  Bank,  FSB  (A
wholly-owned  subsidiary of Raymond James Financial, Inc.) as  of  September
30,  1999  and  1998,  and the related statements of  income,  stockholder's
equity  and  comprehensive income, and cash flows for the years then  ended.
These  financial statements are the responsibility of the Bank's management.
Our  responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial  statements
based on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in accordance with generally  accepted  auditing
standards.   Those standards require that we plan and perform the  audit  to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are  free
of  material  misstatement. An audit includes examining, on  a  test  basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An  audit  also  includes  assessing  the  accounting  principles  used  and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the  overall
financial  statement  presentation.  We believe that our  audits  provide  a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In  our  opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in  all material respects, the financial position of Raymond James Bank, FSB
(A  wholly-owned subsidiary of Raymond James Financial, Inc.)  at  September
30,  1999 and 1998, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for
the  years  then  ended  in  conformity with generally  accepted  accounting
principles.



/s/ KPMG  LLP
Tampa, Florida
October 29, 1999

The Board of Directors
Raymond James Bank, FSB:


We  consent  to  the inclusion of our report dated October  29,  1999,  with
respect to the balance sheets of Raymond James Bank, FSB as of September 30,
1999  and  1998, and the related statements of income, stockholder's  equity
and  comprehensive income, and cash flows for each of the years then  ended,
which report appears in the Form 10-K of Raymond James Financial, Inc. dated
September 30, 1999.



/s/ KPMG  LLP
Tampa, Florida
December 21, 1999





                 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 ----------------------------------------------
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                  ---------------------------------------------
                      (in thousands, except share amounts)
                                                 September 24,    September 25,
                                                     1999             1998
                                                 -------------    -------------
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                          $  250,855       $  296,817
Assets segregated pursuant to Federal Regulations:
  Cash and cash equivalents                                 9                1
  Securities purchased under agreements to resell   1,102,979          946,723
Securities owned:
  Trading and investment account securities           180,967          105,892
  Available for sale securities                       400,143          385,676
Receivables:
  Clients, net                                      1,447,618          893,839
  Stock borrowed                                    1,277,692          852,744
  Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations          34,670          112,838
  Other                                                69,339           62,722
Investment in leveraged leases                         23,950           23,297
Property and equipment, net                            91,335           81,372
Deferred income taxes, net                             39,631           32,841
Deposits with clearing organizations                   24,634           21,206
Intangible assets                                      34,866              817
Prepaid expenses and other assets                      52,027           35,952
                                                   -----------      -----------

                                                   $5,030,715       $3,852,737
                                                   ===========      ===========
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Loans payable                                      $  201,504       $   44,767
Payables:
  Clients                                           2,524,352        2,126,699
  Stock loaned                                      1,378,821          828,102
  Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations          55,722           43,227
  Trade and other                                     101,772           99,690
Trading account securities sold but not yet
 purchased                                             33,400           30,841
Accrued compensation and commissions                  172,066          158,539
Income taxes payable                                    4,592           10,974
                                                   -----------      -----------
                                                    4,472,229        3,342,839
                                                   -----------      -----------
Commitments and contingencies (Note 10)                     -                -

Shareholders' equity:
  Preferred stock; $.10 par value; authorized
   10,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding -0- shares     -                -
  Common stock; $.01 par value; authorized
   100,000,000 shares; issued 48,997,995 shares           490              490
  Additional paid-in capital                           58,023           57,777
  Other Comprehensive Income                           (1,076)             114
  Retained earnings                                   530,885          459,099
                                                   -----------      -----------
                                                      588,322          517,480
  Less:  1,755,585 and 730,118 common shares
   in treasury, at cost                               (29,836)          (7,582)
                                                   -----------      -----------
                                                      558,486          509,898
                                                   -----------      -----------

                                                   $5,030,715       $3,852,737
                                                   ===========      ===========

    The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                   statements.



                 RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                 ----------------------------------------------
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
                        --------------------------------
                    (in thousands, except per share amounts)

                                                  Year Ended
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                                  September 24,   September 25,   September 26,
                                      1999            1998            1997
                                  -------------   -------------   -------------
Revenues:
  Securities commissions and fees    $  758,136      $  631,661       $ 514,964
  Investment banking                     74,748         109,705         109,088
  Investment advisory fees               91,920          79,485          55,194
  Interest                              229,806         202,255         155,746
  Correspondent clearing                  4,655           4,429           4,502
  Net trading profits                    17,034           6,300          12,797
  Financial service fees                 36,101          24,797          20,786
  Other                                  19,806          24,275          23,884
  Gain on sale of Liberty
    Investment Management, Inc.
     (Note 16)                                -               -          30,646
                                     ----------      ----------       ---------
                                      1,232,206       1,082,907         927,607
                                     ----------      ----------       ---------
Expenses:
  Employee compensation and benefits    754,747         648,214         537,410
  Communications and information
    processing                           53,071          43,485          37,491
  Occupancy and equipment                40,059          33,029          27,175
  Clearance and floor brokerage          13,456          11,607          11,708
  Interest                              151,494         131,009         101,341
  Business development                   38,395          31,514          20,755
  Other                                  43,465          33,813          31,212
                                     ----------      ----------       ---------
                                      1,094,687         932,671         767,092
                                     ----------      ----------       ---------
Income before provision for
  income taxes                          137,519         150,236         160,515

Provision for income taxes               52,429          57,532          61,600
                                     ----------      ----------       ---------
Net income                           $   85,090      $   92,704       $  98,915
                                     ==========      ==========       =========
Net income per share - basic         $     1.79      $     1.92       $    2.09
                                     ==========      ==========       =========
Net income per share - diluted       $     1.76      $     1.86       $    2.04
                                     ==========      ==========       =========
Weighted average common shares
  outstanding - basic                    47,606          48,160          47,383
                                     ==========      ==========       =========
Weighted average common and
  common equivalent shares
   outstanding - diluted                 48,449          49,951          48,387
                                     ==========      ==========       =========

    The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                   statements.


                  RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  ----------------------------------------------
            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
            ---------------------------------------------------------
                                 (in thousands)


                           Add-             Other    Treasury    Total   Total
               Common    itional           Compre-    Stock     Share-   Compre-
               Stock     Paid-in Retained  hensive    Common    holders' hensive
           Shares Amount Capital Earnings  Income  Shares Amount Equity  Income
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances at
 September
  27, 1996 21,777  $217 $50,271 $289,096 $  (791) (883)$(12,161)$326,632

Net income
 fiscal
 1997                             98,915                          98,915 $98,915

Cash divi-
 dends -
 common
 stock
 ($.21
 per share)                       (9,921)                         (9,921)

Employee
 stock
 purchases                2,031                    145    1,649    3,680

Exercise
 of stock
 options                    (11)                   211    2,541    2,530

Tax benefit
 related to
 non-qualified
 option
 exercises                  308                                      308

3-for-2
 stock
 split     10,888   109             (109)         (342)                -

Net
 unrealized
 gain on
 securities
 available
 for sale                                  1,132                   1,132   1,132
           ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances at
 September
 26, 1997  32,665   326  52,599  377,981     341  (869)  (7,971) 423,276
           =====================================================================
Total
 Compre-
 hensive
 Income
 fiscal
 1997                                                                    100,047
                                                                        ========
Net income
 fiscal 1998                      92,704                          92,704 92,704
Cash divi-
 dends -
 common
 stock
 ($.24
 per share)                      (11,586)                        (11,586)

Purchase
 of trea-
 sury shares                                      (292)  (5,346)  (5,346)

Employee
 stock
 purchases                4,271                    261    2,274    6,545

Exercise
 of stock
 options                    197                    403    3,461    3,658

Tax benefit
 related to
 non-qualified
 option exercises           539                                      539

3-for-2
 stock
 split     16,333   164    (164)                  (233)                -

Corporate
 sale of
 RJF put
 options                    335                                      335

Net
 unrealized
 loss on
 securities
 available
 for sale                                   (227)                   (227)  (227)
           ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances at
 September
 25, 1998  48,998   490  57,777  459,099     114  (730)  (7,582) 509,898
           =====================================================================
Total
 Compre-
 hensive
 Income
 fiscal
 1998                                                                     92,477
                                                                        ========
Net income
 fiscal 1999                      85,090                          85,090  85,090

Cash divi-
 dends -
 common
 stock
 ($.28
 per share)                      (13,304)                        (13,304)
Purchase
 of trea-
 sury shares                                    (1,652) (31,564) (31,564)

Employee
 stock
 purchases                  385                    302    4,826    5,211

Exercise
 of stock
 options                 (1,860)                   324    4,484    2,624

Tax benefit
 related to
 non-qualified
 option exercises           407                                      407

Corporate
 sale of
 RJF put
 options                  1,314                                    1,314

Net
 unrealized
 loss on
 securities
 available
 for sale                                 (1,190)                 (1,190)(1,190)
           ---------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances at
 September
 24, 1999  48,998  $490 $58,023 $530,885$(1,076)(1,756)$(29,836)$558,486
           =====================================================================
Total
 Compre-
 hensive
 Income
 fiscal
 1999                                                                   $83,900
                                                                        =======

    The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                   statements.



               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                    ------------------------------------
                               (in thousands)
                          (continued on next page)

                                                    Year Ended
                                     -----------------------------------------
                                     September 24, September 25, September 26,
                                         1999          1998          1997
                                     ------------- ------------- -------------
Cash flows from operating activities:
 Net income                              $ 85,090     $  92,704     $  98,915
                                         ---------    ----------    ----------
  Adjustments to reconcile net income
   to net cash provided by operating
   activities:
    Depreciation and amortization          19,129        16,321        13,312
    Amortization of goodwill                  930           487         1,799
    Unrealized loss on investment
     account securities                     2,749           773         2,075
    Unrealized loss (gain) and premium
     amortization on available for sale
     securities                               642         1,395           (66)
   (Gain)loss on sale of securities        (2,227)       (1,130)           55
   (Gain)loss on sale of property and
     equipment                                277          (204)           55
    Provision for bad debts                (2,332)         (342)         (380)
    Provision for other accruals           (3,493)       (1,825)       (6,881)
   Decrease (increase) in assets:
    Receivables:
     Clients                             (335,975)     (207,158)     (226,779)
     Stock borrowed                      (424,648)      218,200      (206,804)
     Brokers, dealers and clearing
      organizations                        82,395       (73,194)      (15,338)
     Other                                 (3,669)      (24,604)       (9,138)
    Trading account securities, net       (70,814)      (33,549)       25,975
    Deferred income taxes                  (6,790)       (8,485)       (3,167)
    Prepaid expenses and other assets     (13,663)      (14,259)       (8,718)
   Increase (decrease) in liabilities:
    Payables:
     Clients                              370,758       639,541       400,752
     Stock loaned                         543,934      (206,933)      186,440
     Brokers, dealers and clearing
      organizations                         7,055        20,975       (34,676)
     Trade and other                        4,230        20,298        34,091
    Accrued compensation and commissions    3,147        16,758        40,481
    Income taxes payable                   (6,742)       (7,439)        8,008
                                         ---------     ---------     ---------
     Total adjustments                    164,893       355,626       201,096
                                         ---------     ---------     ---------
Net cash provided by operating activities 249,983       448,330       300,011
                                         ---------     ---------     ---------

  The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
   Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                 statements.


               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                    ------------------------------------
                               (in thousands)
                       (continued from preceding page)

                                                    Year Ended
                                     -----------------------------------------
                                     September 24, September 25, September 26,
                                         1999          1999          1999
                                     ------------- ------------- -------------
Cash flows from investing activities:
 Additions to property and equipment      (20,543)      (45,815)      (25,456)
 Sales of investment account securities     6,545         4,563         4,923
 Sales of available for sale securities         -             -        18,732
 Purchases of investment account
  securities                               (8,769)       (3,007)       (8,636)
 Purchases of available for sale
  securities                             (207,907)     (187,213)     (170,131)
 Security maturations and repayments      191,608       113,206        48,153
 Acquisition of Roney & Co.               (67,597)            -             -
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Net cash used in investing activities    (106,663)     (118,266)     (132,415)
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------

Cash flows from financing activities:
 Repayments on mortgage note                 (584)      (12,948)         (193)
 Proceeds from mortgage financing               -        40,000             -
 Other borrowed funds                     123,614         5,000             -
 Repayments on borrowings                (120,736)       (1,500)      (10,490)
 Exercise of stock options and
  employee stock purchases                  8,242        10,742         6,518
 Purchase of treasury stock               (31,564)       (5,346)            -
 Sale of stock options                      1,314           335             -
 Cash dividends on common stock           (13,304)      (11,586)       (9,921)
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Net cash provided by (used in)
 financing activities                     (33,018)       24,697       (14,086)
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Net increase in cash and
 cash equivalents                         110,302       354,761       153,510
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of year                      1,243,541       888,780       735,270
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
 year                                  $1,353,843    $1,243,541    $  888,780
                                       ===========   ===========   ===========
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow
 information:
   Cash paid for interest              $  151,295    $  129,367    $  100,546
                                       ===========   ===========   ===========
   Cash paid for taxes                 $   65,601    $   73,456    $   55,382
                                       ===========   ===========   ===========

  The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
   Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                 statements.


               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
                 ------------------------------------------

      Raymond  James Financial, Inc. is a holding company which, through  its
subsidiaries,  is  engaged principally in the securities brokerage  business,
including the underwriting, distribution, trading and brokerage of equity and
debt  securities and the sale of mutual funds and other investment  products.
In  addition,  it  provides investment management  services  for  retail  and
institutional clients and banking and trust services for retail clients.  The
accounting  and reporting policies of Raymond James Financial, Inc.  and  its
subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  conform  to  generally  accepted   accounting
principles, the more significant of which are summarized below:

Basis of consolidation
- ----------------------

      The  consolidated financial statements include the accounts of  Raymond
James  Financial,  Inc.  and  its subsidiaries.   All  material  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

      All consolidated subsidiaries are 100% owned by the Company, except for
RJ Properties, Inc., which was 85% owned until August 1999 (see Note 16).

Reporting period
- ----------------

      The  Company's fiscal year ends on the last Friday in September of each
year.

Recognition of revenues
- -----------------------

     Securities transactions and related commission revenues and expenses are
recorded on a trade date basis.

       Revenues  from  investment  banking  are  recorded  at  the  time  the
transaction  is completed and the related income is reasonably  determinable.
Investment  banking revenues include sales credits earned in connection  with
the  distribution of the underwritten securities.  Any warrants  received  in
connection  with  investment banking transactions are carried  at  a  nominal
value  until  such  time as the warrants are exercisable and  the  underlying
shares are salable.

     The Company earns an advisory fee based on a client's portfolio value on
portfolios  managed by its investment advisor subsidiaries.  These  fees  are
recorded under the accrual method.

Management estimates and assumptions
- ------------------------------------

      The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management   to   make
estimates  and  assumptions that affect the reported amounts  of  assets  and
liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the  date  of
the  consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts  of  revenues
and  expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ  from
those estimates.

Segment reporting
- -----------------

      In  fiscal  1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards  No.  131,  "Disclosures about Segments of Enterprise  and  Related
Information"  ("FAS  131").  FAS 131 supersedes FAS 14, "Financial  Reporting
for  Segments  of  a  Business Enterprise", replacing the "industry  segment"
approach  with the "management" approach.  The management approach designates
the  internal  organization that is used by management for  making  operating
decisions and assessing performance as the source of the Company's reportable
segments.   FAS  131 also requires disclosures about products  and  services,
geographic  areas,  and major customers.  The adoption of  FAS  131  did  not
affect  the  Company's financial position or results of operations,  but  did
affect the disclosure of segment information (see Note 15).

Cash and cash equivalents
- -------------------------

      The  Company  considers all highly liquid investments with  an  initial
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents for purposes  of  the
consolidated statement of cash flows.  These consist primarily of  shares  of
money market funds and of U.S. Treasury Securities purchased under agreements
to resell, some of which are held in special reserve accounts, and are stated
at cost, which approximates market at fiscal yearend.

      In  accordance with Rule 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of  1934
the  Company,  as  a broker-dealer carrying client accounts,  is  subject  to
requirements  related  to  maintaining cash  or  qualified  securities  in  a
segregated reserve account for the exclusive benefit of its clients.

      It  is  the  Company's  policy  to obtain  possession  and  control  of
securities  purchased  under  resale  agreements.   The  net  fair  value  of
securities  purchased  under  resale agreements approximates  their  carrying
value,  as such financial instruments are predominantly short-term in nature.
The  Company monitors the risk of loss by assessing the market value  of  the
underlying  securities  as  compared to the related  receivable  or  payable,
including  accrued interest, and requests additional collateral where  deemed
appropriate.   At September 24, 1999 and September 25, 1998,  there  were  no
agreements with any individual counterparties where the risk of loss exceeded
10% of shareholders' equity.

Customer receivables
- --------------------

      Customer  receivables  are  reported at  their  outstanding  principal,
adjusted  for  any allowance for doubtful accounts, write-offs, any  deferred
fees  or costs on originated bank loans and unamortized premiums or discounts
on  purchased loans.  Client loans are considered to be impaired when  it  is
probable  that  the  Company  will be unable  to  collect  all  amounts  due.
Impaired  loans are written down or reserved to the extent that the principal
is  judged  to  be uncollectible.  In the case of collateral-dependent  loans
where  repayment  is  expected  to  be  provided  solely  by  the  underlying
collateral  value,  the  loans are written down  to  the  lower  of  cost  or
collateral  value.   Impairment  losses are included  in  the  allowance  for
doubtful accounts or reserves through an income statement charge.

Securities owned
- ----------------

      The  trading  and investment account securities held by  the  brokerage
subsidiaries  are classified as trading.  Investment account  securities  not
readily  marketable  are  carried at estimated fair value  as  determined  by
management  with  unrealized gains and losses included in earnings.   Trading
securities are carried at market value with realized and unrealized gains and
losses included in earnings.  The Company accounts for other securities owned
in  accordance  with  Statement of Financial Accounting  Standards  No.  115,
"Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity Securities" ("FAS 115").  FAS 115 requires investments in debt and
equity  securities to be classified as either "held to maturity,"  "trading,"
or  "available for sale."  The accounting treatment for unrealized gains  and
losses  on those securities is then determined by the classification  chosen.
Securities  available for sale are carried at estimated  market  value,  with
unrealized gains and losses reported as a separate component of shareholders'
equity, net of deferred taxes, and realized gains and losses, determined on a
specific identification basis, included in earnings.

Property and equipment
- ----------------------

      Property, equipment and leasehold improvements are stated at cost  less
accumulated  depreciation.  Depreciation of assets  is  provided  principally
using  the  straight-line method for financial reporting  purposes  over  the
estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from two to seven years for
furniture  and  equipment and fifteen to thirty-one years for  buildings  and
land  improvements.  Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-
line  method over the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful lives
of the assets.  For income tax purposes,
assets are depreciated using accelerated methods.

      Additions,  improvements and expenditures for repairs  and  maintenance
that significantly extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized.  Other
expenditures  for  repairs and maintenance are charged to operations  in  the
period   incurred.   Gains  and  losses on  disposals  of  fixed  assets  are
reflected in income in the period realized.

Intangible Assets
- -----------------

      Goodwill  is stated at cost less accumulated amortization and reflected
as  an  intangible  asset.  Amortization of goodwill is  provided  using  the
straight-line  method for financial reporting purposes over a period  ranging
from three to fifteen years.

Correspondent clearing
- ----------------------

      Under  clearing agreements, the Company clears trades for  unaffiliated
correspondent brokers and retains a portion of commissions as a fee  for  its
services.   The Company records clearing charges net of commissions remitted.
Total  commissions generated by correspondents were $22,126,000,  $22,244,000
and  $21,334,000,  and commissions remitted totaled $17,471,000,  $17,815,000
and  $16,832,000 for the years ended September 24, 1999, September  25,  1998
and September 26, 1997, respectively.

Comprehensive Income
- --------------------

     The  Company  adopted  SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive  Income  in
fiscal  1999.   This  statement establishes standards for the  reporting  and
display  of comprehensive income and its components.  This statement requires
that an enterprise classify items of other comprehensive income by nature  in
a   financial  statement,  and  display  the  accumulated  balance  of  other
comprehensive income separately from retained earnings and additional paid-in
capital  in  the  equity  section of a balance sheet.   The  Company's  other
comprehensive  income  represents the unrealized gain  (loss)  on  securities
available for sale in addition to net income.

Derivative Financial Instruments
- --------------------------------

     To manage interest rate exposures at Raymond James Bank, FSB ("RJBank"),
this subsidiary uses interest rate swaps.  Interest rate swaps are agreements
to  exchange  interest  rate payment streams based on  a  notional  principal
amount.  RJBank specifically designates interest rate swaps as hedges of  the
fixed  rate  period  of  certain  purchased  loans  and  recognizes  interest
differentials as adjustments to interest income in the period they occur.

Income taxes
- ------------

      The  Company  utilizes  the  asset and liability  approach  defined  in
Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for  Income
Taxes"  ("FAS 109").  FAS 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets
and  liabilities  for  the  expected future  tax  consequences  of  temporary
differences  between the financial statement amounts and  the  tax  bases  of
assets and liabilities.

Net income per share
- --------------------

     Net income per share is computed using weighted average common stock and
common  stock  equivalents  outstanding.  Common  stock  equivalents  include
shares  issuable  under stock options and are determined under  the  treasury
stock  method.  All per share amounts have been restated to give  retroactive
effect to the common stock dividends paid on April 2, 1998 and April 3,  1997
(see  Note  11),  as  well  as the implementation of Statement  of  Financial
Accounting  Standards  No. 128, "Earnings per Share" ("FAS  128")  in  fiscal
1998.

Reclassifications
- -----------------

      Certain amounts from prior years have been reclassified for consistency
with current year presentation.  These reclassifications were not material to
the
consolidated financial statements.






               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 ------------------------------------------

NOTE 1 - RECEIVABLES FROM AND PAYABLES TO CLIENTS:
- --------------------------------------------------

      Receivables from clients include amounts arising from normal  cash  and
margin transactions, bank loans receivable (see Note 7), and fees receivable.
Securities  owned  by  brokerage clients are held as  collateral  for  margin
receivables.    Such  collateral  is  not  reflected  in   the   accompanying
consolidated  financial statements.  The amount receivable  from  clients  is
shown  net  of an allowance for doubtful accounts of approximately $3,603,000
and $1,166,000 as of September 24, 1999 and September 25, 1998, respectively.
Unsecured receivables are not significant.

      Payables to clients include brokerage client funds on deposit  awaiting
reinvestment  and  bank savings accounts and certificates  of  deposit.   The
Company  pays interest at varying rates on qualifying brokerage client  funds
on  deposit.   These  funds  totaled  $1,627,629,000  and  $1,447,665,000  at
September  24,  1999 and September 25, 1998, respectively.  In addition,  the
Company  pays interest at varying rates on client bank deposits as  described
in Note 7.

NOTE 2 - TRADING AND INVESTMENT ACCOUNT SECURITIES (in thousands):
- ------------------------------------------------------------------

                              September 24, 1999          September 25, 1998
                             ----------------------      ----------------------
                                         Securities                  Securities
                                          sold but                    sold but
                             Securities    not yet       Securities    not yet
                               owned      purchased        owned      purchased
                             ----------  ----------      ----------  ----------
Marketable:
 Stocks and warrants           $  9,891     $ 3,731       $   9,715     $ 5,000
 Municipal obligations          144,597         285          77,697          55
 Corporate obligations            9,743       3,488           1,913       1,197
 Government obligations           7,894      24,842          10,547      24,589
 Other                            8,183       1,054           5,530           -
Non-marketable                      659           -             490           -
                               --------     -------       ---------     -------
                               $180,967     $33,400        $105,892     $30,841
                               ========     =======        ========     =======

NOTE 3 - AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES (in thousands):
- ------------------------------------------------------

      The  amortized cost and estimated market values of securities available
for sale at September 24, 1999 are as follows:

                                                 Gross        Gross    Estimated
                                   Amortized   Unrealized   Unrealized   Market
                                     Cost        Gains        Losses      Value
                                   ---------   ----------   ---------- ---------
Mortgage-backed securities:
 FNMA                               $126,115      $   236     $  (460)  $125,891
 FHLMC                               196,917          362        (244)   197,035
 GNMA                                 33,367            -        (387)    32,980
Corporate investments                 20,521            -         (76)    20,445
Other                                 24,701           14        (923)    23,792
                                    --------      -------     --------  --------
                                    $401,621      $   612     $(2,090)  $400,143
                                    ========      =======     ========  ========




      The  amortized cost and estimated market values of securities available
for sale at September 25, 1998 are as follows:
                                                 Gross        Gross    Estimated
                                   Amortized   Unrealized   Unrealized   Market
                                     Cost        Gains        Losses      Value
                                   ---------   ----------   ---------- ---------
Mortgage-backed securities:
 FNMA                               $178,651         $124       $ (79)  $178,696
 FHLMC                               152,510          212          (1)   152,721
 GNMA                                 13,093          265           -     13,358
Corporate investments                 20,527            -         (71)    20,456
Other                                 20,717           96        (368)    20,445
                                    --------         ----       ------  --------
                                    $385,498         $697       $(519)  $385,676
                                    ========         ====       ======  ========

     The U.S. Treasury Securities and U.S. Government Obligations mature
after one year and within ten years.


NOTE 4 - LEVERAGED LEASES (in thousands):
- -----------------------------------------

      The  Company  is  the  lessor  in  two  leveraged  commercial  aircraft
transactions  with  major domestic airlines.  The Company's  combined  equity
investments  represented 21% of the aggregate purchase prices; the  remaining
79%  was  funded  by  public  debt issues in  the  form  of  equipment  trust
certificates.  The residual values of the aircrafts at the end of an  average
lease  term of 20 years are projected to be an average of 10% of the original
cost.  The leases expire in September 2013 and June 2016, respectively.

                                        September 24,           September 25,
                                            1999                    1998
                                        -------------           -------------
Rents receivable (net of principal and
 interest on the non-recourse debt         $  21,056                $ 21,056
Unguaranteed residual values                  10,719                  10,719
Unearned income                               (7,825)                 (8,478)
                                           ----------               ---------
Investment in leveraged leases                23,950                  23,297
Deferred taxes arising from leveraged leases (25,777)                (23,049)
                                           ----------               ---------
Net investment in leveraged leases         $  (1,827)               $    248
                                           ==========               =========


NOTE 5 - PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (in thousands):
- -----------------------------------------------
                                        September 24,           September 25,
                                            1999                    1998
                                        -------------           -------------
Land                                        $ 12,612                $  9,612
Buildings and improvements                    66,062                  60,059
Furniture, fixtures, equipment
 and leasehold improvements                  100,134                  83,904
                                            ---------               ---------
                                             178,808                 153,575
Less:  accumulated depreciation
 and amortization                           $(87,473)                (72,203)
                                            ---------               ---------
                                            $ 91,335                $ 81,372
                                            =========               =========

NOTE 6 - BORROWINGS:
- --------------------

      The Company has a mortgage note payable of $39.2 million related to the
refinancing  of  two  existing  buildings at  the  headquarters  complex  and
additional  financing  for  a  third building  and  adjacent  parking  garage
completed  during fiscal year 1998.  The mortgage requires monthly  principal
and  interest payments of approximately $291,000 with a balloon  payment  due
January  1,  2008.  The mortgage bears interest at 7.37% and  is  secured  by
land,  buildings and improvements with a net book value of $48.75 million  at
September  24, 1999.  Principal maturities under this mortgage  note  payable
for the succeeding five years are as follows:  $624,000 in 2000, $671,000  in
2001,  $722,000  in 2002, $777,000 in 2003, $837,000 in 2004 and  $35,601,000
thereafter.

     The Company had a $50 million committed, unsecured line of credit with a
commercial  bank.  Borrowings under the line bore interest at the  lesser  of
prime  rate,  Fed Funds plus .5%, or LIBOR plus .375%.  The  line  of  credit
required  that  the Company maintain certain net worth levels, limited  other
leases  and  debt,  and required the Company to follow  certain  other  sound
business  practices.  The Company paid $26,000, $63,000 and $63,000  in  loan
commitment  fees  on  this  line during fiscal years  1999,  1998  and  1997,
respectively.   During  fiscal 1999, the Company  renewed  this  line  on  an
uncommitted  basis  with  the same terms and the same  bank.   Subsequent  to
yearend, the Company replaced this line with a three year term loan  for  $50
million  and  a  $100  million committed line of credit through  a  group  of
commercial banks.  The term loan bears interest at LIBOR plus .75%, while any
draws  on the line of credit would bear interest at the Company's option,  at
LIBOR  plus  .5%, or the higher of prime or Fed Funds plus .5%.  There  is  a
 .125% loan commitment fee on the $100 million line of credit.

      The  Company's Raymond James Credit Corp. subsidiary has a $50  million
line  of  credit,  under  which  borrowings are  collateralized  by  customer
securities,  which  bears interest at a rate of one month  LIBOR  plus  .75%.
There  were  borrowings of $60 million under this facility at  September  24,
1999.  The interest rate on these borrowings ranged from 4.8% to 6.3%.

     The Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries also maintain uncommitted lines
of  credit  aggregating  $480  million with commercial  banks  ($235  million
secured  and $245 million unsecured).  Borrowings under the lines  of  credit
bear  interest, at the Company's option, at the bank's prime rate, Fed  Funds
rate  plus  .25% to .5%, or LIBOR plus .75%.  Unsecured short-term borrowings
at  September 24, 1999, totaled $65 million with an average interest rate  of
5.66%.   The interest rate on these borrowings ranged from 4.50% to 8.50%  in
1999, and 5.58% to 6.84% in 1998.  Loans on the secured, uncommitted lines of
credit are collateralized by firm or client margin securities.

     RJBank has a $5 million FHLB advance outstanding which bears interest at
a  fixed  rate of 5.67% and matures May 27, 2008.  Securities with a carrying
value of $19,917,000 are pledged as collateral for this and future borrowing.
The Bank's borrowing availability related to FHLB advances is 10% of RJBank's
total assets.


NOTE 7 - BANK OPERATIONS AND DEPOSITS:

      On  May  6, 1994, the Company chartered RJBank in conjunction with  the
purchase  of the deposits of certain branches of a federal savings bank  from
the Resolution Trust Corporation for a nominal purchase price.

     A summary of client deposit accounts and weighted average interest rates
follows:
                            September 24, 1999           September 25, 1998
                         ------------------------     ------------------------
                      (dollar amounts in thousands)(dollar amounts in thousands)
                                       Weighted                     Weighted
                           Balance   Average Rate       Balance   Average Rate
                          --------   ------------      --------   ------------
Demand deposits:
  Non-interest bearing    $    936          -          $    646          -
  Interest bearing           2,963       1.66%            2,229       2.19%
Money market accounts       15,784       3.70%           12,211       3.85%
Savings accounts           469,097       4.24%          382,767       4.53%
Certificates of deposit
     (3.85% - 7.25%)       106,848       5.73%           52,705       5.67%
                          --------       -----         --------       -----
                          $595,628       4.47%         $450,558       4.62%
                          ========       =====         ========       =====

      The  certificates  of deposit mature as follows: $34,824,000  in  2000,
$35,407,000  in 2001, $11,692,000 in 2002, $2,523,000 in 2003 and $22,402,000
in  2004  and thereafter.  Certificates of deposit in amounts of $100,000  or
more  at  September  24,  1999  and September  25,  1998  were  approximately
$21,567,000 and $6,089,000, respectively.

     A summary of RJBank's loan distribution is as follows:

                                         September 24,     September 25,
                                              1999              1998
                                         -------------     -------------
                                             (000's)           (000's)

      Residential mortgage loans             $138,840           $60,173
      Consumer and commercial loans            30,665             2,111
                                             ---------          --------
                                              169,505            62,284
      Allowance for loan losses                (1,799)             (642)
      Purchase premium                            455               362
      Purchase discount                          (303)                -
      Deferred origination fees
        and costs, net                            (75)               22
                                             ---------          --------
                                             $167,783           $62,026
                                             =========          ========

      Activity  in  the allowance for loan losses for 1999 and 1998  consists
solely of the provision for loan losses.  There were no actual loan losses in
1999,  1998  or  1997.  There was no recorded investment or  interest  income
recognized  on  impaired loans during 1999, 1998 and 1997, as there  were  no
impaired loans during these periods.

      Generally,  mortgage  loans  are secured  by  either  first  or  second
mortgages  on residential property, consumer loans are secured by  securities
and time deposit accounts, and commercial loans are generally secured by real
property or the general assets of the borrower.  As of September 24, 1999 and
September  25,  1998, 97% and 100%, respectively, of RJBank's loan  portfolio
was secured.

     RJBank is subject to various regulatory and capital requirements and was
in compliance with all requirements throughout the fiscal years.

     Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991  ("FDICIA"), RJBank is subject to rules limiting brokered  deposits  and
related  interest  rates.  Under these rules, banks that  are  deemed  "well-
capitalized"  may  accept brokered deposits without  restriction,  and  banks
deemed  "adequately capitalized" may do so with a waiver from the  FDIC.   An
"undercapitalized"  bank  is not eligible for a waiver  and  may  not  accept
brokered  deposits.   As of September 24, 1999, the most recent  notification
from   the   Office  of  Thrift  Supervision  categorized  RJBank  as   "well
capitalized" under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action.

      At  September  24,  1999 and September 25, 1998,  RJBank  exceeded  the
tangible  capital,  core  capital, core/leverage capital,  Tier  I/risk-based
capital  and  total  risk-based  capital levels  mandated  by  the  Financial
Institutions  Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of  1989  and  FDICIA.  At
September 24, 1999 and September 25, 1998, RJBank's Tier I capital to average
assets ratio was 5.8% and 8.2%, respectively.

NOTE 8 - Derivative Financial Instruments
- -----------------------------------------

      The  Company  has  only limited involvement with  derivative  financial
instruments  and  does  not  use them for trading purposes.   The  derivative
financial instruments are used to manage well-defined interest rate  risk  at
RJBank.

     RJBank uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the potential
impact of increases in interest rates during the fixed rate period of certain
purchased  loan  pools.   Under  the interest rate  swap  agreements,  RJBank
receives  or  makes payments, on a monthly basis, based on  the  differential
between  a  specified interest rate and one month LIBOR.   At  September  24,
1999,  RJBank  was  party to two interest rate swap agreements,  one  of  $20
million  and  one of $32 million, expiring on July 17, 2004  and  August  17,
2004,  respectively.  There were no swap agreements outstanding at  September
24,  1998.  RJBank recognized a reduction of interest income of approximately
$71,000  for  the  year ended September 24, 1999 as a result  of  these  swap
agreements.

      The fair aggregate value of the Company's interest rate swap agreements
approximated  $159,000  at  September 24, 1999.   This  positive  fair  value
represents the estimated amount the other party would have to pay the Company
at each date to cancel the contracts or transfer them to other parties.

      The  Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance
by  the  counterparties  to its interest rate swap agreements.   The  Company
anticipates,  however, that the counterparties will be able to fully  satisfy
its  obligation under the agreements.  The Company does not obtain collateral
to  support  their financial instruments but monitors the credit standing  of
the counterparties.


NOTE 9 - FEDERAL AND STATE INCOME TAXES (in thousands):
- -------------------------------------------------------
     The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of:

                                                    Year Ended
                                    -----------------------------------------
                                    September 24, September 25, September 26,
                                        1999          1998          1997
                                    ------------- ------------- -------------
Current provision:
  Federal                               $ 49,841      $ 56,151      $ 55,864
  State                                    8,588         9,774         9,655
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
                                          58,429        65,925        65,519
Deferred benefit:                       ---------     ---------     ---------
  Federal                                 (5,110)       (7,120)       (3,306)
  State                                     (890)       (1,273)         (613)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
                                          (6,000)       (8,393)       (3,919)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
                                        $ 52,429       $57,532       $61,600
                                        =========     =========     =========

      The  Company's  effective tax rate on pre-tax income differs  from  the
statutory federal income tax rate due to the following:

                                                    Year Ended
                                    -----------------------------------------
                                    September 24, September 25, September 26,
                                        1999          1998          1997
                                    ------------- ------------- -------------
Provision calculated at
 statutory rates                        $ 48,145      $ 52,637      $ 56,230
State income taxes, net
 of federal benefit                        5,003         5,526         5,877
Other                                       (719)         (631)         (507)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
                                        $ 52,429      $ 57,532      $ 61,600
                                        =========     =========     =========


      The  major deferred tax asset (liability) items, as computed under  FAS
109, are as follows:

                                                  September 24, September 25,
                                                      1999          1998
                                                  ------------- -------------
Deferred tax assets:
     Deferred compensation                            $ 38,156      $ 35,216
     Accrued expenses                                   20,843        17,376
     Other                                              17,021        13,063
                                                      ---------     ---------
Total deferred tax assets                               76,020        65,655
                                                      ---------     ---------
Deferred tax liabilities:
     Aircraft leases                                   (25,779)      (23,049)
     Other                                             (10,610)       (9,765)
                                                      ---------     ---------
Total deferred tax liabilities                         (36,389)      (32,814)
                                                      ---------     ---------
Net deferred tax assets                               $ 39,631      $ 32,841
                                                      =========     =========

NOTE 10 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:
- ----------------------------------------

      Long-term  lease  agreements  expire at  various  times  through  2004.
Minimum  annual rentals under such agreements for the succeeding five  fiscal
years   are  approximately:  $14,545,000  in  2000,  $13,196,000   in   2001,
$11,024,000  in  2002, $7,600,000 in 2003, $4,817,000 in 2004 and  $3,558,000
thereafter.   Rental  expense incurred under all leases, including  equipment
under   short-term  agreements,  aggregated  $13,154,000,  $11,085,000,   and
$8,802,000 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

      The  Company  has committed to lend to, or guarantee  other  debt  for,
Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. ("RJ Tax Credit") up to $45 million upon
request.  Any borrowings bear interest at broker call plus 1% per  annum.  RJ
Tax  Credit is charged 1% for amounts guaranteed.  The borrowings are secured
by  properties  under  development.   At  September  24,  1999,  balances  of
$8,553,000  were  loaned to RJ Tax Credit and $440,000 were  guaranteed.   At
September  25, 1998, balances of $5,267,000 were loaned to RJ Tax Credit  and
$2,420,000 were guaranteed. The commitment expired in November 1999 at  which
time any outstanding balances were due and payable. On November 18, 1999, the
Board of Directors renewed the commitment until November 2000.

      At  September  24,  1999, RJBank had letters of  credit  of  $1,182,000
outstanding. In addition, RJBank had commitments to fund loans at  fixed  and
variable  rates of $1,039,000 and $2,992,000, respectively, at September  24,
1999.

      As  part of an effort to increase brand awareness, the Company  entered
into  a  stadium  naming rights contract in July 1998.  The  contract  has  a
thirteen-year term with a five-year renewal option and a 4% annual escalator.
Expense  of $2,719,000 and $921,000 was recognized in fiscal 1999  and  1998,
respectively.

      In  the normal course of business, the Company enters into underwriting
commitments.   Transactions relating to such commitments that  were  open  at
September  24, 1999 and were subsequently settled had no material  effect  on
the consolidated financial statements as of that date.

      The  Company  utilizes  a letter of credit and deposits  with  clearing
organizations to satisfy margin deposit requirements. At September  24,  1999
and  September  25, 1998, the Company had a letter of credit  outstanding  of
$100,000  and client margin securities valued at $86,277,000 and $62,912,000,
respectively, on deposit with a clearing organization.

     The Company has guaranteed lines of credit for its various foreign joint
ventures  as follows: two letters of guaranty totaling $6 million in  Turkey,
two  letters  of  guaranty not to exceed $8 million in  Argentina  and  a  $5
million letter of guaranty and $325,000 letter of credit in India.

      In  the normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of the Company,
as  general  partner, are contingently liable for the obligations of  various
limited  partnerships  engaged primarily in securities investments  and  real
estate  activities. In the opinion of the Company, such liabilities, if  any,
for  the  obligations of the partnerships will not in the  aggregate  have  a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position.

      As a result of the extensive regulation of the securities industry, the
Company's  broker-dealer  subsidiaries are subject  to  regular  reviews  and
inspections  by  regulatory  authorities and  self-regulatory  organizations,
which  can  result  in  imposition of sanctions  for  regulatory  violations,
ranging  from non-monetary censure to fines and, in serious cases,  temporary
or  permanent  suspension  from business.  In addition,  from  time  to  time
regulatory    agencies    and    self-regulatory   organizations    institute
investigations into industry practices, which can result in the imposition of
such sanctions.  Current proceedings in which the Company is one of the named
defendants  include the combined SEC, Internal Revenue Service  and  National
Association  of  Securities  Dealers,  Inc.  review  of  investment   banking
practices   in   connection   with   advance   refunding   transactions   for
municipalities.

      The  Company  is  also a defendant or co-defendant in various  lawsuits
incidental  to  its  securities  business.  The  Company  is  contesting  the
allegations  of  the complaints in these cases and believes  that  there  are
meritorious  defenses in each of these lawsuits.  In view of the  number  and
diversity of claims against the Company, the number of jurisdictions in which
litigation  is pending and the inherent difficulty of predicting the  outcome
of  litigation and other claims, the Company cannot state with certainty what
the  eventual outcome of pending litigation or other claims will be.  In  the
opinion  of  management, based on discussions with counsel,  the  outcome  of
these  matters  will  not  result  in  a  material  adverse  effect  on   the
consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Company.

NOTE 11 - CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS:
- -------------------------------

      The  Company's  Board  of Directors has, from  time  to  time,  adopted
resolutions  authorizing  the  Company to repurchase  its  common  stock  for
general  corporate  purposes.   At September  24,  1999,  pursuant  to  prior
authorizations  from the Board of Directors, 2,275,000 shares were  available
to be repurchased.

     In February 1998 and 1997, the Company's Board of Directors declared a 3-
for-2  stock  split  in  the form of a dividend. The additional  shares  were
distributed on April 2, 1998 and April 3, 1997, respectively, to shareholders
of  record  on March 10, 1998 and March 7, 1997, respectively. All references
(unless  otherwise  noted)  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and
accompanying  notes to amounts per share and to the number of  common  shares
have been restated to give retroactive effect to the stock dividends.

     The Company sold equity put options in October 1998 and August 1999 that
entitle  the  holder,  at the expiration date, to sell  239,000  and  400,000
shares of common stock to the Company at exercise prices of $18.31 and $20.24
per  share, respectively.  The $1,314,000 in premiums has been accounted  for
as  additional paid-in capital.  At September 24, 1999, put options  covering
400,000  shares  were  outstanding,  with  an  aggregate  exercise  price  of
$8,096,000  and  an expiration date of February 9, 2000.  In  the  event  the
options  are exercised, the Company may elect to pay the holder in  cash  for
the  difference  between  the exercise price and  the  market  price  of  the
Company's shares, in lieu of repurchasing the stock.

NOTE 12 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:
- ---------------------------------

      The  Company's  profit sharing plan and employee stock  ownership  plan
provide  certain death, disability or retirement benefits for  all  employees
who  meet  certain service requirements.  Such benefits become  fully  vested
after  seven  years  of qualified service.  The Company also  offers  a  plan
pursuant  to section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, which provides  for
the  Company  to  match 100% of the first $500 and 50% of the  next  $500  of
compensation deferred by each participant annually. Roney also offers a  plan
pursuant to section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code.  This plan  will  be
merged  into  the Company's plan on January 1, 2000.  The Company's  deferred
management  bonus  plan  is  a non-qualified plan  that  provides  retirement
benefits  for  employees who meet certain length of service and  compensation
requirements.   Contributions to these plans are  made  in  amounts  approved
annually  by the Board of Directors.  Compensation expense includes aggregate
contributions to these plans of $16,240,000, $17,299,000 and $15,462,000, for
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

Stock Compensation Plans
      At  September  24,  1999, the Company has six stock-based  compensation
plans,  which  are  described below. In accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for  Stock-
Based   Compensation"  ("FAS  123"),the  Company  applies  APB  Opinion   25,
"Accounting  for  Stock Issued to Employees" and related  interpretations  in
accounting for these plans.

      If  the Company had elected to recognize compensation expense based  on
the  fair  value  at the grant dates for awards under these plans  consistent
with the methodology prescribed by FAS 123, the Company's net income and  net
income  per share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts  indicated
below:

                                                              Year Ended
                                                   -----------------------------
                                                   Sept. 24, Sept. 25, Sept. 26,
                                                     1999      1998      1997
                                                   --------- --------- ---------
Net income (in  thousands)       As  reported        $85,090   $92,704   $98,915
                                 Pro  forma          $80,372   $88,278   $95,936

Net income per share - basic     As reported         $  1.79   $  1.92   $  2.09
                                 Pro  forma          $  1.69   $  1.83   $  2.02

Net income per share - diluted   As reported         $  1.76   $  1.86   $  2.04
                                 Pro  forma          $  1.66   $  1.77   $  1.98

      These pro forma amounts may not be representative of future disclosures
since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense  over
the  vesting  period and additional options may be granted in  future  years.
For  disclosure  purposes,  the fair value of  each  fixed  option  grant  is
estimated  on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing  model
with  the following weighted average assumptions used for stock option grants
in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively: dividend yields of 1.3%, 1.1% and 1.1%;
expected  volatility of 42.6%, 44.1% and 32.2%, risk-free interest  rates  of
4.96%, 5.85% and 6.28%, and expected lives of 5.61, 5.32 and 5.99 years.

Fixed Stock Option Plans
     The Company has one qualified and three non-qualified fixed stock option
plans.   Under the 1992 Incentive  Stock Option Plan, the Company  may  grant
options  to  its  management personnel for up to 4,612,500 shares  of  common
stock.   The 1992 Plan was established to replace, on substantially the  same
terms   and  conditions,  the  1982  Plan.   Options  are  granted   to   key
administrative  employees and registered representatives of Raymond  James  &
Associates,  Inc. who achieve certain gross commission levels.   Options  are
exercisable in the 36th to 72nd months following the date of grant  and  only
in the event that the grantee is an employee of the Company at that time.

     Under one of the Company's non-qualified stock option plans, the Company
may  grant  up to 2,278,125 shares of common stock to independent  contractor
registered  representatives.  Options are exercisable five years after  grant
date  provided that the representative is still associated with the  Company.
Under  the Company's second non-qualified stock option plan, the Company  may
grant  up  to  379,688  shares  of  common stock  to  the  Company's  outside
directors.   Options  vest over a five-year period from grant  date  provided
that  the  director is still serving on the Board of the Company.  Under  the
Company's third non-qualified stock option plan, the Company may grant up  to
1,125,000  shares of common stock to key management personnel.  Option  terms
are specified in individual agreements and expire on a date no later than the
tenth anniversary of the grant date.  Under all plans, the exercise price  of
each  option  equals the market price of the Company's stock on the  date  of
grant and an option's maximum term is 10 years.

      A  summary of the status of the Company's four fixed stock option plans
as  of  September 24, 1999, September 25, 1998 and September  26,  1997,  and
changes during the years ending on those dates is presented below:

                          1999                 1998                 1997
                    ------------------   ------------------   ------------------
                     Shares   Weighted   Shares    Weighted   Shares    Weighted
                              Average              Average              Average
                              Exercise             Exercise             Exercise
                               Price                Price                Price
                    ------------------   ------------------   ------------------
Outstanding at
 beginning of year  2,738,045   $14.00   2,539,220   $ 9.37   2,366,094   $ 7.66
Granted               258,785    21.24     831,340    23.15     779,876    12.55
Canceled             (190,902)   14.33     (84,516)   12.32    (191,130)    7.17
Exercised            (324,240)    8.09    (547,999)    6.66    (415,620)    4.41
                    ----------  ------   ----------  ------   ----------  ------
Outstanding at
 yearend            2,481,688   $15.52   2,738,045   $14.00   2,539,220   $ 9.37
                    ==========  ======   ==========  ======   ==========  ======
Options exercisable
 at yearend           299,350              215,878              360,691
Weighted average
 fair value of
 options granted
 during the year                $ 8.89               $10.26               $ 9.62

     The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options
outstanding at September 24, 1999:

                        Options Outstanding              Options Exercisable
                ---------------------------------------------------------------
    Range of    Number        Weighted-     Weighted-    Number       Weighted-
    Exercise    Outstanding   Average       Average      Exercisable  Average
    Prices      at 9/24/99    Remaining     Exercise     at 9/24/99   Exercise
                              Contractual   Price                     Price
                              Life
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$ 3.16 -  6.33     107,982      .9          $ 6.15         42,501    $ 6.11
$ 6.33 -  9.49     174,788     1.3            7.73         39,714      6.86
$ 9.49 - 12.65   1,077,244     2.2           11.10        217,135      9.86
$12.65 - 15.81      90,000     3.3           13.39              -         -
$15.81 - 18.98      30,000     4.8           17.94              -         -
$18.98 - 22.14     196,500     5.5           20.57              -         -
$22.14 - 25.30     683,774     3.5           22.56              -         -
$25.30 - 28.46      97,350     4.1           26.36              -         -
$28.46 - 31.63      24,050     3.9           31.49              -         -
                 ---------     ---          ------        -------    ------
                 2,481,688     2.9          $15.52        299,350    $ 8.93
                 =========     ===          ======        =======    ======

Employee Stock Purchase Plan
      Under  the 1994 and 1998 Employee Stock Purchase Plans, the Company  is
authorized  to  issue up to 1,125,000 and 1,500,000 shares of  common  stock,
respectively, to its full-time employees, nearly all of whom are eligible  to
participate. Under the terms of the Plans, employees can choose each year  to
have  up  to  20%  of  their annual compensation specified  to  purchase  the
Company's  common stock. Share purchases in any calendar year are limited  to
the  lesser  of  1,000 shares or shares with a market value of  $25,000.  The
purchase  price of the stock is 85% of the market price on the day  prior  to
the  purchase  date. Under the Plans, the Company sold 301,837,  314,114  and
268,607   shares  to  employees  in  fiscal  years  1999,  1998   and   1997,
respectively.  The compensation cost which would have been recognized for the
fair  value of the employees' purchase rights was calculated as the value  of
the 15% discount from market value.

Employee Investment Fund
       Certain  key  employees  of  the  Company  participate  in  a  limited
partnership  arrangement in which the Company makes a  non-recourse  loan  to
these  employees for two thirds of the purchase price per unit of the Raymond
James Employee Investment Fund I, L.P. The loan plus interest is intended  to
be  paid  back  from the earnings of the fund.  The fund is invested  in  the
merchant banking activities of the Company and other venture capital  limited
partnerships.

NOTE 13- NET CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS:
- ----------------------------------

      The  broker-dealer  subsidiaries of the  Company  are  subject  to  the
requirements  of  the  Uniform  Net Capital  Rule  (Rule  15c3-1)  under  the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and the rules of the securities exchanges  of
which   Raymond  James  &  Associates,  Inc.  ("RJA")  is  a  member,   whose
requirements  are substantially the same.  This Rule requires that  aggregate
indebtedness, as defined, not exceed fifteen times net capital,  as  defined.
Rule 15c3-1 also provides for an "alternative net capital requirement" which,
if  elected, requires that net capital be equal to the greater of $250,000 or
two  percent  of aggregate debit items computed in applying the  formula  for
determination of reserve requirements.  The New York Stock Exchange, Inc. may
require  a  member organization to reduce its business if its net capital  is
less  than  four percent of aggregate debit items and may prohibit  a  member
firm  from  expanding its business and declaring cash dividends  if  its  net
capital is less than five percent of aggregate debit items.  As of January 1,
1999 the Company merged its independent contractor broker-dealers, Investment
Management  & Research, Inc. and Robert Thomas Securities, Inc. into  Raymond
James  Financial  Services, Inc.  In addition, on May 28, 1999,  the  Company
purchased  Roney  &  Co., a broker-dealer. The net capital  position  of  the
Company's clearing broker-dealer subsidiary was as follows:

                                                September 24,     September 25,
                                                    1999              1998
                                                -------------     -------------
Raymond James & Associates, Inc.:                (dollar amounts in thousands)
- ---------------------------------
   (alternative method elected)
  Net capital as a percent of aggregate
   debit items                                            19%              17%
  Net capital                                       $218,456         $149,284
  Required net capital                                22,848           17,862
                                                    ---------        ---------
  Excess net capital                                $195,608         $131,422
                                                    =========        =========
All  other  broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance  during  all  years
presented.


NOTE 14 - FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK:
- ------------------------------------------------------------

      In  the  normal  course of business, the Company  purchases  and  sells
securities as either principal or agent on behalf of its clients.  If  either
the client or a counterparty fails to perform, the Company may be required to
discharge the obligations of the nonperforming party.  In such circumstances,
the Company may sustain a loss if the market value of the security or futures
contract is different from the contract value of the transaction.

      The  Company  also  acts as an intermediary between broker-dealers  and
other financial institutions whereby the Company borrows securities from  one
broker-dealer  and  then  lends  them to another.   Securities  borrowed  and
securities loaned are carried at the amounts of cash collateral advanced  and
received  in  connection  with the transactions.  The  Company  measures  the
market  value  of  the  securities  borrowed  and  loaned  against  the  cash
collateral  on  a daily basis.  The market value of securities  borrowed  and
securities  loaned  was $1,242,224,000 and $1,344,366,000,  respectively,  at
September  24,  1999  and  $824,726,000 and  $796,504,000,  respectively,  at
September  25, 1998. Additional cash is obtained as necessary to ensure  such
transactions  are  adequately  collateralized.   If  another  party  to   the
transaction fails to perform as agreed (such as failure to deliver a security
or failure to pay for a security), the Company may incur a loss if the market
value  of  the  security  is  different  from  the  contract  amount  of  the
transaction.

     The Company has also loaned, to brokers and dealers, securities owned by
clients and others for which it has received cash or other collateral.  If  a
borrowing  institution  or  broker-dealer does not  return  a  security,  the
Company  may be obligated to purchase the security in order to return  it  to
the  owner. In such circumstances, the Company may incur a loss equal to  the
amount   by  which  the  market  value  of  the  security  on  the  date   of
nonperformance  exceeds  the value of the loan from the  institution  or  the
collateral from the broker or dealer.

     The Company has sold securities that it does not currently own and will,
therefore,  be  obligated to purchase such securities at a future  date.  The
Company  has recorded $33.4 million and $30.8 million, at September 24,  1999
and  September 25, 1998, respectively, which represents the market  value  of
the  related securities at such dates.  The Company is subject to loss if the
market  price of those securities not covered by a hedged position  increases
subsequent   to  fiscal  yearend.  The  Company  utilizes  short   government
obligations  and  equity  securities  to  hedge  long  proprietary  inventory
positions.   At  September  24, 1999, the Company had  $24,670,000  in  short
government  obligations  and  $1,275,000 in  short  equity  securities  which
represented  hedge  positions.  At  September  25,  1998,  the  Company   had
$24,245,000  in  short government obligations and $571,000  in  short  equity
securities, which represented hedge positions.

       The  Company  enters  into  security  transactions  involving  forward
settlement.  The Company has recorded transactions with a contract  value  of
$61,353,000   and  $311,252,000  and  a  market  value  of  $62,257,000   and
$315,104,000  as of September 24, 1999 and September 25, 1998,  respectively.
Transactions  involving future settlement give rise  to  market  risk,  which
represents  the potential loss that can be caused by a change in  the  market
value of a particular financial instrument.  The Company's exposure to market
risk  is  determined by a number of factors, including the size,  composition
and  diversification of positions held, the absolute and relative  levels  of
interest rates, and market volatility.

      The  majority  of  the  Company's transactions and,  consequently,  the
concentration  of  its  credit exposure is with clients,  broker-dealers  and
other   financial  institutions  in  the  United  States.   These  activities
primarily  involve  collateralized arrangements  and  may  result  in  credit
exposure  in  the  event that the counterparty fails to meet its  contractual
obligations.  The Company's exposure to credit risk can be directly  impacted
by   volatile   securities  markets,  which  may  impair   the   ability   of
counterparties to satisfy their contractual obligations.  The  Company  seeks
to  control  its  credit  risk through a variety  of  reporting  and  control
procedures, including establishing credit limits based upon a review  of  the
counterparties' financial condition and credit ratings.  The Company monitors
collateral  levels  on  a  daily  basis for compliance  with  regulatory  and
internal guidelines and requests changes in collateral levels as appropriate.

NOTE 15 - SEGMENT ANALYSIS:
- ---------------------------

  The  Company's reportable segments are:  retail distribution, institutional
distribution,  investment banking, asset management and  other.   The  retail
distribution  segment includes the retail branches of the  Company's  broker-
dealer  subsidiaries  located  throughout the  U.S.  These  branches  provide
securities  brokerage services including the sale of equities, mutual  funds,
fixed   income   products  and  insurance  to  their  retail  clients.    The
institutional  distribution segment includes institutional sales  offices  in
the  U.S. and Europe providing securities brokerage services emphasizing  the
sale  of  U.S.  equities  and  fixed income  products  to  institutions.  The
investment   banking  segment  includes  management  and   participation   in
underwritings  (exclusive  of  sales  credits,  which  are  included  in  the
distribution  segments), mergers and acquisitions, public  finance,  trading,
research and market making.  The asset management segment includes investment
portfolio  management services of  Eagle Asset Management, Inc.,  Awad  Asset
Management  and  RJA's  Asset Management Services division  and  mutual  fund
management  by  Heritage  Asset Management, Inc.   In  the  various  programs
offered  by these entities, clients' funds are professionally managed  either
in  individual  accounts or in mutual funds. RJBank and the trust  companies,
the  results of operations of international joint ventures, stock  loan/stock
borrow  and  earnings  on firm capital are included in the  segment  entitled
"other."

     The  financial results of the Company's segments are the same  as  those
described in the "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies".  Segment  data
includes charges allocating corporate overhead to each segment.  Intersegment
revenues  and charges are eliminated between segments.  The Company evaluates
the  performance  of its segments and allocates resources to  them  based  on
return on investment.

     The  Company  has  not disclosed asset information  by  segment  as  the
information is not produced internally.  All long-lived assets are located in
the U.S.

     The Company's business is predominantly in the U.S., with only 3% of
revenues and 4% of net income coming from international operations.

     Information  concerning operations in these segments of business  is  as
follows:

                                       1999          1998          1997
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
     Revenue:                              (amounts in thousands)
     Retail distribution            $  847,783    $  704,598    $  572,807
     Institutional distribution        158,596       146,590       121,411
     Investment banking                 36,155        57,180        64,192
     Asset management                   95,055        86,221        61,602
     Other                              94,617        88,318        76,949
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
                                    $1,232,206    $1,082,907    $  896,961
     Gain on sale of Liberty *               -             -        30,646
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
          Total                     $1,232,206    $1,082,907    $  927,607
                                    ==========    ==========    ==========
     Pre-tax income:
     Retail distribution            $   90,564    $   79,062    $   71,088
     Institutional distribution         12,782        15,747        13,892
     Investment banking                  3,636        25,405        28,217
     Asset management                   21,603        22,002        14,935
     Other                               8,934         8,020         1,737
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
                                       137,519       150,236       129,869
     Gain on sale of Liberty *               -             -        30,646
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
          Total                     $  137,519    $  150,236    $  160,515
                                    ==========    ==========    ==========
     *    see Note 16

NOTE 16 - RELATED PARTIES:
- --------------------------

      Pursuant  to a separation agreement between the Company and the  former
President  and  Chief Investment Officer of its Eagle Asset Management,  Inc.
("Eagle") subsidiary, Liberty Investment Management, Inc. ("Liberty") assumed
responsibility  for providing portfolio management services to  institutional
growth                             equity                            accounts
formerly  managed  by Eagle.  Eagle was to receive 50% of the  revenues  from
these accounts through December 31, 1999, while bearing none of the expenses.
In  addition, the Company was granted an option to purchase 20% of Liberty in
the  Year  2000  at a predetermined price. For the year ended  September  26,
1997, Eagle recognized $2,569,000 in fees from Liberty, which are included in
investment advisory fees in the consolidated statement of income.

      On  January  2, 1997, Liberty sold substantially all of its  assets  to
Goldman Sachs Asset Management, Inc. Accordingly, the Company received a lump
sum  settlement of $30.6 million for its remaining three years'  interest  in
Liberty's revenue stream and the Company's option to purchase 20% of  Liberty
at a future date.

      A Director and a former employee of the Company, each owned 7.5% of the
outstanding  shares  of  common  stock of  RJ  Properties,  Inc.  ("RJP"),  a
subsidiary  of the Company, until August 1999 when the shares were  purchased
by  RJP  for  an adjusted book value totaling $517,000 and notes  payable  of
$200,000.  They will receive payments on the notes as RJP collects on certain
receivables,  which  were excluded from the adjusted book value  calculation.
Such  shares were acquired for nominal consideration in connection  with  the
organization of RJP in 1980.

NOTE 17- ACQUISITION OF RONEY & CO.:
- ------------------------------------

      On  May 28, 1999, the Company purchased Roney from Bank One Corporation
for $71.3 million and the assumption of approximately $10 million in deferred
compensation liabilities.  For consolidated financial statement purposes  the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, Roney's results
are  included  in  the consolidated financial statements since  the  date  of
acquisition.  The  aggregate  purchase  price,  which  was  financed  through
available  cash  resources  and the Company's line  of  credit  (subsequently
replaced  by a 3 year term note), has been allocated to the assets  of  Roney
based  on  their  respective fair market values. The excess of  the  purchase
price  over assets acquired (goodwill) approximated $35 million and is  being
amortized over 15 years.

      The  pro  forma unaudited consolidated results of operations as  though
Roney  had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal 1999 and 1998  are  as
follows:

                               1999             1998
                            ----------       ----------
     Revenues (000's)       $1,349,130       $1,195,153
     Net Income (000's)     $   85,831       $   94,257
     Net Income per share:
           Basic                 $1.80            $1.96
           Diluted               $1.77            $1.89



EXHIBIT 11
- ----------

                        RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.
                        -----------------------------
                      COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
                      ---------------------------------
                  (in thousands, except per share amounts)



                                                 Year Ended
                                 -------------------------------------------
                                 September 24,  September 25,  September 26,
                                     1999           1998           1997
                                 -------------  -------------  -------------
Net income                             $85,090        $92,704        $98,915(3)

Weighted average common
 shares outstanding during the
 period (1)                             47,606         48,160         47,383


Additional shares assuming
 exercise of stock options
 and warrants (1)(2)                       843          1,791          1,004
                                       -------        -------        -------
Weighted average diluted common
 shares (1)                             48,449         49,951         48,387
                                       =======        =======        =======

Net income per share - basic (1)       $  1.79        $  1.92        $  2.09
                                       =======        =======        =======
Net income per share - diluted (1)     $  1.76        $  1.86        $  2.04
                                       =======        =======        =======

(1)  Gives  effect to the 3-for-2 common stock splits paid on April  2,  1998
     and April 3, 1997.

(2)  Represents the number of shares of common stock issuable on the exercise
     of  dilutive employee stock options less the number of shares of  common
     stock  which  could  have  been purchased with  the  proceeds  from  the
     exercise  of  such options.  These purchases were assumed to  have  been
     made  at the average market price of the common stock during the period,
     or that part of the period for which the option was outstanding.

(3)  Amount  includes the gain on the sale of Liberty Investment  Management,
     Inc. Excluding this gain net income was $80,126,000 and basic and diluted
     net income per share were $1.69 and $1.66, respectively.  See Note 16 of
     the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for details.








EXHIBIT 21
- ----------
                        RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.
                        -----------------------------
                            LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
                            --------------------

      The  following listing includes the registrant's subsidiaries,  all  of
which are included in the consolidated financial statements:

                                                   State of
Name of Company                                Incorporation    Subsidiary of
Raymond James & Associates, Inc. ("RJA")          Florida       Raymond James
                                                                Financial, Inc.
                                                                ("RJF")
Awad Asset Management, Inc.                       Florida       RJF
Eagle Asset Management, Inc.                      Florida       RJF
Gateway Assignor Corporation, Inc.                Florida       RJF
Geovest Energy, Inc.                              Florida       RJF
Heritage Asset Management, Inc.                   Florida       RJF
Investment Management & Research, Inc.            Florida       RJF
Planning Corporation of America ("PCA")           Florida       RJA
PCAF, Inc.                                        Florida       PCA
Raymond James Bank, FSB                           Florida       RJF
Raymond James Capital, Inc.                       Delaware      RJF
Raymond James Credit Corporation                  Delaware      RJF
RJEIF, Inc.                                       Delaware      RJF
Raymond James Financial Services, Inc.            Florida       RJF
Raymond James International Holdings, Inc.("RJIH")Delaware      RJF
Raymond James Partners, Inc.                      Florida       RJF
Raymond James Trust Company                       Florida       RJF
RJC Partners, Inc.                                Delaware      RJF
RJ Communication, Inc.                            Florida       RJF
Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc.              Florida       RJF
RJ Equities, Inc.                                 Florida       RJF
RJ Equities-2, Inc.                               Florida       RJF
RJ Government Securities, Inc.                    Florida       RJF
RJ Health Properties, Inc.                        Florida       RJF
RJ Leasing, Inc.                                  Florida       RJF
RJ Leasing-2, Inc.                                Florida       RJF
RJ Medical Investors, Inc.                        Florida       RJF
RJ Mortgage Acceptance Corporation                Delaware      RJF
RJ Partners, Inc.                                 Florida       RJF
RJ Properties, Inc. ("RJP")                       Florida       RJF
RJ Properties Acquisition Corp.                   Florida       RJP
RJ Realty, Inc.                                   Florida       RJF
RJ Specialist Corp.                               Florida       RJF
RJA Structured Finance, Inc.                      Delaware      RJF
Robert Thomas Securities, Inc.                    Florida       RJF
Roney & Co.                                       Delaware      RJF
Sound Trust Company                               Washington    RJF
Value Partners, Inc.                              Florida       RJF
Heritage International, Ltd.                      Mauritius     RJIH
Raymond James & Associates, Ltd.                  Bermuda       RJIH
Raymond James Dublin, Ltd.                        Ireland       RJIH
Raymond James Financial International, Ltd.       United KingdomRJIH
Raymond James European Holdings, Inc.             Florida       RJIH
Raymond James South American Holdings, Inc.       Florida       RJIH


