
10-K
sept00fff.txt



                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C. 20549
(Mark one)                        FORM 10-K

(X)              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                    SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

     For the fiscal year ended       September 29, 2000
                                 ------------------------
                                     OR

( )      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)
         For the transition period from                 to
                                        ---------------    -----------
                  Commission file number        1-9109

                              RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.
                (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

            Florida                                           No. 59-1517485
- -------------------------------                              ----------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                              Identification
 No.)

880 Carillon Parkway, St. Petersburg, Florida                      33716
- ---------------------------------------------                   ----------
  (Address of principal executive offices)                      (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code            (727) 573-3800

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class               Name of each exchange on which registered
- ----------------------------           -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, $.01 Par Value                  New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:        None
                                                             ----------------
                                                             (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has  filed  all  reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934  during  the  preceding  12  months (or such  shorter  period  that  the
registrant  was required to file such reports), and (2) has been  subject  to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No
                                                   -----   -----
Indicate  by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant  to  Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,  to
the  best  of  registrant's  knowledge, in definitive  proxy  or  information
statements  incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form  10-K  or  any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [ X ]

Aggregate  market  value of the voting stock held by  non-affiliates  of  the
registrant as of December 13, 2000:  $1,461,919,589

Number of common shares outstanding (December 13, 2000): 46,886,453

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
                     -----------------------------------
Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on February 8,
2001.  (The Company intends to file with the Commission a definitive proxy
statement pursuant to Regulation 14A prior to January 10, 2001.)

PART I
- ------

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS
          --------
     (a)  General Description of Business
          -------------------------------
     Raymond James Financial, Inc. ("RJF") is a Florida-based holding company
that was incorporated in 1974 as a successor to the original corporation
founded in 1962.  Its  principal  subsidiaries  include  Raymond  James   &
Associates,  Inc. ("RJA"), Raymond James Financial Services,  Inc.  ("RJFS"),
Eagle  Asset  Management, Inc. ("Eagle"), Heritage  Asset  Management, Inc.
("Heritage")   and  Raymond  James  Bank,  FSB  ("RJBank").  All   of   these
subsidiaries  are  wholly-owned  by  RJF.   RJF  and  its  subsidiaries   are
hereinafter collectively referred to as the "Company".

     RJF's principal subsidiary, RJA, was organized in Florida in 1962.  RJA
is a full service broker-dealer engaged in most aspects of securities
distribution and investment banking.  RJA also offers financial planning
services for individuals and provides clearing services for RJFS and several
unaffiliated broker-dealers. The Company is the largest brokerage and
investment firm headquartered in the state of Florida.  RJA is a member of
the New York Stock Exchange ("NYSE"), American Stock Exchange, Philadelphia
Stock Exchange, Boston Stock Exchange, Chicago Board Options Exchange, New
York Futures Exchange, Pacific Exchange and Chicago Stock Exchange.  It is
also a member of the Securities Industry Association, National Association of
Securities Dealers ("NASD"), and Securities Investors Protection Corporation
("SIPC").  Securities in accounts custodied at Raymond James & Associates are
protected by the Securities Investor Protection Corporation up to $500,000,
including up to $100,000 in cash, in the event of the firm's liquidation. An
additional $49.5 million of protection, including another $900,000 for cash
awaiting investment, is provided by Asset Guaranty Insurance Company. On July
21, 2000 an additional $50 million of protection was purchased from Travelers
Casualty and Surety Company of America, providing total coverage of $100
million per account. This does not protect against market fluctuations.  For
the year ended September 29, 2000 the revenues of RJA accounted for 57% of
the consolidated revenues of the Company.

     On May 28, 1999 the Company purchased Roney & Co. ("Roney"), a broker-
dealer headquartered in Detroit, Michigan.  At the beginning of fiscal 2000
Roney  was  contributed  and merged into RJA.  Roney  added  320  Financial
Advisors and 28 offices to RJA.

      RJFS  was  formed in January 1999, when the Company  merged  its  two
independent contractor broker-dealer subsidiaries, Investment Management  &
Research,  Inc. ("IM&R") and Robert Thomas Securities, Inc. ("RTS").   IM&R
was  formed  in  1973  as  an  independent  contractor  financial  planning
organization  and  participates in the distribution  of  all  products  and
services offered by RJA to its retail clients.  RTS was organized in  1981,
and  has two divisions one which serves independent contractor brokers  who
do  a  majority of their business in individual securities, the other which
offers securities on a third party basis to customers of banks.  RJFS is  a
member  of the NASD and SIPC, but not of any exchange, as it clears all  of
its business on a fully-disclosed basis through RJA.

      Eagle was formed in 1984 as a registered investment advisor to serve as
the discretionary manager for individual equity portfolios.

      Heritage  was organized in 1985 to act as the manager of the  Company's
internally sponsored Heritage family of mutual funds.

      Raymond  James Bank was formed in 1994 in conjunction with the purchase
from the Resolution Trust Corporation of certain branches of a failed thrift.
Its  primary purpose is to provide traditional banking products and  services
to the clients of the Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries.

     (b)  Financial Information - Revenues by Source
          ------------------------------------------

      The Company's operations consist of various financial services provided
to  its  clients. The following table shows revenues by source for  the  last
three years:
                                              Year Ended
                         ------------------------------------------------------
                          Sept. 29,          Sept. 24,          Sept. 25,
                            2000       %       1999       %       1998      %
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----  ----------  -----
                                     (dollar amounts in thousands)
Securities commissions:
 Listed products         $  177,882   10.5  $  161,240   13.1  $  132,211   12.2
 Over-the-counter           251,724   14.8     186,258   15.1     163,410   15.1
 Mutual funds               249,755   14.7     169,377   13.7     150,536   13.9
 Asset-based fees           189,757   11.2     130,359   10.6     100,055    9.2
 Annuities and other
  insurance products        159,850    9.4     110,899    9.0      85,322    7.9
 Other, including
  international exchanges     8,778     .5           3     .0         127     .0
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----  ----------  -----
      Total               1,037,746   61.1     758,136   61.5     631,661   58.3
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----  ----------  -----
Investment banking:
 Underwriting management
  fees                       16,593    1.0      11,852    1.0      27,569    2.5
 Merger and acquisition
  fees                       19,744    1.2      16,304    1.3      20,153    1.9
 New issue sales credits     33,739    2.0      37,400    3.0      51,446    4.8
 Other                       11,932     .6       9,192     .8      10,537    1.0
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----  ----------  -----
      Total                  82,008    4.8      74,748    6.1     109,705   10.2
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----  ----------  -----

Investment advisory fees    122,901    7.2      91,920    7.5      79,485    7.3
Interest                    345,689   20.4     229,806   18.6     202,255   18.7
Correspondent clearing        5,370     .3       4,655     .4       4,429     .4
Net trading and investment
  profits                    27,277    1.6      17,034    1.4       6,300     .6
Financial service fees       45,115    2.7      36,101    2.9      24,797    2.3
Other                        32,488    1.9      19,806    1.6      24,275    2.2
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----  ----------  -----
                            578,840   34.1     399,322   32.4     341,541   31.5
                         ----------  -----  ----------  -----  ----------  -----
      Total revenues     $1,698,594  100.0  $1,232,206  100.0  $1,082,907  100.0
                         ==========  =====  ==========  =====  ==========  =====

     (c)  Narrative Description of Business
          ---------------------------------

      At  September  29,  2000 the Company employed 4,818  individuals.   RJA
employed  4,307  of  these  individuals, 944 of whom  were  full-time  retail
Financial  Advisors.   In addition, 3,350 full-time Financial  Advisors  were
affiliated with the Company as independent contractors.  Through its  broker-
dealer  subsidiaries, the Company provides securities services to  more  than
one  million  client  accounts.  No single client  accounts  for  a  material
percentage of the Company's total business.

      The Company currently divides its business into five segments based  on
the  products  and services offered. These segments are retail  distribution,
institutional distribution, investment banking, asset management, and other.




                             RETAIL DISTRIBUTION
                             -------------------

      The  Company  provides securities transaction and  financial  planning
services  to  its retail clients through the RJA retail branch  system,  its
independent contractor firm (RJFS), and a general insurance agency.

                             RJA - Retail Sales

     RJA's 79 retail branches and 13 satellites are located primarily in the
southeastern  U.S.,  with a concentration in Florida and  the  Midwest,  the
latter as a result of the acquisition of Roney.  The Roney transaction added
320  Financial Advisors and 28 offices in Indiana, Michigan and Ohio.  RJA's
944  retail  Financial Advisors provide a broad range of financial  products
and services to their clients. In most cases, RJA charges commissions to its
retail  clients, on both exchange and over-the-counter equity  transactions,
in   accordance  with  its  established  commission  schedule.   In  certain
instances,  varying discounts from the schedule are given,  generally  based
upon  the  client's  level of business, the trade size  and  other  relevant
factors.   RJA  also  distributes both taxable and tax-exempt  fixed  income
products  to its retail clients, including municipal, corporate,  government
agency  and  mortgage-backed  bonds, preferred  stock  and  unit  investment
trusts.   In  addition, a growing number of clients are electing asset-based
fee alternatives to the traditional commission structure.

      The retail Financial Advisors sell a number of professionally managed,
load mutual funds and offer, in addition, a selection of no-load funds.  RJA
maintains  dealer-sales  agreements with most major distributors  of  mutual
fund   shares  sold  through  broker-dealers.   Commissions  on  such  sales
generally  range  from  1%  to 5% of the dollar value  of  the  transaction.
Alternative  sales  compensation  structures  typically  include   front-end
charges,  "back-end"  or contingent deferred sales charges,  and  an  annual
charge in the form of a fund expense.

      At  September 29, 2000, the Company had 13 internally sponsored mutual
fund  portfolios  for  which RJA acts as distributor.  (See  Heritage  Asset
Management, Inc. description on page 7.)  As the distributor of these funds,
RJA  has the right to enter into dealer agreements with other broker-dealers
for the sale of Heritage funds to their clients.

                      RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL SERVICES

      RJFS participates in the distribution of all the products and services
offered  by  RJA to its retail clients through 3,301 independent  contractor
financial  advisors in 1,375 offices and 401 satellite  offices  in  all  50
states.

      The  Company  operates with three separate Divisions.  The  Investment
Management  Division has 790 offices and 1,808 Financial  Advisors  and  are
better  characterized as financial planners than as stock  brokers  although
they are not required to conduct their business as financial planners.   The
Securities  Division primarily offers individual securities  and  investment
advice  to  individual  investors and institutions through  1,010  Financial
Advisors in 348 branch offices.  The Financial Institutions Division  offers
securities  on  a  third party basis to customers of financial  institutions
such  as banks, thrifts and credit unions and has 483 Financial Advisors  in
237 locations.

      The  number of Financial Advisors in all offices ranges from 1 to  26.
Such Financial Advisors devote all or substantially all of their time to the
sale of securities and, while these independent contractors must conduct all
securities  business through RJFS, their contracts permit  them  to  conduct
insurance, real estate brokerage, accounting services or other business  for
others  or  for their own account.  Independent contractors are  responsible
for  all  of  their  direct  costs  and are  paid  a  larger  percentage  of
commissions and fees to compensate them for their added expenses.

                 Planning Corporation of America

      Planning Corporation of America ("PCA"), a wholly-owned subsidiary  of
RJA,  is  a  general insurance agency and represents a number  of  insurance
companies.   Through  the Financial Advisors of the Company's  broker-dealer
subsidiaries, PCA provides product and marketing support for a  broad  range
of  insurance  products, principally fixed and variable annuities,  numerous
forms of life insurance, disability insurance and long-term care coverage.

      Clients' transactions in securities are effected on either a  cash  or
margin  basis.   In margin transactions, the client pays a  portion  of  the
purchase  price,  and  RJA  makes a loan to  the  client  for  the  balance,
collateralized by the securities purchased or by other securities  owned  by
the  client.   Interest  is charged to clients on  the  amount  borrowed  to
finance  margin  transactions.  The financing  of  margin  purchases  is  an
important  source  of revenue to RJA, since the interest rate  paid  by  the
client  on  funds loaned by RJA exceeds RJA's cost of short-term funds.  The
interest  rate charged to a client on a margin loan depends on  the  average
loan  balance in the client's account and ranges from prime plus 1% to prime
minus .75%.

      Typically, broker-dealers utilize secured bank borrowings  and  equity
capital  as the primary sources of funds to finance clients' margin  account
borrowings. However, since the inception of the Client Interest  Program  in
1981,  the  Company's  primary source of funds to  finance  clients'  margin
account  balances  has  been cash balances in clients'  accounts  which  are
awaiting  investment.   In  addition, pursuant to  written  agreements  with
clients,  broker-dealers are permitted by Securities and Exchange Commission
("SEC") and NYSE rules to lend client securities in margin accounts to other
brokers.   SEC  regulations, however, restrict the  use  of  clients'  funds
derived  from  pledging and lending clients' securities, as  well  as  funds
awaiting investment, to the financing of margin account balances, and to the
extent  not  so used, such funds are required to be deposited in  a  special
account   for  the  benefit  of  clients.   The  regulations  also   require
broker-dealers, within designated periods of time, to obtain  possession  or
control  of,  and  to  segregate, clients'  fully  paid  and  excess  margin
securities.

                         INSTITUTIONAL DISTRIBUTION
                         --------------------------

     The Company's institutional clients are serviced by RJA's Institutional
Equity and Fixed Income Departments.

      The  90 domestic and overseas professionals in the Institutional Equity
Sales  and  Sales Trading Departments maintain relationships with  over  1000
institutional clients, principally in North America and Europe.  In  addition
to  the  Company's  headquarters in St. Petersburg, FL, institutional  equity
offices  are  located  in  New York, Chicago, Los Angeles,  Dallas,  Calgary,
Princeton,  San  Diego, Brussels, Dusseldorf, Geneva, London  (Raymond  James
Financial International, Ltd., a UK broker-dealer), Luxembourg and Paris.  In
providing  these securities brokerage services to its institutional  clients,
RJA  discounts its commissions substantially on transactions based  on  trade
size and the amount of business conducted annually with each institution.

      In addition, RJA distributes to its institutional clients both taxable
and  tax-exempt  fixed  income  products,  primarily  municipal,  corporate,
government   agency  and  mortgage-backed  bonds.   RJA  carries   inventory
positions  of  taxable  and municipal securities in  both  the  primary  and
secondary  market.   In  addition  to  St.  Petersburg,  the  Fixed   Income
Department  maintains institutional sales and trading offices in  New  York,
Chicago, Houston, Boston, Atlanta, Boca Raton, Seattle and Dublin, Ohio.  To
assist  our institutional clients, the Fixed Income Research Group  provides
value-added  analytical services and publishes research  reports  containing
both specific product information and information on topics of interest such
as market and regulatory developments.

     The revenues and costs of RJA's back office operations are attributable
primarily   to  the  two  distribution  segments  above.   RJA's  operations
personnel  are  responsible  for  the execution  of  orders,  processing  of
securities   transactions,   custody   of   client   securities,    receipt,
identification  and  delivery  of  funds  and  securities,  compliance  with
regulatory  and  legal  requirements,  internal  financial  accounting   and
controls  and  general  office administration  for  most  of  the  Company's
securities brokerage operations.

                     INVESTMENT BANKING/CAPITAL MARKETS
                     ----------------------------------

      Capital  Markets  activities include both  equity  and  fixed  income
products  and services. This segment consists of the departments  described
below:

      Investment Banking.  The 47 professionals of RJA's Investment  Banking
Group, located primarily in St. Petersburg with offices in Atlanta, Chicago,
Dallas,  Houston,  Calgary,  and Detroit,  are  involved  in  a  variety  of
activities  including  public  and private equity  financing  for  corporate
clients, and merger and acquisition advisory services. The firm's investment
banking  activities are focused in the same industries as those followed  by
the Equity Research Department.

      In  addition, RJA acts as an underwriter or selling group  member  for
corporate  bonds, agency bonds, preferred stock and unit investment  trusts.
When  underwriting  new issue securities, RJA agrees to purchase  the  issue
through a negotiated sale or submits a competitive bid.

      Equity Research Department.  The 44 senior analysts in this department
publish  research  on  over  400 companies, primarily  focused  on  emerging
growth,  mid-cap  and  large-cap companies in specific industries  including
Technology,  Telecommunications, Consumer, Financial  Services,  Healthcare,
Real Estate, Energy and Industrial Growth.  Proprietary industry studies and
company-specific  research reports are provided to  both  institutional  and
retail clients.  This department has distinguished itself through its record
of extremely successful comparative stock recommendation results as reported
each quarter in the Wall Street Journal.

      Over-the-Counter Equity Trading. Trading securities in  the  over-the-
counter  ("OTC") market involves the purchase of securities  from,  and  the
sale  of securities to, clients of the Company or other dealers who  may  be
purchasing  or selling securities for their own account or acting  as  agent
for  their clients.  Profits and losses are derived from the spreads between
bid and asked prices, as well as market trends for the individual securities
during  the  holding  period. At September 29, 2000,  RJA  made  markets  in
approximately 250 common stocks in the OTC market.

       Syndicate  Department.   The  Syndicate  Department  coordinates  the
marketing,  distribution, pricing and stabilization of Raymond James'  lead-
and  co-managed equity underwritings. In addition to Raymond James'  managed
and  co-managed offerings, this department coordinates the firm's  syndicate
and  selling  group activities in transactions managed by  other  investment
banking  firms.  Marketing and distribution activities are  focused  on  the
firm's  institutional and retail clients. The Syndicate Department  is  also
responsible for the Private Client Group, which serves the firm's Investment
Banking and Research clients by providing specialized brokerage services for
corporations and their executives.

      Public  Finance.  The 21 professionals in the Public Finance  division
operate out of 7 offices (Delray and St. Petersburg, FL, Birmingham, AL, New
York, Pittsburgh, Detroit, and San Antonio), acting as financial advisor  or
underwriter to various municipal agencies and political subdivisions.

      Partnership  Investment  Banking.  The Company  acts  as  the  general
partner  in  equipment leasing and real estate limited  partnerships.   Most
significantly,  Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. is the general  partner
in  funds that have invested nationwide in properties that qualify  for  low
income housing tax credits.

ASSET MANAGEMENT
- ----------------

      The  Company's  asset  management segment includes  proprietary  asset
management  operations,  internally sponsored mutual  funds,  outside  money
management alternatives, and other asset-based fee programs.

                        Eagle Asset Management, Inc.

      Eagle  is  a  registered  investment advisor with  approximately  $5.9
billion  under  management at September 29, 2000.  Eagle's  clients  include
pension and profit sharing plans, retirement funds, foundations, endowments,
trusts, life insurance and mutual fund portfolios and individuals.  Accounts
are  managed  on  a  discretionary basis in accordance with  the  investment
objective(s)  specified  by  the client.  Eagle manages  approximately  $1.9
billion for institutional clients and $4.0 billion for retail accounts.

     Eagle's investment management fee generally ranges from .20% to 1.0% of
asset balances per year depending upon the size and investment objective  of
the account. In addition to the management fees, clients are required to pay
brokerage  commissions  (or  more commonly,  a  fee  in  lieu  thereof)  for
transactions in their accounts.

                       Heritage Asset Management, Inc.

      Heritage  Asset  Management, Inc. ("Heritage")  serves  as  investment
advisor  to  the Heritage Family of Mutual Funds.  Heritage also  serves  as
transfer  agent or sub-transfer agent for all of the open-end funds  and  as
fund  accountant  or sub-fund accountant for all Heritage funds  except  the
Eagle  International Equity Portfolio. Portfolio management for the  Income-
Growth  Trust,  Aggressive Growth Fund, Growth Equity Fund, Technology  Fund
and the Mid Cap Stock Fund are subcontracted to Eagle Asset Management, Inc.
Portfolio management for the Small Cap Stock Fund is subcontracted  to  both
Eagle  and  the  Company's  Awad Asset Management subsidiary.   Unaffiliated
advisors  are  employed  for  the  Municipal  Money  Market  Fund,   Capital
Appreciation  Trust, High Yield Bond Fund, Value Equity Fund and  the  Eagle
International Equity Portfolio.

      Heritage  also  serves as an advisor to Raymond James  Bank  to  make
recommendations  and monitor the Bank's investment portfolio  of  mortgage-
backed securities.

     Net  assets under management at September 29, 2000 were as follows (in
     thousands):

     Heritage Cash Trust:
       Money Market Fund                             $ 3,916,207
       Municipal Money Market Fund                       775,040
     Heritage Capital Appreciation Trust                 356,556
     Heritage Income-Growth Trust                         65,627
     Heritage Income Trust:
       High Yield Bond Fund                               36,640
       Intermediate Government Fund                       25,208
     Heritage Series Trust:
       Small Cap Stock Fund                              173,834
       Growth Equity Fund                                336,683
       Eagle International Equity Portfolio               17,849
       Value Equity Fund                                  24,353
       Mid Cap Stock Fund                                 37,671
       Aggressive Growth Fund                            110,870
       Technology Fund                                   142,586
                                                     -----------
                                                     $ 6,019,124
                                                     -----------

                         Awad Asset Management, Inc.

      Awad  Asset Management, Inc. ("Awad") is primarily a small and mid-cap
equity portfolio management subsidiary.  Clients pay fees and/or commissions
for management of their accounts.  Present fees generally range from .50% to
1.0% of asset balances annually.  In addition to private accounts, Awad also
manages  a portion of the Heritage Small Cap Stock Fund Portfolio and  other
non-affiliated mutual fund portfolios. Exclusive of the Heritage  Small  Cap
Fund, Awad had approximately $575 million under management at September  29,
2000.

                       RJA - Asset Management Services

      RJA's  Asset  Management Services ("AMS") Department manages  programs
which offer investment advisory services to clients, as well as certain non-
advisory   programs  which  offer  fee-based  alternatives  to   traditional
commission  charges for transactions.  The primary advisory service  offered
by  AMS is the Investment Advisory Services ("IAS") program.  IAS  maintains
an  approved  list  of  investment  managers,  of  which  all  but  one  are
unaffiliated  with  the Company, establishes custodial facilities,  monitors
performance of client accounts, provides clients with accounting  and  other
administrative services and assists investment managers with certain trading
management activities.  IAS earns fees generally ranging from .50%  to  1.0%
of  asset  balances  per  annum, a portion of which is  paid  to  investment
managers  who  direct the investment of the clients' accounts. At  September
29,  2000,  this  program  had  approximately $5  billion  in  assets  under
management  through agreements with 32 independent investment  advisors  and
Awad.

      Passport and a similar program offered by RJFS, known as IMPAC,  offer
both  a  discretionary and  non-discretionary advisory fee alternative  that
allows  clients to pay a quarterly fee plus low transaction charges in  lieu
of  commissions.  Fees are based on the individual account size and are also
dependent  on  the  type of securities in the accounts.   In  addition,  AMS
collects  an  administrative fee of up to .175% of asset balances  annually,
for   which  clients  receive  quarterly  performance  reporting  and  other
services.   As  of September 29, 2000, Passport and IMPAC had  approximately
$7.8 billion and $2.5 billion in assets, respectively, serviced by Financial
Advisors.

      In  addition  to  the foregoing programs, AMS also  offers  fee  based
programs  to  clients who have contracted for portfolio management  services
from  outside  money  managers that are not  a  part  of  the  IAS  program.
Further, AMS administers other less significant asset-based fee programs.

                                    OTHER

      Aside  from  the  retail  and institutional distribution,  investment
banking  and  asset  management businesses, the Company  operates  a  stock
borrow/stock loan program, offers bank and trust services, and has  several
international joint ventures.  These operations are grouped in the  "other"
segment.

                        RJA - Stock Borrow/Stock Loan

     RJA commenced this program in 1987, involving the borrowing and lending
of  securities from and to other broker-dealers.  RJA generally acts  as  an
intermediary between broker-dealers and other financial institutions,  where
it  borrows  from  one  party and lends to another.   The  borrower  of  the
securities puts up a cash deposit, commonly 102% of the market value of  the
securities.   This  deposit, which is adjusted daily to reflect  changes  in
current market value, earns interest at a negotiated rate.




                           Raymond James Bank, FSB

      Raymond  James Bank, FSB ("RJBank") received its federal savings  bank
charter in 1994.  RJBank provides residential, consumer and commercial loans
as  well  as  FDIC-insured  deposit accounts to  clients  of  Raymond  James
Financial's broker-dealer subsidiaries and to the general public.

      Access  to  RJBank's  products and services  is  available  nationwide
through the offices of its affiliated broker-dealer firms as well as through
convenient  telephonic and electronic banking services,  including  Internet
Banking with online Bill Pay through www.rjbank.com, debit cards, ATM/point-
of-sale,  24-hour  TeleDirectTM automated telephone  banking,  checkwriting,
direct  deposit  and ACH payments and deposits.  As of September  29,  2000,
RJBank had total assets in excess of $700 million.

                         Raymond James Trust Company
                      Raymond James Trust Company West

      Raymond  James Trust Company was chartered and opened for business  in
1992.  This  wholly owned subsidiary of RJF was formed primarily to  provide
personal   trust   services  to  existing  clients  of   the   broker-dealer
subsidiaries.   Portfolio management of trust assets is often  subcontracted
to  the  asset management operations of the Company.  In October  1993,  the
Company  acquired  a second trust company, Sound Trust Company,  in  Tacoma,
Washington.  The  name of Sound Trust Company was changed to  Raymond  James
Trust  Company  West  effective October 1, 2000.  This  subsidiary  provides
personal trust services primarily to broker-dealer clients outside the State
of  Florida.  These two subsidiaries had a combined total of $723 million in
client assets at September 29, 2000.

                      Raymond James Credit Corporation

      Raymond  James Credit Corporation ("RJCC") was formed  in  1996  as  a
regulated  finance company. To date, this subsidiary has primarily  provided
loans  collateralized by control or restricted securities.  RJCC  is  funded
with  internal capital and by a $50 million line of credit with a commercial
bank.  At  September 29, 2000, RJCC had $33 million in outstanding loans  to
clients.

                 Raymond James International Holdings, Inc.

      Raymond  James  International Holdings, Inc.  ("RJIH")  is  a  Delaware
corporation  formed in 1994 to house the Company's foreign  operations.  RJIH
now  has  ownership  in  consolidated joint ventures in  Argentina,  India,
Turkey  and  France.   These joint ventures operate in securities  brokerage,
investment banking and asset management.

                                 COMPETITION

     The Company's subsidiaries compete with many larger, better capitalized
providers of financial services, including other securities firms,  some  of
which  are  affiliated  with major financial services  companies,  insurance
companies, banking institutions and other organizations.  They also  compete
with  a  number of firms offering discount brokerage services, usually  with
lower  levels of service, to individual clients.  The Company's subsidiaries
compete principally on the basis of service, product selection, location and
reputation in local markets.

                                 REGULATION

     Most of the Company's operations are subject to regulatory oversight by
governmental agencies and/or self regulatory organizations.

      The  securities industry in the United States is subject to  extensive
regulation  under  federal and state laws.  The SEC is  the  federal  agency
charged  with administration of the federal securities laws.   Much  of  the
regulation of broker-dealers, however, has been delegated to self-regulatory
organizations,  principally  the NASD and the NYSE.   These  self-regulatory
organizations  adopt rules (which are subject to approval by  the  SEC)  for
governing  the industry and conduct periodic examinations of member  broker-
dealers.   Securities  firms  are  also  subject  to  regulation  by   state
securities commissions in the states in which they are registered.  RJA  and
RJFS are currently registered in all 50 states.

      See  Note  13  of the Notes to Consolidated Financial  Statements  for
further  description of certain SEC regulations pertaining to  broker-dealer
Net Capital Requirements.

      The  Company's investment advisory operations, including  the  Company-
sponsored mutual funds, are also subject to extensive regulation by the SEC.

      Raymond  James  Bank, FSB, is subject to regulation by various  federal
banking  agencies, including the Office of Thrift Supervision and the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation.

      The  Company's  two trust companies are subject to  regulation  by  the
states in which they are chartered.

      The  Company's  various  overseas operations and  joint  ventures  are
subject  to  regulation by the authorities in the countries  in  which  they
operate.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
          ----------

      The  Company  owns a 610,000 square foot headquarters  complex  in  St.
Petersburg,  FL  (three  mid  rise  office  buildings,  a  bank   and   trust
headquarters  building, and a five deck parking garage). The  complex  covers
approximately forty-five acres, and the Company has the ability to  build  up
to  another 460,000 square feet on this site. The Company also leases  80,000
square feet in a nearby office building, and an additional 30,000 square feet
in  another  nearby  facility as of April 2000.   In  addition,  the  Company
acquired  a 45,000 square foot, eight story building in Detroit, Michigan  as
part of the Roney transaction.  The Company also leases 20,000 square feet in
a building adjacent to the Detroit building.  With the exception of a Company-
owned  RJA  branch  office building in Crystal River, FL,  RJA  branches  are
leased  with  various  expiration dates through 2008.   The  RJFS  Investment
Management  division headquarters office in Atlanta and Raymond  James  Trust
Company  West  facility  in Tacoma are also under  lease.   See  Note  10  to
Consolidated  Financial  Statements  for further  information  regarding  the
Company's leases.

      Leases  for  branch  offices  of RJFS are  the  responsibility  of  the
respective independent contractor registered representatives.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
          -----------------

      The  Company  is  a  defendant  or  co-defendant  in  various  lawsuits
incidental  to  its  securities  business.  The  Company  is  contesting  the
allegations  of  the complaints in these cases and believes  that  there  are
meritorious  defenses in each of these lawsuits.  In view of the  number  and
diversity of claims against the Company, the number of jurisdictions in which
litigation  is pending and the inherent difficulty of predicting the  outcome
of  litigation and other claims, the Company cannot state with certainty what
the eventual outcome of pending litigation or other claims will be.

     On  June 19, 2000 a judgment in the amount of $40,675,537 was entered in
the  United  States  District  Court for the Eastern  District  of  Kentucky,
Covington Division, against two of the Company's subsidiaries: Raymond  James
&  Associates, Inc (RJA) and RJ Mortgage Acceptance Corp., a subsidiary which
has  been inactive since 1995.  The judgment was based on a jury verdict that
found that both companies had breached a contractual obligation made in  1994
to  provide  financing in the amount of $18 million to  Corporex  Realty  and
Investment Corporation and a related entity.  The jury also found  that  both
defendants had defrauded the plaintiffs in failing to provide this financing;
the  jury  awarded  the plaintiffs compensatory damages of approximately  $10
million  (including $7.6 million for "lost investment opportunity")  and  $30
million  in punitive damages.  The Company intends to appeal the judgment  to
the  U.S.  Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  The Company has  provided
for this judgment in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

     As  a result of the extensive regulation of the securities industry, the
Company's  broker-dealer  subsidiaries are subject  to  regular  reviews  and
inspections by regulatory authorities and self regulatory organizations which
can result in imposition of sanctions for regulatory violations, ranging from
non-monetary  censure to fines and, in serious cases, temporary or  permanent
suspension from business.  In addition, from time to time regulatory agencies
and  self  regulatory  organizations institute investigations  into  industry
practices  which can result in the imposition of such sanctions.  During  the
course   of  the  past  fiscal  year,  the  Company's  primary  broker-dealer
subsidiary resolved a number of regulatory and self regulatory investigations
by payment of fines that were immaterial in amount.

      In  the  opinion of management, based on discussions with counsel,  the
outcome of these matters will not result in a material adverse effect on  the
financial position or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
          ---------------------------------------------------
     None.

                                   PART II
                                   -------
ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK
          ----------------------------------------
          AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
          -------------------------------

     The Company's common stock is traded on the NYSE under the symbol "RJF".
The  following table sets forth for the periods indicated the  high  and  low
trades for the common stock.

                                  2000                 1999
                           ------------------   ------------------
                             High       Low       High       Low
                           --------   -------   --------   -------
      First Quarter          $21.44    $16.69     $26.25    $16.75
      Second Quarter          21.81     16.37      22.63     18.00
      Third Quarter           23.94     16.00      24.19     18.88
      Fourth Quarter          33.06     22.12      25.19     18.81

           Since  the Company initiated payment of a cash dividend  in  1985,
there  have been 18 increases in the cash dividend rate and 7 in the form  of
stock splits and stock dividends.

     The payment of dividends on the Company's common stock is subject to the
availability of funds from the Company's subsidiaries, including the  broker-
dealer  subsidiaries  which  may be subject to  restrictions  under  the  net
capital  rules of the SEC and the NYSE.  Such restrictions have never  become
applicable with respect to the Company's dividend payments.  (See Note 13  of
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

     At December 13, 2000 there were approximately 11,000 holders of the
Company's common stock.


ITEM 6.                                 SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                                   -------------------------------------
                                   (in thousands, except per share data)

                                             Year Ended
                    ---------------------------------------------------------
                      Sept. 29,   Sept. 24,   Sept. 25,   Sept. 26,   Sept. 27,
                       2000***      1999        1998        1997**      1996
                    ----------- ----------- ----------- ----------- -----------
Operating Results:
- ------------------

Revenues             $1,698,594  $1,232,206  $1,082,907 $   927,607  $  721,752
Net  income          $  125,195  $   85,090  $   92,704 $    98,915  $   65,978
Net income per
 share - basic:*     $     2.70  $     1.79  $     1.92 $      2.09  $     1.41
Net income per
 share - diluted:*   $     2.67  $     1.76  $     1.86 $      2.04  $     1.39

Weighted average
 common shares
 outstanding - basic:*   46,291      47,606      48,160      47,383      46,781
Weighted average common
 and common equivalent
 shares outstanding -
 diluted:*               46,867      48,449      49,951      48,387      47,307

Cash dividends declared
 per share*          $      .30  $      .28  $      .24  $      .21  $      .17

Financial Condition:
- --------------------

Total assets         $6,308,816  $5,030,715  $3,852,737  $3,278,645  $2,566,381
Long-term debt       $   98,555  $   44,183  $   44,767  $   12,715  $   12,909

Shareholders' equity $  650,518  $  558,486  $  509,898  $  423,276  $  326,632
Shares outstanding*      46,287      47,242      48,268      47,695      47,012

Equity per share
 at end of period*   $    14.05  $    11.82  $    10.56  $     8.87  $     6.95

     *    Gives effect to the common stock splits paid on April 2, 1998
          and April 3, 1997.

     **   Amounts include the $30.6 million gain on the sale of Liberty
          Investment Management, Inc. Excluding this gain, revenues were
          $896,961,000, net income was $80,126,000, and basic and diluted
          net income per share were $1.69 and $1.66, respectively.

     ***  Amounts include a $20 million charge to increase legal reserves
          related to the Corporex case.  Excluding this charge, net income
          was $136,354,000 and basic and diluted net income per share were
          $2.94 and $2.91, respectively.


     ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
              -------------------------------------------------------------
              AND FINANCIAL CONDITION
              -----------------------

Results of Operations - Three Years Ended September 29, 2000
- ------------------------------------------------------------

      Fiscal  2000  was the Company's sixteenth consecutive  year  of  record
revenues,  with total revenues of $1,698,594,000 representing an increase  of
38%  over  the prior year.  The record net income of $125,195,000 represented
an increase of 47% from the prior year.  Earnings were positively impacted by
increased  commission  revenues  associated  with  an  increased  number   of
Financial  Advisors  and  sometimes explosive market  volume,  increased  net
interest  associated with increased client balances, growth in  assets  under
management  and improved trading profits.  Due to the ongoing  investment  in
back  office  capabilities and technology, the Company was in a  position  to
handle  these  increases and the resultant leverage led to improved  margins.
The  Company  has  also  been  successful in  its  focus  on  non-transaction
dependent fee revenues, such as investment advisory fees, interest and asset-
based  commission  alternatives.  For fiscal 2000,  such  fee-based  revenues
represented approximately 46% of total revenues, up from 36% five years ago.

                                                  Year Ended
                         -------------------------------------------------------
                          Sept. 29,  % Incr.    Sept. 24,   % Incr.    Sept. 25,
                            2000     (Decr.)      1999*     (Decr.)      1998
                         ----------  -------   ----------   -------   ----------
Revenues:                  (000's)               (000's)                (000's)
Securities commissions
  and fees               $1,037,746    37%     $  758,136     20%     $  631,661
Investment banking           82,008    10%         74,748    (32%)       109,705
Investment advisory fees    122,901    34%         91,920     16%         79,485
Interest                    345,689    50%        229,806     14%        202,255
Correspondent clearing        5,370    15%          4,655      5%          4,429
Net trading profits          27,277    60%         17,034    170%          6,300
Financial service fees       45,115    25%         36,101     46%         24,797
Other                        32,488    64%         19,806    (18%)        24,275
                         ----------  -------   ----------  --------   ----------
  Total revenues         $1,698,594    38%     $1,232,206     14%     $1,082,907
                         ----------  -------   ----------  --------   ----------

     *  Includes $36,177 from Roney, which was acquired on May 28, 1999.


      Not  only did the market conditions provide for increased volume during
portions  of  the  year,  but the Company's retail  business,  including  the
addition  of  Roney's 320 Financial Advisors in the later portion  of  fiscal
1999  and  the  independent contractor operation in particular, continued  to
have  steady  growth from strong recruiting results.  The consecutive  record
transaction volumes in fiscal years 2000, 1999 and 1998 resulted in increased
securities commissions from the sales of all product lines during the period,
with  the  largest dollar increases occurring in mutual funds  and  over-the-
counter  equities during fiscal 2000 and in equities and annuities in  fiscal
1999.

                                                YEAR ENDED
                            --------------------------------------------------
                             Sept. 29,  %Incr.    Sept. 24,  %Incr.    Sept. 25,
                               2000     (Decr.)     1999     (Decr.)     1998
                            ----------  -------  ----------  -------  ---------
Number of retail Financial
 Advisors at yearend             4,245    10%         3,864    24%         3,117
Retail commission revenues
 (000's)                    $  903,448    43%    $  631,572    21%    $  523,890
Retail new issue sales credits
 (000's)                    $   15,819    (3%)   $   16,345   (35%)   $   24,976
Number of institutional
 salesmen at yearend               149    (1%)          150    12%           134
Institutional commission
 revenues (000's)           $  134,298     6%    $  126,564    17%    $  107,771
Institutional new issue sales
 credits (000's)            $   17,920   (15%)   $   21,055   (20%)   $   26,470
Number of trades processed   5,826,000    42%     4,107,000    23%     3,328,000
Number of client accounts      991,871    36%       729,903    19%       614,578

   * Includes Roney.  Excluding Roney: 3,548 Financial Advisors, a 14% increase.


     Investment banking revenues, including new issue sales credits, improved
10%  to  $82 million in 2000 from $75 million in the prior year.   The  first
half  of  fiscal  1998  brought the end to a record  setting  period  in  the
Company's  investment banking business as small and mid-cap stocks  began  to
weaken,  particularly in certain industry sectors, which severely slowed  the
new  issue  deal flow.  Investment banking revenues in fiscal  1999  remained
slow  as  a  result  of  several of the Company's major sectors  of  emphasis
(energy, real estate and health care) being out of favor for most of the year
and  the Company being behind schedule in developing a significant technology
investment banking and research effort.  The improved results in fiscal  2000
reflect  the  increase  in the Company's capacity in the  technology  sector,
particularly  telecommunications, and improved  market  conditions  in  other
sectors  such  as energy. The number of managed and co-managed underwritings,
the  vast  majority of which were equity-related offerings,  and  the  dollar
volume  of these transactions were as follows: 2000 - 23 new issues for  $3.6
billion;  1999 - 23 new issues for $3.0 billion and 1998 - 57 new issues  for
$6.0  billion.   Merger and acquisition fees, which have  been  a  consistent
revenue  source  during the past few years, increased  to  $19.7  million  in
fiscal  2000, after a decline in fiscal 1999 to $16.3 million from  a  record
$20.2 million in 1998.

      Investment advisory fees have continued to rise commensurate  with  the
generally  strong  growth in assets under management; these assets  increased
29%  to $17.6 billion at the end of fiscal 2000.  Asset management growth has
benefited from both overall asset appreciation and net sales during the  past
two  years. The largest increase has occurred in Investment Advisory Services
as  a result of the strong performance of several managers in the program and
the  addition of client assets from the Roney acquisition.  During 1998,  the
Company's  real  estate  portfolio management operation  was  sold,  and  its
employees were transferred to the new owner. This transaction generated  $3.7
million of performance fees, which are included in investment advisory fees.

                              Sept. 29,          Sept. 24, %Incr.    Sept. 25,
                                2000    %Incr.     1999    (Decr.)     1998
                            ----------- ------ ----------- ------- -----------
                               (000's)            (000's)             (000's)
Eagle Asset Mgmt., Inc.*    $ 5,966,233   16%  $ 5,138,064    7%   $ 4,804,967
Heritage Family of Mutual
 Funds                        6,019,124   26%    4,780,747   21%     3,947,394
Investment Advisory Services  4,989,000   60%    3,110,000   73%     1,798,260
Awad Asset Management*          575,000    1%      569,000  (13%)      656,336
                            -----------        -----------         -----------
Total Financial Assets
 Under Management           $17,549,357   29%  $13,597,811   21%   $11,206,957
                            ===========        ===========         ===========

*  Excludes balances included in the Heritage Family of Mutual Funds.

      Net  interest  income  continues to be a growing  source  of  recurring
earnings. The components of interest earnings are as follows:

                     Sept. 29,            Sept. 24,           Sept. 25,
                       2000                 1999                1998
                    ----------           ----------          ----------
                                     (balances in 000's)
Margin balances:
   Average balance  $1,526,273           $  908,671          $  701,742
   Average rate           8.5%                 7.6%                8.2%
                    ----------           ----------          ----------
                                $129,589            $  69,059            $57,697

Assets segregated
 pursuant to Federal
 Regulations:
   Average balance     996,969            1,063,350             776,768
   Average rate           5.8%                 4.9%                5.6%
                    ----------           ----------          ----------
                                  58,025               51,630             43,163

Stock borrowed:
   Average balance   1,458,007            1,270,112           1,154,703
   Average rate           5.6%                 4.6%                4.9%
                    ----------           ----------          ----------
                                  82,334               58,209             57,049

Raymond James Bank, FSB           44,842               28,756             22,937

Other interest revenue            30,899               22,152             21,409
                                --------             --------           --------
  Total interest revenue         345,689              229,806            202,255
                                --------             --------           --------
Client interest program:
   Average balance   1,985,003            1,540,966           1,201,398
   Average rate           5.3%                 4.3%                4.8%
                    ----------           ----------          ----------
                                 105,631               66,260             57,627
Stock loaned:
   Average balance   1,448,007            1,292,791           1,119,287
   Average rate           5.3%                 4.3%                4.7%
                    ----------           ----------          ----------
                                  77,721               55,590             53,200

Raymond James Bank, FSB           31,904               20,270             17,249

Other interest expense            13,396                9,374              2,933
                                --------             --------           --------
  Total interest expense         228,652              151,494            131,009
                                --------             --------           --------
  Net interest income           $117,037       +49%  $ 78,312*     +10% $ 71,246
                                ========             ========           ========
     *  Includes $2,383 from Roney.

      Net trading profits have increased $10 million in each of the past  two
years.  Fiscal 2000 trading results reflect significantly improved  municipal
bond  and  over-the-counter equity trading results, with the industry  having
adapted  to  the changes in the over-the-counter regulations made  in  fiscal
1998.  Trading results in fiscal 1999 reflected particularly strong corporate
and  government  bond  trading results.  After several  years  of  relatively
consistent trading profits, derived primarily from client order flow in  both
over-the-counter equity and fixed income securities, changes in the over-the-
counter  equity trading regulations and practices in fiscal 1998 resulted  in
lower trading profits on those securities.

      Financial service fees increased 25% in fiscal 2000 - a result  of  the
Company's  increased client base.  The Roney acquisition in May 1999  brought
clients that contributed to fee income for an entire year in fiscal 2000.  In
addition,  the  strong recruiting of independent contractors in  both  fiscal
2000  and  1999 contributed to the increased client base.  In  the  past  two
years  there  has  been a 67% increase in the number of IRA accounts,  a  74%
increase  in money market processing fees, and a 206% increase in transaction
fees  arising  from retail asset-based fee account programs, an  increasingly
popular alternative to the traditional commission-based pricing structure.

      Other  income is comprised  predominantly of postage and handling  fees
and  floor brokerage income, both of which are related to volume and the size
of  the  Company's client base.  In addition to increases in  both  of  these
factors  during the prior two years, the Company also increased  its  postage
and  handling fee in February 2000.  Fiscal 1998's other income also included
$1.7  million  related to the sale of the real estate portfolio and  property
management  operations  and  $2.4 million from  the  sale  of  the  Company's
specialist operations on the Chicago Exchange.

                                              Year Ended
                            -------------------------------------------------
                             Sept. 29,          Sept. 24, % Incr.  Sept. 25,
                               2000    % Incr.    1999*   (Decr.)    1998
                            ---------- ------- ---------- ------- ----------
Expenses:                     (000's)             (000's)            (000's)
Compensation and benefits:
  Sales commissions         $  692,866   34%   $  517,280   20%     $430,556
  Administrative and
   benefit costs               185,192   27%      146,254   21%      120,935
  Incentive compensation       131,077   44%       91,213   (6%)      96,723
                            ----------         ----------           --------
   Total compensation
    and benefits             1,009,135   34%      754,747   16%      648,214

Communications and information
 processing                     61,812   16%       53,071   22%       43,485
Occupancy and equipment         51,168   28%       40,059   21%       33,029
Clearance and floor brokerage   14,814   10%       13,456   16%       11,607
Interest                       228,652   51%      151,494   16%      131,009
Business development            39,830    4%       38,395   22%       31,514
Other                           88,503  104%       43,465   29%       33,813
                            ----------         ----------           --------
                            $1,493,914   36%   $1,094,687   17%     $932,671
                            ==========         ==========           ========

     *  Includes $34,625 in total expenses from Roney.

      Sales  commission expense increased each period at a rate approximately
proportionate to the related revenues.

      Administrative and benefit compensation costs have typically  increased
at  a rate consistent with the growth in total revenues.  However, the fiscal
1999 increase exceeded the growth in revenues as a result of continued hiring
to  support transaction volume, including the personnel acquired in the Roney
transaction,  and the recruiting of investment bankers and research  analysts
during  a period of decreased investment banking revenues.  This was reversed
in fiscal 2000 as revenues grew 38% and administrative and clerical personnel
costs  increased  only  27%, providing part of the Company's  leverage  which
resulted in improved margins.

      Incentive  compensation expenses, including contributions to  qualified
retirement  plans,  are  based  on  departmental,  subsidiary  and  firm-wide
profitability. This expense increased ratably with the Company's  net  income
in  fiscal  2000.  Despite lower investment banking results in  fiscal  1999,
improved  results  in  other segments held the decrease  in  total  incentive
compensation  expense  to  a  rate below the  decrease  in  net  income.   In
contrast,  strong  underwriting activity in fiscal 1998  resulted  in  record
investment  banking departmental profits, having a significant upward  impact
on incentive compensation.

       While   costs  associated  with  overall  growth  continue  to  affect
communications  and  information processing expense,  there  were  also  some
significant individual items such as Y2K testing and the development  of  the
former Roney headquarters in Detroit as a disaster recovery processing center
during  fiscal  2000.   Fiscal  1999  included  costs  associated  with   the
integration of Roney, preparation for Y2K and the merger creating RJFS.   The
increases  in communications and information processing expense in all  three
fiscal  years include the costs of further enhancement and expansion  of  the
Company's systems of internal communication and information dissemination, as
well  as  higher general business volume, which gave rise to increased  costs
for telephone, printing and supplies.

      Increased  occupancy in fiscal 2000 includes expanded  RJA  retail  and
institutional offices and additional space in Detroit.  Both fiscal 2000  and
1999  include the full annual effect of the completion and occupancy  of  the
third headquarters building in the spring of 1998.

      Clearing  and  floor  brokerage increased a modest  10%,  a  result  of
increased transaction volume and higher international clearing costs.  As  in
the past, clearing and floor brokerage expense increased at a rate lower than
the  growth  in related revenues due to volume efficiencies and  cost  saving
measures implemented.

      The  Company held business development expenses close to even with  the
prior  year.   However, they are expected to increase in fiscal 2001  as  the
Company  initiates  increased  television  advertising  and  some  additional
branding  efforts  on  a  trial basis under the guidance  of  an  advertising
agency.   Several  of  the Company's branding initiatives  impacted  business
development  expense in fiscal 2000 and 1999, including  the  stadium  naming
rights,   general   image  advertising  costs  (primarily  television),   and
recruiting-related programs capitalizing on the creation of RJFS.

      Fiscal  2000's  other expense includes the increase in  legal  reserves
related  to  the  Corporex judgment discussed in Note 10.  In addition,  this
expense  category  includes fees paid to outside managers  in  the  Company's
growing  investment  advisory services program, bank service  charges,  legal
expenses and provisions, and amortization of goodwill arising from the  Roney
acquisition.

Liquidity and Capital Resources
- -------------------------------

      Net  cash used in operating activities during the current year was $111
million.  Cash was required for increased stock borrow balances exceeding the
increased  stock  loan  balances, increased balances  in  the  client  margin
accounts  net  of increased client interest balances, increased broker-dealer
receivables,  and  the  fluctuations in various  other  asset  and  liability
accounts.

     Investing activities required $20 million during the year.  Additions to
fixed  assets  consumed  $20  million,  predominantly  for  the  purchase  of
computers,  office  furniture  and  equipment.   Net  purchases,  sales   and
maturations of investments were static for the year.

      Financing activities used $102 million, the result of net repayments of
loans,  purchase of treasury stock and the payment of cash dividends  net  of
the exercise of stock options and employee stock purchases.

      The Company has loans payable consisting of debt in the amount of $38.6
million  in  the form of a mortgage on its headquarters office  complex,  $10
million  in Federal Home Loan Bank advances at RJBank, $33 million at Raymond
James Credit Corporation and a $50 million three year term loan at the parent
company.   Subsequent  to  yearend the parent company  renewed  its  line  of
credit,  increasing  it  from  $100 million to $125  million.   In  addition,
Raymond  James  &  Associates,  Inc. has uncommitted  bank  lines  of  credit
aggregating $430 million.

      The Company's broker-dealer subsidiaries are subject to requirements of
the   SEC  relating  to  liquidity  and  capital  standards  (see  Notes   to
Consolidated Financial Statements).

Effects of Recently Issued Accounting Standards
- -----------------------------------------------

      In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards ("FAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities."  This Statement, as amended in June 2000
by  FAS  No. 138, "Accounting for Certain Derivative Instruments and  Certain
Hedging Activities," requires the fair value of derivatives to be recorded as
assets  or liabilities.  Gains or losses resulting from changes in  the  fair
values of derivatives would be accounted for depending on the purpose of  the
derivatives  and  whether they qualify for hedge accounting treatment.   This
statement,  as  deferred  by  FAS No. 137, "Accounting  for  Derivatives  and
Hedging  Activities  - Deferral of the Effective Date of  FAS  Statement  No.
133,"  issued  in   June 1999, is effective for fiscal years beginning  after
June  15,  2000.  The adoption of FAS 133 and FAS 138 is only anticipated  to
affect  the accounting for the gains or losses related to the use of interest
rate swaps by RJBank.  To the extent that RJBank's interest rate swaps may no
longer  qualify for hedge accounting treatment under FAS 133 and FAS 138  the
gains and/or losses will be included in net income.

      In  September 2000, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued FAS
No.  140,  "Accounting  for Transfers and Servicing of Financial  Assets  and
Extinguishments of Liabilities", which replaces FAS 125.  FAS 140 revises the
standards for accounting for securitizations and other transfers of financial
assets  and collateral.  The statement is effective for the Company in fiscal
2001  and  will require some changes in disclosure but is not anticipated  to
have a material impact on the financial position, results of operations,  net
income per share or cash flows.

Market Risk
- -----------

      Certain of the Company's business activities expose it to market  risk.
This  market  risk represents the potential for loss that may result  from  a
change  in  value  of a financial instrument as a result of  fluctuations  in
interest rates, equity prices or changes in credit ratings of issuers of debt
securities.   This risk relates to financial instruments held by the  company
as  investment, in client accounts and for trading. The Company  manages  its
trading businesses by product and has established trading divisions that have
responsibility for each product.  The trading portfolios are managed  with  a
view  toward  client service, as well as the risk and profitability  of  each
portfolio.
      The Company is exposed to interest rate risk primarily from changes  in
the  interest  rates on its interest-earning assets (including client  margin
loans, stock borrow activities, investments, and inventories) and its funding
sources  (including client cash balances, stock lending activities, and  bank
borrowings),  which  finance these assets.  The collateral  underlying  these
financial  instruments is repriced daily, thus there are no unrecorded  gains
or  losses  in value. Interest rates on client balances and stock borrow  and
lending  produce  a positive spread to the Company, with the rates  generally
fluctuating in parallel.

      The  Company  manages its inventory exposure to interest rate  risk  by
setting  and  monitoring limits and, where feasible, hedging with  offsetting
positions in securities with similar interest rate risk characteristics.   At
September  29,  2000  and  September 24, 1999,  the  Company's  fixed  income
securities,  predominantly  municipal  obligations,  were  approximately  $87
million and $162 million, respectively. Fixed income securities sold but  not
yet  purchased, predominantly government obligations, aggregating $17 million
and  $29  million at September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999, respectively.
The  Company has performed an evaluation of its potential interest rate risk,
including interest rate sensitivity analysis on the RJBank portfolio  and  an
exposure  analysis on the municipal bond inventories. Management  is  of  the
opinion that the exposure to interest rate risk would not be material to  its
financial position.

      The Company's equity securities inventories are exposed to risk of loss
in the event of unfavorable price movements.  The Company's equity securities
inventories  are repriced on a daily basis and there are no unrecorded  gains
or  losses.  The Company's activities as a dealer are client-driven, with the
objective  of  meeting  clients' needs while earning a  positive  spread.  At
September  29,  2000  and September 24,1999, the balances  of  the  Company's
equity  securities  positions  owned and sold  but  not  yet  purchased  were
approximately  $19 million and $13 million and $10 million  and  $4  million,
respectively.   In  addition the Company has investments in Company-sponsored
mutual  funds,  certificates  of  deposit,  mortgaged-backed  securities  and
managed  funds  with  a  carrying value of $15 million.  In  the  opinion  of
management, the potential exposure to equity price risk would not be material
to the Company's financial position.

      The Company is also subject to credit risk arising from non-performance
by trading counterparties, clients and issuers of debt securities owned.  The
Company  manages  this  risk  by  imposing and  monitoring  position  limits,
monitoring trading counterparties, reviewing security concentrations, holding
and  marking  to  market collateral and conducting business through  clearing
organizations  which guarantee performance.  The Company does  not  trade  or
have positions in complex derivative financial instruments.

     The Company is subject to concentration risk if it holds large positions
or  has  large  commitments with a single counterparty or  group  of  similar
counterparties  (i.e.  in  the same industry).   Securities  purchased  under
agreement to resell represent approximately 13% of the Company's total assets
and  consist  of securities issued by the U.S. government.  Receivables  from
and payables to clients and stock borrow and lending activities are both with
a  large number of clients and counterparties and any potential concentration
is  carefully  monitored.   Inventory  and  investment  positions  taken  and
commitments made, including underwritings, may involve exposure to individual
issuers and businesses.  The Company seeks to limit this risk through careful
review  of  counterparties  and  the use of  limits   established  by  senior
management,  taking  into  consideration  factors  including  the   financial
strength  of  the  counterparty, the size of the position or commitment,  the
expected  duration  of  the position or commitment  and  other  positions  or
commitments outstanding.

      The Company's client activities involve the execution, settlement,  and
financing  of  various  transactions  on  behalf  of  its  clients.    Client
activities  are transacted on either a cash or margin basis.   The  Company's
client  activities  may  expose it to off-balance  sheet  credit  risk.   The
Company  may have to purchase or sell financial instruments at the prevailing
market price in the event of the failure of a client to settle a trade on its
original terms or in the event that cash and securities in the client  margin
accounts  are not sufficient to fully cover the client losses.   The  Company
seeks  to  control the risks associated  with client activities by  requiring
clients  to  maintain collateral in compliance with various  regulations  and
Company  policies.  The Company has established a separate  subsidiary  which
makes  loans  to  clients  who  hold control positions  or  large  restricted
positions in equity securities.

Effects of Inflation
- --------------------

      The  Company's  assets  are primarily liquid  in  nature  and  are  not
significantly   affected  by  inflation.   Management   believes   that   the
replacement  cost  of  property and equipment  would  not  materially  affect
operating  results.  However,  the rate of inflation  affects  the  Company's
expenses,  including employee compensation and benefits,  communications  and
occupancy, which may not be readily recoverable through charges for  services
provided by the Company.

Factors Affecting "Forward-Looking Statements"
- ----------------------------------------------

      From time to time, the Company may publish "forward-looking statements"
within  the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended,
and  Section  21E of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,  or
make  oral  statements  that  constitute forward-looking  statements.   These
forward-looking  statements  may  relate  to  such  matters  as   anticipated
financial  performance,  future  revenues or  earnings,  business  prospects,
projected ventures, new products, anticipated market performance, and similar
matters.   The  Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995  provides  a
safe  harbor  for  forward-looking statements.  In order to comply  with  the
terms  of  the  safe harbor, the Company cautions readers that a  variety  of
factors  could  cause the Company's actual results to differ materially  from
the  anticipated  results or other expectations expressed  in  the  Company's
forward-looking statements. These risks and uncertainties, many of which  are
beyond  the  Company's  control,  include,  but  are  not  limited  to:   (i)
transaction  volume  in the securities markets, (ii) the  volatility  of  the
securities  markets, (iii) fluctuations in interest rates,  (iv)  changes  in
regulatory requirements which could affect the cost of doing business or  the
profitability of certain segments of the Company's business, (v) fluctuations
in  currency  rates,  (vi)  general economic conditions,  both  domestic  and
international, (vii) changes in the rate of inflation and related  impact  on
securities  markets, (viii) competition from existing financial  institutions
and other new participants in the securities markets, (ix) legal developments
affecting  the litigation experience of the securities industry, (x)  changes
in  federal and state tax laws which could affect the popularity of  products
sold  by  the  Company, and (xi) natural disasters which  could  disrupt  the
Company's communications and securities processing capabilities.  The Company
does  not  undertake any obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-
looking statements.

ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
          -------------------------------------------

     (a)  Financial statements, schedules and exhibits filed under this item are
          listed in the index appearing on page F-1 of this report.

     (b)                   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION
                    (In thousands, except per share data)

2000                            1st  Qtr.    2nd Qtr.    3rd Qtr.    4th Qtr.
                                ---------    --------    --------    --------
Revenues                         $383,926    $456,187    $426,424    $432,057
Income before income taxes         43,227      62,175      38,428      60,850
Net income                         26,816      38,236      23,163      36,980
Net income per share - basic          .57         .83         .50         .80
Net income per share - diluted        .56         .82         .50         .79

1999                            1st  Qtr.    2nd Qtr.    3rd Qtr.    4th Qtr.
                                ---------    --------    --------    --------
Revenues                         $264,507    $299,191    $324,390    $344,118
Income before income taxes         28,337      35,319      37,989      35,874
Net income                         17,479      21,869      23,490      22,252
Net income per share - basic          .36         .46         .50         .47
Net income per share - diluted        .36         .45         .49         .46


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         ---------------------------------------------------------------
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
         --------------------
     None.

                                  PART III
                                  --------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
          --------------------------------------------------

       Executive  officers  of  the  registrant  (including  its  significant
subsidiaries) who are not Directors of the registrant are as follows:

           Richard K. Riess     51     Executive Vice President - RJF,
                                       President and CEO of Eagle, and
                                       Managing Director - Asset Management.

           Jeffrey P. Julien    44     Senior Vice President - Finance
                                       and Chief Financial Officer,
                                       Director and/or officer of
                                       several RJF subsidiaries.

           Barry S. Augenbraun  61     Senior Vice President and
                                       Corporate Secretary.

           Jennifer C. Ackart   36     Controller.

The  information required by Item 10 relating to Directors of the  registrant
is  incorporated  herein  by reference to the registrant's  definitive  proxy
statement  for the 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Such proxy statement
will be filed with the SEC prior to January 10, 2001.

ITEMS 11,12 AND 13.

      The  information required by Items 11, 12 and 13 is incorporated herein
by  reference  to the registrant's definitive proxy statement  for  the  2000
Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  Such proxy statement will be filed with  the
SEC prior to January 10, 2001.

                                   PART IV
                                   -------

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND
          -------------------------------------------
          REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
          -------------------

(a)  Exhibits  required by this Item are either listed in the index appearing
     on
     page F-1 of this report or have been previously filed with the SEC.

(b)  Financial  statement schedules required by this Item are listed  in  the
     index
     appearing on page F-1 of this report.


                                 SIGNATURES

      Pursuant  to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the  Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on  its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City  of
St. Petersburg, State of Florida, on the 15th day of December, 2000.

                                            RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.
                                         By      /s/ THOMAS A. JAMES
                                            -----------------------------
                                            Thomas A. James, Chairman

      Pursuant  to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act  of  1934,
this  report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of  the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.
     Signature                      Title                           Date
     ---------                      -----                           ----
/s/ THOMAS A. JAMES         Chairman and Chief               December 15, 2000
- ------------------------    Executive Officer
Thomas A. James

/s/ FRANCIS S. GODBOLD      President and Director           December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Francis S. Godbold

/s/ M. ANTHONY GREENE       Executive Vice President         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------    and Director
M. Anthony Greene

/s/ J. STEPHEN PUTNAM       Executive Vice President         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------    and Director
J. Stephen Putnam

/s/ ROBERT F. SHUCK         Vice Chairman and Director       December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Robert F. Shuck

/s/ JEFFREY P. JULIEN       Senior Vice President-Finance    December 15, 2000
- ------------------------    (Chief Financial Officer)
Jeffrey P. Julien

/s/ JENNIFER C. ACKART      Controller (Chief                December 15, 2000
- ------------------------    Accounting Officer)
Jennifer C. Ackart

/s/ ANGELA M. BIEVER        Director                         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Angela M. Biever

/s/ JONATHAN A. BULKLEY     Director                         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Jonathan A. Bulkley

/s/ ELAINE L. CHAO          Director                         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Elaine L. Chao

/s/ THOMAS S. FRANKE        Director                         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Thomas S. Franke

/s/ HARVARD H. HILL, JR.    Director                         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Harvard H. Hill, Jr.

/s/ HUNTINGTON A. JAMES     Director                         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Huntington A. James

/s/ PAUL W. MARSHALL        Director                         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Paul W. Marshall

/s/ DENNIS W. ZANK          Director                         December 15, 2000
- ------------------------
Dennis W. Zank



RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
- ----------------------------------------------
INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS
- -----------------------------------------------------

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                                  PAGE(S)
- --------------------

Reports and Consents of Independent Certified Public Accountants
 and Independent Auditors                                              F-3-4

Consolidated Statement of Financial Condition
 as of September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999                       F-5

Consolidated Statement of Income for the Three Years
 Ended September 29, 2000                                              F-6

Consolidated Statement of Changes in Shareholders' Equity
 for the Three Years Ended September 29, 2000                          F-7

Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
 for the Three Years Ended September 29, 2000                          F-8-9

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies                             F-10-13

EXHIBITS
- --------

 Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                            F-14-27

 3.1   Amended and restated Articles of Incorporation of Raymond James
       Financial, Inc. as filed with the Secretary of State Florida on
       March 9, 1998,incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 as filed with
       Form 10Q on May 11, 1998

  3.2  Amended and restated By-Laws of the Company, incorporated by reference
       to Exhibit 3 as filed with Form 10Q February 9, 1998

3.2.1  Amended Article IV Section 8 of the By-Laws approved on November 29,

 10.1  Raymond James Financial, Inc. Amended Stock Option Plan for Outside
       Directors, dated December 12, 1986, incorporated by reference to
       Exhibit 4.1 (b) to Registration Statement on Form S-8, No. 33-38350

 10.2  Raymond James Financial, Inc. 1992 Incentive Stock Option Plan
       effective August 20, 1992, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
       4.1 to Registration Statement on Form S-8, No. 33-60608; and
       amended on Form S-8, No. 333-59449 filed July 20, 1998

 10.3  Raymond James Financial, Inc. Deferred Management Bonus
       Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 as filed with the
       Company's Form 10K on December 23, 1996

 10.4  Raymond James Financial, Inc. 1996 Stock Option Plan for
       Key Management Personnel, dated November 21, 1996 and incorporated by
       reference as filed with the Company's Form 10-K on December 24, 1998

 10.5  Termination and Release Agreement between Liberty
       Asset Management, Inc. and Raymond James Financial, Inc. and
       incorporated by reference as filed with the Company's Form 10-K on
       December 24, 1997

 10.6  Raymond James Financial, Inc.'s 1999 Employee Stock
       Purchase Plan S-8, No. 333-68821, filed December 14, 1998

 10.7  Purchase agreement between BANK ONE CORPORATION as seller, and RAYMOND
       JAMES FINANCIAL, INC., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 as
       filed with the Company's Form 10Q on May 7, 1999

 10.8  Term Credit Agreement for $50 million dated as of October 26, 1999 and
       incorporated by reference as filed with the Company's Form 10K on
       December 22, 1999

 10.9  Revolving Credit Agreement for $100 million dated as of October 26,
       1999 and incorporated by reference as filed with the Company's
       Form 10K on December 22, 1999

 10.10 Arrangement Agreement between Goepel McDermid Inc. as seller, and
       Raymond James Holdings (Canada), Inc. as filed with the
       Company's S-3 on December 14, 2000

 10.11 Amendments to the Term Credit Agreement for $50 million (dated October
       26, 1999) and Revolving Credit Aggreement for $100 million (dated
       October 26, 1999), dated October 13, 2000 and October 24, 2000

 11    Computation of Earnings per Share                                 X-1

 21    List of Subsidiaries                                              X-2

 23    Consent of Independent Certified Public Accountants               F-2-3

 27    Financial Data Schedule - EDGAR version only



SCHEDULES AND EXHIBITS EXCLUDED
- -------------------------------

      All  schedules  and exhibits not included are not applicable,  not
required  or  would  contain  information  which  is  included  in   the
Consolidated  Financial  Statements, Summary of  Significant  Accounting
Policies, or the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

             REPORT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
             --------------------------------------------------

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of
Raymond James Financial, Inc.

In  our  opinion, based on our audits and the report of other  auditors,
the  accompanying consolidated statements of financial condition and the
related  statements of income, changes in shareholders' equity and  cash
flows  present fairly, in all material respects, the financial  position
of  Raymond James Financial, Inc. and its subsidiaries at September  29,
2000  and  September 24, 1999, and the results of their  operations  and
their  cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended
September  29, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles  generally
accepted  in  the United States of America.  These financial  statements
are  the  responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility
is  to  express an opinion on these financial statements  based  on  our
audits.   We  did  not audit the financial statements of  Raymond  James
Bank,  FSB,  a  wholly-owned subsidiary, which statements reflect  total
assets  of  $712,332,000 and $638,970,000 as of September 29,  2000  and
September  24,  1999, respectively, and total revenues  of  $45,150,000,
$29,200,000  and $23,199,000 for each of the three fiscal years  in  the
period ended September 29, 2000.  Those statements were audited by other
auditors whose report thereon has been furnished to us, and our  opinion
expressed  herein,  insofar as it relates to the  amounts  included  for
Raymond  James  Bank, FSB, is based solely on the report  of  the  other
auditors.   We  conducted our audits of these statements  in  accordance
with  auditing  standards generally accepted in  the  United  States  of
America,  which  require that we plan and perform the  audit  to  obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free  of
material  misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a  test  basis,
evidence  supporting  the  amounts  and  disclosures  in  the  financial
statements,  assessing the accounting principles  used  and  significant
estimates  made  by  management, and evaluating  the  overall  financial
statement  presentation.  We believe that our audits and the  report  of
other auditors provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.


/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Tampa, Florida
November 17, 2000

Exhibit 23


CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT CERTIFIED PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
- ---------------------------------------------------

We  hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements  on  Form  S-8 (Nos. 333-68821, 333-59449  and  33-38390)  of
Raymond  James  Financial, Inc. of our report dated  November  17,  2000
relating  to the financial statements and financial statement schedules,
which appears in this Form 10-K.

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
Tampa, Florida
December 19, 2000


                        Independent Auditors' Report


The Board of Directors
Raymond James Bank, FSB (a wholly owned
 subsidiary of Raymond James Financial, Inc.):


We have audited the balance sheets of Raymond James Bank, FSB (a wholly owned
subsidiary  of Raymond James Financial, Inc.) as of September  30,  2000  and
1999,  and  the  related  statements  of  income,  stockholder's  equity  and
comprehensive  income,  and  cash flows for  the  years  then  ended.   These
financial  statements are the responsibility of the Bank's  management.   Our
responsibility  is to express an opinion on these financial statements  based
on our audits.

We  conducted  our  audits  in accordance with auditing  standards  generally
accepted  in the United States of America.  Those standards require  that  we
plan  and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether  the
financial  statements are free of material misstatement.  An  audit  includes
examining,  on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and  disclosures
in the financial statements.  An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles  used  and significant estimates made by management,  as  well  as
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in
all  material respects, the financial position of Raymond James Bank, FSB  (a
wholly  owned  subsidiary of Raymond James Financial, Inc.) at September  30,
2000  and 1999, and the results of its operations and its cash flows for  the
years  then ended in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America.




/s/ KPMG  LLP
Tampa, Florida
November 8, 2000


The Board of Directors
Raymond James Bank, FSB:

We  consent  to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements
(No.  333-68821,  333-59449  and 33-38390)  on  Form  S-8  of  Raymond  James
Financial,  Inc, of our report dated November 8, 2000, with  respect  to  the
balance sheets of Raymond James Bank, FSB as of September 30, 2000 and  1999,
and  the related statements of income, stockholder's equity and comprehensive
income, and cash flows for the years then ended, which report appears in  the
Form 10-K of Raymond James Financial, Inc dated September 29, 2000.



Tampa, Florida
December 15, 2000





               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
                ---------------------------------------------
                    (in thousands, except share amounts)
                                                 September 29,   September 24,
                                                     2000            1999
                                                 -------------   -------------
ASSETS
Cash and cash equivalents                          $  305,284      $  250,855
Assets segregated pursuant to Federal Regulations:
  Cash and cash equivalents                               183               9
  Securities purchased under agreements to resell     814,050       1,102,979
Securities owned:
  Trading and investment account securities           121,584         180,967
  Available for sale securities                       398,537         400,143
Receivables:
  Clients, net                                      2,037,049       1,447,618
  Stock borrowed                                    2,143,452       1,277,692
  Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations         123,874          34,670
  Other                                                97,415          69,339
Investment in leveraged leases                         24,407          23,950
Property and equipment, net                            91,064          91,335
Deferred income taxes, net                             44,228          39,631
Deposits with clearing organizations                   24,621          24,634
Intangible assets                                      32,448          34,866
Prepaid expenses and other assets                      50,620          52,027
                                                   -----------     -----------
                                                   $6,308,816      $5,030,715
                                                   ===========     ===========
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
Loans payable                                      $  132,470      $  201,504
Payables:
  Clients                                           2,962,786       2,524,352
  Stock loaned                                      2,109,506       1,378,821
  Brokers, dealers and clearing organizations          69,190          55,722
  Trade and other                                     152,937         101,772
Trading account securities sold but not yet
 purchased                                             29,740          33,400
Accrued compensation and commissions                  199,678         172,066
Income taxes payable                                    1,991           4,592
                                                   -----------     -----------
                                                    5,658,298       4,472,229
                                                   -----------     -----------
Commitments and contingencies (Note 10)                     -               -

Shareholders' equity:
  Preferred stock; $.10 par value; authorized
   10,000,000 shares; issued and outstanding -0- shares     -               -
  Common stock; $.01 par value; authorized
   100,000,000 shares; issued 48,997,995 shares           490             490
  Additional paid-in capital                           56,380          58,023
  Accumulated other comprehensive income               (1,618)         (1,076)
  Retained earnings                                   642,202         530,885
                                                   -----------     -----------
                                                      697,454         588,322
  Less:  2,710,636 and 1,755,585 common shares
   in treasury, at cost                               (46,936)        (29,836)
                                                   -----------     -----------
                                                      650,518         558,486
                                                   -----------     -----------
                                                   $6,308,816      $5,030,715
                                                   ===========     ===========

The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                 statements.



               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
                      --------------------------------
                  (in thousands, except per share amounts)

                                                 Year Ended
                                  ---------------------------------------------
                                  September 29,   September 24,   September 25,
                                      2000            1999            1998
                                  -------------   -------------   -------------
Revenues:
 Securities commissions and fees     $1,037,746      $  758,136      $  631,661
 Investment banking                      82,008          74,748         109,705
 Investment advisory fees               122,901          91,920          79,485
 Interest                               345,689         229,806         202,255
 Correspondent clearing                   5,370           4,655           4,429
 Net trading profits                     27,277          17,034           6,300
 Financial service fees                  45,115          36,101          24,797
 Other                                   32,488          19,806          24,275
                                     ----------      ----------      ----------
                                      1,698,594       1,232,206       1,082,907
                                     ----------      ----------      ----------
Expenses:
 Compensation and benefits            1,009,135         754,747         648,214
 Communications and information
  processing                             61,812          53,071          43,485
 Occupancy and equipment                 51,168          40,059          33,029
 Clearance and floor brokerage           14,814          13,456          11,607
 Interest                               228,652         151,494         131,009
 Business development                    39,830          38,395          31,514
 Other                                   88,503          43,465          33,813
                                     ----------      ----------      ----------
                                      1,493,914       1,094,687         932,671
                                     ----------      ----------      ----------
Income before provision for
 income taxes                           204,680         137,519         150,236

Provision for income taxes               79,485          52,429          57,532
                                     ==========      ==========      ==========
Net income                           $  125,195      $   85,090      $   92,704
                                     ==========      ==========      ==========
Net income per share - basic         $     2.70      $     1.79      $     1.92
                                     ==========      ==========      ==========
Net income per share - diluted       $     2.67      $     1.76      $     1.86
                                     ==========      ==========      ==========
Cash dividends declared per
 common share                        $      .30      $      .28      $      .24
                                     ==========      ==========      ==========
Weighted average common shares
 outstanding - basic                     46,291          47,606          48,160
                                     ==========      ==========      ==========
Weighted average common and
 common equivalent shares
  outstanding - diluted                  46,867          48,449          49,951
                                     ==========      ==========      ===========
  The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                   statements.


                  RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  ----------------------------------------------
            CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CHANGES IN SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
            ---------------------------------------------------------
                                 (in thousands)


                                        Other     Treasury      Total    Total
           Common   Additional         Compre-     Stock        Share-   Compre-
           Stock     Paid-in Retained  hensive     common       holders  hensive
       Shares Amount Capital Earnings  Income   Shares Amount   Equity   Income
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances
at Sept-
ember 26,
1997    32,665 $326 $52,599 $377,981    $341    (869) $(7,971) $423,276

Net income
fiscal
1998                          92,704                             92,704  92,704

Cash div-
idends
- - common
stock
($.24 per share)             (11,586)                           (11,586)

Purchase
of treasury
shares                                          (292)  (5,346)   (5,346)

Employee
stock
purchases             4,271                      261    2,274     6,545

Exercise
of stock
options                 197                      403    3,461     3,658

Tax benefit
related to
non-qualified
option exercises        539                                         539

3-for-2
stock
split   16,333  164    (164)                    (233)                 -

Corporate
sale of
RJF put
options                 335                                         335

Net un-
realized
loss on
securities
available
for sale,
net of tax                              (227)                     (227)    (227)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances
at Sept-
ember 25,
1998    48,998 $490 $57,777 $459,099    $114   (730)  $(7,582) $509,898
================================================================================
Total Comprehensive Income
  fiscal 1998                                                          $ 92,477
                                                                       ========
Net income
fiscal
1999                          85,090                             85,090  85,090

Cash divi-
dends - common
stock
($.28 per share)             (13,304)                           (13,304)

Purchase
of treasury
shares                                        (1,652) (31,564)  (31,564)

Employee
stock
purchases               385                      302    4,826     5,211

Exercise
of stock
options              (1,860)                     324    4,484     2,624
Tax benefit
related to
non-qualified
option exercises        407                                         407

Corporate
sale of
RJF put
options               1,314                                       1,314

Net un-
realized
loss on
securities
available
for sale,
net of tax                            (1,190)                    (1,190) (1,190)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances at
Sept-
ember 24,
1999    48,998 $490 $58,023 $530,885 $(1,076) (1,756)$(29,836) $558,486
================================================================================
Total Comprehensive Income
   fiscal 1999                                                         $ 83,900
                                                                       =========
Net income
fiscal
2000                         125,195                            125,195 125,195

Cash divi-
dends - common
stock
($.30 per share)             (13,878)                           (13,878)

Purchase
of treasury
shares                                        (1,512) (26,768)  (26,768)

Employee
stock
purchases               176                      210    3,636     3,812

Exercise
of stock
options              (2,943)                     316    5,503     2,560

Grant of
restricted
shares                  208                       31      529       737

Tax benefit
related to
non-qualified
option exercises        360                                         360

Extension on
RJF put options         556                                         556

Net un-
realized
gain on
securities
available
for sale,
net of tax                               269                        269     269

Net change
in currency
translations                            (811)                      (811)   (811)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Balances at
Sept-
ember 29,
2000    48,998 $490 $56,380 $642,202 $(1,618) (2,711) (46,936) $650,518
================================================================================
Total Comprehensive Income
  fiscal 2000                                                          $124,653
                                                                       ========

    The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
     Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                   statements.


               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                    ------------------------------------
                               (in thousands)
                          (continued on next page)

                                                       Year Ended
                                      -----------------------------------------
                                      September 29, September 24, September 25,
                                          2000          1999          1998
                                      ------------- ------------- -------------
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net income                              $125,195      $ 85,090      $ 92,704
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
  Adjustments to reconcile net income
   to net cash provided by (used in)
   operating activities:
    Depreciation and amortization           21,436        19,129        16,321
    Amortization of goodwill                 2,418           930           487
    Unrealized loss on investment
     account securities                        645         2,749           773
    Unrealized loss and premium
     amortization on available for sale
     securities                              1,470           642         1,395
    Gain on sale of securities              (1,274)       (2,227)       (1,130)
   (Gain) loss on sale of property and
     equipment                                (903)          277          (204)
    Provision for bad debts and
     other accruals                        (26,064)       (5,825)       (2,167)
    Tax benefit related to non-qualified
     option exercises                          360           407           539
   Decrease (increase) in assets:
    Receivables:
      Clients                             (580,318)     (335,975)     (207,158)
      Stock borrowed                      (865,760)     (424,648)      218,200
      Brokers, dealers and clearing
       organizations                       (89,204)       82,395       (73,194)
      Other                                (28,076)       (3,669)      (24,604)
      Trading account securities, net       56,932       (70,814)      (33,549)
    Deferred income taxes                   (4,597)       (6,790)       (8,485)
    Prepaid expenses and other assets          963       (13,663)      (14,259)
   Increase (decrease) in liabilities:
    Payables:
      Clients                              438,434       370,758       639,541
      Stock loaned                         730,685       543,934      (206,933)
      Brokers, dealers and clearing
       organizations                        13,468         7,055        20,975
      Trade and other                       68,116         4,230        20,298
    Accrued compensation and commissions    27,612         3,147        16,758
    Income taxes payable                    (2,601)       (6,742)       (7,439)
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
      Total adjustments                   (236,258)      165,300       356,165
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------
Net cash provided by (used in)
 operating activities                     (111,063)      250,390       448,869
                                          ---------     ---------     ---------

  The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
   Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                 statements.



               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                    ------------------------------------
                               (in thousands)
                       (continued from preceding page)

                                                      Year Ended
                                     -----------------------------------------
                                     September 29, September 24, September 25,
                                         2000          1999          1998
                                     ------------- ------------- -------------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Additions to property and equipment     (20,262)      (20,543)      (45,815)
  Sales of investment account securities   11,407         6,545         4,563
  Purchases of investment account
   securities                             (11,987)       (8,769)       (3,007)
  Purchases of available for sale
   securities                            (129,770)     (207,907)     (187,213)
  Security maturations and repayments     130,175       191,608       113,206
  Acquisition of Roney & Co.                    -       (67,597)            -
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Net cash used in investing activities     (20,437)     (106,663)     (118,266)
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Repayments on mortgage note                (627)         (584)      (12,948)
  Proceeds from mortgage financing              -             -        40,000
  Proceeds from borrowed funds            140,933       123,614         5,000
  Repayments on borrowings               (209,340)     (120,736)       (1,500)
  Exercise of stock options, stock
   grants and employee stock purchases      7,109         7,835        10,203
  Purchase of treasury stock              (26,768)      (31,564)       (5,346)
  Sale of RJF put options                     556         1,314           335
  Cash dividends on common stock          (13,878)      (13,304)      (11,586)
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Net cash provided by (used in)
 financing activities                    (102,015)      (33,425)       24,158
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Currency adjustments:
 Effect of Exchange rate
  changes on cash                            (811)            -             -

Net (decrease) increase in cash and
 cash equivalents                        (234,326)      110,302       354,761
Cash and cash equivalents at
 beginning of year                      1,353,843     1,243,541       888,780
                                       -----------   -----------   -----------
Cash and cash equivalents at end of
 year                                  $1,119,517    $1,353,843    $1,243,541
                                       ===========   ===========   ===========
Supplemental disclosures of cash flow
 information:
     Cash paid for interest            $  221,509    $  151,295    $  129,367
                                       ===========   ===========   ===========
     Cash paid for taxes               $   99,325    $   65,601    $   73,456
                                       ===========   ===========   ===========

  The accompanying Summary of Significant Accounting Policies and Notes to
   Consolidated Financial Statements are integral parts of these financial
                                 statements.




                RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                ----------------------------------------------
                 SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
                 ------------------------------------------

      Raymond  James Financial, Inc. is a holding company which, through  its
subsidiaries,  is  engaged principally in the securities brokerage  business,
including the underwriting, distribution, trading and brokerage of equity and
debt  securities and the sale of mutual funds and other investment  products.
In  addition,  it  provides investment management  services  for  retail  and
institutional clients and banking and trust services for retail clients.  The
accounting  and reporting policies of Raymond James Financial, Inc.  and  its
subsidiaries  (the  "Company")  conform  to  generally  accepted   accounting
principles, the more significant of which are summarized below:

Basis of consolidation
- ----------------------

      The  consolidated financial statements include the accounts of  Raymond
James  Financial,  Inc.  and  its subsidiaries.   All  material  intercompany
balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

      All consolidated subsidiaries are 100% owned by the Company, except for
Awad & Associates, Inc., which is 75% owned; Raymond James Killik, LTD, which
is  60%  owned;  various foreign joint ventures owned 51% and RJ  Properties,
Inc., which was 85% owned until August 1999 (see Note 16).

Reporting period
- ----------------

      The  Company's fiscal year ends on the last Friday in September of each
year.

Recognition of revenues
- -----------------------

     Securities transactions and related commission revenues and expenses are
recorded on a trade date basis.

      Investment  banking fees are recorded at the time  the  transaction  is
completed  and  the  related income is reasonably  determinable.   Investment
banking  revenues  include  sales  credits  earned  in  connection  with  the
distribution  of  the  underwritten securities.   Any  warrants  received  in
connection with investment banking transactions are carried at estimated fair
value  until  such  time as the warrants are exercisable and  the  underlying
shares are salable.

     The Company earns an advisory fee based on a client's portfolio value on
portfolios  managed by its investment advisor subsidiaries.  These  fees  are
recorded under the accrual method.

Management estimates and assumptions
- ------------------------------------

      The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally  accepted  accounting  principles  requires  management   to   make
estimates  and  assumptions that affect the reported amounts  of  assets  and
liabilities, disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the  date  of
the  consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts  of  revenues
and  expenses during the reporting period.  Actual results could differ  from
those estimates.

Segment reporting
- -----------------

      The  Company uses the "management approach" as defined by Statement  of
Financial  Accounting  Standards  No. 131,  "Disclosures  about  Segments  of
Enterprise  and  Related Information" ("FAS 131") for its segment  reporting.
The management approach designates the internal organization that is used  by
management  for making operating decisions and assessing performance  as  the
source   of  the  Company's  reportable  segments.   FAS  131  also  requires
disclosures  about  products  and  services,  geographic  areas,  and   major
customers.   The  adoption of FAS 131 did not affect the Company's  financial
position  or results of operations, but did affect the disclosure of  segment
information (see Note 15).

Cash, cash equivalents and securities purchased under agreements to resell
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

      The  Company  considers all highly liquid investments with  an  initial
maturity of three months or less to be cash equivalents for purposes  of  the
consolidated statement of cash flows.  These consist primarily of  securities
purchased  under  agreements to resell, some of which  are  held  in  special
reserve accounts, and are stated at cost, which approximates market at fiscal
yearend.

      In  accordance with Rule 15c3-3 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
the  Company,  as  a broker-dealer carrying client accounts,  is  subject  to
requirements  related  to  maintaining cash  or  qualified  securities  in  a
segregated reserve account for the exclusive benefit of its clients.

      It  is  the  Company's  policy  to obtain  possession  and  control  of
securities  purchased  under  resale  agreements.   The  net  fair  value  of
securities  purchased  under  resale agreements approximates  their  carrying
value,  as such financial instruments are short-term in nature.  The  Company
monitors  the  risk of loss by assessing the market value of  the  underlying
securities  as  compared  to  the related receivable  or  payable,  including
accrued   interest,   and   requests  additional  collateral   where   deemed
appropriate.   At September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999,  there  were  no
agreements with any individual counterparties where the risk of loss exceeded
10% of shareholders' equity.

Client receivables
- ------------------

     Client receivables are reported at their outstanding principal, adjusted
for  any  allowance for doubtful accounts, write-offs, any deferred  fees  or
costs  on  originated  bank loans and unamortized premiums  or  discounts  on
purchased  loans.   Client loans are considered to be  impaired  when  it  is
probable  that  the  Company  will be unable  to  collect  all  amounts  due.
Impaired  loans are written down or reserved to the extent that the principal
is  judged  to  be uncollectible.  In the case of collateral-dependent  loans
where  repayment  is  expected  to  be  provided  solely  by  the  underlying
collateral  value,  the  loans are written down  to  the  lower  of  cost  or
collateral  value.   The  accrual of interest on  impaired  RJBank  loans  is
discontinued  when, in management's opinion, the borrower may  be  unable  to
meet payments as they become due.  Interest is subsequently recognized to the
extent  cash  payments are received. Impairment losses are  included  in  the
allowance  for  doubtful  accounts or reserves through  an  income  statement
charge.

      Mortgage loans originated and intended for sale in the secondary market
are  carried at the lower of cost or estimated market value in the aggregate.
Net unrealized losses are recognized through a valuation allowance by charges
to  income. Loans available for sale were $975,000 and $127,000 at  September
29,  2000  and September 24, 1999, respectively, and are included  in  client
receivables.

Securities owned
- ----------------

      The  trading  and investment account securities held by  the  brokerage
subsidiaries  are classified as trading.  Investment account  securities  not
readily  marketable  are  carried at estimated fair value  as  determined  by
management  with  unrealized gains and losses included in earnings.   Trading
securities  are carried at estimated fair value with realized and  unrealized
gains  and  losses  included  in earnings.  The Company  accounts  for  other
securities  owned  in  accordance  with  Statement  of  Financial  Accounting
Standards  No.  115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt  and  Equity
Securities"  ("FAS 115").  FAS 115 requires investments in  debt  and  equity
securities  to  be  classified as either "held to maturity,"   "trading,"  or
"available  for  sale."  The accounting treatment for  unrealized  gains  and
losses  on those securities is then determined by the classification  chosen.
Securities  available  for  sale are carried at estimated  fair  value,  with
unrealized  gains and losses net of deferred taxes, reported  as  a  separate
component  of shareholders' equity, and realized gains and losses, determined
on a specific identification basis, included in earnings.

Property and equipment
- ----------------------

      Property, equipment and leasehold improvements are stated at cost  less
accumulated  depreciation.   Depreciation of assets  is  provided  using  the
straight-line  method  for financial reporting purposes  over  the  estimated
useful  lives of the assets, which range from two to five years for software,
furniture  and  equipment and fifteen to thirty-one years for  buildings  and
land  improvements.  Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-
line  method over the shorter of the lease term or the estimated useful lives
of  the  assets.   For  income  tax purposes, assets  are  depreciated  using
accelerated methods.

      Additions,  improvements and expenditures for repairs  and  maintenance
that significantly extend the useful life of an asset are capitalized.  Other
expenditures  for  repairs and maintenance are charged to operations  in  the
period   incurred.  Gains and losses on disposals property and equipment  are
reflected in income in the period realized.

Exchange memberships
- --------------------

      Exchange  memberships  are carried at cost.  The  domestic  memberships
which  are  included  in  prepaid expenses and other  assets  at  a  cost  of
$3,339,000  and  $1,116,000 at September 29, 2000, and  September  24,  1999,
respectively,  had an aggregate market value of $7,633,000 and $5,794,000  at
September 29, 2000, and September 24, 1999, respectively.

Intangible assets
- -----------------

      Intangible  assets  are  stated at cost less accumulated  amortization.
Amortization of intangible assets is provided using the straight-line  method
for  financial reporting purposes over periods ranging from three to  fifteen
years.

Correspondent clearing
- ----------------------

      Under  clearing agreements, the Company clears trades for  unaffiliated
correspondent brokers and retains a portion of commissions as a fee  for  its
services.   The Company records clearing charges net of commissions remitted.
Total  commissions generated by correspondents were $28,247,000,  $22,126,000
and  $22,244,000, and commissions remitted totaled $22,877,000,  $17,471,000,
and  $17,815,000 for the years ended September 29, 2000, September  24,  1999
and September 25, 1998, respectively.

Stock compensation
- ------------------

      The  Company  has  various incentive stock option and restricted  stock
plans  which  provide  for  the issuance of RJF common  stock.   The  Company
accounts  for restricted stock and stock options under Accounting  Principles
Board  Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" ("APB 25").
In  accordance with APB 25, compensation expense is not recognized for  stock
options  that have no intrinsic value on the date of the grant.  Compensation
expense is recognized immediately for restricted stock units for which future
service  is  not  required as a condition to the delivery of  the  underlying
shares  of  common  stock.  For restricted stock units  with  future  service
requirements,  compensation expense is recognized over the  relevant  vesting
period.

Comprehensive income
- --------------------

     The  Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standard No. 130,
"Reporting Comprehensive Income" ("FAS 130") in fiscal 1999.  This  statement
establishes  standards for the reporting and display of comprehensive  income
and  its  components.   This statement requires that an  enterprise  classify
items  of other comprehensive income by nature in a financial statement,  and
display the accumulated balance of other comprehensive income separately from
retained earnings and additional paid-in capital in the equity section  of  a
balance  sheet.   The  Company's other comprehensive  income  represents  the
unrealized gain (loss) on securities available for sale and translation gains
on foreign operations in addition to net income.

Derivative financial instruments
- --------------------------------

     To manage interest rate exposures at Raymond James Bank, FSB ("RJBank"),
this subsidiary uses interest rate swaps.  Interest rate swaps are agreements
to  exchange  interest  rate payment streams based on  a  notional  principal
amount.  RJBank specifically designates interest rate swaps as hedges  during
the initial fixed rate period of certain purchased adjustable rate loan pools
and  recognizes interest differentials as adjustments to interest  income  in
the period they occur.

Foreign currency translation
- ----------------------------

      The  Company  consolidates  its  foreign  joint  ventures.   The  joint
ventures' statements of financial condition are translated at the rate as  of
the  period  end.  The statements of operations are translated at an  average
rate  for  the  period.  Any gain or loss on foreign currency transaction  is
included in comprehensive income.

Income taxes
- ------------

      The  Company  utilizes  the  asset and liability  approach  defined  in
Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, "Accounting for  Income
Taxes"  ("FAS 109").  FAS 109 requires the recognition of deferred tax assets
and  liabilities  for  the  expected future  tax  consequences  of  temporary
differences  between the financial statement amounts and  the  tax  bases  of
assets and liabilities.

Net income per share
- --------------------

     Net income per share is computed using weighted average common stock and
common  stock  equivalents  outstanding.  Common  stock  equivalents  include
shares  issuable  under stock options and are determined under  the  treasury
stock  method.  All per share amounts have been restated to give  retroactive
effect to the common stock dividends paid on April 2, 1998 (see Note 11),  as
well as the implementation of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
128, "Earnings per Share" ("FAS 128") in fiscal 1998.

Reclassifications
- -----------------

      Certain amounts from prior years have been reclassified for consistency
with current year presentation.  These reclassifications were not material to
the consolidated financial statements.



               RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
               ----------------------------------------------
                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                 ------------------------------------------

NOTE 1 - RECEIVABLES FROM AND PAYABLES TO CLIENTS:
- --------------------------------------------------

      Receivables from clients include amounts arising from normal  cash  and
margin transactions, bank loans receivable (see Note 7), and fees receivable.
Securities  owned  by  brokerage clients are held as  collateral  for  margin
receivables.    Such  collateral  is  not  reflected  in   the   accompanying
consolidated  financial statements.  The amount receivable  from  clients  is
shown  net of an allowance for doubtful accounts of approximately $12,611,000
and $3,603,000 as of September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999, respectively.
Unsecured receivables are not significant.

      Payables to clients include brokerage client funds on deposit  awaiting
reinvestment  and  bank savings accounts and certificates  of  deposit.   The
Company  pays interest at varying rates on qualifying brokerage client  funds
on  deposit.  Such funds on deposit totaled $1,985,330,000 and $1,627,629,000
at  September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999, respectively.  Other brokerage
client  funds  on deposit on which the Company does not pay interest  totaled
$335,792,000 and $282,267,000 at September 29, 2000 and September  24,  1999,
respectively.   In  addition, the Company pays interest at varying  rates  on
client bank deposits as described in Note 7.

NOTE 2 - TRADING AND INVESTMENT ACCOUNT SECURITIES (in thousands):
- ------------------------------------------------------------------


                               September 29, 2000        September 24, 1999
                             ----------------------    ----------------------
                                         Securities                Securities
                                          sold but                  sold but
                             Securities   not yet      Securities   not yet
                               owned     purchased       owned     purchased
                             ----------  ----------    ----------  ----------
Marketable:
  Stocks and warrants          $ 18,964     $12,867      $  9,891     $ 3,731
  Municipal obligations          61,502          20       144,597         285
  Corporate obligations          12,370         868         9,743       3,488
  Government obligations         13,361      15,985         7,894      24,842
  Other                          15,055           -         8,183       1,054
Non-marketable                      332           -           659           -
                               --------     -------      --------     -------
                               $121,584     $29,740      $180,967     $33,400
                               ========     =======      ========     =======


NOTE 3 - AVAILABLE FOR SALE SECURITIES (in thousands):
- ------------------------------------------------------

      The  amortized cost and estimated market values of securities available
for sale at September 29, 2000 are as follows:
                                           Gross           Gross     Estimated
                             Amortized   Unrealized      Unrealized    Market
                               Cost        Gains           Losses       Value
                             ---------   ----------      ----------  ---------
Mortgage-backed securities:
    FNMA                      $120,398        $ 186        $  (414)   $120,170
    FHLMC                      191,554          333           (232)    191,655
    GNMA                        47,132            8           (354)     46,786
Corporate investments           20,511            1            (15)     20,497
Other                           20,265           27           (863)     19,429
                              --------        -----        --------   --------
                              $399,860        $ 555        $(1,878)   $398,537
                              ========        =====        ========   ========


      The  amortized cost and estimated market values of securities available
for sale at September 24, 1999 are as follows:
                                           Gross           Gross     Estimated
                             Amortized   Unrealized      Unrealized    Market
                               Cost        Gains           Losses       Value
Mortgage-backed securities:
    FNMA                      $126,115        $ 236        $  (460)   $125,891
    FHLMC                      196,917          362           (244)    197,035
    GNMA                        33,367            -           (387)     32,980
Corporate investments           20,521            -            (76)     20,445
Other                           24,701           14           (923)     23,792
                              --------        -----        --------   --------
                              $401,621        $ 612        $(2,090)   $400,143
                              ========        =====        ========   ========

      The U.S. Treasury Securities and U.S. Government Obligations mature
after one year and within ten years.

NOTE 4 - LEVERAGED LEASES (in thousands):
- -----------------------------------------

      The  Company  is  the  lessor  in  two  leveraged  commercial  aircraft
transactions  with  major domestic airlines.  The Company's  combined  equity
investments  represented 21% of the aggregate purchase prices; the  remaining
79%  was  funded  by  public  debt issues in  the  form  of  equipment  trust
certificates.  The residual values of the aircrafts at the end of an  average
lease  term of 20 years are projected to be an average of 10% of the original
cost.  The leases expire in September 2013 and June 2016, respectively.

                                          September 29,          September 24,
                                              2000                   1999
Rents receivable (net of principal and
 interest on the non-recourse debt)           $ 21,056               $ 21,056
Unguaranteed residual values                    10,719                 10,719
Unearned income                                 (7,368)                (7,825)
                                              ---------              ---------
Investment in leveraged leases                  24,407                 23,950
Deferred taxes arising from leveraged leases   (26,786)               (25,777)
                                              ---------              ---------
Net investment in leveraged leases            $ (2,379)              $ (1,827)
                                              =========              =========

NOTE 5 - PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT (in thousands):
- -----------------------------------------------

                                          September 29,          September 24,
                                              2000                   1999
                                          -------------          -------------
Land                                          $ 12,612               $ 12,612
Buildings and improvements                      68,234                 66,062
Furniture, fixtures, and equipment             105,116                100,134
                                              ---------              ---------
                                               185,962                178,808
Less:  accumulated depreciation
       and amortization                       $(94,898)              $(87,473)
                                              ---------              ---------
                                              $ 91,064               $ 91,335
                                              =========              =========

NOTE 6 - BORROWINGS:
- --------------------

      The Company has a mortgage note payable of $38.6 million related to the
financing  of  its  home  office  complex.   The  mortgage  requires  monthly
principal  and  interest payments of approximately $291,000  with  a  balloon
payment  of $32,615,000 due on January 1, 2008.  The mortgage bears  interest
at  7.37% and is secured by land, buildings and improvements with a net  book
value  of  $47.16 million at September 29, 2000.  Principal maturities  under
this  mortgage  note payable for the succeeding five years  are  as  follows:
fiscal  2001  -  $671,000, fiscal 2002 - $722,000, fiscal  2003  -  $777,000,
fiscal 2004 - $837,000, fiscal 2005 - $900,000, and $34,701,000 thereafter.
      The  Company  has  a three year term loan for $50 million  and  a  $100
million  committed line of credit through a group of commercial  banks.   The
term  loan bears interest at LIBOR plus 3/4%, while any draws on the line  of
credit  would bear interest at the Company's option, at LIBOR plus  1/2%,  or
the  higher  of prime or Fed Funds plus 1/2%. There is a 1/8% loan commitment
fee  on  the  $100  million  line of credit.  The Company  paid  $118,000  in
commitment fees on the line during fiscal 2000. In fiscal 1999 and  1998  the
Company  paid  $26,000 and $63,000 in loan commitment fees on their  previous
line of credit. The interest rate on borrowings ranged from 6.16% to 7.55% in
2000,  and  4.95% to 7.75% in 1999. The term loan and line of credit  require
that  the Company maintain a certain net worth and requires that the  Company
follow  certain other sound business practices.  At September  29,  2000  and
September  24, 1999, there were outstanding balances of $50 million  and  $33
million  on  the  term  loan  and  previous  line  of  credit,  respectively.
Subsequent to yearend, the Company renewed its line of credit, increasing  it
to $125 million.

      The  Company's Raymond James Credit Corp. subsidiary has a $50  million
line   of  credit,  under  which  borrowings  are  collateralized  by  client
securities,  which bears interest at a rate of Fed Funds  plus  3/4%.   There
were  borrowings  of $33 million under this facility at September  29,  2000.
The  interest rate on these borrowings ranged from 5.94% to 8% during  fiscal
2000 and 5.5% to 6.25% in 1999.

      Raymond  James  & Associates, Inc., one of the Company's  broker-dealer
subsidiaries,  also  maintains uncommitted lines of credit  aggregating  $430
million  with  commercial  banks  ($265  million  secured  and  $165  million
unsecured).   Borrowings  under the lines of credit  bear  interest,  at  the
Company's  option,  at the banks' prime rate, Fed Funds rate  plus  1/2%,  or
LIBOR  plus  3/4%.  There were no unsecured short-term borrowings outstanding
at  September 29, 2000.  The interest rate on borrowings ranged from 5.45% to
7  1/4%  in  2000,  and  4  1/2% to 8 1/2% in 1999.  Loans  on  the  secured,
uncommitted  lines  of  credit are collateralized by firm  or  client  margin
securities.

      RJBank has two $5 million FHLB advances outstanding which bear interest
at  fixed  rates  of 5.67% and 5.65% and mature May 2008 and September  2010,
respectively. Securities with a carrying value of approximately  $63  million
are  pledged as collateral for these and future borrowings.  The Bank's  pre-
approved  borrowing availability related to FHLB advances is 10% of  RJBank's
total assets.

NOTE 7 - BANK OPERATIONS AND DEPOSITS:
- --------------------------------------

      On  May  6, 1994, the Company chartered RJBank in conjunction with  the
purchase  of the deposits of certain branches of a federal savings bank  from
the Resolution Trust Corporation for a nominal purchase price.

      A  summary of client deposit accounts (included in client payables) and
weighted average interest rates follows:

                          September 29, 2000             September 24, 1999
                    -----------------------------  -----------------------------
                    (dollar amounts in thousands)  (dollar amounts in thousands)
                                        Weighted                     Weighted
                            Balance   Average Rate       Balance   Average Rate
                    ---------------   ------------ -------------   -------------
Demand deposits:
  Non-interest bearing     $  1,728         -           $    936         -
  Interest bearing            2,760      1.86%             2,963      1.66%
Money market accounts        14,606      5.00%            15,784      3.70%
Savings accounts            507,126      5.58%           469,097      4.24%
Certificates of deposit
     (3.85% - 7.25%)        113,829      6.09%           106,848      5.73%
                           --------      -----          --------      -----
                           $640,049      5.63%          $595,628      4.47%
                           ========      =====          ========      =====

      The  certificates  of deposit mature as follows: $52,566,000  in  2001,
$19,258,000 in 2002, $5,451,000 in 2003, $21,896,000 in 2004, and $14,659,000
in  2005  and thereafter.  Certificates of deposit in amounts of $100,000  or
more  at  September  29,  2000  and September  24,  1999  were  approximately
$25,316,000 and $21,567,000, respectively.


      A summary of RJBank's loans receivable (included in client receivables)
is as follows:

                                         September 29,     September 24,
                                             2000              1999
                                         -------------     -------------
                                            (000's)           (000's)

      Residential mortgage loans             $204,433          $138,840
      Consumer and commercial loans            87,926            30,665
                                             ---------         ---------
                                              292,359           169,505
      Allowance for loan losses                (2,936)           (1,799)
      Purchase premium                            376               455
      Purchase discount                          (328)             (303)
      Deferred origination fees
        and costs, net                            246               (75)
                                             ---------         ---------
                                             $289,717          $167,783
                                             =========         =========

      Activity  in  the allowance for loan losses for 2000 and 1999  consists
solely of the provision for loan losses.  There were no actual loan losses in
2000,  1999 or 1998.  The average balance of impaired loans at September  30,
2000  and 1999 along with related interest income recognized on these  loans,
was immaterial to the financial statements.

      Generally,  mortgage  loans  are secured  by  either  first  or  second
mortgages  on residential property, consumer loans are secured by  securities
and time deposit accounts, and commercial loans are generally secured by real
property or the general assets of the borrower.  As of September 29, 2000 and
September 24, 1999, 98% and 97%, respectively, of RJBank's loan portfolio was
secured.

     RJBank is subject to various regulatory and capital requirements and was
in  compliance with all requirements at September 29, 2000 and September  24,
1999.

     Pursuant to the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of
1991  ("FDICIA"), RJBank is subject to rules limiting brokered  deposits  and
related  interest  rates.  Under these rules, banks that  are  deemed  "well-
capitalized"  may  accept brokered deposits without  restriction,  and  banks
deemed  "adequately capitalized" may do so with a waiver from the  FDIC.   An
"undercapitalized"  bank  is not eligible for a waiver  and  may  not  accept
brokered  deposits.   As of September 29, 2000, the most recent  notification
from   the   Office  of  Thrift  Supervision  categorized  RJBank  as   "well
capitalized" under the regulatory framework for prompt corrective action.

      At  September  29,  2000 and September 24, 1999,  RJBank  exceeded  the
tangible  capital,  core  capital, core/leverage capital,  Tier  I/risk-based
capital  and  total  risk-based  capital levels  mandated  by  the  Financial
Institutions  Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989  and  FDICIA.   At
September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999, RJBank's Tier I capital to average
assets ratio was 7.2% and 5.8%, respectively.

NOTE 8 - DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS:
- ------------------------------------------

      The  Company  has  only limited involvement with  derivative  financial
instruments  and  does  not  use them for trading purposes.   The  derivative
financial instruments are used to manage well-defined interest rate  risk  at
RJBank.

     RJBank uses interest rate swap agreements to hedge against the potential
impact  of  increases in market interest rates during the initial fixed  rate
period  of  certain purchased adjusted rate loan pools.  Under  the  interest
rate  swap agreements, RJBank receives or makes payments, on a monthly basis,
based  on  the differential between a specified interest rate and  one  month
LIBOR.   At  September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999, RJBank was  party  to
four and two interest rate swap agreements, respectively.  The original terms
on  the contracts are five years.  For the years ended September 30, 2000 and
1999,  the  Bank  recognized a net cost, which was amortized  to  income,  of
approximately $70,000.  The amount paid is based on the differential  between
the  specified rate of the swap agreement and the variable interest  rate  of
one-month LIBOR.  There were no swap agreements outstanding at September  24,
1998.

      The  net  fair  aggregate  value of the Company's  interest  rate  swap
agreements  approximated  $212,000 and $159,000 at  September  29,  2000  and
September  24,  1999, respectively.  This positive fair value represents  the
estimated  amount the other party would have to pay the Company at each  date
to  cancel the contracts or transfer them to other parties.  Conversely,  any
negative  fair value represents the estimated amount the Bank would  have  to
pay  the  counter-party at that date to cancel the contracts of  transfer  to
other  parties.  The Bank has pledged as collateral a mortgage back  security
with  an  approximate carrying value of $1,213,000 and cash in the amount  of
$320,000 on the swaps.

      The  Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance
by  the  counterparties  to its interest rate swap agreements.   The  Company
anticipates,  however, that the counterparties will be able to fully  satisfy
their  obligations  under  the  agreements.   The  Company  does  not  obtain
collateral  to  support their financial instruments but monitors  the  credit
standing of the counterparties.

NOTE 9 - FEDERAL AND STATE INCOME TAXES (in thousands):
- -------------------------------------------------------

     The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of:

                                                    Year Ended
                                    -----------------------------------------
                                    September 29, September 24, September 25,
                                        2000          1999          1998
                                    ------------- ------------- -------------
Current provision:
  Federal                               $ 71,029      $ 49,841      $ 56,151
  State                                   12,290         8,588         9,774
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
                                          83,319        58,429        65,925
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
Deferred benefit:
  Federal                                 (3,356)       (5,110)       (7,120)
  State                                     (478)         (890)       (1,273)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
                                          (3,834)       (6,000)       (8,393)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
                                        $ 79,485      $ 52,429      $ 57,532
                                        =========     =========     =========

      The  Company's  effective tax rate on pre-tax income differs  from  the
statutory federal income tax rate due to the following:

                                                    Year Ended
                                    -----------------------------------------
                                    September 29, September 24, September 25,
                                        2000          1999          1998
                                    ------------- ------------- -------------
Provision calculated at
 statutory rates                        $ 72,251      $ 48,145      $ 52,637
State income taxes, net
 of federal benefit                        7,678         5,003         5,526
Other                                       (444)         (719)         (631)
                                        ---------     ---------     ---------
                                        $ 79,485      $ 52,429      $ 57,532
                                        =========     =========     =========

      The  major deferred tax asset (liability) items, as computed under  FAS
109, are as follows:

                                                  September 29, September 24,
                                                      2000          1999
                                                  ------------- -------------
Deferred tax assets:
     Deferred compensation                            $ 33,543      $ 38,156
     Accrued expenses                                   26,254        20,843
     Other                                              21,961        17,021
                                                      ---------     ---------
Total deferred tax assets                               81,758        76,020
                                                      ---------     ---------
Deferred tax liabilities:
     Aircraft leases                                   (26,786)      (25,777)
     Other                                             (10,744)      (10,612)
                                                      ---------     ---------
Total deferred tax liabilities                         (37,530)      (36,389)
                                                      ---------     ---------
Net deferred tax assets                               $ 44,228      $ 39,631
                                                      =========     =========

NOTE 10 - COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES:
- ----------------------------------------

      Long-term  lease  agreements  expire at  various  times  through  2004.
Minimum  annual rentals under such agreements for the succeeding five  fiscal
years are approximately: $15,384,000 in 2001, $13,587,000 in 2002, $9,717,000
in  2003,  $7,050,000 in 2004, $5,105,000 in 2005 and $6,132,000  thereafter.
Rental  expense incurred under all leases, including equipment  under  short-
term  agreements,  aggregated $16,338,000, $13,154,000,  and  $11,085,000  in
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

      The  Company  has committed to lend to, or guarantee  other  debt  for,
Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc. ("RJ Tax Credit") up to $60 million upon
request.  Any borrowings bear interest at broker call plus 1% per  annum.  RJ
Tax  Credit is charged 1% for amounts guaranteed.  The borrowings are secured
by  properties  under  development.   At  September  29,  2000,  balances  of
$15,636,000 were loaned to RJ Tax Credit and $2,740,000 were guaranteed.   At
September  24, 1999, balances of $8,553,000 were loaned to RJ Tax Credit  and
$440,000  were guaranteed. The commitment expired in November 2000  at  which
time any outstanding balances were due and payable. On November 29, 2000, the
Board of Directors renewed the commitment until November 2001.

      At  September  29,  2000, RJBank had letters of  credit  of  $1,524,000
outstanding. In addition, RJBank had commitments to fund loans at  fixed  and
variable  rates of $3,662,000 and $3,719,000, respectively, at September  29,
2000.

      Securities  with  carrying values of $69,789,000  and  $21,349,000  are
pledged  as  collateral  with the Federal Home  Loan  Bank  for  advances  at
September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999, respectively.

      As  part of an effort to increase brand awareness, the Company  entered
into  a  stadium  naming rights contract in July 1998.  The  contract  has  a
thirteen-year term with a five-year renewal option and a 4% annual escalator.
Expenses  of  $2,295,000 and $2,719,000 were recognized in  fiscal  2000  and
1999, respectively.

      In  the normal course of business, the Company enters into underwriting
commitments.   Transactions relating to such commitments that  were  open  at
September  29, 2000 and were subsequently settled had no material  effect  on
the consolidated financial statements as of that date.

      The  Company  utilizes  a letter of credit and deposits  with  clearing
organizations to satisfy margin deposit requirements. At September  29,  2000
and  September  24, 1999, the Company had a letter of credit  outstanding  of
$100,000 and client margin securities valued at $107,778,000 and $86,277,000,
respectively, on deposit with a clearing organization.

      The Company also has guaranteed lines of credit and comfort letters for
their various foreign joint ventures as follows: two lines of credit totaling
$6  million  in  Turkey,  two lines of credit not to exceed  $11  million  in
Argentina,  a  $5 million line of credit and a $325,000 letter of  credit  in
India,  twenty  one  comfort  letters totaling $55,000,000  in  Turkey,  four
comfort letters totaling $8,000,000 in Argentina and two comfort letters  for
$2,325,000  in  India.  In addition, the Company has guaranteed  trades  with
counterparties in Turkey, Argentina and India.

      The  Company has committed $25.6 million and $20 million to 28  and  21
independent venture capital limited partnerships of which $17 million and $12
million  had  been  paid  as of September 29, 2000 and  September  24,  1999,
respectively.

      In  the normal course of business, certain subsidiaries of the Company,
as  general  partner, are contingently liable for the obligations of  various
limited  partnerships  engaged primarily in securities investments  and  real
estate  activities. In the opinion of the Company, such liabilities, if  any,
for  the  obligations of the partnerships will not in the  aggregate  have  a
material adverse effect on the Company's consolidated financial position.

      As a result of the extensive regulation of the securities industry, the
Company's  broker-dealer  subsidiaries are subject  to  regular  reviews  and
inspections  by  regulatory  authorities and  self-regulatory  organizations,
which  can  result  in  imposition of sanctions  for  regulatory  violations,
ranging  from non-monetary censure to fines and, in serious cases,  temporary
or  permanent  suspension  from business.  In addition,  from  time  to  time
regulatory    agencies    and    self-regulatory   organizations    institute
investigations into industry practices, which can result in the imposition of
such sanctions.  Current proceedings in which the Company is one of the named
defendants  include the combined SEC, Internal Revenue Service  and  National
Association  of  Securities  Dealers,  Inc.  review  of  investment   banking
practices   in   connection   with   advance   refunding   transactions   for
municipalities.

     On  June  19, 2000 a judgment in the amount of $40.7 million was entered
in  the  United States District Court for the Eastern District  of  Kentucky,
Covington Division, against two of the Company's subsidiaries: Raymond  James
&  Associates, Inc (RJA) and RJ Mortgage Acceptance Corp., a subsidiary which
has  been inactive since 1995.  The judgment was based on a jury verdict that
found that both companies had breached a contractual obligation made in  1994
to  provide  financing in the amount of $18 million to  Corporex  Realty  and
Investment Corporation and a related entity.  The jury also found  that  both
defendants had defrauded the plaintiffs in failing to provide this financing;
the  jury  awarded  the plaintiffs compensatory damages of approximately  $10
million  (including $7.6 million for "lost investment opportunity")  and  $30
million  in punitive damages.  The Company intends to appeal the judgment  to
the  U.S.  Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit.  The Company has  provided
for this judgment in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

      The  Company  is  also a defendant or co-defendant in various  lawsuits
incidental  to  its  securities  business.  The  Company  is  contesting  the
allegations  of  the complaints in these cases and believes  that  there  are
meritorious  defenses in each of these lawsuits.  In view of the  number  and
diversity of claims against the Company, the number of jurisdictions in which
litigation  is pending and the inherent difficulty of predicting the  outcome
of  litigation and other claims, the Company cannot state with certainty what
the  eventual outcome of pending litigation or other claims will be.  In  the
opinion  of  management, based on discussions with counsel,  the  outcome  of
these  matters  will  not  result  in  a  material  adverse  effect  on   the
consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Company.

NOTE 11 - CAPITAL TRANSACTIONS:
- -------------------------------

      The  Company's  Board  of Directors has, from  time  to  time,  adopted
resolutions  authorizing  the  Company to repurchase  its  common  stock  for
general  corporate  purposes.   At September  29,  2000,  pursuant  to  prior
authorizations  from the Board of Directors, 1,768,875 shares were  available
to be repurchased.

      In  February 1998, the Company's Board of Directors declared a  3-for-2
stock split in the form of a dividend. The additional shares were distributed
on April 2, 1998, to shareholders of record on March 10, 1998. All references
(unless  otherwise  noted)  in  the  consolidated  financial  statements  and
accompanying  notes to amounts per share and to the number of  common  shares
have been restated to give retroactive effect to the stock dividends.

     The Company sold equity put options in October 1998 and August 1999 that
entitled  the  holder, at the expiration date, to sell  239,000  and  400,000
shares of common stock to the Company at exercise prices of $18.31 and $20.24
per  share,  respectively.   In February 2000,  the  Company  extended  their
contract  for additional consideration of $1.39 per share.  The $556,000  and
$1,314,000  in premiums have been accounted for as additional paid-in capital
in  fiscal  2000  and fiscal 1999, respectively.  There were no  put  options
outstanding at September 29, 2000.

NOTE 12 - EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS:
- ---------------------------------

      The  Company's  profit sharing plan and employee stock  ownership  plan
provide  certain death, disability or retirement benefits for  all  employees
who  meet  certain service requirements.  Such benefits become  fully  vested
after  seven  years  of qualified service.  The Company also  offers  a  plan
pursuant  to section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code, which provides  for
the  Company  to  match 100% of the first $500 and 50% of the  next  $500  of
compensation deferred by each participant annually. Roney offered  a  similar
plan  which  was  merged into the Company's plan on  January  1,  2000.   The
Company's  Long  Term  Incentive Plan ("LTIP") is  a  non-qualified  deferred
compensation plan that provides benefits to employees who meet certain length
of  service  and compensation requirements.  Contributions to  the  qualified
plans  and the LTIP contribution for management are made in amounts  approved
annually  by the Board of Directors.  Compensation expense includes aggregate
contributions to these plans of $24,196,000, $16,240,000 and $17,299,000, for
fiscal 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

Stock Compensation Plans

      At  September 29, 2000, the Company has eight stock-based  compensation
plans,  which  are  described below. In accordance  with  the  provisions  of
Statement  of Financial Accounting Standards No. 123, "Accounting for  Stock-
Based  Compensation" ("FAS 123"),the Company applies APB 25, "Accounting  for
Stock  Issued  to  Employees" and related interpretations in  accounting  for
these plans.

      If  the Company had elected to recognize compensation expense based  on
the  fair  value  at the grant dates for awards under these plans  consistent
with the methodology prescribed by FAS 123, the Company's net income and  net
income  per share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts  indicated
below:

                                                             Year Ended
                                                 -------------------------------
                                                 Sept. 29,  Sept. 24,  Sept. 25,
                                                   2000       1999       1998
                                                 ---------  ---------  ---------
Net income (in thousands)       As reported       $125,195    $85,090    $92,704
                                Pro forma         $122,437    $82,735    $90,569

Net income per share - basic    As reported        $  2.70    $  1.79    $  1.92
                                Pro forma          $  2.64    $  1.74    $  1.88

Net income per share - diluted  As reported        $  2.67    $  1.76    $  1.86
                                Pro forma          $  2.61    $  1.71    $  1.81

      These pro forma amounts may not be representative of future disclosures
since the estimated fair value of stock options is amortized to expense  over
the  vesting  period and additional options may be granted in  future  years.
For  disclosure  purposes,  the fair value of  each  fixed  option  grant  is
estimated  on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing  model
with  the following weighted average assumptions used for stock option grants
in  fiscal  2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively: dividend yields of 1.4%,  1.3%
and  1.1%; expected volatility of 45.7%, 42.6% and 44.1%, risk-free  interest
rates  of  6.25%, 4.96% and 5.85%, and expected lives of 5.16, 5.61 and  5.32
years.

Fixed Stock Option Plans

     The Company has one qualified and three non-qualified fixed stock option
plans.   Under the 1992 Incentive  Stock Option Plan, the Company  may  grant
options  to  its  management personnel for up to 4,612,500 shares  of  common
stock.   The 1992 Plan was established to replace, on substantially the  same
terms   and  conditions,  the  1982  Plan.   Options  are  granted   to   key
administrative   employees  and  Financial  Advisors  of  Raymond   James   &
Associates,  Inc. who achieve certain gross commission levels.   Options  are
exercisable in the 36th to 72nd months following the date of grant  and  only
in the event that the grantee is an employee of the Company at that time.

     Under one of the Company's non-qualified stock option plans, the Company
may  grant  up to 2,278,125 shares of common stock to independent  contractor
Financial  Advisors.   Options are exercisable five years  after  grant  date
provided  that the Financial Advisors are still associated with the  Company.
Under  the Company's second non-qualified stock option plan, the Company  may
grant  up  to  379,688  shares  of  common stock  to  the  Company's  outside
directors.   Options  vest over a five-year period from grant  date  provided
that  the  director is still serving on the Board of the Company.  Under  the
Company's third non-qualified stock option plan, the Company may grant up  to
1,125,000  shares of common stock to key management personnel.  Option  terms
are specified in individual agreements and expire on a date no later than the
tenth anniversary of the grant date.  Under all plans, the exercise price  of
each  option  equals the market price of the Company's stock on the  date  of
grant and an option's maximum term is 10 years.

      A  summary of the status of the Company's four fixed stock option plans
as  of  September  29, 2000, September 24, 1999 and September  25,  1998  and
changes during the years ending on those dates is presented below:

                          2000                1999                1998
                    ------------------  ------------------  ------------------
                    Shares    Weighted  Shares    Weighted  Shares    Weighted
                              Average             Average             Average
                              Exercise            Exercise            Exercise
                              Price               Price               Price
                    ----------------------------------------------------------
Outstanding at
 beginning of year  2,481,688   $15.52  2,738,045   $14.00  2,539,220   $ 9.37
Granted               881,075    20.25    258,785    21.24    831,340    23.15
Canceled             (246,127)   18.60   (190,902)   14.33    (84,516)   12.32
Exercised            (315,809)    8.22   (324,240)    8.09   (547,999)    6.66
                    ----------  ------  ----------  ------  ----------  ------
Outstanding at
 Yearend            2,800,827   $17.56  2,481,688   $15.52  2,738,045   $14.00
                    ==========  ======  ==========  ======  ==========  ======
Options exercisable
 at yearend           506,802             299,350             215,878
Weighted average
 fair value of
 options granted
 during the year                $ 8.89              $ 8.89              $10.26

     The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options
outstanding at September 29, 2000:

                        Options Outstanding             Options Exercisable
                --------------------------------------------------------------
    Range of    Number        Weighted-     Weighted-   Number       Weighted-
    Exercise    Outstanding   Average       Average     Exercisable  Average
    Prices      at 9/29/00    Remaining     Exercise    at 9/29/00   Exercise
                              Contractual   Price                    Price
                              Life
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
$ 3.16 -  6.33      17,776     0.2          $ 6.17         17,776    $ 6.17
$ 6.33 -  9.49      58,500     1.2            9.29          6,750      8.08
$ 9.49 - 12.65     901,970     1.3           11.16        480,401     10.83
$12.65 - 15.81      86,625     2.3           13.39              -         -
$15.81 - 18.98     220,750     4.9           18.53          1,125     18.33
$18.98 - 22.14     755,325     4.5           20.37              -         -
$22.14 - 25.30     605,481     2.5           22.57              -         -
$25.30 - 28.46     134,150     4.0           26.40            750     26.46
$28.46 - 31.63      20,250     2.9           31.47              -         -
                 ---------     ---          ------        -------    ------
                 2,800,827     2.9          $17.56        506,802    $10.67
                 =========     ===          ======        =======    ======

Restricted Stock Plan

      Under the 1999 Restricted Stock Plan the Company is authorized to issue
up   to  1,000,000  restricted  shares  of  common  stock  to  employees  and
independent  contractors.  Awards under this plan may be granted  by  various
departments  of  the Company in connection with initial employment  or  under
various   retention  plans  for  individuals  who  are  responsible   for   a
contribution  to the management growth, and/or profitability of the  Company.
These  shares  are  forfeitable in the event  of voluntary termination.   The
compensation cost is recognized over the vesting period of the shares and  is
calculated  as  the market value of the shares on the date of  grant.  As  of
September  29, 2000, 30,500 shares were granted with a future service  period
of 5 years.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

      Under  the 1998 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, the Company is authorized
to  issue  up to 1,125,000 shares of common stock to its full-time employees,
nearly  all  of  whom are eligible to participate.  Under the  terms  of  the
Plans,  employees  can choose each year to have up to  20%  of  their  annual
compensation  specified  to  purchase  the  Company's  common  stock.   Share
purchases  in any calendar year are limited to the lesser of 1,000 shares  or
shares  with a market value of $25,000.  The purchase price of the  stock  is
85%  of  the market price on the day prior to the purchase date.   Under  the
Plans,  the Company sold 209,883, 301,837 and 314,114 shares to employees  in
fiscal years 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.  The compensation cost  which
would  have  been  recognized for the fair value of the  employees'  purchase
rights was calculated as the value of the 15% discount from market value.

Stock Bonus Plan

      The Company's 1999 Stock Bonus Plan authorizes the Company to issue  up
to  1,000,000  restricted shares to officers and certain other  employees  in
lieu  of  cash for 10% to 20% of annual bonus amounts in excess of  $250,000.
Under  the plan the restricted stock is granted at a twenty percent  discount
in  determining  the  number  of shares to be  granted  and  the  shares  are
generally  restricted for a three year period, during which time  the  shares
are forfeitable in the event of voluntary termination.  The compensation cost
is recognized over the three year vesting period based on the market value of
the  shares on the date of grant. No shares had been granted under this  plan
as of September 29, 2000.

Employee Investment Fund

      Certain  key employees of the Company participate in the Raymond  James
Employee  Investment  Fund  I, a limited partnership  which  invests  in  the
merchant banking activities of the Company and other venture capital  limited
partnerships.   The Company makes a non-recourse loan to these employees  for
two  thirds  of  the  purchase price per unit.  The  loan  plus  interest  is
intended to be paid back from the earnings of the fund.

NOTE 13- NET CAPITAL REQUIREMENTS:
- ----------------------------------

      The  broker-dealer  subsidiaries of the  Company  are  subject  to  the
requirements  of  the  Uniform  Net Capital  Rule  (Rule  15c3-1)  under  the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  Raymond James & Associates, Inc. ("RJA"), a
member firm of the New York Stock Exchange, Inc. ("NYSE"), is also subject to
the  rules of the NYSE, whose requirements are substantially the same.   Rule
15c3-1  requires that aggregate indebtedness, as defined, not exceed  fifteen
times  net capital, as defined. Rule 15c3-1 also provides for an "alternative
net  capital  requirement", which RJA has elected.  It requires that  minimum
net  capital, as defined, be equal to the greater of $250,000 or two  percent
of  Aggregate  Debit Items arising form client transactions.   The  NYSE  may
require a member firm to reduce its business if its net capital is less  than
four  percent  of Aggregate Debit Items and may prohibit a member  firm  from
expanding  its  business and declaring cash dividends if its net  capital  is
less  than  five percent of Aggregate Debit Items.  In addition, on  May  28,
1999,  the  Company purchased Roney & Co., a broker-dealer. The  net  capital
position of the Company's clearing broker-dealer subsidiary was as follows:

                                               September 29,     September 24,
                                                   2000              1999
                                               -------------     -------------
Raymond James & Associates, Inc.:               (dollar amounts in thousands)
   (alternative method elected)
  Net capital as a percent of Aggregate
   Debit Items                                          16%               19%
  Net capital                                      $311,917          $218,456
  Less: required net capital                         37,940            22,848
                                                   --------          --------
  Excess net capital                               $273,977          $195,608
                                                   ========          ========

All other broker-dealer subsidiaries were in compliance at September 29, 2000
and September 24, 1999.

NOTE 14 - FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK:
- ------------------------------------------------------------

      In  the  normal  course of business, the Company  purchases  and  sells
securities as either principal or agent on behalf of its clients.  If  either
the client or a counterparty fails to perform, the Company may be required to
discharge the obligations of the nonperforming party.  In such circumstances,
the Company may sustain a loss if the market value of the security or futures
contract is different from the contract value of the transaction.

      The  Company  also  acts as an intermediary between broker-dealers  and
other financial institutions whereby the Company borrows securities from  one
broker-dealer  and  then  lends  them to another.   Securities  borrowed  and
securities loaned are carried at the amounts of cash collateral advanced  and
received  in  connection  with the transactions.  The  Company  measures  the
market  value  of  the  securities  borrowed  and  loaned  against  the  cash
collateral  on  a daily basis.  The market value of securities  borrowed  and
securities  loaned  was $2,045,325,000 and $2,015,589,000,  respectively,  at
September  29,  2000 and $1,242,224,000 and $1,344,366,000, respectively,  at
September 24, 1999.  Additional cash is obtained as necessary to ensure  such
transactions  are  adequately  collateralized.   If  another  party  to   the
transaction  fails  to perform as agreed (for example failure  to  deliver  a
security or failure to pay for a security), the Company may incur a  loss  if
the market value of the security is different from the contract amount of the
transaction.

     The Company has also loaned, to brokers and dealers, securities owned by
clients and others for which it has received cash or other collateral.  If  a
borrowing  institution  or  broker-dealer does not  return  a  security,  the
Company  may be obligated to purchase the security in order to return  it  to
the  owner. In such circumstances, the Company may incur a loss equal to  the
amount   by  which  the  market  value  of  the  security  on  the  date   of
nonperformance  exceeds  the value of the loan from the  institution  or  the
collateral from the broker or dealer.

     The Company has sold securities that it does not currently own, and will
therefore,  be  obligated to purchase such securities at a future  date.  The
Company  has recorded $29.7 million and $33.4 million, at September 29,  2000
and  September 24, 1999, respectively, which represents the market  value  of
the  related securities at such dates.  The Company is subject to loss if the
market  price of those securities not covered by a hedged position  increases
subsequent   to  fiscal  yearend.  The  Company  utilizes  short   government
obligations  and  equity  securities  to  hedge  long  proprietary  inventory
positions.   At  September  29, 2000, the Company  had  $7,968,000  in  short
government  obligations  and  $784,000  in  short  equity  securities   which
represented  hedge  positions.   At  September  24,  1999,  the  Company  had
$24,670,000  in short government obligations and $1,275,000 in  short  equity
securities, which represented hedge positions.

       The  Company  enters  into  security  transactions  involving  forward
settlement.  The Company has recorded transactions with a contract  value  of
$38,099,000 and $61,353,000 and a market value of $38,783,000 and $62,257,000
as  of  September 29, 2000 and September 24, 1999, respectively. Transactions
involving  future settlement give rise to market risk, which  represents  the
potential  loss  that  can be caused by a change in the  market  value  of  a
particular  financial instrument.  The Company's exposure to market  risk  is
determined  by  a  number  of factors, including the  size,  composition  and
diversification  of  positions  held, the absolute  and  relative  levels  of
interest rates, and market volatility.

      The  majority  of  the  Company's transactions, and  consequently,  the
concentration  of  its  credit exposure is with clients,  broker-dealers  and
other   financial  institutions  in  the  United  States.   These  activities
primarily  involve  collateralized arrangements  and  may  result  in  credit
exposure  in  the  event that the counterparty fails to meet its  contractual
obligations.  The Company's exposure to credit risk can be directly  impacted
by   volatile   securities  markets,  which  may  impair   the   ability   of
counterparties to satisfy their contractual obligations.  The  Company  seeks
to  control  its  credit  risk through a variety  of  reporting  and  control
procedures, including establishing credit limits based upon a review  of  the
counterparties' financial condition and credit ratings.  The Company monitors
collateral  levels  on  a  daily  basis for compliance  with  regulatory  and
internal guidelines and requests changes in collateral levels as appropriate.

NOTE 15 - SEGMENT ANALYSIS:
- ---------------------------

  The  Company's reportable segments are:  retail distribution, institutional
distribution,  investment banking, asset management and  other.   The  retail
distribution  segment includes the retail branches of the  Company's  broker-
dealer  subsidiaries  located  throughout the  U.S.  These  branches  provide
securities  brokerage services including the sale of equities, mutual  funds,
fixed   income   products  and  insurance  to  their  retail  clients.    The
institutional  distribution segment includes institutional sales  offices  in
the  U.S. and Europe providing securities brokerage services emphasizing  the
sale  of  U.S.  equities  and  fixed income  products  to  institutions.  The
investment   banking  segment  includes  management  and   participation   in
underwritings  (exclusive  of  sales  credits,  which  are  included  in  the
distribution  segments), mergers and acquisitions, public  finance,  trading,
research and market making.  The asset management segment includes investment
portfolio  management services of  Eagle Asset Management, Inc.,  Awad  Asset
Management  and  RJA's  Asset Management Services division  and  mutual  fund
management  by  Heritage  Asset Management, Inc.   In  the  various  programs
offered  by these entities, clients' funds are professionally managed  either
in  individual  accounts or in mutual funds. RJBank and the trust  companies,
the  results of operations of international joint ventures, stock  loan/stock
borrow  and  earnings  on firm capital are included in the  segment  entitled
"other".

     The  financial results of the Company's segments are the same  as  those
described in the "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies".  Segment  data
includes charges allocating corporate overhead to each segment.  Intersegment
revenues  and charges are eliminated between segments.  The Company evaluates
the  performance  of its segments and allocates resources to  them  based  on
return on investment.

     The  Company  has  not disclosed asset information  by  segment  as  the
information is not produced internally.  All long-lived assets are located in
the U.S.

     The Company's business is predominantly in the U.S., with only 4% of
revenues and 2% of net income coming from international operations.

     Information  concerning operations in these segments of business  is  as
follows:

                                        2000         1999          1998
                                    -----------   ----------    ----------
     Revenue:                              (amounts in thousands)
     Retail distribution            $1,206,775    $  847,783    $  704,598
     Institutional distribution        172,130       158,596       146,590
     Investment banking                 42,848        36,155        57,180
     Asset management                  124,005        95,055        86,221
     Other                             152,836        94,617        88,318
                                    -----------   ----------    ----------
          Total                     $1,698,594    $1,232,206    $1,082,907
                                    ===========   ==========    ==========

     Pre-tax income:
     Retail distribution            $  162,619    $   90,564    $   79,062
     Institutional distribution         13,688        12,782        15,747
     Investment banking                  3,658         3,636        25,405
     Asset management                   29,141        21,603        22,002
     Other                              (4,426)        8,934         8,020
                                    -----------   ----------    ----------
          Total                     $  204,680    $  137,519    $  150,236
                                    ===========   ==========    ==========

NOTE 16 - RELATED PARTIES:
- --------------------------

      A  director and a former employee of the Company each owned 7.5% of the
outstanding  shares  of  common  stock of  RJ  Properties,  Inc.  ("RJP"),  a
subsidiary  of the Company, until August 1999 when the shares were  purchased
by  RJP  for  an adjusted book value totaling $517,000 and notes  payable  of
$200,000.  They will receive payments on the notes as RJP collects on certain
receivables,  which  were excluded from the adjusted book value  calculation.
Such  shares were acquired for nominal consideration in connection  with  the
organization of RJP in 1980.

NOTE 17- ACQUISITION OF RONEY & CO.:
- ------------------------------------

      On  May 28, 1999, the Company purchased Roney from Bank One Corporation
for $71.3 million and the assumption of approximately $10 million in deferred
compensation liabilities.  For consolidated financial statement purposes  the
acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, Roney's results
are  included  in  the consolidated financial statements since  the  date  of
acquisition.  The  aggregate purchase price, which  was  originally  financed
through   available  cash  resources  and  the  Company's  line   of   credit
(subsequently replaced by a three year term note), has been allocated to  the
assets  of Roney based on their respective fair market values. The excess  of
the  purchase price over assets acquired (goodwill) approximated $35  million
and is being amortized over 15 years.

      The  pro  forma unaudited consolidated results of operations as  though
Roney  had been acquired as of the beginning of fiscal 1999 and 1998  are  as
follows:

                               1999             1998
                            ----------       ----------
     Revenues (000's)       $1,349,130       $1,195,153
     Net income (000's)     $   85,831       $   94,257
     Net income per share:
           Basic                 $1.80            $1.96
           Diluted               $1.77            $1.89

NOTE 18 - SUBSEQUENT EVENT:
- ---------------------------

      The  Company  has  entered into an agreement to  acquire  100%  of  the
outstanding shares of Goepel McDermid Inc., a Canadian broker-dealer, for CDN
$112.5  million  plus  the  establishment of CDN $17.5  million  in  deferred
compensation. The CDN $112.5 million purchase price will consist of 1,000,000
shares  of RJF common stock (to be valued at $25.75 per share) and cash,  for
an estimated total purchase price of $75 to $80 million.

      The  transaction,  which is anticipated to close at  the  beginning  of
January  2001, will be accounted for as a purchase.  Accordingly, the Company
will  record  the assets at estimated fair value and record the remainder  of
the  purchase price as goodwill.  The transaction will initially be  financed
by available cash and the Company's line of credit.

EXHIBIT 11
- ----------

                        RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.
                        -----------------------------
                      COMPUTATION OF EARNINGS PER SHARE
                      ---------------------------------
                  (in thousands, except per share amounts)



                                                 Year Ended
                                 -------------------------------------------
                                 September 29,  September 24,  September 25,
                                     2000           1999           1998
                                 -------------  -------------  -------------
Net income                            $125,195        $85,090        $92,704
                                      ========        =======        =======
Weighted average common
 shares outstanding during the
 period (1)                             46,291         47,606         48,160


Additional shares assuming
 exercise of stock options (1)(2)          576            843          1,791
                                      --------        -------        -------
Weighted average diluted common
 shares (1)                             46,867         48,449         49,951
                                      ========        =======        =======

Net income per share - basic (1)      $   2.70        $  1.79        $  1.92
                                      ========        =======        =======

Net income per share - diluted (1)    $   2.67        $  1.76        $  1.86
                                      ========        =======        =======

(1)  Gives effect to the 3-for-2 common stock split paid on April 2, 1998.

(2)  Represents the number of shares of common stock issuable on the exercise
     of  dilutive employee stock options less the number of shares of  common
     stock  which  could  have  been purchased with  the  proceeds  from  the
     exercise  of  such options.  These purchases were assumed to  have  been
     made  at the average market price of the common stock during the period,
     or that part of the period for which the option was outstanding.


EXHIBIT 21
- ----------

                        RAYMOND JAMES FINANCIAL, INC.
                        -----------------------------
                            LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES
                            --------------------

      The  following listing includes the registrant's subsidiaries, which are
included in the consolidated financial statements:

                                                   Place of       Subsidiary or
Name of Company                                 Incorporation   Joint Venture of
- ---------------                                 -------------   ----------------
Raymond James & Associates, Inc. ("RJA")           Florida        Raymond James
                                                                  Financial,
                                                                  Inc. ("RJF")
Awad & Associates, Inc.                            Florida        RJF
Awad Asset Management, Inc.                        Florida        RJF
Eagle Asset Management, Inc.                       Florida        RJF
Gateway Assignor Corporation, Inc.                 Florida        RJF
Geovest Energy, Inc.                               Florida        RJF
Heritage Asset Management, Inc.                    Florida        RJF
Investment Management & Research, Inc.             Florida        RJF
Planning Corporation of America ("PCA")            Florida        RJA
PCAF, Inc.                                         Florida        PCA
Raymond James Bank, FSB                            Florida        RJF
Raymond James Capital, Inc.                        Delaware       RJF
Raymond James Credit Corporation                   Delaware       RJF
RJEIF, Inc.                                        Delaware       RJF
Raymond James Financial Services, Inc.             Florida        RJF
Raymond James International Holdings, Inc.("RJIH") Delaware       RJF
Raymond James Partners, Inc.                       Florida        RJF
Raymond James Trust Company                        Florida        RJF
Raymond James Trust Company West                   Washington     RJF
RJC Partners, Inc.                                 Florida        RJF
RJ Communication, Inc.                             Florida        RJF
Raymond James Tax Credit Funds, Inc.               Florida        RJF
RJ Equities, Inc.                                  Florida        RJF
RJ Equities-2, Inc.                                Florida        RJF
RJ Government Securities, Inc.                     Florida        RJF
RJ Health Properties, Inc.                         Florida        RJF
RJ Leasing, Inc.                                   Florida        RJF
RJ Leasing-2, Inc.                                 Florida        RJF
RJ Medical Investors, Inc.                         Florida        RJF
RJ Mortgage Acceptance Corporation                 Delaware       RJF
RJ Partners, Inc.                                  Florida        RJF
RJ Properties, Inc. ("RJP")                        Florida        RJF
RJ Properties Acquisition Corp.                    Florida        RJP
RJ Realty, Inc.                                    Florida        RJF
RJ Specialist Corp.                                Florida        RJF
RJA Structured Finance, Inc.                       Delaware       RJF
Robert Thomas Securities, Inc.                     Florida        RJF
Value Partners, Inc.                               Florida        RJF
Raymond James Killik, Ltd.                         United Kingdom RJF
Heritage International, Ltd. ("HIL")               Mauritius      RJIH
Raymond James & Associates, Ltd.                   Bermuda        RJIH
Raymond James Dublin, Ltd.                         Ireland        RJIH
Raymond James Financial International, Ltd.        United Kingdom RJIH
Raymond James European Holdings, Inc.("RJEH")      Florida        RJIH
Raymond James South American Holdings,Inc.
 ("RJSAH")                                         Florida        RJIH
Raymond James & Associates Ltd.,                   Bermuda        RJIH
Raymond James Asset Management Int'l., S.A.
 ("RJAMI")                                         France         RJIH
Raymond James Financial International, Ltd.        London         RJIH
ASK-Raymond James Securities India Ltd.            India          HIL
IT Finance                                         France         RJAMI
Park-Raymond James Securities                      Turkey         RJEH
Raymond James Argentina Sociedad De Bolsa, S.A.    Argentina      RJSAH

EXHIBIT 3.2.1
- -------------
                 AMENDED ARTICLE IV SECTION 8 OF THE BY-LAWS
                 -------------------------------------------
XII   RESOLVED, that the Board of Directors hereby approves the amendment  of
Article  IV, Section 8 of the By-laws so that it shall read, in its entirety,
as follows:

     "Section  8.   Notice of all special meetings of the Board of  Directors
     shall be given to each director by two (2) days' service of the same  by
     telecopier transmission, mail, electronic mail or personally."




