
10-K405
ROCKWELL 10-K



 
================================================================================
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997. COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12383
 
                            ------------------------
 
                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
 REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (714) 424-4565 (OFFICE OF
                                 THE SECRETARY)
 
                            ------------------------
 
                         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT
                          TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
                            ------------------------
 
                         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT
                          TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No _
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [  X ]
 
     The aggregate market value of registrant's voting stock held by
non-affiliates of registrant on November 30, 1997 was approximately $9.9
billion.
 
     204,327,733 shares of registrant's Common Stock, par value $1 per share,
were outstanding on November 30, 1997.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Certain information contained in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareowners of registrant to be held on February 4, 1998 is incorporated by
reference into Part III hereof.
================================================================================

 
                                     PART I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.
 
     Rockwell International Corporation (the Company or Rockwell), a Delaware
corporation, is a global electronics company with leadership positions in
automation, avionics and communications and semiconductor systems. The Company
was incorporated in 1996 and is the successor to the former Rockwell
International Corporation as the result of a tax-free reorganization completed
on December 6, 1996 (the Reorganization), pursuant to which the Company divested
its former Aerospace and Defense businesses (the A&D Business) to The Boeing
Company (Boeing). The predecessor corporation was incorporated in 1928. On
September 30, 1997, the Company completed the spin-off of its automotive
component systems business into an independent, separately traded, publicly held
company named Meritor Automotive, Inc. (Meritor). As used herein, the terms the
"Company" or "Rockwell" include subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context
indicates otherwise.
 
     For purposes hereof, whenever reference is made in any Item of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K to information under specific captions in Item 7,
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS (the MD&A), or in Item 8, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
(the Financial Statements), or to information in the Proxy Statement for the
Annual Meeting of Shareowners of the Company to be held on February 4, 1998 (the
1998 Proxy Statement), such information shall be deemed to be incorporated
therein by such reference.
 
     The Company's business segments are engaged in research, development, and
manufacture of electronics products as follows:
 
     Automation--industrial automation equipment and systems, including control
     logic, sensors, human-machine interface devices, motors, power and
     mechanical devices and software products.
 
     Avionics & Communications--avionics products and systems and related
     communications technologies primarily used in commercial and military
     aircraft and defense electronic systems for command, control,
     communications and intelligence.
 
     Semiconductor Systems--system-level semiconductor chipset solutions for
     personal communications electronics markets such as personal computers,
     personal imaging devices, wireless communications products, network access
     devices and digital information and entertainment products, as well as
     electronic commerce products for call center systems and personalized
     electronic commerce applications.
 
     Financial information with respect to the Company's business segments,
including their contributions to sales and operating earnings and their
identifiable assets for the three years ended September 30, 1997, is contained
under the caption RESULTS OF OPERATIONS in the MD&A on pages 12-14 hereof, and
in Note 19 of the NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements on
pages 34-36 hereof.
 
PRODUCTS
 
     Automation.  The Company's automation products include programmable
controllers, human-machine interface devices, communications networks,
programming and application software, AC/DC drives and drive systems, sensing
and motion control devices, machine vision, computer numeric control systems,
data acquisition products, standard and engineered motors, mechanical power
transmission equipment and global support services. The Company is a leader in
plant floor automation, focusing on helping customers control processes and
become more competitive through increased flexibility, improved productivity and
information flow.
 
     Avionics & Communications.  Rockwell's Avionics & Communications businesses
provide electronic equipment for flight control, cockpit display, navigation,
voice and data communication, cockpit management, radar, global positioning and
other systems for airlines, corporate aircraft, general aviation, government and
military applications, command, control and communications devices and systems
and products and systems for the land transportation market (including
electronic brake systems and integrated cab electronics).
 
     Semiconductor Systems.  The Company's Semiconductor Systems business
produces integrated circuits for customers in the PC platform, wireless
communications, office automation, network access and digital information and
entertainment industries, as well as transaction call processing systems for
customers requiring electronic commerce applications. This business is making
significant investments in mixed-signal
 

 
computing semiconductor process, device design and communications algorithm core
technologies. Applying these core technologies, this business is expanding into
related personal communications electronics markets, such as entering the market
for wireless communications, by supplying chipsets for cellular and cordless
phones, wireless modem communications devices for laptop computers and modules
for Global Positioning Systems (GPS) receivers.
 
COMPETITIVE POSTURE
 
     The Company competes with many manufacturers which, depending on the
product involved, range from large diversified enterprises, comparable to or
greater than the Company in scope and resources, to smaller companies
specializing in particular products. Factors which affect the Company's
competitive posture are its research and development efforts, the quality of its
products and services and its marketing and pricing strategies.
 
     The Company's products are sold by its own sales force and through
distributors and agents.
 
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
 
     Approximately 7 percent of the Company's sales is derived from United
States government contracts, almost entirely from its Avionics & Communications
business. The Avionics & Communications business supplies certain military
equipment to the United States government. In addition to normal business risks,
companies engaged in supplying military equipment to the United States
government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on Congressional
appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental
procurement legislation and regulations and other policies which may reflect
military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling,
complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, constant
necessity for design improvements, intense competition for available United
States government business necessitating increases in time and investment for
design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when
bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work and other
factors characteristic of the industry. Changes are customary over the life of
United States government contracts, particularly development contracts, and
generally result in adjustments of contract prices.
 
     Moreover, various claims (whether based on United States government or
Company audits and investigations or otherwise) have been or may be instituted
or asserted against the Company related to its United States government contract
work, including claims based on business practices and cost classifications.
Although such claims are usually resolved by detailed fact-finding and
negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved, civil or criminal
legal or administrative proceedings may ensue. Depending on the circumstances
and the outcome, such proceedings could result in fines, the cancellation of or
suspension of payments under one or more United States government contracts,
suspension or debarment proceedings affecting potential further business with
the United States government, or alteration of the Company's procedures relating
to the performance or obtaining of United States government contracts.
Management of the Company believes there are no claims, audits or investigations
currently pending which will have a material adverse effect on either the
Company's business or its financial condition.
 
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS
 
     The Company regularly considers the acquisition or development of new
businesses and reviews the prospects of its existing businesses to determine
whether any should be modified, sold or otherwise discontinued. As a result of
the Reorganization and the spin-off of Meritor, the Company has virtually no
debt, which enhances its ability to make acquisitions.
 
     The Company acquired several businesses in fiscal 1997, at a net cost of
$115 million, including $53 million ($42 million after-tax) related to purchased
research and development.
 

 
     On November 4, 1997, the Company announced that it had entered into an
agreement to acquire the Hughes-Avicom interactive in-flight entertainment
business of Hughes Electronics Corporation. The acquisition is expected to be
completed by the end of December 1997.
 
     In October 1996, the Company sold its Graphic Systems business to an
affiliate of Stonington Partners, Inc. for approximately $600 million. On
December 6, 1996, the Company completed the divestiture of the A&D Business to
Boeing. On September 30, 1997, the Company completed the spin-off of Meritor.
The net income (loss) from operations of the Graphic Systems business, the A&D
Business and the Automotive Business (which includes Meritor and a discontinued
product line) has been presented on the Company's consolidated statement of
income as income from discontinued operations for all periods. The assets and
liabilities of these discontinued businesses as of September 30, 1996 have been
classified on the Company's consolidated balance sheet as net assets
(liabilities) of discontinued operations.
 
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
 
     The Company conducts operations in the United States and in 40 foreign
countries. Selected financial information by major geographic area for the three
years ended September 30, 1997 is contained in Note 19 of the NOTES TO FINANCIAL
STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements.
 
     The Company's principal markets outside the United States are in Australia,
Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, South Korea, the
Netherlands, Southeast Asia, Spain, Switzerland and the United Kingdom. In
addition to normal business risks, operations outside the United States are
subject to other risks including, among other factors, the political, economic
and social environments, governmental laws and regulations, and currency
revaluations and fluctuations.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's Science Center conducts a basic research program to support
the strategies of the operating businesses and continues to provide research
services to Boeing and Meritor at agreed rates. At October 1, 1997, the Company
employed approximately 6,700 professional engineers and scientists and 2,900
supporting technical personnel.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     At October 1, 1997, the Company had approximately 45,000 employees, of whom
approximately 9,100 were employed outside the United States.
 
RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
 
     Raw materials essential to the conduct of each of the Company's business
segments generally are available at competitive prices. Many items of equipment
and components used in the production of the Company's products are purchased
from others. In addition, the Avionics & Communications business generally
subcontracts major portions of systems. Although the Company has a broad base of
suppliers and subcontractors, it is dependent upon the ability of its suppliers
and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery
schedules.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS
 
     Information with respect to the effect on the Company and its manufacturing
operations of compliance with environmental protection requirements and
resolution of environmental claims is contained under the caption ENVIRONMENTAL
MATTERS in the MD&A on page 15 hereof. See also Item 3, LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, on
pages 6-8 hereof.
 
PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS
 
     Numerous patents and patent applications are owned or licensed by the
Company and utilized in its activities and manufacturing operations. Various
claims of patent infringement have been made against the
 

 
Company. Management believes that none of these claims will have a material
adverse effect on the consolidated financial statements of the Company. See Item
3, LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, on pages 6-8 hereof. While in the aggregate the Company's
patents and licenses are considered important in the operation of its business,
management does not consider them of such importance that loss or termination of
any one of them would materially affect the Company's business.
 
     The Company's name, its registered trademarks "Rockwell" and "Rockwell
International" and its symbol are important to each of its business segments. In
addition, the Company owns a large number of other important trademarks
applicable to only certain of its products, such as "Collins" for navigation and
communication equipment, "Allen-Bradley" and "A-B" for electronic controls and
systems for industrial automation and "Reliance Electric" for electric motors
and mechanical power transmission products.
 
SEASONALITY
 
     None of the Company's business segments is seasonal.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.
 
     At October 1, 1997, the Company operated 142 plants and research and
development facilities throughout the United States and in Europe, Brazil,
Canada, India, Mexico, Australia and the Far East. It also had approximately 387
sales offices, warehouses and service centers. These facilities had an aggregate
floor space of approximately 22.8 million square feet. Of this floor space,
approximately 68.9% was owned by the Company and approximately 31.1% was leased.
At October 1, 1997, the Company had approximately 437,000 square feet of floor
space that were not in use, most of which was in owned facilities. There are no
major encumbrances (other than financing arrangements which in the aggregate are
not material) on any of the Company's plants or equipment. In the opinion of
management, the Company's properties have been well maintained, are in sound
operating condition and contain all equipment and facilities necessary to
operate at present levels. A summary of floor space of these facilities at
September 30, 1997 is as follows:
 

 

 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     Rocky Flats Plant.  On January 30, 1990, a civil action was brought in the
United States District Court for the District of Colorado against the Company
and another former operator of the Rocky Flats Plant (the Plant), Golden,
Colorado, operated from 1975 through December 31, 1989 by the Company for the
Department of Energy (DOE). The action alleges the improper production, handling
and disposal of radioactive and other hazardous substances, constituting, among
other things, violations of various environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations, and misrepresentation and concealment of the facts relating
thereto. The plaintiffs, who purportedly represent two classes, sought
compensatory damages of $250 million for diminution in value of real estate and
other economic loss; the creation of a fund of $150 million to finance medical
monitoring and surveillance services; exemplary damages of $300 million; CERCLA
response costs in an undetermined amount; attorneys' fees; an injunction; and
other proper relief. On February 13, 1991, the court granted certain of the
motions of the defendants to dismiss the case. The plaintiffs subsequently filed
a new complaint, and on November 26, 1991, the court granted in part a renewed
motion to dismiss. The remaining portion of the case is pending before the
court. On October 8, 1993, the court certified separate medical monitoring and
property value classes. Effective August 1, 1996, the DOE assumed control of the
defense of the contractor defendants, including the Company, in the action.
Beginning on that date, the costs of the Company's defense, which had previously
been reimbursed to the Company by the DOE, have been and are being paid directly
by the DOE. The Company believes that it is entitled under applicable law and
its contract with the DOE to be indemnified for all costs and any liability
associated with this action.
 
     On November 13, 1990, the Company was served with a summons and complaint
in another civil action, which the Company believes is totally without merit,
brought against the Company in the same court by James Stone, claiming to act in
the name of the United States, alleging violations of the U.S. False Claims Act
in connection with the Company's operation of the Plant (and seeking treble
damages and forfeitures) as well as a personal cause of action for alleged
wrongful termination of employment, seeking reinstatement with back pay and
other unspecified damages. On August 8, 1991, the court dismissed the personal
cause of action. On February 2, 1994, the court denied Rockwell's motion to
dismiss the complaint for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, and discovery is
proceeding. On December 6, 1995, the DOE notified the Company that it would no
longer reimburse costs incurred by the Company in defense of the action. On
November 19, 1996, the court granted the Department of Justice leave to
intervene in the case on the government's behalf. The Company is defending the
action and believes it is entitled under applicable law and its contract with
the DOE to be indemnified for all costs and any liability associated with this
action.
 
     On January 8, 1991, the Company filed suit in the United States Claims
Court against the DOE, seeking recovery of $6.5 million of award fees to which
the Company alleges it is entitled under the terms of its contract with the DOE
for management and operation of the Plant during the period October 1, 1988
through September 30, 1989. On July 17, 1996, the government filed an amended
answer and counterclaim against the Company alleging violations of the U.S.
False Claims Act previously asserted in the civil action described in the
preceding paragraph. On March 20, 1997, the court stayed the case pending
disposition of the civil action described in the preceding paragraph. The
Company believes the government's counterclaim is without merit, and believes it
is entitled under applicable law and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified
for all costs and any liability associated with the counterclaim.
 
     Hanford Nuclear Reservation. On August 6, 1990 and August 9, 1990, civil
actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Washington against the Company and the present and other former operators of
the DOE's Hanford Nuclear Reservation (Hanford), Hanford, Washington. The
Company operated part of Hanford for the DOE from 1977 through June 1987. Both
actions purport to be brought on behalf of various classes of persons and
numerous individual plaintiffs who resided, worked, owned or leased real
property, or operated businesses, at or near Hanford or downwind or downriver
from Hanford, at any time since 1944. The actions allege the improper handling
and disposal of radioactive and other hazardous substances and assert various
statutory and common law claims. The relief sought includes unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries and for economic losses,
and various injunctive and other equitable relief.
 

 
     Other cases asserting similar claims (the follow-on claims) on behalf of
the same and similarly situated individuals and groups have been filed from time
to time since August 1990, and may continue to be filed from time to time in the
future. These actions and the follow-on claims have been (and any additional
follow-on claims that may be filed are expected to be) consolidated in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington under the
name In re Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation. Because the claims and
classes of claimants included in the actions described in the preceding
paragraph are so broadly defined, the follow-on claims filed as of December 5,
1997 have not altered, and possible future follow-on claims are not expected to
alter, in any material respect the scope of the litigation.
 
     Effective October 1, 1994, the DOE assumed control of the defense of
certain of the contractor defendants (including the Company) in the In re
Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation. Beginning on that date, the costs of the
Company's defense, which had previously been reimbursed to the Company by the
DOE, have been and are being paid directly by the DOE. The Company believes it
is entitled under applicable law and its contracts with the DOE to be
indemnified for all costs and any liability associated with these actions.
 
     Celeritas.  On September 27, 1995, Celeritas Technologies, Ltd., filed a
suit against the Company in the U.S. District Court, Central District of
California, for patent infringement, misappropriation of trade secrets and
breach of contract relating to cellular telephone data transmission technology
utilized in certain modem products produced by Rockwell Semiconductor Systems in
1995 and 1996. The court entered judgment against the Company on January 27,
1997. On May 5, 1997, the court granted in part and denied in part post-trial
motions by the Company for judgment notwithstanding the verdict or,
alternatively, a new trial. The court vacated its prior damage award of $115
million and, on July 1, 1997, entered a revised judgment reducing the damages
award to $57 million plus attorney's fees. The Company believes that the
judgment is in error and filed a notice of appeal on July 25, 1997.
 
     Russellville.  On June 24, 1996, judgment was entered against the Company
in a civil action in the Circuit Court of Logan County, Kentucky on a jury
verdict awarding $8 million in compensatory and $210 million in punitive damages
for property damage. The action had been brought August 12, 1993 by owners of
flood plain real property near Russellville, Kentucky allegedly damaged by
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) discharged from a plant owned and operated by
the Company's Measurement & Flow Control Division prior to its divestiture in
March 1989. The Company believes that the verdict is unsupported by the evidence
and, on January 22, 1997, filed a notice of appeal. Since the Company believes
it is not reasonably possible that the punitive damages will be sustained on
appeal, the Company has not accrued any reserve for those damages.
 
     On March 24, 1997, the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky in
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet
vs. Rockwell, an action filed in 1986 seeking remediation of PCB contamination
resulting from unpermitted discharges of PCBs from the Company's former
Russellville, Kentucky plant, entered judgment establishing PCB cleanup levels
for the former plant site and certain offsite property and ordering additional
characterization of possible contamination in the Mud River and its floodplain.
On June 30, 1997, the Company filed a notice of appeal, but is nevertheless
proceeding with remediation and characterization efforts consistent with the
Court's ruling while simultaneously appealing that ruling. The Court deferred
any decision on the imposition of fines or penalties pending implementation of
an appropriate remediation program.
 
     Other.  In July 1995, a federal grand jury impaneled by the United States
District Court for the Central District of California began an investigation
into a July 1994 explosion at the Santa Susana Field Laboratory operated by the
Company's former Rocketdyne Division in which two scientists were killed and a
technician was injured. On April 11, 1996, pursuant to an agreement between the
Company and the United States Attorney for the Central District of California,
the Company entered a plea of guilty to two counts of unpermitted disposal of
hazardous waste and one count of unpermitted storage of hazardous waste, all of
which are felony violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and
paid a fine of $6,500,000 to settle potential federal criminal claims arising
out of the federal government's investigation. Investigation under other U.S.
and California laws continues. While the Company has no information on the
status of these investigations, further civil sanctions could be imposed on the
current owner of the facility, Boeing North American, Inc. (BNA), for which the
Company would be required to indemnify BNA.
 

 
     On December 27, 1995, one shareowner, purporting to act derivatively on
behalf of the Company, commenced an action in the Superior Court of the State of
California for the County of Orange against 13 of the Company's directors, and
the Company as a nominal defendant, alleging principally breaches of fiduciary
duties in failing properly to manage the business of the Company in a manner to
prevent certain violations of applicable federal and state laws, including
environmental laws, by certain named and unnamed employees or agents of the
Company. The action seeks declaratory judgment, damages suffered by the Company
as a result of the alleged conduct, plaintiffs' costs and expenses and other
proper relief.
 
     On February 27, 1996, a similar suit, making similar allegations and
seeking similar relief, was filed against the Company and the same directors,
plus Don H. Davis, Jr., by two other shareowners in the Superior Court of the
State of California for the County of Los Angeles. On August 7, 1996, the Los
Angeles action was dismissed voluntarily by the plaintiffs. On August 22, 1996,
a First Amended Consolidated Complaint was filed in the Orange County action,
adding the plaintiffs from the dismissed Los Angeles County suit as party
plaintiffs to the Orange County suit. A Second Amended Consolidated Complaint
was filed in the Orange County action on November 27, 1996. Subsequently, on
February 4, 1997, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the action with respect to
two of the director-defendants, Judith L. Estrin and William H. Gray, III. The
Company and the director-defendants are defending the consolidated action, and
the parties are proceeding with discovery.
 
     Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be
instituted or asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its
business, including those pertaining to product liability, environmental, safety
and health, intellectual property, employment and government contract matters.
Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some
lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company,
management believes the disposition of matters which are pending or asserted
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1997.
 
ITEM 4a.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.
 
     The name, age, positions and offices held with the Company and principal
occupations and employment during the past five years of each of the executive
officers of the Company as of December 5, 1997 are as follows:
 

 

 

 
     There are no family relationships, as defined, between any of the above
executive officers. No officer of the Company was selected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding between him and any person other than the Company.
All executive officers are elected annually.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     The principal market on which the Company's Common Stock, par value $1 per
share, is traded is the New York Stock Exchange. The Company's Common Stock is
also traded on the Pacific and London Stock Exchanges. On November 30, 1997,
there were 62,330 shareowners of record of the Company's Common Stock.
 
     The following table sets forth the high and low trading price of the
Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange--Composite Transactions
reporting system during each quarter of the Company's fiscal years ended
September 30, 1997 and 1996:
 

 
     On December 6, 1996, each Rockwell shareowner received .042 share
(presently .084 share) of Boeing common stock for each share of Rockwell Common
Stock or Class A Common Stock, par value $1 per share, owned. At September 30,
1997, such fractional Boeing share had a value of $4.57.
 
     Since December 9, 1996, the Company has repurchased, through open-market
purchases, 13.4 million shares of Common Stock. Shares repurchased under the
Company's stock repurchase program are to be used for employee stock option and
other benefit and compensation plans and other corporate purposes.
 
     The following table sets forth the aggregate quarterly cash dividends per
common share (comprised of the Common Stock and, until February 23, 1997, the
date of its automatic conversion to Common Stock, Class A Common Stock) during
each of the Company's five fiscal years ended September 30, 1997:
 

 
- ---------
 
(1) This amount does not include dividends at the rate of $0.04 per annum earned
    on each .042 share (.084 share after June 6, 1997) of Boeing common stock
    received in the Reorganization for each Rockwell share. On September 30,
    1997, each Rockwell shareowner also received one share of Meritor common
    stock for each three shares of Rockwell Common Stock owned.
 
     On February 5, 1997, the Company issued 400 shares of Common Stock to each
of the non-employee directors of the Company who continued in office following
the annual meeting held on that date as annual grants pursuant to the terms of
the Company's Directors Stock Plan. On May 7, 1997, the Company issued 300
shares of Common Stock to George L. Argyros in connection with his election to
the board of directors as a grant pursuant to the terms of the Directors Stock
Plan. On January 2, April 1 and July 1, 1997, the Company issued 186, 170 and
190 restricted shares of Common Stock, respectively, to John D. Nichols, a
director of the Company; these shares were issued in payment for retainer fees
otherwise payable in cash and deferred by Mr. Nichols pursuant to the terms of
the Directors Stock Plan. The issuance of all shares described above was exempt
from the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to
Section 4(2) thereof.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The following sets forth selected consolidated financial data in respect of
the Company's continuing operations. The selected consolidated financial data
have been derived from the consolidated financial
 

 
statements of the Company. The data should be read in conjunction with the MD&A
and the Financial Statements. The income statement data for the five years ended
September 30, 1997 and the related balance sheet data have been derived from the
audited consolidated financial statements of the Company.
 

 
- ---------
 
(1) Includes special charges of $42 million, or 20 cents per share, in 1997 and
    $121 million, or 56 cents per share, in 1996 relating to the write-off of
    purchased research and development in connection with acquisitions.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
OVERVIEW
 
     With the divestiture of its Automotive, Aerospace & Defense and Graphic
Systems businesses, Rockwell today is a global market leader in three
electronics businesses, serving 17 discrete markets and deriving over 35 percent
of revenues from international business. Over the past five years, sales of
these businesses have grown at an average annual rate of 21 percent and
operating earnings, before purchased research and development and a 1996
restructuring charge, have increased at an average annual rate of 23 percent.
 
     Rockwell's largest business, Automation, with 58 percent of total Company
sales, has grown at a 27 percent average annual rate over the past five years.
Excluding the impact of an acquisition-related charge, operating margins for
1997 of 13 percent are near an all-time high. Automation is the number one
supplier of industrial automation systems in North America and its goal is to be
number one worldwide. Future sales growth will be driven by new products,
international expansion and continued development of the Company's market
channel partners. Nearly 20 percent of Automation's 1998 sales will be from
products developed in the last two years.
 
     The Company's Avionics & Communications business generated 22 percent of
total Company sales in 1997 and is first or second in each of its served
markets. Those markets are commercial air transport, general aviation and
government avionics, where Rockwell has market-leading products such as GPS,
data links and liquid crystal displays. Avionics & Communications expects that
strong sales growth in 1998 will be driven by increased production of new
commercial aircraft and retrofit of existing aircraft. In addition, Avionics &
Communications continues to pursue operating efficiencies to gain competitive
cost advantages and provide world-class customer service. International business
is expected to comprise almost 40 percent of Avionics & Communications sales in
1998 compared to 35 percent in 1997. In November 1997, the Company entered into
an agreement to acquire a division of Hughes Electronics Corporation,
Hughes-Avicom International, Inc., a leading supplier of airborne interactive
in-flight entertainment systems. The acquisition is expected to be completed by
December 1997.
 

 
     Semiconductor Systems, which generated 20 percent of total Company sales in
1997, experienced explosive revenue growth through fiscal 1996. While
Semiconductor Systems faced significant competition in its personal computer
(PC) modem chipset business in 1997, and expects that trend to continue in 1998,
strategic acquisitions and major investments in new product development during
the past two years have enabled the business to lessen its dependence on PC
modems. As a result, Semiconductor Systems is now capitalizing on its strong
Digital Signal Processing (DSP) capability in non-modem product lines, including
wireless communications, personal imaging, digital infotainment and wide and
local area network access. The business also has a leadership position in the
emerging market for personalized electronic commerce products and services.
These non-modem businesses are planned to almost double sales in 1998 and are
expected to approach half of total Semiconductor Systems sales by the end of
1998. The Company also expects market growth to accelerate in its leadership PC
modem chipset business once a worldwide standard for the new 56 Kbps modem is
established in 1998.
 
     Assuming generally favorable economic conditions, management expects 1998
earnings per share growth, before acquisition-related special charges, to be in
the high single-digit range from the $2.94 per share reported in 1997. Sales and
earnings at Automation and Avionics & Communications should be higher, but
Semiconductor Systems earnings will likely be lower due to continued uncertainty
in unit volumes and lower pricing in its modem business in 1998. Management
expects stronger performance in the second half of 1998 as ongoing major
investments in Semiconductor Systems begin paying off. The Company expects to
return to its long-term average earnings per share growth goal of 15 percent in
1999.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
1997 Compared to 1996
 
     Sales increased 7 percent in 1997 to $7.8 billion from $7.2 billion in 1996
due to strong global demand and increased market share penetration at Automation
and Avionics & Communications. The composition of sales was as follows (in
billions):
 

 
     Earnings per share from continuing operations increased 12 percent in 1997
to $2.94 per share from $2.63 per share in 1996, before acquisition-related
special charges in both years. The related income from continuing operations for
1997 increased to $628 million over comparable income of $572 million in 1996.
 
     The special charges in 1997 were write-offs of purchased research and
development of $23 million after-tax, or 11 cents per share, in the fourth
quarter related to the completion of the acquisition of an Automation software
business and $19 million after-tax, or nine cents per share, in the third
quarter in connection with a Semiconductor Systems acquisition. The special
charge in the fourth quarter of 1996 consisted of the write-off of purchased
research and development of $121 million after-tax, or 56 cents per share,
related to a Semiconductor Systems acquisition. Including these special charges,
income from continuing operations for 1997 was $586 million, or $2.74 per share,
compared with 1996 income from continuing operations of $451 million, or $2.07
per share.
 
     In 1996, the Company also recorded a $47 million after-tax restructuring
charge related to a decision to exit several non-strategic product lines and
costs associated with staff reductions in several businesses. This charge was
offset by a favorable settlement of prior years' income tax claims of $65
million.
 
     Automation achieved an 11 percent increase in operating earnings in 1997,
capitalizing on strong worldwide markets and continuing cost containment
initiatives. Operating earnings, before an acquisition-related special charge in
1997 and a restructuring charge in 1996, were $598 million in 1997 compared to
 

 
$537 million in 1996. Including these charges, Automation earnings totaled $575
million in 1997 compared to 1996 earnings of $526 million.
 
     Avionics & Communications had outstanding results in 1997 with sales
increasing 15 percent to $1.7 billion from $1.5 billion in 1996 primarily due to
improved commercial air transport markets. Operating earnings for 1997 were a
record $253 million, up 52 percent from comparable 1996 operating earnings
(before a restructuring charge) of $166 million due to the higher sales volume
and the benefits from the 1996 restructuring actions. Avionics & Communications
1996 earnings totaled $116 million, including the restructuring charge.
 
     Semiconductor Systems operating earnings, before acquisition-related
charges in both 1997 and 1996, were 30 percent lower on sales of $1.6 billion in
both years. Operating margins declined to 15 percent in 1997 from 21 percent in
1996, due primarily to the highly competitive transition to the business' new
high-speed K56flex personal computer modem, which has accelerated price
reductions, particularly on the older V.34 modem. Semiconductor Systems
earnings, including the write-off of purchased research and development in both
years, totaled $201 million in 1997 compared to $209 million for 1996.
Semiconductor Systems operates in a volatile industry, characterized by rapid
technological advances and constantly changing customer demand patterns.
Participation in this industry requires significant investments in research and
development, frequent new product introductions and enhancements, and aggressive
pricing practices. Future sales and earnings of this business are dependent on
the continued successful development of advanced technologies and timely
introduction of new products.
 
Continuing Operations
 
Sales and Earnings by Business Segment
 

 
In 1997, purchased research and development of $30 million and $23 million
relates to the acquisitions of a Semiconductor Systems business and the
remaining interest in an Automation software business, respectively. In 1996,
purchased research and development relates to the acquisition of a Semiconductor
Systems business. The restructuring charge in 1996 relates to the business
segments as follows (in millions): Automation, $11;
 

 
Avionics & Communications, $50; and Corporate, $15. The divested business is the
Semiconductor Systems Local Area Networking product line.
 
1996 Compared to 1995
 
     Sales for 1996 increased nearly $1.3 billion, or 22 percent from 1995.
Semiconductor Systems achieved an 82 percent increase in sales due to strong
customer demand for its V.34 personal computer modem chipsets. Automation sales
were also up due to strong worldwide markets and the inclusion of Reliance
Electric Company (Reliance) sales for the full year compared to nine months for
1995.
 
     Income from continuing operations, before a $121 million, or 56 cents per
share, special charge, was $572 million, or $2.63 per share, a 55 percent
increase over 1995's comparable income of $368 million, or $1.69 per share.
 
     Automation reported a 16 percent sales increase over 1995. Although growth
in Automation's served markets continued in 1996, the rate of growth in this
industry slowed from 1995's record levels. Automation's 1996 earnings, before a
1996 restructuring charge, increased 12 percent over 1995 due to higher sales
and improved profit margins. Including the restructuring charge, Automation's
1996 earnings were $526 million.
 
     Avionics & Communications 1996 sales were up slightly from 1995 while
earnings, before a 1996 restructuring charge, were down 9 percent. Record sales
and earnings by the business' General Aviation division were more than offset by
a charge resulting from the bankruptcy of Fokker N.V. and higher commercial air
transport research and development expenditures. Including the restructuring
charge, Avionics & Communications 1996 earnings totaled $116 million.
 
     Semiconductor Systems earnings, before an acquisition-related special
charge, increased three-fold in 1996 due to strong demand for its V.34 personal
computer modem chipsets. For the year, Semiconductor Systems achieved an
excellent 21 percent return on sales compared to 13 percent in 1995.
Semiconductor Systems 1996 earnings, including the acquisition-related charge,
totaled $209 million.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     The Company's 1997 effective income tax rate decreased to 36.5 percent,
from 38.2 percent in 1996, due to reduced foreign income taxes and the
utilization of previously unrecognized tax credit carryforwards. Management
believes the effective income tax rate will continue to benefit from ongoing tax
planning initiatives.
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     Discontinued operations consist of the Automotive Business, the A&D
Business and the Graphic Systems business. Income from discontinued operations
for 1997 includes a charge of $57 million ($48 million after-tax) for
transaction and separation-related costs incurred in connection with the
spin-off of Meritor.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
     Rockwell's financial condition is a major strength which provides
substantial flexibility for enhancing shareowner value. Cash provided by
operating activities totaled $766 million in 1997 compared to $979 million in
1996. With virtually no debt, the Company is well positioned for further
investments in new product development and acquisitions to bolster the product
and geographic positions of its global businesses. The Company recently
completed the $1 billion stock repurchase program announced at the time of the
Reorganization, and the Board of Directors has approved an additional $500
million repurchase program. Future stock repurchases are expected to be funded
by cash generated by operating activities and commercial paper borrowings.
 
     A major use of cash in 1997 was for continuing investment in research and
new product development, which totaled $661 million, up 28 percent from $518
million in 1996. New product investments at Semiconductor Systems represented
almost half of the total, with increased investments in new product lines
 

 
such as wireless communications, digital infotainment and wide and local area
network access. The Company plans to continue approximately this level of
investment in new products in 1998.
 
     The Company also invested $683 million in capital expenditures for
facilities and equipment to enhance the growth opportunities of its businesses,
obtain operating efficiencies and improve quality. The 1998 capital investment
plan is approximately $700 million.
 
     In July 1996, Semiconductor Systems announced that, due to current and
forecasted favorable pricing in the worldwide semiconductor silicon wafer
fabrication market, it had delayed production start-up of a facility under
construction in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Based on current market demand and
favorable wafer pricing, management is uncertain as to when wafer production at
this facility will commence.
 
     Another use of the Company's cash is the payment of dividends to
shareowners. Dividend payments in 1997 of $1.16 per share totaled $248 million,
or 39 percent of net income. Upon the spin-off of Meritor, the annual $1.16 per
share dividend was apportioned at $1.02 for Rockwell and $0.14 for Meritor. In
November 1997, the Rockwell Board of Directors declared a $0.255 per share
regular quarterly dividend ($1.02 per share annual rate) payable in December
1997.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS
 
     Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of
substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes, and other
activities affecting the environment have had and will continue to have an
impact on the manufacturing operations of the Company. Thus far, compliance with
environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims have been
accomplished without material effect on the Company's liquidity and capital
resources, competitive position, or financial statements.
 
     The Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party at 29
Superfund sites, excluding sites as to which the Company's records disclose no
involvement or as to which the Company's potential liability has been finally
determined. Management estimates the total reasonably possible costs the Company
could incur for the remediation of Superfund sites at September 30, 1997 to be
about $18 million, of which $14 million has been accrued.
 
     Various other lawsuits, claims, and proceedings have been asserted against
the Company alleging violations of federal, state and local environmental
protection requirements, or seeking remediation of alleged environmental
impairments, principally at previously disposed of properties. During 1997, the
Company recorded a $20 million charge for additional environmental costs
expected to be incurred at a previously owned facility. As of September 30,
1997, management has estimated the total reasonably possible costs the Company
could incur for these matters to be about $125 million. The Company has recorded
environmental accruals for these matters of $104 million, of which $37 million
relate to liabilities assumed in connection with the Reliance acquisition.
 
     A major portion of the $37 million accrual for Reliance's environmental
obligations is recoverable from Exxon Corporation (Exxon), based on an agreement
between Exxon and Reliance whereby Exxon agreed to pay substantially all costs
related to certain environmental matters. An offsetting $15 million receivable
from Exxon was recorded at September 30, 1997. The Company believes Reliance is
entitled to indemnification from Exxon for an additional $19 million of costs,
but a receivable has not been recorded since Exxon is disputing its
indemnification obligation.
 
     Based on its assessment, management believes that the Company's
expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation necessary to
comply with present regulations governing environmental protection and other
expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and capital resources, competitive
position or financial statements. Management cannot assess the possible effect
of compliance with future requirements.
 

 
YEAR 2000
 
     The Company has developed plans to address issues related to the impact on
its computer systems of the year 2000. Financial and operational systems have
been assessed and plans have been developed to address systems modification
requirements. The financial impact of making the required systems changes is not
expected to be material to the Company's consolidated financial position,
results of operations or cash flows.
 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     The Company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts to
protect itself from adverse currency rate fluctuations on foreign currency
commitments entered into in the ordinary course of business. These commitments
are generally for terms of less than one year. The foreign currency forward
exchange contracts are executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in
currencies of major industrial countries. The gains and losses relating to these
foreign currency forward exchange contracts are deferred and included in the
measurement of the foreign currency transaction subject to the hedge. The
Company believes that any gain or loss incurred on foreign currency forward
exchange contracts is offset by the effects of currency movements on the
respective underlying hedged transactions.
 
     Based on the Company's overall currency rate exposure at September 30,
1997, a 10% change in currency rates would not have had a material effect on the
financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.
 
     See Note 11 of the NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial
Statements on page 27 hereof.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
     This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements relating to future
results of the Company (including certain projections and business trends) that
are "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as
a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to
changes in political and economic conditions; domestic and foreign government
spending, budgetary and trade policies; demand for and market acceptance of new
and existing products; successful development of advanced technologies; and
competitive product and pricing pressures, as well as other risks and
uncertainties, including but not limited to those described above in the
discussion of the Semiconductor Systems business under Results of Operations,
1997 Compared to 1996, on pages 12-14 hereof and those detailed from time to
time in the filings of the Company with the Securities and Exchange Commission.
 

 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
See notes to financial statements.
 

 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
See notes to financial statements.
 

 
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
See notes to financial statements.
 

 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
See notes to financial statements.
 

 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
See notes to financial statements.
 

 
                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION
 
     Rockwell International Corporation (the Company or Rockwell) is engaged in
research, development and manufacture of electronics products, with global
leadership positions in the automation, avionics and communications and
semiconductor systems markets. The Company was incorporated in 1996 and is the
successor to the former Rockwell International Corporation as a result of a
tax-free reorganization completed on December 6, 1996 (the Reorganization).
Pursuant to the Reorganization, the Company merged its former Aerospace &
Defense businesses (the A&D Business) with a subsidiary of The Boeing Company
(Boeing) in a transaction valued at approximately $3.2 billion, including the
assumption by Boeing of $2.3 billion of liabilities of Rockwell, principally
debt, and the issuance of $0.9 billion of Boeing stock to Rockwell shareowners
in exchange for their interest in the A&D Business.
 
     On September 30, 1997 the Company completed the spin-off of its automotive
component systems businesses into an independent, separately traded, publicly
held company by distributing all of the issued and outstanding shares of Meritor
Automotive, Inc. (Meritor) to the Company's shareowners on the basis of one
share of Meritor Common Stock for every three shares of Company Common Stock
owned. In connection with the spin-off, Meritor made a special payment of $445
million to the Company.
 
     Except as indicated, amounts reflected in the financial statements or
disclosed in the notes to financial statements relate to the Company's
continuing operations and prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform
with the current presentation. See Note 3 for a discussion of the Company's
discontinued operations.
 
2. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  Consolidation
 
     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company
and those majority-owned subsidiaries in which the Company has control. All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in
consolidation.
 
  Use of Estimates
 
     The financial statements have been prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles which require management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements. Actual
results could differ from those estimates.
 
  Inventories
 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (using LIFO, FIFO, or average
methods) or market (determined on the basis of estimated realizable values).
 
  Property
 
     Property is stated at cost. Depreciation of property is provided based on
estimated useful lives generally using accelerated and straight-line methods.
Significant renewals and betterments are capitalized and replaced units are
written off. Maintenance and repairs, as well as renewals of minor amount, are
charged to expense.
 
  Purchased Intangibles
 
     Goodwill and other intangible assets generally result from business
acquisitions. The Company accounts for business acquisitions by assigning the
purchase price to tangible and intangible assets and liabilities, including
research and development projects which have not yet reached technological
feasibility and have no alternative future use (purchased research and
development). Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
values; the appraised value of purchased research and development is immediately
charged to expense, and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts
assigned is recorded as goodwill.
 

 
     Goodwill is amortized by the straight-line method over periods generally
ranging from 10 to 40 years. Trademarks, patents, product technology, and other
intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives, ranging from 5 to 40 years.
 
  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
 
     Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment by assessing their net
realizable values based on undiscounted cash flows over remaining useful lives.
If impairment is indicated, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its
fair value.
 
  Revenue Recognition
 
     Sales are generally recorded as products are shipped or services are
rendered, except sales under certain contracts requiring performance over
several periods which are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion
method of accounting.
 
  Environmental Matters
 
     The Company records accruals for environmental matters in the accounting
period in which its responsibility is established and the cost can be reasonably
estimated. At environmental sites in which more than one potentially responsible
party has been identified, the Company records a liability for its estimated
allocable share of costs related to its involvement with the site as well as an
estimated allocable share of costs related to insolvent parties or unidentified
shares. At environmental sites in which the Company is the only responsible
party, the Company records a liability for the total estimated costs of
remediation before consideration of recovery from insurers or other third
parties. If recovery from a third party is determined to be probable, the
Company records a receivable for the estimated recovery.
 
  Earnings Per Share
 
     Earnings per share are based on the weighted average number of common
shares outstanding during each year. The computation does not include the
negligible dilutive effect of stock options.
 
  New Accounting Standards
 
     In October 1996, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
issued Statement of Position No. 96-1, "Environmental Remediation Liabilities,"
which is effective for 1998. The Company does not expect adoption of this
standard to have a material effect on the financial statements.
 
     In February 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 128, "Earnings per Share," which is
effective for 1998. The adoption of this standard will not have a material
effect on the financial statements.
 
3. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     The financial statements have been restated to classify the Company's
Automotive Business (which includes Meritor and a discontinued product line) as
a discontinued operation, together with the A&D Business and Graphic Systems
business, which had previously been reported as discontinued operations, for all
 

 
periods presented. The assets and liabilities of these businesses as of
September 30, 1996, consisted of the following (in millions):
 

 
     The net assets of Meritor as of the September 30, 1997 spin-off date of
$151 million (including $445 million of debt incurred to make the special
payment to Rockwell) were recorded as a decrease to equity.
 
     Pursuant to the Reorganization, in addition to the A&D Business, Boeing
acquired certain Rockwell corporate property and pension plan assets and
liabilities relating to former employees of non-A&D businesses. Boeing also
assumed $2.2 billion of the short- and long-term domestic borrowings of the
Company. Accordingly, these amounts have been presented on the balance sheet as
net liabilities of the A&D Business at September 30, 1996. In connection with
the Reorganization, all shares of Common Stock held in treasury were canceled
and the net liabilities of the A&D Business at the date of the Reorganization of
approximately $1.2 billion were recorded as an increase to additional paid-in
capital.
 
     In October 1996, the Graphic Systems business was sold to an affiliate of
Stonington Partners, Inc. for approximately $600 million.
 
     Summarized results of discontinued operations are as follows (in millions):
 

 

 
     The earnings of the A&D Business for the first two months of 1997 were
entirely offset by expenses related to the transaction.
 
     The 1997 and 1996 income of the Automotive Business includes restructuring
charges of $21 million ($15 million after-tax) and $46 million ($30 million
after-tax), respectively. The income of the Automotive Business for 1997 also
includes a charge of $57 million ($48 million after-tax) for transaction and
separation-related costs incurred in connection with the spin-off of Meritor.
 
     The 1996 net loss of Graphic Systems includes net income from operations of
$3 million offset by a provision for loss on the sale of $10 million.
 
     The Automotive, A&D and Graphic Systems businesses utilized certain
services which are provided for all of the Company's businesses on a centralized
basis, including payroll administration, data processing, and telecommunications
services. These businesses were also allocated costs of centrally administered
programs, including employee medical claims and property and casualty insurance.
These costs were charged to these businesses based on actual usage of these
services and programs and were $58 million, $132 million, and $177 million in
1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.
 
     These businesses also received other services provided by the Company,
including financial, legal, tax, corporate communications, and human resources.
For the A&D Business, the costs of these services are allowable overhead costs
on government contracts and, accordingly, have been included in the results of
operations of this business. These costs have been allocated to the A&D Business
using a variety of factors, including sales, assets, inventory, and payroll and
were $3 million, $35 million, and $32 million in 1997, 1996, and 1995,
respectively. Management believes that the methods of allocating costs to these
businesses are reasonable.
 
     Interest expense of $40 million, $169 million and $155 million in 1997,
1996 and 1995, respectively, has been allocated to the Automotive and A&D
businesses based on the actual interest expense associated with the borrowings
assumed by Meritor and Boeing, respectively.
 
4. RESTRUCTURING
 
     During 1996, the Company recorded restructuring charges of $76 million ($47
million after-tax, or 22 cents per share). The restructuring charges relate to a
decision to exit non-strategic product lines of continuing operations, as well
as the costs associated with staff reductions in the Automation and Avionics &
Communications businesses.
 
     The provision includes asset impairments of $51 million, severance and
other employee costs of $9 million, and contractual commitments and other costs
of $16 million. These actions were substantially completed by the end of 1997.
 
5. ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES
 
     The Company acquired several businesses in 1997 at a net cost of $115
million, including $53 million ($42 million after-tax) related to purchased
research and development.
 
     In September 1996, the Company acquired Brooktree Corporation (Brooktree),
a designer and manufacturer of digital and mixed-signal integrated circuits for
computer graphics, multimedia, imaging, and communications applications, for
$278 million, including $121 million for purchased research and development.
 
     Pro forma information for acquisitions in 1997 and 1996 is not presented as
the results of operations of these businesses were not material in relation to
the Company's income from continuing operations for these periods.
 
     In January 1995, the Company completed its acquisition of Reliance Electric
Company (Reliance), a major manufacturer of industrial products and
telecommunications equipment, for $1,066 million, net of proceeds from the sale
of Reliance's telecommunications business. If Reliance had been acquired as of
the
 

 
beginning of 1995, pro forma revenues, net income and earnings per share for
that year would have been $6,314 million, $742 million, and $3.42, respectively.
 
     These acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and, accordingly, the
results of operations of these businesses have been included in the statement of
income since their dates of acquisition.
 
6. INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are summarized as follows (in millions):
 

 
7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
     Intangible assets are summarized as follows (in millions):
 

 
8. SHORT-TERM DEBT
 
     Short-term debt consisted of the following (in millions):
 

 
     Weighted average interest rates on short-term borrowings:
 

 
     At September 30, 1997, the Company had $2 billion of unsecured credit
facilities with various banks to support commercial paper borrowings. There were
no significant commitment fees or compensating balance requirements under these
facilities. Short-term credit facilities available to foreign subsidiaries
amounted to $315 million at September 30, 1997 and consisted of arrangements for
which there are no significant commitment fees.
 

 
9. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
     Other current liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions):
 

 
10. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt consisted of the following (in millions):
 

 
11. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     The Company's financial instruments include cash, equity securities,
short-and long-term debt, and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. At
September 30, 1997, the carrying values of the Company's financial instruments
approximated their fair values based on current market prices and rates.
 
     It is the policy of the Company not to enter into derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes. The Company does enter into foreign
currency forward exchange contracts to protect itself from adverse currency rate
fluctuations on foreign currency commitments entered into in the ordinary course
of business. These commitments are generally for terms of less than one year.
The gains and losses relating to these foreign currency forward exchange
contracts are deferred and included in the measurement of the foreign currency
transaction subject to the hedge. The amount of any deferred gain or loss on
these contracts is immaterial.
 
     The foreign currency forward exchange contracts are executed with
creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major industrial
countries. The notional amount of all of the Company's outstanding foreign
currency forward exchange contracts aggregated $239 million and $919 million at
September 30, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The contracts outstanding at
September 30, 1996 included contracts relating to the Company's discontinued
operations. The Company does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its
results of operations or financial position relating to these foreign currency
forward exchange contracts.
 
12. CAPITAL STOCK
 
     At September 30, 1997, the authorized stock of the Company consisted of one
billion shares of Common Stock, with a $1 par value, and 25 million shares of
preferred stock, without par value. At September 30, 1997, 25 million shares of
Common Stock were reserved for various employee incentive plans. On February 23,
1997, all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock were converted into Common
Stock.
 

 
     Changes in outstanding common shares are summarized as follows (in
millions):
 

 
  Preferred Share Purchase Rights
 
     Each outstanding share of Common Stock provides the holder with one
Preferred Share Purchase Right (Right). The Rights will become exercisable only
if a person or group acquires, or offers to acquire, 20% or more of the Common
Stock, although the Company is authorized to reduce the 20% threshold for
triggering the Rights to not less than 10%. Upon exercise, each Right entitles
the holder to 1/100th of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock of the Company (Junior Preferred Stock) at a price of $250, subject to
adjustment.
 
     Upon an acquisition of the Company, each Right (other than Rights held by
the acquiror) will generally be exercisable for $500 worth of Common Stock or
common stock of the acquiror for $250. In certain circumstances, each Right may
be exchanged by the Company for one share of Common Stock or 1/100th of a share
of Junior Preferred Stock. The Rights will expire on December 6, 2006, unless
earlier exchanged or redeemed at $0.01 per Right.
 
13. STOCK OPTIONS
 
     Options to purchase Common Stock of the Company have been granted under
various incentive plans to directors, officers and other key employees at prices
equal to or above the fair market value of such stock on the dates the options
were granted. The plans provide that the option price for certain options
granted under the plans may be paid in cash, the Company's Common Stock, or a
combination thereof.
 
     Under the 1995 Long-Term Incentives Plan, the Company may grant up to 16
million shares of Company Common Stock as non-qualified options, incentive stock
options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock. Shares available for
future grant or payment under various incentive plans were 13 million at
September 30, 1997. Stock options expire ten years from the date they are
granted and have vesting periods which range from one to three years. None of
the incentive plans presently permits options to be granted after September 30,
2005.
 
     Information relative to stock options is as follows (shares in thousands):
 

 

 
     In connection with the divestiture of the A&D Business and the spin-off of
Meritor, the number of options outstanding and the exercise prices of such
options were adjusted in order to preserve the value of the options that existed
as of the date of each divestiture. Additionally, in connection with the Meritor
spin-off, Rockwell options granted to Meritor employees during 1997 were
converted into Meritor options.
 
     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at September 30, 1997 (shares in thousands; remaining life in years):
 

 
     In 1997, the Company adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No.
123, "Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation." Accordingly, no compensation
expense has been recorded relative to the Company's stock-based compensation
plans. If the Company accounted for its stock-based plans using the fair value
method provided by SFAS No. 123, the Company's net income and earnings per share
would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts (in millions, except
per share amounts):
 

 
     The pro forma effect on net income for 1997 may not be indicative of the
pro forma effect on net income of future years.
 
     The weighted average fair value of options granted was $15.38 and $12.83
per share in 1997 and 1996, respectively. The fair value of each option was
estimated on the date of grant or subsequent date of option adjustment using the
Black-Scholes pricing model and the following assumptions:
 

 

 
14. RETIREMENT MEDICAL PLANS
 
     The Company has retirement medical plans which cover most of its United
States employees and provide for the payment of medical costs of eligible
employees and dependents upon retirement.
 
     Retirement medical expense for continuing operations consisted of the
following (in millions):
 

 
     The Company's retirement medical obligation at September 30, 1997 and 1996
consisted of the following (in millions):
 

 
* Decreasing to 5.5% after 2015.
 
     Increasing the health care cost trend rates by one percentage point would
increase the accumulated retirement medical obligation at September 30, 1997 by
approximately $57 million and would increase retirement medical expense by
approximately $6 million.
 
15. RETIREMENT PENSION PLANS
 
     The Company has pension plans which cover most of its employees and provide
for monthly pension payments to eligible employees upon retirement. Pension
benefits for salaried employees generally are based on years of credited service
and average earnings. Pension benefits for hourly employees generally are based
on specified benefit amounts and years of service. The Company's policy is to
fund its pension obligations in conformity with the funding requirements of
applicable laws and governmental regulations.
 
     Net pension expense for continuing operations consisted of the following
(in millions):
 

 

 
     Pension plan assets are primarily equity securities, United States
Government obligations, and other fixed income investments whose values are
subject to fluctuations of the securities market. The actual return on plan
assets allocated to continuing operations was $373 million, $514 million, and
$421 million in 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively. Differences between these
actual returns and the related assumed returns on plan assets are deferred and
considered in the determination of net pension income or expense in future
periods.
 
     Prior to the Reorganization, pension plan obligations attributable to
United States active employees of continuing businesses and the Automotive and
Graphic Systems businesses as of January 1, 1996, and a proportionate share of
pension plan assets, were transferred from the Company's United States pension
plan to a newly-established pension plan. Pension plan assets and obligations
related to employees of the A&D Business and all retirees of the Company's
United States pension plan prior to January 1, 1996 were transferred as part of
the A&D Business pursuant to the merger agreement with Boeing.
 
     The following table reconciles the funded status of the Company's
overfunded pension plans to amounts included in Other Assets in the balance
sheet (in millions):
 

 

 
     The Company also sponsors certain defined contribution savings plans for
eligible employees. Expense related to these plans was $50 million, $47 million,
and $35 million for 1997, 1996, and 1995, respectively.
 

 
16. INCOME TAXES
 
     The components of the provision for income taxes are as follows (in
millions):
 

 
     During 1996 the Company reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue
Service on its research and experimentation tax credit refund claim related to
certain prior years and recorded $65 million as a reduction of its provision for
income taxes.
 
     Net deferred income tax benefits included in the balance sheet at September
30, 1997 and 1996 consist of the tax effects of temporary differences related to
the following (in millions):
 

 
     Net deferred income taxes included in Other Liabilities in the balance
sheet at September 30, 1997 and 1996 consist of the tax effects of temporary
differences related to the following (in millions):
 

 
     Management believes it is more likely than not that current and long-term
tax assets will be realized through the reduction of future taxable income.
Significant factors considered by management in its determination of the
probability of the realization of the deferred tax assets included: (a) the
historical operating results of the Company ($1.7 billion of United States
income from continuing operations before income taxes over the past three
years), (b) expectations of future earnings, and (c) the extended period of time
over which the retirement medical liability will be paid. The valuation
allowance represents the amount
 

 
of tax benefits related to net operating loss, capital loss and foreign tax
credit carryforwards that have not yet been recognized. The carryforward period
for net operating and capital losses expires between 1998 and 2004. The
carryforward period for foreign tax credits expires between 1998 and 2002.
 
     The consolidated effective tax rate was different from the United States
statutory rate for the reasons set forth below:
 

 
     The income tax provisions were calculated based upon the following
components of income from continuing operations before income taxes (in
millions):
 

 
     No provision has been made for United States, state, or additional foreign
income taxes related to approximately $130 million of undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries which have been or are intended to be permanently
reinvested.
 
     The audit of the Company's United States income tax returns for the years
1989 through 1991 has been completed. The Company's United States income tax
returns for the years 1992 through 1994 are currently under examination. In
connection with the divestiture of the A&D Business and the Meritor spin-off,
the Company has retained all tax liabilities and the right to all tax refunds
related to United States and certain non-U.S. operations of the A&D and
Automotive businesses for periods prior to the respective divestiture dates.
Management believes that adequate provision for income taxes has been made for
all years through 1997.
 
17. SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT INFORMATION
 

 

 
     Income taxes paid and interest payments related to discontinued operations
were (in millions) $15 and $56 in 1997, $7 and $175 in 1996, and $6 and $146 in
1995, respectively, and are included in the determination of the cash flows of
discontinued operations.
 
     Minimum future rental commitments under operating leases having
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year aggregated $236 million as of
September 30, 1997 and are payable as follows (in millions): 1998, $62; 1999,
$50; 2000, $34; 2001, $24; 2002, $18; and after 2002, $48.
 
18. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 
     Claims have been asserted against the Company for utilizing the
intellectual property rights of others in certain of the Company's products. The
resolution of these matters may result in the negotiation of a license
agreement, a settlement or the resolution of such claims through arbitration or
litigation. The Company accrues the estimated cost of the ultimate resolution of
these matters. Management believes that the resolution of these matters will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.
 
     Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be
instituted or asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its
business, including those pertaining to product liability, safety and health,
environmental, and employment matters. Pursuant to the Reorganization, Rockwell
has agreed to indemnify Boeing for certain government contract and environmental
matters related to operations of the A&D Business for periods prior to the
merger. In connection with the spin-off, Meritor has agreed to indemnify the
Company for substantially all contingent liabilities related to the Automotive
Business. Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty
and some lawsuits, claims, or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the
Company, management believes the disposition of matters which are pending or
asserted will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
statements.
 
19. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company's business segments are engaged in research, development, and
manufacture of electronics products as follows:
 
        Automation--industrial automation equipment and systems, including
        control logic, sensors, human-machine interface devices, motors, power
        and mechanical devices and software products.
 
        Avionics & Communications--avionics products and systems and related
        communications technologies primarily used in commercial and military
        aircraft and defense electronic systems for command, control,
        communications and intelligence.
 
        Semiconductor Systems--system-level semiconductor chipset solutions for
        personal communications electronics markets such as personal computers,
        personal imaging devices, wireless communications products, network
        access devices and digital information and entertainment products, as
        well as electronic commerce products for call center systems and
        personalized electronic commerce applications.
 
     The divested business is the Semiconductor Systems Local Area Networking
product line.
 

 
     The following tables summarize segment information (in millions):
 
SALES AND EARNINGS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
 

 

 
     In 1997, purchased research and development of $30 million and $23 million
relates to the acquisitions of a Semiconductor Systems business and the
remaining interest in an Automation software business, respectively. In 1996,
purchased research and development relates to the acquisition of Brooktree, a
Semiconductor Systems business. The restructuring charge relates to the business
segments as follows (in millions): Automation, $11; Avionics & Communications,
$50; and Corporate, $15.
 
ASSET INFORMATION BY SEGMENT
 

 
     Corporate identifiable assets include cash and net deferred income tax
assets.
 

 

 
SALES, EARNINGS AND ASSETS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA
 

 
     United States sales include export sales to customers and international
subsidiaries of $1,850 million in 1997, $1,706 million in 1996, and $1,258
million in 1995. The 1997 export sales were to the following geographic areas:
Europe, $573 million; Asia Pacific, $919 million; Canada, $273 million; and
Latin America, $85 million.
 

 

 
20. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
 

 
     The full year income from continuing operations includes write-offs of
purchased research and development of $23 million, or 11 cents per share,
related to the acquisition of an Automation software business in the fourth
quarter and $19 million, or nine cents per share, in connection with the
acquisition of a Semiconductor Systems business in the third quarter.
 
     Fourth quarter loss and full year income from discontinued operations
includes the effects of restructuring charges incurred by Meritor of $15
million, or seven cents per share, and transaction and separation-related costs
of $48 million, or 23 cents per share, related to the spin-off of Meritor.
 

 
     The fourth quarter and full year income from continuing operations includes
a $121 million, or 56 cents per share, write-off of purchased research and
development in connection with the acquisition of Brooktree.
 

 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
TO THE DIRECTORS AND SHAREOWNERS OF
ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Rockwell
International Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1997 and 1996,
and the related consolidated statements of income, shareowners' equity, and cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 1997. Our
audit also included the financial statement schedule listed at Item 14(a)(2).
These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Rockwell International
Corporation and subsidiaries at September 30, 1997 and 1996, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.
 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
November 5, 1997
 

 
     See also the table under the caption Continuing Operations, Sales and
Earnings by Business Segment in the MD&A on page 13 hereof.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.
 
     See the information under the captions ELECTION OF DIRECTORS and
INFORMATION AS TO NOMINEES FOR DIRECTORS AND CONTINUING DIRECTORS on pages 3-7
of the 1998 Proxy Statement. No nominee for director was selected pursuant to
any arrangement or understanding between the nominee and any person other than
the Company pursuant to which such person is or was to be selected as a director
or nominee. See also the information with respect to executive officers of the
Company under Item 4a of Part I hereof.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     See the information under the captions EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION, OPTION
GRANTS, AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES AND FISCAL YEAR-END VALUES and LONG-TERM
INCENTIVES PLAN on pages 10-13 and RETIREMENT PLANS on pages 17-18 of the 1998
Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
     See the information under the captions VOTING SECURITIES and OWNERSHIP BY
MANAGEMENT OF EQUITY SECURITIES on pages 3 and 10, respectively, of the 1998
Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     The Company during 1997 had purchases of approximately $16,331,000 in the
normal course of business from The Timken Company, of which Joseph F. Toot, Jr.,
a director of the Company, is President and Chief Executive Officer. Based on
the Company's knowledge of prevailing market conditions and prices for the goods
and services involved, the Company believes that such transactions were on terms
as favorable to the Company as those which might have been obtained from
entities with which directors of the Company were not associated.
 
     The Company has entered into an agreement with Donald R. Beall, its
Chairman of the Board, providing for his continued availability as an advisor to
the Company's management following his retirement through September 30, 1999
(subject to extension) with compensation at an annual rate of $600,000. In
addition, Mr. Beall will continue to be covered under certain medical benefit
plans, to have the use of an automobile and, subject to availability, the use of
the Company's aircraft for business travel. He also will be reimbursed for
memberships in certain clubs and will have the use of office facilities and
secretarial assistance.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits.
 
        (1) Financial Statements (all financial statements listed below are
            those of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries).
 
           Consolidated Balance Sheet, September 30, 1997 and 1996.
 
           Statement of Consolidated Income, years ended September 30, 1997,
           1996 and 1995.
 
           Statement of Consolidated Cash Flows, years ended September 30, 1997,
           1996 and 1995.
 
           Statement of Consolidated Shareowners' Equity, years ended September
           30, 1997, 1996 and 1995.
 
           Notes to Financial Statements.
 
           Independent Auditors' Report.
 
           Sales and Earnings by Business Segment, years ended September 30,
           1993 through 1997.
 
        (2) Financial Statement Schedule for the years ended September 30, 1997,
            1996 and 1995.
 

 
           Schedules not filed herewith are omitted because of the absence of
           conditions under which they are required or because the information
           called for is shown in the financial statements or notes thereto.
 
        (3) Exhibits.
 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 

 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 

 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 

 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 

 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 

 

 
- ---------
 
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period
         covered by this Report.
 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                      ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
 
                                      By      /s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
                                         ---------------------------------------
 
                                                   WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
                                               SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, GENERAL
                                                  COUNSEL AND SECRETARY
 
Dated: December 5, 1997
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW ON THE 5TH DAY OF DECEMBER 1997 BY THE FOLLOWING
PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED.
 
             DONALD R. BEALL*
    CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND DIRECTOR
 
            DON H. DAVIS, JR.*
  PRESIDENT AND CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
(PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER) AND DIRECTOR
 
              LEW ALLEN, JR*
                 DIRECTOR
 
            GEORGE L. ARGYROS*
                 DIRECTOR
 
           RICHARD M. BRESSLER*
                 DIRECTOR
 
            JUDITH L. ESTRIN*
                 DIRECTOR
 
          WILLIAM H. GRAY, III*
                 DIRECTOR
 
      JAMES CLAYBURN LA FORCE, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR
 
        WILLIAM T. MCCORMICK, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR
 
             JOHN D. NICHOLS*
                 DIRECTOR
 
            BRUCE M. ROCKWELL*
                 DIRECTOR
 
            WILLIAM S. SNEATH*
                 DIRECTOR
 
           JOSEPH F. TOOT, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR
 
            W. MICHAEL BARNES*
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE & PLANNING
                   AND
    CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (PRINCIPAL
            FINANCIAL OFFICER)
 
           WILLIAM E. SANDERS*
 VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER (PRINCIPAL
           ACCOUNTING OFFICER)
 
*By /s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
     --------------------------------------------------------------
     WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR., ATTORNEY-IN-FACT**
 
** BY AUTHORITY OF POWERS OF ATTORNEY FILED HEREWITH.
 

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997, 1996 AND 1995
 

 
- ---------------
 
(a)  Includes allowances for commercial and other long-term receivables.
 
(b)  Collection of accounts previously written off.
 
(c)  Uncollectible accounts written off.
 
(d)  Consists principally of amounts relating to businesses acquired, businesses
     sold and foreign currency translation adjustments.
 
                                       S-1

 
================================================================================
 
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                                    EXHIBITS
 
                                  TO FORM 10-K
 
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1997
 
                               ------------------
 
                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                               ------------------
 
================================================================================

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

 

 
- ---------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

 

 
- ---------
 
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.
 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period
         covered by this Report.

