
10-K405
ANNUAL REPORT




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1999. COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12383

                            ------------------------

                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



 REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (414) 212-5299 (OFFICE OF
                                 THE SECRETARY)

                            ------------------------

                         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT
                          TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



                            ------------------------

                         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT
                          TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No _

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [  X ]

     The aggregate market value of registrant's voting stock held by
non-affiliates of registrant on November 15, 1999 was approximately $8.5
billion.

     190,221,589 shares of registrant's Common Stock, par value $1 per share,
were outstanding on November 15, 1999.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Certain information contained in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareowners of registrant to be held on February 2, 2000 is incorporated by
reference into Part III hereof.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

     Rockwell International Corporation (the Company or Rockwell), a Delaware
corporation, is a global electronic controls and communications company with
leadership positions in industrial automation, avionics and communications and
automated call distribution systems. The Company was incorporated in 1996 and is
the successor to the former Rockwell International Corporation as a result of a
tax-free reorganization completed on December 6, 1996, pursuant to which the
Company divested its former Aerospace and Defense businesses (the A&D Business)
to The Boeing Company (Boeing). The predecessor corporation was incorporated in
1928. On September 30, 1997, the Company completed the spin-off of its
automotive component systems business (the Automotive Business) into an
independent, separately traded, publicly held company named Meritor Automotive,
Inc. (Meritor). On December 31, 1998, the Company completed the spin-off of its
semiconductor systems business (Semiconductor Systems) into an independent,
separately traded, publicly held company named Conexant Systems, Inc.
(Conexant). As used herein, the terms the "Company" or "Rockwell" include
subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise.
Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to the Company's
continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.

     For purposes hereof, whenever reference is made in any Item of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K to information under specific captions in Item 7,
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS (the MD&A), or in Item 8, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (the Financial Statements), or to information in the Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of the Company to be held on
February 2, 2000 (the 2000 Proxy Statement), such information shall be deemed to
be incorporated therein by such reference.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     The Company's business segments are engaged in research and development,
manufacture, sale and service of electronic controls and communication products.
The Company is organized based upon products and services and has three business
segments consisting of Automation, Avionics & Communications and Other
Businesses, which includes Electronic Commerce and the Science Center.

     The Automation business is a supplier of industrial automation products,
systems, software and services focused on helping customers control and power
manufacturing processes. Products include controllers, I/O (input/output)
systems, drives, sensors, power devices, packaged control products, operator
interface devices, software products and services, gear reducers, mounted
bearings, power transmission components, network monitoring products and motors.
These products are primarily marketed under the Rockwell Automation,
Allen-Bradley, Rockwell Software, Dodge, and Reliance Electric brand names.
Major markets served include consumer products, food and beverage,
transportation, metals, mining, cement, pulp and paper, petroleum, specialty
chemicals, pharmaceutical, electric power, water treatment, infrastructure and
semiconductor fabrication.

     The Avionics & Communications business is a supplier of electronic products
and systems, service and support solutions to the commercial aerospace and
defense industries. Products include electronic equipment for flight control,
cockpit display, navigation, voice and data communication, cockpit management,
in-flight cabin management, communications and passenger entertainment, radar,
global positioning and other command, control and communications devices
marketed primarily under the Rockwell Collins brand name. Major customers
include airframe manufacturers, the United States government and most of the
world's airlines.

     Other Businesses includes the Electronic Commerce business, which is a
supplier of technologies for companies that interact with their customers over
the telephone and/or the Internet. Products include automatic call distributors,
computer telephony integration software, information collection, reporting and
management systems and call center consulting services and systems. Other
Businesses also includes the Science Center, a research and development
facility.

     Financial information with respect to the Company's business segments,
including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for the three
years ended September 30, 1999, is contained under the caption RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS in the MD&A on pages 12-14 hereof, and in Note 19 of the NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements.



COMPETITIVE POSTURE

     The Company competes with many manufacturers which, depending on the
product involved, range from large diversified enterprises, comparable to or
greater than the Company in scope and resources, to smaller companies
specializing in particular products. Factors which affect the Company's
competitive posture are its research and development efforts, the quality of its
products and services and its marketing and pricing strategies.

     The Company's products are sold by its own sales force and through
distributors and agents.

GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS

     Approximately ten percent of the Company's sales is derived from United
States government contracts, almost entirely from its Avionics & Communications
business. The Avionics & Communications business supplies certain military
equipment to the United States government. In addition to normal business risks,
companies engaged in supplying military equipment to the United States
government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on Congressional
appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental
procurement legislation and regulations and other policies which may reflect
military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling,
complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, constant
necessity for design improvements, intense competition for available United
States government business necessitating increases in time and investment for
design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when
bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work and other
factors characteristic of the industry. Changes are customary over the life of
United States government contracts, particularly development contracts, and
generally result in adjustments of contract prices.

     Moreover, various claims (whether based on United States government or
Company audits and investigations or otherwise) have been or may be instituted
or asserted against the Company related to its United States government contract
work, including claims based on business practices and cost classifications.
Although such claims are usually resolved by detailed fact-finding and
negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved, civil or criminal
legal or administrative proceedings may ensue. Depending on the circumstances
and the outcome, such proceedings could result in fines, the cancellation of or
suspension of payments under one or more United States government contracts,
suspension or debarment proceedings affecting potential further business with
the United States government, or alteration of the Company's procedures relating
to the performance or obtaining of United States government contracts.
Management of the Company believes there are no claims, audits or investigations
currently pending which will have a material adverse effect on either the
Company's business or its financial statements.

ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

     The Company regularly considers the acquisition or development of new
businesses and reviews the prospects of its existing businesses to determine
whether any should be modified, sold or otherwise discontinued.

     During 1999, the Automation business acquired Anorad Corporation,
U.K.-based EJA Engineering Ltd., substantially all of the assets of Enterprise
Technology Group, Inc., a software business, and certain assets, principally
intellectual property, of Vancouver-based Dynapro. The Avionics & Communications
business acquired Intertrade Limited and the remaining 50 percent interest in
Flight Dynamics. The total cost of these acquisitions was $241 million, of which
$214 million was allocated to intangible assets, including developed technology,
patents, assembled workforce and goodwill. The intangible assets are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from six to thirty
years.

     On December 31, 1998, the Company completed the spin-off of Semiconductor
Systems into an independent, separately traded, publicly held company by
distributing all of the outstanding shares of Conexant to the Company's
shareowners on a pro-rata basis. The Company also sold its railroad electronics
and North American Transformer businesses during 1999.



     In the first quarter of 1998, the Avionics & Communications business
acquired the in-flight entertainment business of Hughes-Avicom International,
Inc. for $157 million. In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded
a charge of $103 million ($63 million after tax) for purchased research and
development and recorded $70 million for other intangible assets, including
developed technology, patents, assembled workforce and goodwill, which are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over 10 years.

     In October 1996, the Company sold its Graphic Systems business for
approximately $600 million. On December 6, 1996, the Company completed the
divestiture of the A&D Business to Boeing. On September 30, 1997, the Company
completed the spin-off of Meritor. The net (loss) income from operations of the
Graphic Systems business, the A&D Business, the Automotive Business and
Semiconductor Systems have been presented on the Company's Consolidated
Statement of Operations included in the Financial Statements as (Loss) income
from discontinued operations for all periods. The assets and liabilities of
Semiconductor Systems as of September 30, 1998 have been classified on the
Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet included in the Financial Statements as Net
assets of Semiconductor Systems.

     Additional information relating to acquisitions and discontinued operations
is contained under the captions ACQUISITIONS and DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS in the
MD&A on page 14 hereof, and in Notes 2 and 4 of the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

     The Company's principal markets outside the United States are in Australia,
Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico,
Singapore, Southeast Asia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, The Netherlands and the
United Kingdom. In addition to normal business risks, operations outside the
United States are subject to other risks including, among other factors, the
political, economic and social environments, governmental laws and regulations,
and currency revaluations and fluctuations.

     Selected financial information by major geographic area for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 1999 is contained in Note 19 of
the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     In addition to research and development activities conducted by each of the
Company's businesses, the Company's Science Center conducts a basic research
program to support the strategies of the operating businesses and continues to
provide research services to Boeing, Meritor and Conexant at agreed rates. At
September 30, 1999, the Company employed approximately 5,000 professional
engineers and scientists and 2,600 supporting technical personnel.

EMPLOYEES

     At September 30, 1999, the Company had approximately 41,200 employees, of
whom approximately 8,200 were employed outside the United States.

RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

     Raw materials essential to the conduct of each of the Company's business
segments generally are available at competitive prices. Many items of equipment
and components used in the production of the Company's products are purchased
from others. In addition, the Avionics & Communications business generally
subcontracts major portions of systems. Although the Company has a broad base of
suppliers and subcontractors, it is dependent upon the ability of its suppliers
and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery
schedules.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS

     Information with respect to the effect on the Company and its manufacturing
operations of compliance with environmental protection requirements and
resolution of environmental claims is contained in Note 18 of the NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements. See also Item 3,
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, on pages 6-8 hereof.



PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

     Numerous patents and patent applications are owned or licensed by the
Company and utilized in its activities and manufacturing operations. Various
claims of patent infringement have been made against the Company. Management
believes that none of these claims will have a material adverse effect on the
Financial Statements of the Company. See Item 3, LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, on pages 6-8
hereof. While in the aggregate the Company's patents and licenses are considered
important in the operation of its business, management does not consider them of
such importance that loss or termination of any one of them would materially
affect the Company's business.

     The Company's name and its registered trademarks "Rockwell" and "Rockwell
International" are important to each of its business segments. In addition, the
Company owns a large number of other important trademarks applicable to only
certain of its products, such as "Collins" for navigation and communication
equipment, "Allen-Bradley" and "A-B" for electronic controls and systems for
industrial automation, "Reliance Electric" for electric motors and "Dodge" for
mechanical power transmission products.

SEASONALITY

     None of the Company's business segments is seasonal.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

     At September 30, 1999, the Company's businesses operated 87 plants and
research and development facilities throughout the United States and in Europe,
Brazil, Canada, India, Mexico, Australia and the Far East. These businesses also
had approximately 400 sales offices, warehouses and service centers. These
facilities had an aggregate floor space of approximately 23 million square feet.
Of this floor space, approximately 62 percent was owned by the Company and
approximately 38 percent was leased. At September 30, 1999, approximately
1.8 million square feet of floor space was not in use, most of which was in
owned facilities. A summary of floor space of these facilities at September 30,
1999 is as follows:



     In connection with the spin-off of Semiconductor Systems, the Company
retained ownership of wafer fabrication facilities in Colorado Springs,
Colorado, which are currently being held for sale. These facilities have
approximately one million square feet of floor space and are not currently being
used. At September 30, 1999, these facilities are included in Other current
assets on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet included in the Financial
Statements.



     There are no major encumbrances (other than financing arrangements which in
the aggregate are not material) on any of the Company's plants or equipment. In
the opinion of management, the Company's properties have been well maintained,
are in sound operating condition and contain all equipment and facilities
necessary to operate at present levels.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     Rocky Flats Plant.  On January 30, 1990, a civil action was brought in the
United States District Court for the District of Colorado against the Company
and another former operator of the Rocky Flats Plant (the Plant), Golden,
Colorado, operated from 1975 through December 31, 1989 by the Company for the
Department of Energy (DOE). The action alleges the improper production, handling
and disposal of radioactive and other hazardous substances, constituting, among
other things, violations of various environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations, and misrepresentation and concealment of the facts relating
thereto. The plaintiffs, who purportedly represent two classes, sought
compensatory damages of $250 million for diminution in value of real estate and
other economic loss; the creation of a fund of $150 million to finance medical
monitoring and surveillance services; exemplary damages of $300 million; CERCLA
response costs in an undetermined amount; attorneys' fees; an injunction; and
other proper relief. On February 13, 1991, the court granted certain of the
motions of the defendants to dismiss the case. The plaintiffs subsequently filed
a new complaint, and on November 26, 1991, the court granted in part a renewed
motion to dismiss. The remaining portion of the case is pending before the
court. On October 8, 1993, the court certified separate medical monitoring and
property value classes. Effective August 1, 1996, the DOE assumed control of the
defense of the contractor defendants, including the Company, in the action.
Beginning on that date, the costs of the Company's defense, which had previously
been reimbursed to the Company by the DOE, have been and are being paid directly
by the DOE. The Company believes that it is entitled under applicable law and
its contract with the DOE to be indemnified for all costs and any liability
associated with this action.

     On November 13, 1990, the Company was served with a summons and complaint
in another civil action brought against the Company in the same court by James
Stone, claiming to act in the name of the United States, alleging violations of
the U.S. False Claims Act in connection with the Company's operation of the
Plant (and seeking treble damages and forfeitures) as well as a personal cause
of action for alleged wrongful termination of employment. On August 8, 1991, the
court dismissed the personal cause of action. On December 6, 1995, the DOE
notified the Company that it would no longer reimburse costs incurred by the
Company in defense of the action. On November 19, 1996, the court granted the
Department of Justice leave to intervene in the case on the government's behalf.
On April 1, 1999 a jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $1.4 million in
damages. On May 18, 1999, the court entered judgment against the Company for
approximately $4.2 million, trebling the jury's award as required by the False
Claims Act, and imposing a civil penalty of $15,000. If the judgment is affirmed
on appeal, Mr. Stone may also be entitled to an award of attorney's fees but the
court refused to consider the matter until appeals from the judgment have been
exhausted. Both the plaintiffs and the Company have appealed the judgment, but
management believes that an outcome adverse to the Company will not have a
material effect on the Company's financial statements.

     On January 8, 1991, the Company filed suit in the United States Claims
Court against the DOE, seeking recovery of $6.5 million of award fees to which
the Company alleges it is entitled under the terms of its contract with the DOE
for management and operation of the Plant during the period October 1, 1988
through September 30, 1989. On July 17, 1996, the government filed an amended
answer and counterclaim against the Company alleging violations of the U.S.
False Claims Act previously asserted in the civil action described in the
preceding paragraph. On March 20, 1997, the court stayed the case pending
disposition of the civil action described in the preceding paragraph. On August
30, 1999, the court continued the stay pending appeals in that civil action. The
Company believes the government's counterclaim is without merit, and believes it
is entitled under applicable law and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified
for any liability associated with the counterclaim.

     Hanford Nuclear Reservation. On August 6, 1990 and August 9, 1990, civil
actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Washington against the Company and the present and other former operators of
the DOE's Hanford Nuclear Reservation (Hanford), Hanford, Washington. The




Company operated part of Hanford for the DOE from 1977 through June 1987. Both
actions purport to be brought on behalf of various classes of persons and
numerous individual plaintiffs who resided, worked, owned or leased real
property, or operated businesses, at or near Hanford or downwind or downriver
from Hanford, at any time since 1944. The actions allege the improper handling
and disposal of radioactive and other hazardous substances and assert various
statutory and common law claims. The relief sought includes unspecified
compensatory and punitive damages for personal injuries and for economic losses,
and various injunctive and other equitable relief.

     Other cases asserting similar claims (the follow-on claims) on behalf of
the same and similarly situated individuals and groups have been filed from time
to time since August 1990, and may continue to be filed from time to time in the
future. These actions and the follow-on claims have been (and any additional
follow-on claims that may be filed are expected to be) consolidated in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington under the
name In re Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation. Because the claims and
classes of claimants included in the actions described in the preceding
paragraph are so broadly defined, the follow-on claims filed as of November 30,
1999 have not altered, and possible future follow-on claims are not expected to
alter, in any material respect the scope of the litigation.

     Effective October 1, 1994, the DOE assumed control of the defense of
certain of the contractor defendants (including the Company) in the In re
Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation. Beginning on that date, the costs of the
Company's defense, which had previously been reimbursed to the Company by the
DOE, have been and are being paid directly by the DOE. The Company believes it
is entitled under applicable law and its contracts with the DOE to be
indemnified for all costs and any liability associated with these actions.

     Russellville.  On June 24, 1996, judgment was entered against the Company
in a civil action in the Circuit Court of Logan County, Kentucky on a jury
verdict awarding $8 million in compensatory and $210 million in punitive damages
for property damage. The action had been brought August 12, 1993 by owners of
flood plain real property near Russellville, Kentucky allegedly damaged by
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) discharged from a plant owned and operated by
the Company's Measurement & Flow Control Division prior to its divestiture in
March 1989. The Company believes that the verdict is unsupported by the evidence
and, on January 22, 1997, filed a notice of appeal. Since the Company believes
it is not reasonably possible that the punitive damages will be sustained on
appeal, the Company has not accrued any reserve for those damages.

     On March 24, 1997, the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky in
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet
vs. Rockwell, an action filed in 1986 seeking remediation of PCB contamination
resulting from unpermitted discharges of PCBs from the Company's former
Russellville, Kentucky plant, entered judgment establishing PCB cleanup levels
for the former plant site and certain offsite property and ordering additional
characterization of possible contamination in the Mud River and its floodplain.
The Court deferred any decision on the imposition of fines and penalties pending
implementation of an appropriate remediation program. On August 13, 1999, the
Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court's judgment. On September 10, 1999, the
Company filed a petition for discretionary review of that decision with the
Supreme Court of the State of Kentucky. The Company has been proceeding with
remediation and characterization efforts consistent with the trial Court's
ruling while simultaneously appealing that ruling.

     Other.  In July 1995, a federal grand jury impaneled by the United States
District Court for the Central District of California began an investigation
into a July 1994 explosion at the Santa Susana Field Laboratory operated by the
Company's former Rocketdyne Division in which two scientists were killed and a
technician was injured. On April 11, 1996, pursuant to an agreement between the
Company and the United States Attorney for the Central District of California,
the Company entered a plea of guilty to two counts of unpermitted disposal of
hazardous waste and one count of unpermitted storage of hazardous waste, all of
which are felony violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and
paid a fine of $6.5 million to settle potential federal criminal claims arising
out of the federal government's investigation. Investigation under other U.S.
and California laws continues. While the Company has no information on the
status of these



investigations, further civil sanctions could be imposed on the current owner of
the facility, Boeing North American, Inc. (BNA), for which the Company would be
required to indemnify BNA.

     On December 27, 1995, one shareowner, purporting to act derivatively on
behalf of the Company, commenced an action in the Superior Court of the State of
California for the County of Orange against 13 of the Company's directors, and
the Company as a nominal defendant, alleging principally breaches of fiduciary
duties in failing properly to manage the business of the Company in a manner to
prevent certain violations of applicable federal and state laws, including
environmental laws, by certain named and unnamed employees or agents of the
Company. The action seeks declaratory judgment, damages suffered by the Company
as a result of the alleged conduct, plaintiffs' costs and expenses and other
proper relief.

     On February 27, 1996, a similar suit, making similar allegations and
seeking similar relief, was filed against the Company and the same directors,
plus Don H. Davis, Jr., by two other shareowners in the Superior Court of the
State of California for the County of Los Angeles. On August 7, 1996, the Los
Angeles County action was dismissed voluntarily by the plaintiffs. On August 22,
1996, a First Amended Consolidated Complaint was filed in the Orange County
action, adding the plaintiffs from the dismissed Los Angeles County suit as
party plaintiffs to the Orange County suit. A Second Amended Consolidated
Complaint was filed in the Orange County action on November 27, 1996.
Subsequently, on February 4, 1997, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the action
with respect to two of the director-defendants, Judith L. Estrin and William H.
Gray, III. The Company and the director-defendants are defending the
consolidated action. Non-expert discovery has been completed and the court has
under submission defendants' motion for summary judgment.

     Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be
instituted or asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its
business, including those pertaining to product liability, environmental, safety
and health, intellectual property, employment and government contract matters.
Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some
lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company,
management believes the disposition of matters which are pending or asserted
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1999.

ITEM 4a.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

     The name, age, office and position held with the Company and principal
occupations and employment during the past five years of each of the executive
officers of the Company as of November 30, 1999 are as follows:







     There are no family relationships, as defined, between any of the above
executive officers. No officer of the Company was selected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding between him and any person other than the Company.
All executive officers are elected annually.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The principal market on which the Company's Common Stock is traded is the
New York Stock Exchange. The Company's Common Stock is also traded on the
Pacific and London Stock Exchanges. On November 15, 1999, there were 53,894
shareowners of record of the Company's Common Stock.

     The following table sets forth the high and low trading price of the
Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange--Composite Transactions
reporting system during each quarter of the Company's fiscal years ended
September 30, 1999 and 1998:



     On December 6, 1996, each Rockwell shareowner became entitled to receive
 .042 share (presently .084 share) of Boeing common stock for each share of
Rockwell Common Stock or Class A Common Stock owned. On September 30, 1997, each
Rockwell shareowner received one-third of a share of Meritor common stock for
each share of Rockwell Common Stock owned. On December 31, 1998, each Rockwell
shareowner received one-half of a share (presently one share) of Conexant common
stock for each share of Rockwell Common Stock owned. At September 30, 1999, such
fractional shares of Boeing, Meritor and Conexant common stock per Rockwell
share had values of $3.58, $6.96 and $36.33, respectively. Rockwell's current
stock price does not reflect the value of the Boeing, Meritor and Conexant
fractional shares.

     During the year ended September 30, 1999, the Company repurchased, through
open-market purchases, 3.5 million shares of Common Stock.

     The following table sets forth the aggregate quarterly cash dividends per
common share (comprised of the Common Stock and, until February 23, 1997, the
date of its automatic conversion to Common Stock, Class A Common Stock) during
each of the Company's five fiscal years ended September 30, 1999:



- ---------------

(1) Upon the spin-off of Meritor on September 30, 1997, the Company's annual
    $1.16 per share dividend was set at $1.02 for Rockwell and 14 cents for
    Meritor. Per share dividend amounts indicated do not include dividends paid
    on the fractional shares of Boeing and Meritor received on December 6, 1996
    and September 30, 1997, respectively, by Rockwell shareowners.

     On July 1, 1999, the Company issued 151, 158 and 158 shares of restricted
stock, respectively, to the following directors of the Company: Donald R. Beall,
George L. Argyros and John D. Nichols. These shares were issued pursuant to
deferral elections made in accordance with the Company's Directors Stock Plan in
partial or full payment for retainer fees otherwise payable in cash. The
issuance of all such shares was exempt from the registration requirements of the
Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The following sets forth selected consolidated financial data in respect of
the Company's continuing operations. The selected consolidated financial data
have been derived from the consolidated financial statements of the Company. The
data should be read in conjunction with the MD&A and the Financial



Statements. The statement of operations data for the five years ended September
30, 1999 and the related balance sheet data have been derived from the audited
consolidated financial statements of the Company.



- ---------------

(a) Includes pre-tax charges of $597 million ($508 million after tax, or $2.57
    per diluted share) for costs associated with asset impairments and a
    comprehensive restructuring program and $103 million ($63 million after tax,
    or 31 cents per diluted share) relating to the write-off of purchased
    research and development in connection with an acquisition.

(b) Includes a charge of $23 million (before and after tax), or 11 cents per
    diluted share, relating to the write-off of purchased research and
    development in connection with an acquisition.

(c) Includes a pre-tax charge of $76 million ($47 million after tax, or 22 cents
    per diluted share) related to restructuring actions and a tax credit of $65
    million, or 29 cents per diluted share, related to the settlement of
    research and experimentation tax credit refund claims for years prior to
    1996.



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Summary of Results of Operations



  1999 Compared to 1998

     Sales increased four percent in 1999 to $7 billion from $6.8 billion in
1998 due to strong growth at Rockwell Collins. The composition of sales was as
follows (in billions):



Earnings per share from continuing operations in 1999 of $3.01 were up 29
percent over comparable 1998 earnings (before special items) of $2.33. The
related income increased $120 million to $582 million from $462 million in 1998.

     Effective September 30, 1999, Rockwell revised the presentation of its
business segments. The Avionics & Communications segment is now comprised solely
of Rockwell Collins while Rockwell Electronic Commerce and Rockwell Science
Center have been combined into the Other Businesses segment. Prior period
amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.

     Automation's sales of $4.4 billion in 1999 were down three percent from
1998 due to a $130 million sales decline at the motors business. Despite
sluggish markets, Automation achieved record operating earnings of $633 million
in 1999, excluding a $28 million gain resulting from the sale of our North
American Transformer business. Automation's higher operating performance was
driven by significant improvements in manufacturing processes and material cost
reductions, which more than offset investments in new product development and
launch costs. Operating earnings in 1999 also include a $9 million charge
related to the consolidation of the power systems businesses. Operating results
for 1998 include a $16 million gain related to



the favorable resolution of certain environmental matters with Exxon
Corporation. Operating earnings as a percent of sales were 14.4 percent in 1999,
excluding the $28 million gain, compared to 13.1 percent in 1998.

     Avionics & Communications achieved a 21 percent increase in sales during
1999 to $2.4 billion from $2 billion in 1998. All of Rockwell Collins'
businesses, passenger systems, government systems, air transport and business
and regional systems, posted sales increases in 1999. Rockwell Collins also
generated a 34 percent increase in customer service and support revenue in 1999.
Rockwell Collins' operating earnings in 1999 of $416 million, excluding a $32
million gain associated with the sale of the railroad electronics business, were
up 36 percent from 1998 operating earnings of $307 million, excluding a $35
million charge in 1998 for the estimated loss on a government systems contract.
Higher operating earnings in 1999 were driven by outstanding performance at the
air transport and business and regional systems businesses. Operating earnings
as a percent of sales in 1999 (excluding the $32 million gain) were 17.4 percent
compared to 15.5 percent in 1998 (excluding the $35 million contract charge).

     Sales for Other Businesses increased five percent in 1999 to $237 million.
Operating earnings in 1999 of $30 million include approximately $14 million
resulting from the favorable resolution of an intellectual property matter.

     The increase in general corporate expenses in 1999 is due to charges of
approximately $37 million for costs incurred in connection with the Company's
relocation of its corporate office and a $29 million loss associated with the
write-off of its investment in Goss Graphics Systems, Inc. preferred stock.

  1998 Compared to 1997

     Sales increased six percent in 1998 to $6.8 billion from $6.4 billion in
1997 due primarily to strong markets for Rockwell Collins products. Income from
continuing operations (before special items) for 1998 totaled $462 million, or
$2.33 per share, compared to $460 million, or $2.12 per share in 1997.

     Automation demonstrated its ability in 1998 to perform in uncertain global
markets by offsetting lower sales in North America and the Asia-Pacific region
with gains in Europe and Latin America. Sales in 1998 of $4.5 billion were about
the same as 1997. Operating earnings for 1998 were $594 million compared to $598
million in 1997. Operating earnings as a percent of sales were 13.1 percent in
1998 compared to 13.3 percent in 1997 as operating efficiencies and
cost-reduction actions implemented in June 1998 substantially offset the effects
of performance issues at the motors business.

     Avionics & Communications achieved an 18 percent increase in sales during
1998 to $2 billion from $1.7 billion in 1997. Significant sales increases
occurred at the Company's commercial air transport and business and regional
aircraft systems businesses in 1998. Approximately one-third of the sales
increase in 1998 was due to inclusion of the passenger systems business, which
was acquired in December 1997. Avionics & Communications' operating earnings for
1998, excluding a third quarter government contract reserve of $35 million, were
up 21 percent from 1997. Operating earnings as a percent of sales in 1998,
before special items and the contract reserve, were 15.5 percent compared to
15.1 percent in 1997.

     Sales for Other Businesses increased to $226 million in 1998 from $202
million in 1997. Operating earnings of $13 million in 1998 were consistent with
the operating earnings of 1997.

     Special items in 1998 consisted of a pre-tax charge of $103 million, or 31
cents per share, for purchased research and development in connection with the
acquisition of the passenger systems business and a pre-tax charge of $597
million, or $2.57 per share, for asset impairments and a comprehensive
restructuring program. A significant component of the asset impairment charge
related to the writedown of long-lived assets (primarily goodwill) associated
with Rockwell Automation's motors business. The special charges related to the
business segments as follows: Automation, $488 million; Avionics &
Communications, $88 million; Other Businesses, $11 million; and Corporate, $10
million. Including special items, the 1998 loss from continuing operations,
before an accounting change, was $109 million, or 55 cents per share, compared
to 1997 income from continuing operations of $437 million, or $2.01 per share.
In addition, the Company recorded an after-tax charge of $17 million, or nine
cents per share, related to a change in accounting method at the Avionics &
Communications business for certain general and administrative costs related to
government contracts. Including the effect of the accounting change and the
results of discontinued operations, the net loss for 1998



was $427 million, or $2.16 per share, compared to 1997 net income of $644
million, or $2.97 per share. The special item in 1997 was a pre-tax charge of
$23 million, or 11 cents per share, for purchased research and development
related to the acquisition of a Rockwell Automation software business.

DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     On December 31, 1998, the Company completed the spin-off of Semiconductor
Systems into an independent, separately traded, publicly held company by
distributing all of the outstanding shares of Conexant Systems, Inc. to the
Company's shareowners on a pro-rata basis. In connection with this spin-off, the
Company retained ownership of wafer fabrication facilities in Colorado Springs,
Colorado, which are currently being held for sale. The Company accrued for
Semiconductor Systems' estimated first quarter 1999 operating loss and costs
related to the spin-off in 1998. An additional $20 million loss was recorded in
the first quarter of 1999, which relates principally to the Company's decision
to record a further writedown of the wafer fabrication facilities in Colorado
Springs and for related costs of disposal.

     Discontinued operations for periods prior to 1999 include the Semiconductor
Systems, Automotive, Aerospace & Defense, and Graphic Systems businesses.

ACQUISITIONS

     The Company completed six acquisitions during 1999 that complement the
Company's product offerings, strengthen its technologies, and expand its global
reach. The total cost of these acquisitions was $241 million, of which $214
million was allocated to intangible assets, including developed technology,
patents, assembled workforce and goodwill. The intangible assets are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from six to thirty
years.

     Rockwell Automation acquired Anorad Corporation (Anorad), EJA Engineering,
Ltd. (EJA), substantially all of the assets of Enterprise Technology Group, Inc.
(ETG), a software business, and certain assets, principally intellectual
property, of Vancouver-based Dynapro. Anorad is a leading supplier of linear
motor equipment and its acquisition positions Rockwell to address motion control
opportunities in the semiconductor fabrication market. EJA, based in the United
Kingdom, is a market-leading manufacturer of integrated control and safety
systems in the $2 billion industrial safety market. The ETG acquisition enhances
the technological capabilities of our growing Rockwell Software business while
the Dynapro acquisition expands Rockwell Automation's human-machine interface
software and hardware capabilities.

     Our Avionics & Communications business acquired Intertrade Limited
(Intertrade) and the remaining 50 percent interest in Flight Dynamics.
Intertrade is an avionics parts supplier that will complement our growing
customer service and support business. Flight Dynamics, the market leader in
Head-Up Guidance Systems, increases Rockwell Collins' aviation electronics
content across multiple platforms.

INCOME TAXES

     The Company's effective income tax rate declined to 34.6 percent in 1999
from 36.3 percent, excluding the tax effects of special items in 1998. The lower
tax rate in 1999 is primarily attributable to higher utilization of foreign tax
credits in 1999. Management believes the Company's effective income tax rate
will continue to benefit in 2000 and beyond from ongoing tax planning
initiatives.

BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company's pension plan surplus increased to $270 million at September
30, 1999, from $95 million in 1998 due to a higher discount rate and continued
strong investment returns. Assets in the pension plans amounted to approximately
$3 billion at September 30, 1999. The Company is on track for full
implementation of its single simplified medical plan for active employees and
retirees on January 1, 2000.

OUTLOOK FOR 2000

     Assuming a continuation of present global economic conditions, we expect
earnings per share growth of approximately 10 percent. We expect higher sales
and earnings at Rockwell Automation and Rockwell Electronic Commerce while
Rockwell Collins' results should be about the same as 1999, with higher sales
and



earnings in business and regional systems, government systems, and customer
service and support, offsetting an expected decline in new aircraft production
in the commercial air transport market.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

     Rockwell's strong financial position provides substantial flexibility for
acquisitions and investments in new product development and technology. Cash
generated by operations of $940 million in 1999 was up 30 percent from $723
million in 1998. Free cash flow in 1999 was $594 million, an increase of $256
million over the $338 million of free cash flow in 1998. The higher cash
generation in 1999 was driven by improvements in working capital management,
supplier management and cost reductions. The Company defines free cash flow, an
internal performance measurement, as cash provided by operating activities,
including proceeds from dispositions of property and reduced by capital
expenditures. The Company's definition of free cash flow may be different from
definitions used by other companies.

     Cash used for investing activities was $420 million in 1999 compared to
$465 million in 1998. Capital expenditures in 1999 were $377 million and
consisted primarily of investments in facilities, machinery and equipment, and
integrated, enterprise-wide information systems to facilitate growth and
increase operating efficiencies. In addition, the Company used $241 million for
the acquisition of six new businesses in 1999. Cash used for acquisitions was
partially offset by $198 million in proceeds received from the sale of property
and businesses, including the Company's railroad electronics business and North
American Transformer business. Capital expenditures in 2000 are expected to
approximate $400 million.

     The Company continues to invest heavily in research and new product
development. Investment totaled $422 million in 1999, up five percent from $402
million in 1998. New product development at Rockwell Collins was up 15 percent
over 1998 due to higher investment at our passenger systems business. The
Company expects this level of product development to continue in 2000.

     In addition to internally generated cash, the Company has access to
existing financing sources, including the public debt markets and from the
approximately $1.3 billion of unsecured credit facilities with various banks.
The Company's debt-to-total-capital ratio at September 30, 1999, was 29 percent
compared to 25 percent at September 30, 1998.

     During 1999, the Company completed the $500 million stock repurchase
program initiated in 1997 and the Board of Directors approved an additional $250
million stock repurchase program. The Company spent approximately $172 million
during 1999 in connection with these programs. At September 30, 1999, there was
approximately $242 million remaining on its current $250 million stock
repurchase program.

     Cash dividends to shareowners were $194 million, or $1.02 per share, in
1999, compared to $202 million, or $1.02 per share, in 1998.

YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE

     The Company has substantially completed a comprehensive, five-phased Year
2000 remediation project. The inventory, assessment, and strategy phases were
completed in early 1999 and the conversion/upgrade and testing phases were
essentially complete by September 30, 1999. The Company's recent efforts have
been focused upon the development of Year 2000 contingency plans to deal with
unanticipated Year 2000 situations and any items that have not been remediated,
in order to minimize the risk of disruption to our customers and our businesses.
Management believes that the Company's products and the mission critical
components of its business systems, infrastructure and supporting systems are
ready for the transition to the Year 2000 and beyond.

     Despite the Company's internal state of readiness for the Year 2000,
business operations can still be negatively affected by external Year 2000
failures, especially in the supply chain as it relates to critical manufacturing
suppliers, material suppliers, and infrastructure (utilities, communications,
transportation and other services) suppliers. A Year 2000 failure by a critical
supplier could result in the temporary slowdown or cessation of production by
the Company, the duration of which cannot be reasonably estimated. Where
possible, the Company has attempted to reduce this risk through various means by
assessing the Year 2000 readiness of critical suppliers, including reviewing
their responses to a standard Year 2000 questionnaire, reviewing their public
Year 2000 readiness statements and engaging in follow-up actions, where
necessary, to evaluate Year 2000 readiness. For our top five percent of critical
manufacturing and material suppliers, the



Company has conducted on-site reviews and monitored specific Year 2000
milestones to review the supplier's readiness and the compliance of their
products and services.

     The current estimate of Year 2000 total project costs is approximately $42
million, which includes the cost of purchasing certain hardware and software.
Purchased hardware and software has been capitalized in accordance with normal
policy. Through September 30, 1999, approximately 95 percent of the total
project cost had been spent.

     The varying definitions of "compliance with Year 2000" and the array of
products and services sold by the Company, both today and in the past, may lead
to claims whose effect on the Company is not currently estimable. The Company
has product and general liability insurance policies which provide coverage in
the event of certain product failures. The Company has not, however, purchased
Year 2000 specific insurance because, in management's view, the cost is
prohibitive and likely of little value. In many cases, the Company contractually
limits or disclaims consequential damages in the Company's sales contracts. No
assurance can be given that the aggregate cost of defending and resolving such
claims will not materially adversely affect the Company's results of operations.
Although some of the Company's agreements with manufacturers and others from
whom it purchases products contain provisions requiring such parties to
indemnify the Company under certain circumstances, there can be no assurance
that such indemnification arrangements would cover all of the Company's
potential liabilities and costs related to claims by third parties related to
the Year 2000 issue.

     The Company has been developing contingency plans to address potential Year
2000 events. As of September 30, 1999, approximately 85 percent of the Company's
Year 2000 contingency plans have been developed through a process that includes
the identification of key business processes, the assessment of exposure to Year
2000-related incidents, and the outlining of the actions to be taken. These
actions include identifying alternate suppliers, pre-stocking critical inventory
items and forming rapid response teams to ensure that normal business operations
continue unaffected.

     With respect to operations under its direct control, management does not
currently expect, in view of its Year 2000 readiness efforts and the diversity
of its suppliers and customers, that occurrences of Year 2000 failures will have
a material adverse effect on the financial position or results of operations of
the Company. However, our evaluation is ongoing and we expect that new and
different information will become available to us. Consequently, there can be no
guarantee that all material elements will be Year 2000 ready in time. In this
environment, there will likely be instances of failure that could cause
disruptions in business processes. The likelihood and effects of such failures
cannot be estimated.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company is exposed to market risk during the normal course of business
from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The exposure
to these risks is managed through a combination of normal operating and
financing activities, and with respect to foreign currency transactions,
derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign currency forward
exchange contracts.

  Interest Rate Risk

     In addition to using cash provided by normal operating activities, the
Company utilizes a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance
operations. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on these debt
obligations.

     The Company had short-term debt obligations consisting of commercial paper
and foreign bank borrowings with carrying values of $187 million and $154
million at September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The Company's results of
operations are affected by changes in market interest rates on these short-term
obligations. If market interest rates would have averaged 10 percent higher than
actual levels in either 1999 or 1998, the effect on the Company's results of
operations would not have been material. The fair values of these obligations
approximated their carrying values at September 30, 1999 and 1998, and would not
have been materially affected by changes in market interest rates.

     At September 30, 1999 and 1998, the Company had outstanding fixed rate
long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $913 million and $910
million, respectively. The fair value of this debt was $836



million and $962 million at September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
potential loss in fair value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a
hypothetical 10 percent increase in market interest rates would not be material
to the overall fair value of the debt. The Company currently has no plans to
repurchase outstanding fixed-rate instruments and, therefore, fluctuations in
market interest rates would not have an effect on the Company's results of
operations or shareowners' equity.

  Foreign Currency Risk

     The Company is a global electronic controls and communications company and
as such, conducts a significant portion of its business activities outside the
United States in currencies other than the United States dollar. The Company
enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts (contracts) in the
ordinary course of business to protect itself from adverse currency rate
fluctuations on firm foreign currency transactions. In addition, the Company
enters into contracts to conservatively hedge certain forecasted foreign
currency transactions. These contracts are executed with creditworthy banks and
are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries. It is the policy of
the Company not to enter into derivative financial instruments for speculative
purposes. A substantial majority of these contracts are entered into in order to
hedge firm commitments with the remainder entered into to hedge forecasted
transactions. Under generally accepted accounting principles, gains and losses
on contracts for firm commitments are deferred through accumulated other
comprehensive income (loss) and included in the measurement of the underlying
foreign currency transaction being hedged. Gains and losses on contracts
relating to forecasted transactions are recognized in the current results of
operations.

     At September 30, 1999 and 1998, the Company had outstanding foreign
currency forward exchange contracts with notional amounts of $708 million and
$578 million, respectively, primarily consisting of contracts to exchange the
Euro, British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, and Swiss franc. Notional amounts
are stated in the U.S. dollar equivalents at exchange rates in effect at the
time of contract initiation. A hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in
underlying foreign currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would
not be material to the results of operations or financial position of the
Company.

CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

     This Annual Report contains statements (including certain projections and
business trends) accompanied by such phrases as "believes," "estimates,"
"expect(s)," "high expectations," "could," "likely," "anticipates," "will" and
other similar expressions, that are "forward-looking statements" as defined in
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ
materially from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties,
including but not limited to economic and political changes in international
markets where the Company competes, such as currency exchange rates, inflation
rates, recession, foreign ownership restrictions and other external factors over
which the Company has no control; domestic and foreign government spending,
budgetary and trade policies; demand for and market acceptance of new and
existing products; successful development of advanced technologies; competitive
product and pricing pressures; timely completion of Year 2000 software
modifications by the Company, its key suppliers and customers, and governments;
implementation of restructuring actions in accordance with management's plans
and the uncertainties of litigation, as well as other risks and uncertainties,
including but not limited to those detailed from time to time in the Company's
Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These forward-looking statements are
made only as of the date hereof, and the Company undertakes no obligation to
update or revise the forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.



ITEM 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                 (in millions)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                    (in millions, except per share amounts)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (in millions)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
                    (in millions, except per share amounts)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME (LOSS)
                                 (in millions)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Basis of Presentation

     Except as indicated, amounts reflected in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto relate to the continuing operations of Rockwell
International Corporation (Rockwell or the Company). Certain prior year amounts
have been reclassified to conform with the current year presentation.

  Consolidation

     The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts
of the Company and all majority-owned subsidiaries in which the Company has
control. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated
in consolidation.

  Use of Estimates

     The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles which require management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

  Revenue Recognition

     Sales are generally recorded as products are shipped or services are
rendered, except sales under certain contracts requiring performance over
several periods, which are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion
method of accounting. Anticipated losses on contracts accounted for under the
percentage-of-completion method are recognized in full in the period that the
losses become evident.

  Cash

     Cash includes time deposits and certificates of deposit with original
maturities of three months or less.

  Inventories

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using LIFO, FIFO, or
average methods. Market is determined on the basis of estimated realizable
values.

  Property

     Property is stated at cost. Depreciation of property is provided based on
estimated useful lives generally using accelerated and straight-line methods.
Significant renewals and betterments are capitalized and replaced units are
written off. Maintenance and repairs, as well as renewals of minor amounts, are
charged to expense.

  Purchased Intangibles

     Goodwill and other intangible assets generally result from business
acquisitions. The Company accounts for business acquisitions under the purchase
method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and intangible assets and
liabilities, including research and development projects which have not yet
reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future use (purchased
research and development). Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded
at their fair values; the appraised value of purchased research and development
is immediately charged to expense, and the excess of the purchase price over the
amounts assigned is recorded as goodwill.

     Goodwill is amortized using the straight-line method over periods generally
ranging from 10 to 40 years. Trademarks, patents, product technology, and other
intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives, ranging from 5 to 40 years.



  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

     Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable,
and for all assets to be disposed of. Long-lived assets held for use are
reviewed for impairment by assessing their net realizable values based on
estimated undiscounted cash flows over their remaining useful lives. If
impairment is indicated, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its fair
value.

  Derivative Financial Instruments

     The Company enters into foreign currency forward exchange contracts in the
ordinary course of business to protect itself from adverse currency rate
fluctuations on both firm and forecasted foreign currency transactions. These
contracts are executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies
of major industrial countries. It is the policy of the Company not to enter into
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. Accounting policies
for these instruments are based upon the Company's designation of such
instruments as hedging transactions under generally accepted accounting
principles. Criteria used in the designation of an instrument as a hedge include
the effectiveness of the instrument in reducing associated risk of the
underlying position. Gains or losses relating to hedging firm commitments are
deferred through accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) and included in
the measurement of the underlying foreign currency transaction being hedged.
Gains or losses relating to forecasted transactions are recognized in current
period other income, net.

  Stock Options

     The Company accounts for stock options in accordance with Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees.

  Environmental Matters

     The Company records accruals for environmental matters in the accounting
period in which its responsibility is established and the cost can be reasonably
estimated. Revisions to the accruals are made in the periods in which the
estimated costs of remediation change. At environmental sites in which more than
one potentially responsible party has been identified, the Company records a
liability for its estimated allocable share of costs related to its involvement
with the site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to the
involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At environmental sites in
which the Company is the only responsible party, the Company records a liability
for the total estimated costs of remediation. Costs of future expenditures for
environmental remediation obligations are not discounted to their present value.
If recovery from insurers or other third parties is determined to be probable,
the Company records a receivable for the estimated recovery.

  New Accounting Standards

     Effective October 1, 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income (SFAS 130).
SFAS 130 establishes standards for the reporting and presentation of
comprehensive income (loss) and its components in financial statements. SFAS 130
requires certain equity adjustments to be reported as components of
comprehensive income. The adoption of this statement had no effect on the
Company's results of operations or shareowners' equity.

     Effective September 30, 1999, the Company adopted SFAS No. 131, Disclosures
about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (SFAS 131). The adoption
of SFAS 131 changed the composition of the Company's reportable operating
segments, and accordingly, certain segment information reported in prior year
financial statements has been reclassified to conform with the current year
presentation. The adoption of SFAS 131 had no effect on the Company's results of
operations or shareowners' equity.



     Effective September 30, 1999, the Company adopted SFAS No. 132, Employers'
Disclosures about Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits (SFAS 132). SFAS
132 establishes new disclosure requirements for pension and other postretirement
benefit information in the notes to the consolidated financial statements. The
adoption of SFAS 132 had no effect on the Company's results of operations or
shareowners' equity.

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 133,
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133). SFAS
133 will require the Company to record all derivatives on the balance sheet at
fair value. For derivatives that are hedges, changes in fair value will be
offset by the changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or
firm commitments. In June 1999, the Financial Accounting Standards Board delayed
the effective date of SFAS 133 to fiscal year 2001, but early adoption continues
to be permitted. The Company believes the effect of adopting this standard will
not be material to its results of operations or shareowners' equity.

     In 1998, the Company adopted American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants Statement of Position 98-1, Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use (SOP 98-1). SOP 98-1 requires
the cost of purchased software and certain costs incurred in developing computer
software for internal use to be capitalized and amortized over future periods.
During the year ended September 30, 1998, the Company's continuing businesses
capitalized $46 million of such costs that would have been charged to expense
under its previous accounting policy.

  Accounting Change

     Effective October 1, 1997, Rockwell changed its method of accounting for
certain general and administrative costs related to government contracts to
expense these costs as incurred. Under the previous accounting method, these
costs were included in inventory. The amount of general and administrative costs
included in inventory as of October 1, 1997 was $27 million ($17 million
after-tax, or nine cents per share) and is presented as the cumulative effect of
an accounting change in the consolidated statement of operations for the year
ended September 30, 1998. The effect of the accounting change on income from
continuing operations in 1997 would not have been material.



2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     On December 31, 1998, the Company completed the spin-off of its former
semiconductor systems business (Semiconductor Systems) into an independent,
separately traded, publicly-held company by distributing all of the outstanding
shares of Conexant Systems, Inc. (Conexant) to the Company's shareowners on a
pro-rata basis. Prior to the spin-off, Conexant distributed to Rockwell its
wafer fabrication facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado with a net book value
of $21 million and a related deferred tax asset of $48 million. Also, prior to
the spin-off, Rockwell paid $64 million into an escrow account to satisfy
Conexant's obligation with respect to a litigation matter. The net assets of
Conexant as of December 31, 1998 of $913 million were recorded as a decrease to
shareowners' equity.

     At September 30, 1998, the net assets of Semiconductor Systems consisted of
the following (in millions):



     On September 30, 1997, the Company completed the spin-off of its automotive
component systems businesses (Automotive) into an independent company by
distributing all of the issued and outstanding shares of Meritor Automotive,
Inc. (Meritor) to the Company's shareowners on a pro-rata basis. In connection
with the transaction, Meritor made a special payment of $445 million to the
Company and the net assets of Meritor as of September 30, 1997 of $151 million
were recorded as a decrease to shareowners' equity.

     In December 1996, the Company divested its former Aerospace and Defense
businesses (the A&D Business) by merging it with a subsidiary of The Boeing
Company (Boeing) in a tax-free reorganization (the Reorganization). In
connection with the Reorganization, all shares of common stock held in treasury
were canceled and the net liabilities of the A&D Business at the date of the
Reorganization of approximately $1.2 billion were recorded as an increase to
additional paid-in capital.

     In October 1996, the Company's graphic systems business (Graphic Systems)
was sold for approximately $600 million.



     Summarized results of discontinued operations are as follows (in millions):



     The Company accrued for Semiconductor Systems' estimated first quarter 1999
operating loss and costs related to the spin-off in 1998. The additional loss
recorded in the first quarter of 1999 relates principally to the Company's
decision to record a further writedown of the wafer fabrication facilities in
Colorado Springs and for related costs of disposal.

3. SPECIAL CHARGES

     In the third quarter of 1998, the Company recorded special charges of $597
million ($508 million after tax, or $2.57 per share) in connection with asset
impairments and the implementation of a comprehensive restructuring program.
These charges, including the effects of adjustments through September 30, 1999,
included $103 million for severance and other employee separation costs
associated with a worldwide workforce reduction of approximately 3,200 employees
and $83 million related to facility closures and consolidations and exiting
non-strategic businesses and product lines. These actions are expected to be
substantially complete by the end of calendar 1999, with the remaining cash
expenditures related to these actions to be made by the end of calendar 2000.

     Total cash expenditures in connection with these actions are expected to
approximate $166 million. The Company spent approximately $73 million through
September 30, 1999, of which $46 million related to severance and other employee
separation costs, and expects to spend an additional $49 million through the end
of 2000. As a result of actions taken through September 30, 1999, the workforce
has been reduced by approximately 2,300 employees.

     As of September 30, 1999 and 1998, approximately $93 million and $156
million, respectively, is included in the consolidated balance sheet for
remaining activities associated with the third quarter 1998 special charges. Of
the amount at September 30, 1999, $48 million is included in compensation and
benefits, $20 million is included in other liabilities and the remaining $25
million is included in accounts payable or other current liabilities. Of the
amount at September 30, 1998, $83 million is included in compensation and
benefits, $37 million is included in other liabilities and the remaining $36
million is included in accounts payable or other current liabilities.

     Included in the special charges is $266 million related to the impairment
of the long-lived assets of the Automation segment's industrial motors business
(Motors). This impairment resulted from a significant



decline in operating performance and represents the excess of the carrying value
of the long-lived assets (including goodwill) of Motors over their estimated
fair value as determined by management, with the assistance of outside experts,
utilizing accepted valuation techniques. The Company also recorded impairment
charges of $53 million related to the long-lived assets of businesses that have
been sold or are held for disposition.

     The special charges are reflected in the consolidated statement of
operations for the year ended September 30, 1998 in cost of sales and selling,
general and administrative expenses in the amount of $455 million and $142
million, respectively.

     Revenues of businesses and product lines which have been or are being
exited were $88 million, $197 million and $211 million for 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively. The net operating income in 1999 and net operating losses in 1998
and 1997 related to these businesses and product lines are not material.

4. ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES

     In May 1999, the Automation segment acquired certain intellectual property
and other assets of Dynapro, expanding its human-machine interface software and
hardware capabilities, and substantially all of the assets of Enterprise
Technology Group, Inc., a software business. In January 1999, the Automation
segment acquired EJA Engineering Ltd., a market-leading manufacturer of safety
products. In November 1998, the Automation segment acquired Anorad Corporation,
a manufacturer of linear motor equipment.

     In August 1999, the Avionics & Communications segment acquired Intertrade
Limited, an avionics parts supplier. In March 1999, the Avionics &
Communications segment acquired the remaining 50 percent interest in Flight
Dynamics, the market leader in Head-Up Guidance Systems for aircraft operations.

     Assets acquired and liabilities assumed have been recorded at estimated
fair values determined by the Company's management based on information
currently available. The aggregate purchase price for all acquisitions during
1999 was $241 million of which $214 million was allocated to intangible assets,
including developed technology, patents, assembled workforce and goodwill. The
intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods
ranging from six to thirty years.

     In December 1997, the Avionics & Communications segment acquired the
in-flight entertainment business of Hughes-Avicom International, Inc. (Passenger
Systems). In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a charge of
$103 million ($63 million after tax) for purchased research and development and
recorded $70 million for other intangible assets, including developed
technology, patents, assembled workforce and goodwill, which are being amortized
on a straight-line basis over 10 years.

     These acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and, accordingly, the
results of operations of these businesses have been included in the consolidated
statement of operations since their respective dates of acquisition. Pro forma
financial information is not presented as the combined effect of these
acquisitions was not material to the Company's results of operations or
financial position.

5. INVENTORIES, NET

     Inventories, net are summarized as follows (in millions):





6. PROPERTY, NET

     Property, net is summarized as follows (in millions):



7. INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET

     Intangible assets, net are summarized as follows (in millions):



8. SHORT-TERM DEBT

     Short-term debt consists of the following (in millions):



     Weighted average interest rates on short-term borrowings:



     At September 30, 1999, the Company had $1 billion of unsecured credit
facilities with various banks to support commercial paper borrowings. There were
no significant commitment fees or compensating balance requirements under these
facilities. Short-term credit facilities available to foreign subsidiaries
amounted to $285 million at September 30, 1999 and consisted of arrangements for
which there are no significant commitment fees.



9. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

     Other current liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions):



10. LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consists of the following (in millions):



11. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The Company's financial instruments include cash, short- and long-term debt
and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The fair values of cash and
short-term debt approximate the carrying values due to the short-term nature of
these instruments. At September 30, 1999 and 1998, the carrying value of long-
term debt was $913 million and $910 million, respectively. The fair value of
long-term debt, based upon quoted market prices for the same or similar issues,
was $836 million and $962 million at September 30, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     Foreign currency forward exchange contracts provide for the purchase or
sale of foreign currencies at specified future dates at specified exchange
rates. At September 30, 1999 and 1998, the Company had outstanding foreign
currency forward exchange contracts with notional amounts of $708 million and
$578 million, respectively, primarily consisting of contracts for the Euro,
British pound sterling, Canadian dollar, and Swiss franc. Notional amounts are
stated in the U.S. dollar equivalents at exchange rates in effect at the time of
contract initiation. At September 30, 1999 and 1998, the carrying value of
foreign currency forward exchange contracts approximated their fair value based
upon quoted market prices for contracts with similar maturities. The Company
does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its results of operations or
financial position relating to these foreign currency forward exchange
contracts.

12. SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY

  Common Stock

     At September 30, 1999, the authorized stock of the Company consisted of one
billion shares of common stock, with a $1 par value, and 25 million shares of
preferred stock, without par value. At September 30, 1999,



19 million shares of common stock were reserved for various employee incentive
plans. In 1997, all outstanding shares of Class A common stock were converted
into common stock.

     Changes in outstanding common shares are summarized as follows (in
millions):



     In 1998, there was a loss from continuing operations and stock options were
antidilutive. Therefore, for 1998, diluted and basic earnings per share amounts
are identical. For 1999 and 1997, dilutive stock options resulted in an increase
in average outstanding shares of 3.1 million and 3.3 million, respectively.

  Preferred Share Purchase Rights

     Each outstanding share of common stock provides the holder with one
Preferred Share Purchase Right (Right). The Rights will become exercisable only
if a person or group acquires, or offers to acquire, 20% or more of the common
stock, although the Company is authorized to reduce the 20% threshold for
triggering the Rights to not less than 10%. Upon exercise, each Right entitles
the holder to 1/100th of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock of the Company (Junior Preferred Stock) at a price of $250, subject to
adjustment.

     Upon an acquisition of the Company, each Right (other than Rights held by
the acquiror) will generally be exercisable for $500 worth of common stock or
common stock of the acquiror for $250. In certain circumstances, each Right may
be exchanged by the Company for one share of common stock or 1/100th of a share
of Junior Preferred Stock. The Rights will expire on December 6, 2006, unless
earlier exchanged or redeemed at $0.01 per Right.

  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss

     Accumulated other comprehensive loss consisted of the following (in
millions):



13. STOCK OPTIONS

     Options to purchase common stock of the Company have been granted under
various incentive plans to directors, officers and other key employees at prices
equal to or above the fair market value of such stock on the dates the options
were granted. The plans provide that the option price for certain options
granted under the plans may be paid in cash, shares of common stock or a
combination thereof.

     Under the 1995 Long-Term Incentives Plan, the Company may grant up to 16
million shares of Company common stock as non-qualified options, incentive stock
options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock. Shares available for
future grant or payment under various incentive plans were seven million at
September 30, 1999. None of the incentive plans presently permits options to be
granted after September 30, 2005. Stock options generally expire ten years from
the date they are granted and vest over three years (time-vesting options) with
the exception of performance-vesting options.



     During 1999, the Company granted approximately one million
performance-vesting options. These options expire ten years from the date they
are granted and vest at the earlier of (a) the date the market price of the
Company's common stock reaches a specified level for a pre-determined period of
time or certain other financial performance criteria are met or (b) a period of
six to nine years from the date they are granted. During 1999, approximately 0.9
million of the performance options vested.

     Information relative to stock options is as follows (shares in thousands):



     In connection with the spin-off of Semiconductor Systems, for certain of
the outstanding options, the number of options and the exercise prices of such
options were adjusted in order to preserve the intrinsic value of the options
that were outstanding as of the date of the spin-off. For certain other options,
option holders received a combination of Rockwell and Conexant options with
adjustments made to the number of options outstanding and the exercise prices of
those options such that the intrinsic value of the Rockwell and Conexant options
that were outstanding after the date of the spin-off was preserved.
Additionally, Rockwell options granted to Semiconductor Systems employees were
converted into Conexant options.

     In connection with the spin-off of Automotive and the divestiture of the
A&D Business, the number of options outstanding and the exercise prices of such
options were adjusted in order to preserve the intrinsic value of the options
that were outstanding as of the date of each divestiture. In connection with the
Automotive spin-off, Rockwell options granted to Automotive employees during
1997 were converted into Meritor options.

     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at September 30, 1999 (shares in thousands; remaining life in years):





     The Company's net income and earnings per share would have been reduced,
and net loss and loss per share increased, to the following pro forma amounts if
the Company accounted for its stock-based plans using the fair value method
provided by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (in millions,
except per share amounts):



     The 1999 pro forma net income includes $87 million ($57 million after tax,
or 29 cents per diluted share) of pro forma compensation expense related to the
spin-off of Semiconductor Systems. The pro forma effect of stock options on net
income for 1999 may not be indicative of the pro forma effect on net income in
future years.

     The weighted average fair value of options granted was $9.55, $13.68 and
$15.38 per share in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The fair value of each
option was estimated on the date of grant or subsequent date of option
adjustment using the Black-Scholes pricing model and the following assumptions:



14. RETIREMENT BENEFITS

     The Company sponsors pension and other postretirement benefit plans for its
employees. The pension plans cover most of the Company's employees and provide
for monthly pension payments to eligible employees upon retirement. Pension
benefits for salaried employees generally are based on years of credited service
and average earnings. Pension benefits for hourly employees generally are based
on specified benefit amounts and years of service. The Company's policy is to
fund its pension obligations in conformity with the funding requirements of
applicable laws and governmental regulations. Other postretirement benefits are
in the form of retirement medical plans and cover most of the Company's United
States employees and provide for the payment of medical costs of eligible
employees and dependents upon retirement.

     The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows (in millions):





     In 1999, the Company recognized a curtailment gain of $16 million and
special termination benefit charges of $11 million.

     Benefit obligation, plan asset, funded status, and net asset (liability)
information is summarized as follows (in millions):





     The Company uses an actuarial measurement date of June 30 to measure its
benefit obligations. Significant assumptions used in determining these benefit
obligations are summarized as follows (in weighted averages):



* Decreasing to 5.5% after 2015.

  Pension Benefits

     The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for the pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of the fair value of plan assets (underfunded plans) were $145
million, $130 million and $7 million, respectively, as of September 30, 1999 and
$151 million, $122 million and $7 million, respectively, as of September 30,
1998.

  Other Postretirement Benefits

     Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on amounts
reported for the retiree medical plans. A one percentage point change in assumed
health care cost trend rates would have the following effect (in millions):



  Defined Contribution Savings Plans

     The Company also sponsors certain defined contribution savings plans for
eligible employees. Expense related to these plans was $43 million, $42 million,
and $43 million for 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

15. OTHER INCOME, NET

     The components of other income, net are as follows (in millions):



     Included in the $57 million gain on dispositions of businesses in 1999 is a
$32 million gain related to the sale of the Avionics & Communications segment's
railroad electronics business in October 1998 and a $28 million gain related to
the sale of the Automation segment's North American Transformer business in
September 1999.



     In September 1999, the Company recorded a loss of $29 million associated
with the write-off of its investment in Goss Graphic Systems, Inc. (Goss)
preferred stock, which the Company received in connection with the sale of
Graphic Systems in October 1996. Goss filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter
of 1999.

16. INCOME TAXES

     The components of the income tax provision are as follows (in millions):



     Net current deferred income tax benefits at September 30, 1999 and 1998
consist of the tax effects of temporary differences related to the following (in
millions):



     Net long-term deferred income taxes included in Other Liabilities in the
balance sheet at September 30, 1999 and 1998 consist of the tax effects of
temporary differences related to the following (in millions):



     Management believes it is more likely than not that current and long-term
tax assets will be realized through the reduction of future taxable income.
Significant factors considered by management in its



determination of the probability of the realization of the deferred tax assets
include: (a) the historical operating results of the Company ($1.8 billion of
United States taxable income over the past three years), (b) expectations of
future earnings, and (c) the extended period of time over which the retirement
medical liability will be paid. The valuation allowance represents the amount of
tax benefits related to net operating loss, capital loss and foreign tax credit
carryforwards that have not yet been recognized. The carryforward period for net
operating and capital losses expires between 2000 and 2006. The carryforward
period for foreign tax credits expires between 2000 and 2002.

     The consolidated income tax provision differed from income tax at the
United States statutory tax rate for the reasons set forth below (in millions):



     In September 1998, the Company donated a trisonic wind tunnel, valued at
$49 million, to a university.

     The income tax provisions were calculated based upon the following
components of income (loss) from continuing operations before income taxes (in
millions):



     No provision has been made for United States, state, or additional foreign
income taxes related to approximately $172 million of undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries which have been or are intended to be permanently
reinvested.

     The Company's United States income tax returns for the years 1989 through
1997 are currently under examination. In connection with the divestiture of the
A&D Business, the Automotive spin-off and the Semiconductor Systems spin-off,
the Company has retained all tax liabilities and the right to all tax refunds
related to United States and certain non-U.S. operations of the A&D Business,
Automotive and Semiconductor Systems for periods prior to the respective
divestiture dates. Management believes that adequate provision for income taxes
has been made for all years through 1999.



17. SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT INFORMATION



     Income taxes paid and interest payments related to discontinued operations
were (in millions) $25 and $56 in 1997, respectively, and are included in the
determination of the cash flows of discontinued operations. The amounts for 1999
and 1998 were not significant.

     Minimum future rental commitments under operating leases having
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year aggregated $223 million as of
September 30, 1999 and are payable as follows (in millions): 2000, $52; 2001,
$43; 2002, $33; 2003, $22; 2004, $19; and after 2005, $54. Commitments from
third parties under sublease agreements having noncancelable lease terms in
excess of one year aggregated $41 million as of September 30, 1999 and are
receivable through 2008 at approximately $5 million per year.

18. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of
substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes and other
activities affecting the environment have and will continue to have an effect on
the manufacturing operations of the Company. Thus far, compliance with
environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims have been
accomplished without material effect on the Company's liquidity and capital
resources, competitive position or financial condition.

     The Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party at 19
Superfund sites, excluding sites as to which the Company's records disclose no
involvement or as to which the Company's potential liability has been finally
determined. Management estimates the total reasonably possible costs the Company
could incur for the remediation of Superfund sites at September 30, 1999 to be
about $19 million, of which $16 million has been accrued.

     Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been asserted against
the Company alleging violations of federal, state and local environmental
protection requirements, or seeking remediation of alleged environmental
impairments, principally at previously owned properties. As of September 30,
1999, management has estimated the total reasonably possible costs the Company
could incur from these matters to be about $90 million. The Company has recorded
environmental accruals for these matters of $61 million. In addition to the
above matters, the Company assumed certain other environmental liabilities in
connection with the 1995 acquisition of Reliance Electric Company (Reliance).
The Company is indemnified by Exxon Corporation (Exxon) for substantially all
costs associated with these Reliance matters. At September 30, 1999, the Company
has recorded a $29 million liability and a $28 million receivable for these
Reliance matters. Management estimates the total reasonably possible costs for
these matters to be approximately $43 million for which the Company is
substantially indemnified by Exxon.

     Based on its assessment, management believes that the Company's
expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation necessary to
comply with present regulations governing environmental protection and other
expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and capital resources, competitive
position or financial condition. Management cannot assess the possible effect of
compliance with future requirements.



     Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or
asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its business, including
those pertaining to product liability, intellectual property, safety and health
and employment matters. Pursuant to the Reorganization, Rockwell has agreed to
indemnify Boeing for certain government contract and environmental matters
related to operations of the A&D Business for periods prior to the
Reorganization. In connection with the Automotive spin-off, Meritor has agreed
to indemnify the Company for substantially all contingent liabilities related to
Automotive. In connection with the Semiconductor Systems spin-off, Conexant
assumed all contingent liabilities related to its business, including
environmental and intellectual property matters. Although the outcome of
litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims, or
proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management believes
the disposition of matters which are pending or asserted will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

     In the ordinary course of business, the Company has divested certain of its
businesses. As a result of such divestitures, there may be lawsuits, claims or
proceedings instituted or asserted against the Company related to the period
that the businesses were owned by the Company. Management believes that any
judgments against the Company related to such matters would not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.

19. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

     Rockwell is an electronics and communications company with global
leadership positions in industrial automation, avionics and communications, and
automated call distribution systems. The Company is organized based upon
products and services and has three operating segments consisting of Automation,
Avionics & Communications, and Electronic Commerce.

     The Automation segment is a supplier of industrial automation products,
systems, software and services focused on helping customers control and power
manufacturing processes. Products include controllers, I/O (input/output)
systems, drives, sensors, power devices, packaged control products, operator
interface devices, software products and services, gear reducers, mounted
bearings, power transmission components, network monitoring products and motors.
These products are primarily marketed under the Rockwell Automation,
Allen-Bradley, Rockwell Software, Dodge, and Reliance Electric brand names.
Major markets served include consumer products, food and beverage,
transportation, metals, mining, cement, pulp and paper, petroleum, specialty
chemicals, pharmaceutical, electric power, water treatment, infrastructure and
semiconductor fabrication.

     The Avionics & Communications segment is a supplier of electronic products
and systems, service and support solutions to the commercial aerospace and
defense industries. Products include electronic equipment for flight control,
cockpit display, navigation, voice and data communication, cockpit management,
in-flight cabin management, communications and passenger entertainment, radar,
global positioning and other command, control and communications devices
marketed primarily under the Rockwell Collins brand name. Major customers
include airframe manufacturers, the United States government, and most of the
world's airlines.

     The Electronic Commerce segment, which is engaged in the research,
development, and manufacture of technologies used in telephony and Internet
applications, has been combined with the Science Center, a research and
development facility, in "Other Businesses."



     The following tables reflect the sales and operating results of the
Company's reportable segments for the years ended September 30 (in millions):



     Intersegment sales are not material and have been eliminated. Among other
considerations, the Company evaluates performance and allocates resources based
upon segment operating earnings before income taxes, interest expense, costs
related to the corporate offices, foreign currency translation gains and losses,
nonrecurring special charges and purchased research and development charges. The
accounting policies used in preparing the segment information are consistent
with those described in Note 1. Special charges are discussed in Note 3 and the
purchased research and development charge is discussed in Note 4.

     The following tables summarize the identifiable assets at September 30, the
provision for depreciation and amortization and the amount of capital
expenditures for property for the years ended September 30 for each of the
reportable segments and Corporate (in millions):







     Identifiable assets at Corporate consist principally of cash, net deferred
income tax assets, and property.

     The Company is a global electronic controls and communications company and
as such, conducts a significant portion of its business activities outside the
United States. The following tables reflect geographic sales and long-lived
assets by geographic region (in millions):



     Sales are attributed to the geographic regions based on their location of
origin. United States sales include export sales to unaffiliated customers of
$762 million in 1999, $660 million in 1998, and $581 million in 1997.

20. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)



     Net income for 1999 includes: (a) a gain of $36 million ($24 million after
tax, or 12 cents per diluted share) on the sale of the Company's railroad
electronics business in the first quarter, (b) a gain of $28 million ($18
million after tax, or nine cents per diluted share) on the sale of the Company's
North American Transformer business in the fourth quarter, and (c) a loss of $29
million ($19 million after tax, or 10 cents per diluted share) associated with
the write-off of its investment in Goss preferred stock, which the Company
received in connection with the sale of Graphic Systems in October 1996. Goss
filed for bankruptcy in the fourth quarter of 1999.





     Per share information is calculated for each quarterly and annual period
using average outstanding shares for that period. Therefore, the sum of the
quarterly per share amounts will not necessarily equal the annual per share
amounts presented.

     First quarter and full year net income (loss) for 1998 includes a $27
million charge ($17 million after tax, or nine cents per diluted share) related
to the cumulative effect of a change in accounting principle.

     Income (loss) from continuing operations before accounting change for 1998
includes: (a) the write-off of purchased research and development of $63 million
after tax, or 31 cents per diluted share, related to the acquisition of
Passenger Systems in the first quarter, and (b) the effects of special charges
recorded in the third quarter of $508 million after tax, or $2.57 per diluted
share.



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of
Rockwell International Corporation:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Rockwell
International Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1999 and 1998,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareowners' equity, cash
flows, and comprehensive income (loss) for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 1999. Our audits also included the financial statement
schedule listed at Item 14(a)(2). These financial statements and financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and
financial statement schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Rockwell International
Corporation and subsidiaries at September 30, 1999 and 1998, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed its method of accounting for certain inventoriable general and
administrative costs related to government contracts in 1998.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin
November 3, 1999



     See also the table under the caption Summary of Results of Operations in
the MD&A on page 12 hereof.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

     See the information under the captions ELECTION OF DIRECTORS and
INFORMATION AS TO NOMINEE FOR DIRECTOR AND CONTINUING DIRECTORS on pages 3-6 of
the 2000 Proxy Statement.

     No nominee for director was selected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the nominee and any person other than the Company pursuant
to which such person is or was to be selected as a director or nominee. See also
the information with respect to executive officers of the Company under Item 4a
of Part I hereof.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     See the information under the captions EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION, OPTION
GRANTS and AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES AND FISCAL YEAR-END VALUES on pages 10-12
and RETIREMENT PLANS on page 17 of the 2000 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     See the information under the captions VOTING SECURITIES and OWNERSHIP BY
MANAGEMENT OF EQUITY SECURITIES on pages 3 and 9, respectively, of the 2000
Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     See the information under the caption BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES on
pages 6-8 of the 2000 Proxy Statement.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits.

        (1) Financial Statements (all financial statements listed below are
            those of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries).

            Consolidated Balance Sheet, September 30, 1999 and 1998.

            Consolidated Statement of Operations, years ended September 30,
            1999, 1998 and 1997.

            Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, years ended September 30,
            1999, 1998 and 1997.

            Consolidated Statement of Shareowners' Equity, years ended September
            30, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

            Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income (Loss), years ended
            September 30, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

            Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

            Independent Auditors' Report.

        (2) Financial Statement Schedule for the years ended September 30, 1999,
            1998 and 1997.

                                                                      Page
                                                                      ----

            Schedule II--Valuation and Qualifying Accounts...........  S-1

            Schedules not filed herewith are omitted because of the absence of
            conditions under which they are required or because the information
            called for is shown in the consolidated financial statements or
            notes thereto.

        (3) Exhibits.







- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.





- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.

         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period
         covered by this Report.

- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.



                                   SIGNATURES

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                      ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

                                      By      /s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
                                         ---------------------------------------

                                                 WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
                                         SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, GENERAL COUNSEL
                                                      AND SECRETARY

Dated: December 1, 1999

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW ON THE 1ST DAY OF DECEMBER 1999 BY THE FOLLOWING
PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED.

            DON H. DAVIS, JR.*
        CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND
         CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
      (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

            GEORGE L. ARGYROS*
                 DIRECTOR

             DONALD R. BEALL*
                 DIRECTOR

          WILLIAM H. GRAY, III*
                 DIRECTOR

      JAMES CLAYBURN LA FORCE, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR

        WILLIAM T. MCCORMICK, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR

             JOHN D. NICHOLS*
                 DIRECTOR

            BRUCE M. ROCKWELL*
                 DIRECTOR

            ROBERT B. SHAPIRO*
                 DIRECTOR

            WILLIAM S. SNEATH*
                 DIRECTOR

           JOSEPH F. TOOT, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR

            W. MICHAEL BARNES*
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE & PLANNING
                   AND
    CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (PRINCIPAL
            FINANCIAL OFFICER)

           WILLIAM E. SANDERS*
 VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER (PRINCIPAL
           ACCOUNTING OFFICER)

*By /s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
     --------------------------------------------------------------
     WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR., ATTORNEY-IN-FACT**

** BY AUTHORITY OF POWERS OF ATTORNEY FILED HEREWITH.





                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

             FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1999, 1998 AND 1997



- ---------------

(a)  Includes allowances for commercial and other long-term receivables.

(b)  Uncollectible accounts written off.

(c)  Consists principally of amounts relating to businesses acquired, businesses
     sold and foreign currency translation adjustments.

                                       S-1

