
10-K405
y54460e10-k405.txt
ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                             ---------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2001. COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12383
                             ---------------------

                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registration as specified in its charter)



              REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:
                    (414) 212-5299 (OFFICE OF THE SECRETARY)
                             ---------------------
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



                             ---------------------

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]     No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value of registrant's voting stock held by
non-affiliates of registrant on October 31, 2001 was approximately $2.5 billion.

     183,793,520 shares of registrant's Common Stock, par value $1 per share,
were outstanding on October 31, 2001.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Certain information contained in this Proxy Statement for the Annual
Meeting of Shareowners of registrant to be held on February 6, 2002 is
incorporated by reference into Part III hereof.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

     Rockwell International Corporation, now doing business under the name
Rockwell Automation (the Company or Rockwell), a Delaware corporation, is a
leading global provider of industrial automation power, control and information
products and services. The Company was incorporated in 1996 and is the successor
to the former Rockwell International Corporation as a result of a tax-free
reorganization completed on December 6, 1996, pursuant to which the Company
divested its former aerospace and defense businesses (the A&D Business) to The
Boeing Company (Boeing). The predecessor corporation was incorporated in 1928.
On September 30, 1997, the Company completed the spinoff of its automotive
component systems business (the Automotive Business) into an independent,
separately traded, publicly held company named Meritor Automotive, Inc.
(Meritor). On July 7, 2000, Meritor and Arvin Industries, Inc. merged to form
ArvinMeritor, Inc. (ArvinMeritor). On December 31, 1998, the Company completed
the spinoff of its semiconductor systems business (Semiconductor Systems) into
an independent, separately traded, publicly held company named Conexant Systems,
Inc. (Conexant). On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the spinoff of its
Rockwell Collins avionics and communications business into an independent,
separately traded, publicly held company named Rockwell Collins, Inc. (Rockwell
Collins). As used herein, the terms the "Company" or "Rockwell" include
subsidiaries and predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise.
Information included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to the Company's
continuing businesses unless otherwise indicated.

     For purposes hereof, whenever reference is made in any Item of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K to information under specific captions in Item 7,
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS (the MD&A), or in Item 8, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (the Financial Statements), or to information in the Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of the Company to be held on
February 6, 2002 (the 2002 Proxy Statement), such information shall be deemed to
be incorporated therein by such reference.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     Rockwell is a provider of industrial automation power, control and
information products and services. The Company is organized based upon products
and services and has three operating segments consisting of Control Systems,
Power Systems and Electronic Commerce.

     The Control Systems business is a supplier of industrial automation
products, systems, software and services focused on helping customers control
manufacturing processes. Products include controllers, I/O (input/output)
systems, drives, sensors, packaged control products, operator interface devices,
software products and services and network monitoring products. These products
are primarily marketed under the Rockwell Automation, Allen-Bradley, and
Rockwell Software brand names. Major markets served include consumer products,
food and beverage, transportation, metals, mining, pulp and paper, petroleum,
specialty chemicals, pharmaceuticals, electric power, water treatment,
electronic assembly and semiconductor fabrication.

     The Power Systems business is a supplier of industrial automation
mechanical power transmission products and industrial motors and drives.
Products include power transmission components, gear reducers, speed drives,
shaft mounted reducers, conveyor pulleys, shaft couplings, clutches, motor
brakes, mounted bearings and motors. These products are primarily marketed under
the Dodge and Reliance Electric brand names. Major markets served include
mining, aggregate, food/beverage, forestry, petrochemicals, metals, unit
handling, air handling and environmental.

     The Electronic Commerce business is a solutions supplier for companies that
interact with their customers via the telephone, the internet, or both. Products
include automatic call distributors, computer telephony integration software,
information collection, reporting, queuing and management systems, call center
systems and consulting services. Major markets served include service,
transportation, energy, healthcare, retail, telecommunications and financial.


     Financial information with respect to the Company's business segments,
including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 2001, is contained under the
caption RESULTS OF OPERATIONS in the MD&A on pages 11-13 hereof, and in Note 19
of the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements.

COMPETITIVE POSTURE

     The Company has competitors which, depending on the product involved, range
from large diversified businesses that sell products outside of automation,
comparable to or greater than the Company in scope and resources, to smaller
companies specializing in niche products and services. Factors that affect the
Company's competitive posture are its research and development efforts, the
quality of its products and services and its marketing and pricing strategies.

     The Company's products are sold by its own sales force and through
distributors and agents.

ACQUISITIONS AND DIVESTITURES

     The Company regularly considers the acquisition or development of new
businesses and reviews the prospects of its existing businesses to determine
whether any should be modified, sold or otherwise discontinued.

     During 2001, the Control Systems segment acquired the batch software and
services business of Sequencia Corporation. The acquisition expanded Control
Systems' portfolio of Manufacturing BusinessWare solutions into the batch
application space.

     During 2000, the Control Systems segment acquired Entek IRD International
Corporation (Entek), a provider of machinery condition monitoring solutions, and
acquired substantially all the assets and assumed certain liabilities of Systems
Modeling Corporation (SMC), a developer of shop floor scheduling, simulation and
modeling software. The total cost of these acquisitions was $70 million. The
acquisition of Entek has increased Rockwell's ability to provide value-added
services that reduce customers' downtime and maintenance costs at their
manufacturing facilities. The acquisition of SMC complements Control Systems'
Manufacturing BusinessWare strategy by providing additional capabilities.

     During 1999, the Control Systems segment acquired Anorad Corporation, EJA
Engineering Ltd., substantially all of the assets of Enterprise Technology
Group, Inc. (ETG) and certain assets, principally intellectual property, of
Vancouver-based Dynapro. The total cost of these acquisitions was $185 million.
Anorad is a supplier of linear motor equipment and its acquisition positions
Rockwell to capitalize on motion control opportunities in the semiconductor
fabrication market. EJA, based in the United Kingdom, is a manufacturer of
integrated control and safety systems in the industrial safety market. The ETG
acquisition enhances the technological capabilities of Control Systems while the
Dynapro acquisition expands Control Systems' human-machine interface software
and hardware capabilities.

     On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the spinoff of its Rockwell Collins
avionics and communications business into an independent, separately traded,
publicly held company by distributing all of the outstanding shares of Rockwell
Collins to the Company's shareowners on the basis of one Rockwell Collins share
for each outstanding Rockwell share. Commensurate with the spinoff, Rockwell
Collins made a special payment to the Company of $300 million. Following the
spinoff, each of Rockwell Collins and the Company has a 50 percent ownership
interest in Rockwell Scientific Company LLC (RSC) (formerly a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Rockwell known as Rockwell Science Center).

     On December 31, 1998, the Company completed the spinoff of Semiconductor
Systems into an independent, separately traded, publicly held company by
distributing all of the outstanding shares of Conexant to the Company's
shareowners on a pro-rata basis. The Company sold its North American Transformer
business during 1999.



     The results of operations for Rockwell Collins for 2001, 2000 and 1999 and
for Semiconductor Systems for 1999 have been presented in the Company's
Consolidated Statement of Operations included in the Financial Statements as
income from discontinued operations.

     Additional information relating to acquisitions and divestitures is
contained in the MD&A on page 14 hereof and in Notes 2 and 4 of the NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements.

GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

     The Company's principal markets outside the United States are in Australia,
Brazil, Canada, China, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Japan, Mexico,
Singapore, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, The Netherlands and the United Kingdom.
In addition to normal business risks, operations outside the United States are
subject to other risks including, among other factors, political, economic and
social environments, governmental laws and regulations, and currency
revaluations and fluctuations.

     Selected financial information by major geographic area for each of the
three years in the period ended September 30, 2001 is contained in Note 19 of
the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements.

RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

     At September 30, 2001, the Company employed approximately 2,400
professional engineers and scientists and 1,000 supporting technical personnel.
In addition to research and development activities conducted by each of the
Company's businesses, the Company has a 50 percent ownership interest in RSC. In
addition to other activities, RSC conducts advanced research programs which
support the strategies of the Company's operating businesses. The Company
compensates RSC for such services. The Company spent $169 million and $209
million in 2001 and 2000, respectively, on research and development. In
addition, customer-sponsored research and development was $61 million in each of
2001 and 2000.

EMPLOYEES

     At September 30, 2001, the Company had approximately 23,100 employees, of
whom approximately 6,700 were employed outside the United States.

RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES

     Raw materials essential to the conduct of each of the Company's business
segments generally are available at competitive prices. Many items of equipment
and components used in the production of the Company's products are purchased
from others. Although the Company has a broad base of suppliers and
subcontractors, it is dependent upon the ability of its suppliers and
subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery
schedules.

ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS

     Information with respect to the effect on the Company and its manufacturing
operations of compliance with environmental protection requirements and
resolution of environmental claims is contained in Note 18 of the NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements. See also Item 3,
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, on pages 4-6 hereof.

PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS

     Numerous patents and patent applications are owned or licensed by the
Company and utilized in its activities and manufacturing operations. Various
claims of patent infringement and requests for patent indemnification have been
made to the Company. Management believes that none of these claims will have a
material adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company. See Item 3,
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, on pages 4-6 hereof. While in the aggregate the Company's
patents and licenses are considered important in the



operation of its business, management does not consider them of such importance
that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect the
Company's business or financial condition.

     The Company's name and its registered trademarks "Rockwell" and "Rockwell
Automation" are important to each of its business segments. In addition, the
Company owns other important trademarks applicable to only certain of its
products, such as "Allen-Bradley" and "A-B" for electronic controls and systems
for industrial automation, "Reliance Electric" for electric motors and "Dodge"
for mechanical power transmission products.

SEASONALITY

     None of the Company's business segments is seasonal.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

     At September 30, 2001, the Company's businesses operated 61 plants and
research and development facilities principally in the United States, Europe,
Africa, Asia Pacific, South America and Canada. These businesses also had
approximately 300 sales offices, warehouses and service centers. These
facilities had an aggregate floor space of approximately 16 million square feet.
Of this floor space, approximately 59 percent was owned by the Company and
approximately 41 percent was leased. At September 30, 2001, approximately
520,000 square feet of floor space was not in use, most of which was in owned
facilities. A summary of floor space of these facilities at September 30, 2001
is as follows:



     There are no major encumbrances (other than financing arrangements which in
the aggregate are not material) on any of the Company's plants or equipment. In
the opinion of management, the Company's properties have been well maintained,
are in sound operating condition and contain all equipment and facilities
necessary to operate at present levels.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     Rocky Flats Plant.  On January 30, 1990, a civil action was brought in the
United States District Court for the District of Colorado against the Company
and another former operator of the Rocky Flats Plant (the Plant), Golden,
Colorado, operated from 1975 through December 31, l989 by the Company for the
Department of Energy (DOE). The action alleges the improper production, handling
and disposal of radioactive and other hazardous substances, constituting, among
other things, violations of various environ-



mental, health and safety laws and regulations, and misrepresentation and
concealment of the facts relating thereto. The plaintiffs, who purportedly
represent two classes, sought compensatory damages of $250 million for
diminution in value of real estate and other economic loss; the creation of a
fund of $150 million to finance medical monitoring and surveillance services;
exemplary damages of $300 million; CERCLA response costs in an undetermined
amount; attorneys' fees; an injunction; and other proper relief. On February 13,
1991, the court granted certain of the motions of the defendants to dismiss the
case. The plaintiffs subsequently filed a new complaint, and on November 26,
1991, the court granted in part a renewed motion to dismiss. The remaining
portion of the case is pending before the court. On October 8, 1993, the court
certified separate medical monitoring and property value classes. Effective
August 1, 1996, the DOE assumed control of the defense of the contractor
defendants, including the Company, in the action. Beginning on that date, the
costs of the Company's defense, which had previously been reimbursed to the
Company by the DOE, have been and are being paid directly by the DOE. The
Company believes that it is entitled under applicable law and its contract with
the DOE to be indemnified for all costs and any liability associated with this
action.

     On November 13, 1990, the Company was served with a summons and complaint
in another civil action brought against the Company in the same court by James
Stone, claiming to act in the name of the United States, alleging violations of
the U.S. False Claims Act in connection with the Company's operation of the
Plant (and seeking treble damages and forfeitures) as well as a personal cause
of action for alleged wrongful termination of employment. On August 8, 1991, the
court dismissed the personal cause of action. On December 6, 1995, the DOE
notified the Company that it would no longer reimburse costs incurred by the
Company in defense of the action. On November 19, 1996, the court granted the
Department of Justice leave to intervene in the case on the government's behalf.
On April 1, 1999 a jury awarded the plaintiffs approximately $1.4 million in
damages. On May 18, 1999, the court entered judgment against the Company for
approximately $4.2 million, trebling the jury's award as required by the False
Claims Act, and imposing a civil penalty of $15,000. If the judgment is affirmed
on appeal, Mr. Stone may also be entitled to an award of attorney's fees but the
court refused to consider the matter until appeals from the judgment have been
exhausted. On September 24, 2001, a panel of the 10th Circuit Court of Appeals
affirmed the judgment. The Company intends to seek further appellate review.
Management believes that an outcome adverse to the Company will not have a
material effect on the Company's business or financial condition.

     On January 8, 1991, the Company filed suit in the United States Claims
Court against the DOE, seeking recovery of $6.5 million of award fees to which
the Company alleges it is entitled under the terms of its contract with the DOE
for management and operation of the Plant during the period October 1, 1988
through September 30, 1989. On July 17, 1996, the government filed an amended
answer and counterclaim against the Company alleging violations of the U.S.
False Claims Act previously asserted in the civil action described in the
preceding paragraph. On March 20, 1997, the court stayed the case pending
disposition of the civil action described in the preceding paragraph. On August
30, 1999, the court continued the stay pending appeal in that civil action. The
Company believes the government's counterclaim is without merit, and believes it
is entitled under applicable law and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified
for any liability associated with the counterclaim.

     Hanford Nuclear Reservation.  On August 6 and August 9, 1990, civil actions
were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of
Washington against the Company and the present and other former operators of the
DOE's Hanford Nuclear Reservation (Hanford), Hanford, Washington. The Company
operated part of Hanford for the DOE from 1977 through June 1987. Both actions
purport to be brought on behalf of various classes of persons and numerous
individual plaintiffs who resided, worked, owned or leased real property, or
operated businesses, at or near Hanford or downwind or downriver from Hanford,
at any time since 1944. The actions allege the improper handling and disposal of
radioactive and other hazardous substances and assert various statutory and
common law claims. The relief sought includes unspecified compensatory and
punitive damages for personal injuries and for economic losses, and various
injunctive and other equitable relief.

     Other cases asserting similar claims (the follow-on claims) on behalf of
the same and similarly situated individuals and groups have been filed from time
to time since August 1990 and may continue to be filed from time to time in the
future. These actions and the follow-on claims have been (and any additional
follow-on


claims that may be filed are expected to be) consolidated in the United States
District Court for the Eastern District of Washington under the name In re
Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation. Because the claims and classes of
claimants included in the actions described in the preceding paragraph are so
broadly defined, the follow-on claims filed as of October 31, 2001 have not
altered, and possible future follow-on claims are not expected to alter, in any
material respect the scope of the litigation.

     Effective October 1, 1994, the DOE assumed control of the defense of
certain of the contractor defendants (including the Company) in the In re
Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation. Beginning on that date, the costs of the
Company's defense, which had previously been reimbursed to the Company by the
DOE, have been and are being paid directly by the DOE. The Company believes it
is entitled under applicable law and its contracts with the DOE to be
indemnified for all costs and any liability associated with these actions.

     Russellville.  On June 24, 1996, judgment was entered against the Company
in a civil action in the Circuit Court of Logan County, Kentucky on a jury
verdict awarding $8 million in compensatory and $210 million in punitive damages
for property damage. The action had been brought August 12, 1993 by owners of
flood plain real property near Russellville, Kentucky allegedly damaged by
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) discharged from a plant owned and operated by
the Company's Measurement & Flow Control Division prior to its divestiture in
March 1989. On January 14, 2000, the Kentucky Court of Appeals reversed the
lower court's judgment and directed entry of judgment in the Company's favor on
all claims as a matter of law. On November 16, 2000 the Kentucky Supreme Court
granted plaintiffs' motion for discretionary review of the Appellate Court
ruling.

     On March 24, 1997, the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky in
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet
vs. Rockwell, an action filed in 1986 seeking remediation of PCB contamination
resulting from unpermitted discharges of PCBs from the Company's former
Russellville, Kentucky plant, entered judgment establishing PCB cleanup levels
for the former plant site and certain offsite property and ordering additional
characterization of possible contamination in the Mud River and its flood plain.
The Court deferred any decision on the imposition of fines and penalties pending
implementation of an appropriate remediation program. On August 13, 1999, the
Court of Appeals affirmed the trial court's judgment, a ruling that the Supreme
Court of the State of Kentucky has let stand. The Company has been proceeding
with remediation and characterization efforts consistent with the trial Court's
ruling.

     Other.  In July 1995, a federal grand jury impaneled by the United States
District Court for the Central District of California began an investigation
into a July 1994 explosion at the Santa Susana Field Laboratory operated by the
Company's former Rocketdyne Division in which two scientists were killed and a
technician was injured. On April 11, 1996, pursuant to an agreement between the
Company and the United States Attorney for the Central District of California,
the Company entered a plea of guilty to two counts of unpermitted disposal of
hazardous waste and one count of unpermitted storage of hazardous waste, all of
which are felony violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and
paid a fine of $6.5 million to settle potential federal criminal claims arising
out of the federal government's investigation. Investigation under other U.S.
and California laws continues. While the Company has no information on the
status of these investigations, further civil sanctions could be imposed on the
current owner of the facility, Boeing, for which the Company would be required
to indemnify Boeing.

     Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be
instituted or asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its
business, including those pertaining to product liability, environmental, safety
and health, intellectual property, employment and contract matters. Although the
outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some lawsuits,
claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management
believes the disposition of matters which are pending or asserted will not have
a material adverse effect on the Company's business or financial condition.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 2001.



ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

     The name, age, office and position held with the Company and principal
occupations and employment during the past five years of each of the executive
officers of the Company as of October 31, 2001 are as follows:







     There are no family relationships, as defined, between any of the above
executive officers. No officer of the Company was selected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding between him and any person other than the Company.
All executive officers are elected annually.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     The principal market on which the Company's common stock is traded is the
New York Stock Exchange. The Company's common stock is also traded on the
Pacific and London Stock Exchanges. On October 31, 2001, there were 46,635
shareowners of record of the Company's common stock.

     The following table sets forth the high and low closing price of the
Company's common stock on the New York Stock Exchange -- Composite Transactions
reporting system during each quarter of the Company's fiscal years ended
September 30, 2001 and 2000:



- ---------------

(1) The high and low closing prices of the Company's common stock for the fourth
    quarter of 2001 reflect the spinoff of Rockwell Collins on June 29, 2001.

     On December 6, 1996, each Rockwell shareowner became entitled to receive
 .042 share (presently .084 share) of Boeing common stock for each share of
Rockwell common stock or Class A common stock owned. On September 30, 1997, each
Rockwell shareowner received one-third of a share of Meritor common stock for
each share of Rockwell common stock owned. On July 7, 2000, Meritor and Arvin
Industries, Inc. merged to form ArvinMeritor. Under the terms of the merger
agreement, each share of Meritor common stock was converted into the right to
receive three-quarters of a share of ArvinMeritor common stock. As a result, the
one-third of a share of Meritor common stock received by Rockwell shareowners on
September 30, 1997 now represents one-quarter of a share of ArvinMeritor common
stock. On December 31, 1998, each Rockwell shareowner received one-half of a
share (presently one share) of Conexant common stock for each share of Rockwell
common stock owned. On June 29, 2001, each Rockwell shareowner received one
share of Rockwell Collins common stock for each share of Rockwell common stock
owned. At September 30, 2001, such fractional or whole shares of Boeing,
ArvinMeritor, Conexant and Rockwell Collins common stock per Rockwell share had
values of $2.81, $3.57, $8.30 and $14.20, respectively. Rockwell's current stock
price does not reflect the value of the Boeing, ArvinMeritor, Conexant and
Rockwell Collins shares.

     During the year ended September 30, 2001, the Company repurchased, through
open-market purchases, approximately 1.7 million shares of common stock.



     The following table sets forth the aggregate quarterly cash dividends per
common share (comprised of the common stock and, until February 23, 1997, the
date of its automatic conversion to common stock, Class A common stock) during
each of the Company's five fiscal years in the period ended September 30, 2001:



- ---------------

(1) Upon the spinoff of Meritor on September 30, 1997, the Company's annual
    $1.16 per share dividend was set at $1.02 for Rockwell and $0.14 for
    Meritor. Effective with the spinoff of Rockwell Collins, the Company
    anticipates that it will pay quarterly cash dividends which, on an annual
    basis, will equal $0.66 per share and Rockwell Collins will pay quarterly
    dividends which, on an annual basis, will equal $0.36 per share. However,
    the declaration and payment of dividends by the Company and Rockwell Collins
    will be at the sole discretion of their respective boards of directors. Per
    share dividend amounts indicated do not include dividends paid on the shares
    of Boeing, Meritor and Rockwell Collins received on December 6, 1996,
    September 30, 1997 and June 29, 2001, respectively, by Rockwell shareowners.

     On July 31, 2001, the Company granted nonqualified stock options to
purchase 7,000 shares of common stock of the Company at an exercise price of
$16.05 per share to each of the following directors: B.C. Alewine, G.L. Argyros,
J.M. Cook, W. H. Gray, III, W.T. McCormick, Jr., J.D. Nichols, B.M. Rockwell and
J.F. Toot, Jr. The options vest in three equal installments beginning on July
31, 2002. The grant of these options was exempt from the registration
requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Section 4(2) thereof.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The following sets forth selected consolidated financial data in respect of
the Company's continuing operations. The data should be read in conjunction with
the MD&A and the Financial Statements. The consolidated statement of operations
data for each of the five years in the period ended September 30, 2001, the
related consolidated balance sheet data and other data have been derived from
the audited consolidated financial statements of the Company.



- ---------------

(a) Includes special items of $73 million ($48 million after tax, or 26 cents
    per diluted share). Special items include charges of $91 million ($60
    million after tax, or 32 cents per diluted share) for costs associated with
    the consolidation and closing of facilities, the realignment of
    administrative functions, the reduction in workforce and asset impairments
    which were partially offset by an $18 million gain ($12 million after tax,
    or six cents per share) resulting from the favorable settlement of an
    intellectual property matter.

(b) Includes a gain of $32 million ($22 million after tax, or 12 cents per
    diluted share) resulting from the sale of real estate, a loss of $14 million
    ($10 million after tax, or six cents per diluted share) on the sale of a
    Power Systems business, and income of $28 million ($19 million after tax, or
    10 cents per diluted share) resulting from the demutualization of
    Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

(c) Includes a gain of $32 million ($21 million after tax, or 11 cents per
    diluted share) on the sale of the Company's North American Transformer
    business and a loss of $29 million ($19 million after tax, or 10 cents per
    diluted share) associated with the write-off of the Company's investment in
    Goss Graphic Systems, Inc. preferred stock.

(d) Includes charges of $521 million ($458 million after tax, or $2.32 per
    diluted share) for costs associated with asset impairments and a
    comprehensive restructuring program. The diluted and basic per share amounts
    for 1998 are identical, as the loss from continuing operations resulted in
    stock options being antidilutive.

(e) Includes a charge of $23 million (before and after tax, or 11 cents per
    diluted share), relating to the write-off of purchased research and
    development in connection with an acquisition.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  SUMMARY OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS



- ---------------

(a) Other represents the sales and segment operating earnings of Rockwell
    Science Center through the third quarter of 2001. Beginning with the fourth
    quarter of 2001, the Company's 50 percent ownership interest in RSC is
    accounted for using the equity method, and the Company's proportional share
    of RSC's earnings or losses are included in general corporate-net.

(b) Information with respect to the composition of segment operating earnings is
    contained in Note 19 of the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in
    the Financial Statements.

  2001 COMPARED TO 2000

     Sales were $4,279 million in 2001 compared to $4,656 million in 2000.
Income from continuing operations in 2001 was $125 million, or 68 cents per
diluted share, compared to $344 million, or $1.81 per diluted share, in 2000.
The 2001 results from continuing operations include special charges of $91
million ($60 million after tax, or 32 cents per share) for costs associated with
realignment actions which were partially offset by an $18 million gain ($12
million after tax, or six cents per share) resulting from the favorable
settlement of an intellectual property matter.

  Control Systems

     Control Systems' sales in 2001 were $3,359 million compared to $3,677
million in 2000, reflecting principally depressed market conditions for
automation products in the United States during 2001. Shipments



outside of the United States, before the effect of currency rate fluctuations,
were higher and included increases of six percent in Europe, 13 percent in Asia
Pacific and 13 percent in Latin America. Sales in 2001 were reduced by
approximately $96 million due to a stronger dollar in 2001, particularly against
the euro, relative to the foreign currency exchange rates for the same period a
year ago.

     Segment operating earnings were $426 million in 2001 compared to $640
million in 2000. The decrease was due to lower volume and costs resulting from
planned lower capacity utilization. Control Systems' return on sales in 2001 was
12.7 percent compared to 17.4 percent in 2000.

  Power Systems

     Power Systems' sales in 2001 were $710 million compared to $762 million in
2000, with an increase at the motors business more than offset by lower volume
in mechanical products as distributors continue to pare inventories. Segment
operating earnings in 2001 were $38 million compared to $65 million in the same
period a year ago primarily due to lower volume and unfavorable product mix.
Power Systems' return on sales was 5.4 percent in 2001 compared to 8.5 percent
in 2000.

  Electronic Commerce

     Sales at Electronic Commerce were $150 million in 2001 compared to $168
million in 2000. The decrease was due to depressed market conditions. Segment
operating earnings were $7 million in 2001 compared to an operating loss of $16
million in 2000. The increase was due to the successful implementation of cost
saving initiatives and the absence of approximately $10 million in charges
related to such initiatives which are reflected in the results for 2000.

  Other

     Effective June 29, 2001, each of Rockwell Collins and the Company has a 50
percent ownership interest in RSC (formerly a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Rockwell known as Rockwell Science Center). Results of Rockwell Science Center
are included in continuing operations through the third quarter of 2001. Sales
of Rockwell Science Center for the first nine months of 2001 were $60 million
compared to $49 million for the full year in 2000. The increase was primarily
due to higher sales to the United States government. Segment operating earnings
decreased to $3 million for the first nine months of 2001 compared to $7 million
for the full year in 2000 due to lower royalty income.

  General Corporate -- Net

     General corporate-net in 2001 included a gain of $18 million resulting from
the favorable settlement of an intellectual property matter. General
corporate-net in 2000 included a $32 million gain on the sale of real estate and
$28 million of income resulting from the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company
demutualization.

  Special Charges

     The Company recorded charges of $91 million ($60 million after tax, or 32
cents per diluted share) for costs associated with a realignment of its business
operations to reduce costs in response to the continued decline in demand in
industrial automation markets. Total cash expenditures related to the
realignment actions are expected to be approximately $51 million, with
substantially all of the spending to be completed by the end of the first
quarter of fiscal 2002. Management expects that the annual pre-tax savings
resulting from these actions will be approximately $150 million, a portion of
which is expected to be reinvested in growth initiatives. The special charges
are related to the business segments as follows: Control Systems, $76 million;
Power Systems, $5 million; and Corporate, $10 million. See Note 3, Special
Charges, in the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial
Statements.



  2000 COMPARED TO 1999

     Sales were $4,656 million in 2000 compared to $4,665 million in 1999.
Earnings per diluted share from continuing operations in 2000 of $1.81 were up
23 percent over comparable 1999 earnings of $1.47. The related income from
continuing operations increased $61 million to $344 million from $283 million.
Earnings per share for 2000 reflect the benefits of the Company's stock
repurchase program and a lower effective income tax rate.

  Control Systems

     Control Systems' sales of $3,677 million in 2000 were slightly higher than
in 1999 despite continued sluggish North American markets, particularly
automotive related spending projects, and a weaker euro. The increase in sales
attributable to businesses acquired in 2000 was more than offset by the absence
of sales from the North American Transformer business disposed of during the
fourth quarter of 1999. Operating earnings were $640 million in 2000 compared to
$642 million in 1999. During 2000, Control Systems made investments in new
product development and experienced material cost increases resulting from
certain parts shortages. Operating earnings in 2000 include approximately $15
million of charges associated with ongoing process improvement and productivity
initiatives. Operating earnings as a percent of sales was 17.4 percent in 2000
compared to 17.6 percent in 1999.

  Power Systems

     Power Systems' sales decreased $20 million between 1999 and 2000 primarily
as a result of lower volume at the motors business. Segment operating earnings
increased to $65 million in 2000 from $53 million in 1999 due to the benefits of
manufacturing process improvements and material cost reductions. Operating
earnings as a percentage of sales was 8.5 percent in 2000 compared to 6.8
percent in 1999.

  Electronic Commerce

     Sales for Electronic Commerce were down $34 million to $168 million in 2000
from $202 million in 1999. Electronic Commerce experienced an operating loss of
$16 million in 2000, compared to operating earnings of $12 million in 1999. The
results for 2000 include approximately $10 million of charges associated with a
realignment which was aimed at sharpening market focus, better responding to
customer needs and optimizing operating performance.

  Other

     Sales at Rockwell Science Center increased by $14 million between 1999 and
2000. Segment operating earnings decreased to $7 million in 2000 from $18
million in 1999. Operating earnings in 1999 included a $14 million gain
resulting from the favorable settlement of an intellectual property matter.

  General Corporate -- Net

     General corporate-net in 2000 included a gain of $32 million on the sale of
real estate in Colorado Springs, Colorado and $28 million of income resulting
from the demutualization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. Corporate
expenses in 2000 included $5 million related to strategic investments in
SourceAlliance.com. General corporate-net in 1999 included charges of
approximately $37 million for costs incurred in connection with the Company's
relocation of its corporate office and a $29 million loss associated with the
write-off of its investment in Goss Graphic Systems, Inc. preferred stock.

  Disposition of Businesses

     In 2000, the Company recognized a $14 million loss on the sale of a Power
Systems business. In 1999, the Company recognized a $32 million gain on the sale
of Control Systems' North American Transformer business.



DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the spinoff of its Rockwell Collins
avionics and communications business into an independent, separately traded,
publicly held company. In connection with the spinoff, all outstanding shares of
Rockwell Collins, Inc. were distributed to Rockwell shareowners on the basis of
one Rockwell Collins share for each outstanding Rockwell share. Commensurate
with the spinoff, Rockwell Collins made a special payment to the Company of $300
million. The Company recorded a decrease to shareowner's equity for the net
assets of Rockwell Collins as of June 29, 2001 of approximately $1.2 billion
(including $300 million of debt incurred to make the special payment to the
Company). Included in 2001 income from discontinued operations was $21 million
of costs related to the spinoff.

     On December 31, 1998, the Company completed the spinoff of Semiconductor
Systems into an independent, separately traded, publicly held company by
distributing all of the outstanding shares of Conexant to the Company's
shareowners on a pro-rata basis.

ACQUISITIONS

     During 2001, Control Systems acquired the batch software and services
business of Sequencia Corporation. The total cost of the acquisition was $6
million, which was allocated to intangible assets, including developed
technology and assembled workforce, and the excess of the purchase price over
the amounts assigned to intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. The
acquisition will expand Control Systems' portfolio of Manufacturing BusinessWare
Solutions into the batch application space.

     During 2000, Control Systems acquired Entek IRD International Corporation
(Entek) and acquired substantially all the assets and assumed certain
liabilities of Systems Modeling Corporation (SMC). Entek is a provider of
machinery condition monitoring solutions and its acquisition has increased
Rockwell's ability to provide value-added services that reduce customers'
downtime and maintenance costs at their manufacturing facilities. SMC is a
developer of shop floor scheduling, simulation and modeling software. The
acquisition of SMC complements Control Systems' Manufacturing BusinessWare
strategy by providing additional capabilities. The total cost of these
acquisitions was $70 million, of which $61 million was allocated to intangible
assets, including developed technology, and the excess of the purchase price
over the amounts assigned to tangible and intangible assets was recorded as
goodwill.

INCOME TAXES

     The Company's effective income tax rate declined to 28.0 percent (excluding
the tax effect of special items) in 2001 from 32.3 percent in 2000. This
improvement reflects the benefits of the development and implementation of
strategies to achieve meaningful and sustainable tax rate reductions as well as
certain tax refund claims in 2001. These strategies include utilization of
foreign tax credits, lower state income tax rates and lower taxes associated
with tax effective structuring of our international business. In addition, the
effective income tax rate continues to benefit from the conversion of the
Rockwell Salaried Retirement Savings Plan to a tax-advantaged employee stock
ownership plan. Management believes the Company's effective income tax rate will
continue to benefit in 2002 and beyond from ongoing tax planning initiatives.

OUTLOOK FOR 2002

     Due to the continuing weak manufacturing environment, the Company is
assuming a further sequential three percent sales decline in the first quarter
of 2002. In this event, earnings per share are expected to be modestly higher
than fourth quarter earnings due to the continued implementation of the cost
reduction actions. Longer term results continue to be difficult to project given
uncertain market conditions.

FINANCIAL CONDITION

     Cash generated by operations was $335 million in 2001 compared to $645
million in 2000. Free cash flow in 2001 was $178 million compared to $428
million in 2000. The lower cash generation in 2001 was driven primarily by lower
earnings which was partially offset by reduced capital expenditures. The Company
defines



free cash flow, an internal performance measurement, as cash provided by
operating activities reduced by capital expenditures. The Company's definition
of free cash flow may be different from definitions used by other companies.

     Cash provided by investing activities was $153 million in 2001 compared to
cash used for investing activities of $228 million in 2000. Investing activities
in 2001 include a special payment of $300 million received from Rockwell Collins
in connection with the spinoff on June 29, 2001. Capital expenditures in 2001
were $157 million, $60 million less than in 2000, and consisted primarily of
investments in facilities, machinery and equipment, and integrated information
systems to facilitate growth and increase operating efficiencies. Capital
expenditures in 2002 are expected to approximate 2001 levels.

     In addition to internally-generated cash, the Company has access to
existing financing sources, including the public debt markets and the Company's
approximately $1 billion of unsecured credit facilities with various banks. The
Company's debt-to-total-capital ratio at September 30, 2001 was 37 percent
compared to 26 percent at September 30, 2000.

     During 2000, the Board of Directors approved a $250 million stock
repurchase program. The Company spent approximately $63 million to purchase
approximately 1.7 million shares during 2001 in connection with this program. At
September 30, 2001, there was approximately $104 million remaining on the
Company's current $250 million stock repurchase program.

     Cash dividends to shareowners were $170 million, or $0.93 per share, in
2001 compared to $192 million, or $1.02 per share, in 2000. Effective with the
spinoff of Rockwell Collins, the Company anticipates that it will pay quarterly
cash dividends which, on an annual basis, will equal $0.66 per share. However,
the declaration and payment of dividends by the Company will be at the sole
discretion of the Company's board of directors.

QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company is exposed to market risk during the normal course of business
from changes in interest rates and foreign currency exchange rates. The exposure
to these risks is managed through a combination of normal operating and
financing activities and derivative financial instruments in the form of
interest rate swap contracts and foreign currency forward exchange contracts.

  INTEREST RATE RISK

     In addition to using cash provided by normal operating activities, the
Company utilizes a combination of short-term and long-term debt to finance
operations. The Company is exposed to interest rate risk on these debt
obligations.

     The Company had short-term debt obligations consisting of bank borrowings
with a carrying value of $9 million and $15 million at September 30, 2001 and
2000, respectively. The Company's results of operations are affected by changes
in market interest rates on these short-term obligations. If market interest
rates would have averaged 10 percent higher than actual levels in either 2001 or
2000, the effect on the Company's results of operations would not have been
material. The fair values of these obligations approximated their carrying
values at September 30, 2001 and 2000, and would not have been materially
affected by changes in market interest rates.

     At September 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had outstanding fixed rate
long-term debt obligations with carrying values of $923 million and $925
million, respectively. The fair value of this debt was $887 million and $843
million at September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively. The potential loss in fair
value on such fixed-rate debt obligations from a hypothetical 10 percent
increase in market interest rates would not be material to the overall fair
value of the debt. The Company currently has no plans to repurchase outstanding
fixed-rate instruments and, therefore, fluctuations in market interest rates
would not have an effect on the Company's results of operations or shareowners'
equity.



  FOREIGN CURRENCY RISK

     The Company is exposed to foreign currency risks that arise from normal
business operations. These risks include the translation of local currency
balances of foreign subsidiaries, intercompany loans with foreign subsidiaries
and transactions denominated in foreign currencies. The Company's objective is
to minimize its exposure to these risks through a combination of normal
operating activities and the utilization of foreign currency forward exchange
contracts to manage its exposure on transactions denominated in currencies other
than the applicable functional currency. In addition, the Company enters into
contracts to hedge certain forecasted intercompany transactions. These contracts
are executed with creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major
industrial countries. It is the policy of the Company not to enter into
derivative financial instruments for speculative purposes. The Company does not
hedge its exposure to the translation of reported results of foreign
subsidiaries from local currency to United States dollars. A 10 percent adverse
change in the underlying foreign currency exchange rates would not be
significant to the Company's financial condition or results of operations.

     The Company records all derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value
regardless of the purpose or intent for holding them. Derivatives that are not
hedges are adjusted to fair value through earnings. For derivatives that are
hedges, depending on the nature of the hedge, changes in fair value are either
offset by changes in the fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm
commitments through earnings or recognized in other comprehensive income until
the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion of a
derivative's change in fair value is immediately recognized in earnings.

     At September 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had outstanding foreign
currency forward exchange contracts with notional amounts of $738 million and
$852 million, respectively, primarily consisting of contracts to exchange the
euro, pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar and Swiss franc.
Notional amounts are stated in the United States dollar equivalents at spot
exchange rates at the respective dates. The use of these contracts allows the
Company to manage transactional exposure to exchange rate fluctuations as the
gains or losses incurred on the foreign currency forward exchange contracts will
offset, in whole or in part, losses or gains on the underlying foreign currency
exposure. A hypothetical 10 percent adverse change in underlying foreign
currency exchange rates associated with these contracts would not be material to
the financial condition, results of operations or shareowners' equity of the
Company.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 141, Business Combinations (SFAS 141),
and Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 142, Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). SFAS 141 addresses financial accounting and
reporting for business combinations and requires that the purchase method of
accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001.
Under SFAS 142, goodwill and certain other intangible assets will no longer be
systematically amortized but instead will be reviewed for impairment and written
down and charged to results of operations when their carrying amount exceeds
their estimated fair value. SFAS 142 is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2001, with early adoption permitted for entities with fiscal
years beginning after March 15, 2001. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 142
effective October 1, 2001. Management expects that the effect of ceasing
amortization of goodwill will increase net income by approximately $41 million
after tax, or 22 cents per diluted share, in fiscal 2002. The Company has not
completed its assessment of the additional effects of adopting SFAS 142.

     In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (SFAS 144),
which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of
long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be disposed of. SFAS 144 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, with early
adoption permitted. Management is currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS
144, but believes there will be no effect on the Company's financial position,
results of operations or shareowners' equity resulting from the adoption.



CAUTIONARY STATEMENT

     This Annual Report contains statements (including certain projections and
business trends) accompanied by such phrases as "believes," "estimates,"
"expect(s)," "anticipates," "will," "intends," "assumes" and other similar
expressions, that are "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially
from those projected as a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including
but not limited to economic and political changes in international markets where
the Company competes, such as currency exchange rates, inflation rates,
recession, foreign ownership restrictions and other external factors over which
the Company has no control; demand for and market acceptance of new and existing
products, including levels of capital spending in industrial markets; successful
development of advanced technologies; competitive product and pricing pressures;
the terrorist attacks in New York City and Washington, D.C. on September 11,
2001 and their aftermath; and the uncertainties of litigation, as well as other
risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time
to time in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings. These
forward-looking statements are made only as of the date hereof, and the Company
undertakes no obligation to update or revise the forward-looking statements,
whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     The information with respect to the Company's market risk is contained
under the caption QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK in
MD&A on pages 15-16 hereof.



ITEM 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME
                                 (IN MILLIONS)



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Basis of Presentation

     Except as indicated, amounts reflected in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto relate to the continuing operations of Rockwell
International Corporation, now doing business under the name Rockwell Automation
(Rockwell or the Company). Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to
conform to the current year presentation.

     On June 29, 2001, the Company completed the spinoff of its Rockwell Collins
avionics and communications business and certain other assets and liabilities
into an independent, separately traded, publicly held company (the Spinoff). In
connection with the Spinoff, all outstanding shares of Rockwell Collins, Inc.
(Rockwell Collins) were distributed to Rockwell shareowners on the basis of one
Rockwell Collins share for each outstanding Rockwell share. Commensurate with
the spinoff, Rockwell Collins made a special payment to the Company of $300
million. The net assets of Rockwell Collins as of June 29, 2001 of approximately
$1.2 billion (including $300 million of debt incurred to make the special
payment to the Company) were recorded as a decrease to shareowners' equity.
Following the Spinoff, each of Rockwell Collins and the Company has a 50 percent
ownership interest in Rockwell Scientific Company LLC (RSC)(formerly known as
Rockwell Science Center).

     On December 31, 1998, the Company completed the spinoff of its former
semiconductor systems business (Semiconductor Systems) into an independent,
separately traded, publicly held company by distributing all of the outstanding
shares of Conexant Systems, Inc. (Conexant) to the Company's shareowners on a
pro-rata basis.

  Consolidation

     The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts
of the Company and all majority-owned subsidiaries over which the Company has
control. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated
in consolidation.

  Use of Estimates

     The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles which require management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and revenues
and expenses during the periods reported. Actual results could differ from those
estimates. Estimates are used in accounting for, among other items, allowances
for doubtful accounts, excess and obsolete inventory, product warranty costs,
workers compensation, product and other self-insurance liabilities, employee
benefits, reserves and contingencies.

  Revenue Recognition

     Sales are generally recorded when all of the following have occurred: an
agreement of sale exists, product delivery and acceptance has occurred or
services have been rendered, pricing is fixed or determinable, and collection is
reasonably assured.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

  Cash and Cash Equivalents

     Cash and cash equivalents includes time deposits and certificates of
deposit with original maturities of three months or less.

  Inventories

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market using first-in,
first-out (FIFO) or average methods. Market is determined on the basis of
estimated realizable values.

  Property

     Property is stated at cost. Depreciation of property is provided generally
using accelerated and straight-line methods over 15 to 40 years for buildings
and improvements and 3 to 14 years for machinery and equipment. Significant
renewals and betterments are capitalized and replaced units are written off.
Maintenance and repairs, as well as renewals of minor amounts, are charged to
expense.

  Intangible Assets

     Goodwill and other intangible assets generally result from business
acquisitions. The Company accounts for business acquisitions under the purchase
method by assigning the purchase price to tangible and intangible assets and
liabilities. Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded at their fair
values, and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned is
recorded as goodwill.

     Goodwill is amortized using the straight-line method over periods ranging
from 5 to 40 years. Trademarks, distributor networks, patents, and other
intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives, generally ranging from 5 to 40 years.

  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets

     Long-lived assets, including goodwill, are reviewed for impairment when
events or circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset
may not be recoverable, and for all assets to be disposed of. Long-lived assets
held for use are reviewed for impairment by comparing the carrying amount of an
asset to the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the
asset over its remaining useful life. If an asset is considered to be impaired,
the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the carrying
amount of the asset exceeds its fair value. Assets to be disposed of are
reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less cost to sell.
Management determines fair value using discounted future cash flow analysis or
other accepted valuation techniques.

  Investments

     Investments in affiliates over which the Company has the ability to exert
significant influence but does not control, including RSC, are accounted for
using the equity method of accounting. Accordingly, the Company's proportional
share of the respective affiliate's earnings or losses are included in other
income in the Consolidated Statement of Operations.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

  Derivative Financial Instruments

     The Company uses derivative financial instruments in the form of foreign
currency forward exchange contracts and interest rate swap contracts to manage
foreign currency and interest rate risks. Foreign currency forward exchange
contracts are used to hedge changes in the amount of future cash flows
associated with intercompany transactions generally forecasted to occur within
one year (cash flow hedges) and changes in fair value of certain assets and
liabilities resulting from intercompany loans and other transactions with third
parties denominated in foreign currencies. Interest rate swap contracts are
periodically used to manage the balance of fixed and floating rate debt. The
Company's accounting method for derivative financial instruments is based upon
the designation of such instruments as hedges under generally accepted
accounting principles. It is the policy of the Company to execute such
instruments with creditworthy banks and not to enter into derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes. All foreign currency forward exchange
contracts are denominated in currencies of major industrial countries.

  Foreign Currency Translation

     Assets and liabilities of subsidiaries operating outside of the United
States with a functional currency other than the U.S. dollar are translated into
U.S. dollars using exchange rates at the end of the respective period. Sales,
costs and expenses are translated at average exchange rates effective during the
respective period. Foreign currency translation gains and losses are included as
a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. Currency transaction gains
and losses are included in the results of operations in the period incurred.

  Stock-Based Compensation

     The Company accounts for stock-based compensation in accordance with
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees. Stock options are granted at prices equal to or greater than the fair
market value of the Company's common stock on the grant dates, therefore no
compensation expense is recognized in connection with stock options granted to
employees. Compensation expense resulting from grants of restricted stock is
recognized generally during the period the service is performed.

  Environmental Matters

     The Company records accruals for environmental matters in the accounting
period in which its responsibility is established and the cost can be reasonably
estimated. Revisions to the accruals are made in the periods in which the
estimated costs of remediation change. At environmental sites in which more than
one potentially responsible party has been identified, the Company records a
liability for its estimated allocable share of costs related to its involvement
with the site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to the
involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At environmental sites in
which the Company is the only responsible party, the Company records a liability
for the total estimated costs of remediation. Costs of future expenditures for
environmental remediation obligations are not discounted to their present value.
If recovery from insurers or other third parties is determined to be probable,
the Company records a receivable for the estimated recovery.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

1.  ACCOUNTING POLICIES -- (CONTINUED)

  Recently Adopted Accounting Standards

     The Company adopted Emerging Issues Task Force Issue No. 00-10, Accounting
for Shipping and Handling Fees and Costs (EITF 00-10), on July 1, 2001. EITF
00-10 requires companies to classify shipping and handling amounts billed to
customers as sales. The Company has historically classified shipping and
handling amounts billed to customers as a reduction to cost of sales. Shipping
and handling amounts billed to customers which have been reclassified to sales
from cost of sales were $19 million in 2001, $20 million in 2000 and $17 million
in 1999. Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of sales in the
Consolidated Statement of Operations.

     Effective October 1, 2000, the Company adopted Securities and Exchange
Commission Staff Accounting Bulletin 101, Revenue Recognition in Financial
Statements (SAB 101). No accounting changes were required in connection with the
adoption of SAB 101 and, accordingly, the adoption had no effect on the
Company's results of operations or shareowners' equity.

     Effective July 1, 2000, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities (SFAS 133). SFAS 133 requires the Company to record all
derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value regardless of the purpose or
intent for holding them. Derivatives that are not hedges are adjusted to fair
value through earnings. For derivatives that are hedges, depending on the nature
of the hedge, changes in fair value are either offset by changes in the fair
value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments through earnings or
recognized in other comprehensive income until the hedged item is recognized in
earnings. The ineffective portion of a derivative's change in fair value is
immediately recognized in earnings. The effect of adopting SFAS 133 was not
material to the Company's financial position, results of operations or
shareowners' equity.

  New Accounting Standards

     In June 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 141,
Business Combinations (SFAS 141), and SFAS No. 142, Goodwill and Other
Intangible Assets (SFAS 142). SFAS 141 addresses financial accounting and
reporting for business combinations and requires that the purchase method of
accounting be used for all business combinations initiated after June 30, 2001.
Under SFAS 142, goodwill and certain other intangible assets will no longer be
systematically amortized but instead will be reviewed for impairment and written
down and charged to results of operations when their carrying amount exceeds
their estimated fair value. SFAS 142 is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 2001, with early adoption permitted for entities with fiscal
years beginning after March 15, 2001. The Company expects to adopt SFAS 142
effective October 1, 2001. Management expects that the effect of ceasing
amortization of goodwill will increase net income by approximately $41 million
after tax, or 22 cents per diluted share, in fiscal 2002. The Company has not
completed its assessment of the additional effects of adopting SFAS 142.

     In August 2001, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No.
144, Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of Long-Lived Assets (SFAS 144),
which addresses financial accounting and reporting for the impairment of
long-lived assets and for long-lived assets to be disposed of. SFAS 144 is
effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2001, with early
adoption permitted. Management is currently evaluating the provisions of SFAS
144, but believes there will be no effect on the Company's financial position,
results of operations or shareowners' equity resulting from the adoption.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

2.  DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS

     The financial statements have been restated for all periods presented to
classify Rockwell Collins as a discontinued operation, together with
Semiconductor Systems, which had previously been reported as a discontinued
operation.

     At September 30, 2000, the net assets of Rockwell Collins consisted of the
following (in millions):



     Summarized results of discontinued operations are as follows (in millions):



     The results of operations of Rockwell Collins in 2001 include $21 million
of costs directly related to the Spinoff.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

3.  SPECIAL CHARGES

     In 2001, the Company recorded special charges of $91 million ($60 million
after tax, or 32 cents per diluted share) for costs associated with the
consolidation and closing of facilities, the realignment of administrative
functions, the reduction of workforce, primarily in North America, by
approximately 2,000 employees and asset impairments. The special charges are
reflected in the Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended
September 30, 2001 in cost of sales and selling, general and administrative
expenses in the amounts of $50 million and $41 million, respectively. The
Company expects to be substantially complete with these actions in the first
quarter of 2002.

     Total cash expenditures in connection with these actions are expected to
approximate $51 million. The Company spent approximately $17 million through
September 30, 2001 for employee severance and separation costs. In connection
with the Spinoff, Rockwell Collins assumed a liability for employee severance
and separation costs resulting from these actions of approximately $7 million.
As a result of actions taken through September 30, 2001, the workforce has been
reduced by approximately 1,400 employees.

     The special charges included write-downs to the carrying amount of
goodwill, certain facilities and machinery and equipment totaling approximately
$26 million resulting from the decision to shut down certain facilities and exit
non-strategic operations. The charges represented the difference between the
fair values of the assets and their carrying values. Fair value was determined
by management on the basis of various customary valuation techniques.

     Revenues and results of operations of businesses and product lines which
are being exited are not material.

     The charges and their utilization for the year ended September 30, 2001 are
summarized as follows (in millions):



     The Company evaluates the adequacy of reserves recorded in prior years and
makes necessary revisions for changes in estimates in the periods in which they
occur. During 2001, the Company recorded an adjustment of $8 million as a
reduction of cost of sales and $2 million as a reduction of selling, general and
administrative expenses primarily as a result of lower than expected employee
separation and lease termination costs associated with actions taken in prior
years. The remaining balances at September 30, 2001 related to charges taken in
previous years were not significant.

4.  ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES

     In October 2000, the Control Systems segment acquired the batch software
and services business of Sequencia Corporation. The purchase price for this
acquisition was $6 million which was allocated to intangible assets, including
developed technology and assembled workforce, and the excess of the purchase
price over the amounts assigned to intangible assets was recorded as goodwill.
Goodwill and the intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over approximately 5 years.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4.  ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES -- (CONTINUED)

     In March 2000, the Control Systems segment acquired Entek IRD International
Corporation (Entek), a provider of machinery condition monitoring solutions. In
April 2000, the Control Systems segment acquired substantially all the assets
and assumed certain liabilities of Systems Modeling Corporation, a software
developer. The aggregate purchase price for these acquisitions was $70 million,
of which $61 million was allocated to intangible assets, including developed
technology, and the excess of the purchase price over the amounts assigned to
tangible and intangible assets was recorded as goodwill. Developed technology is
being amortized on a straight-line basis over a period of 5 years. Goodwill
related to the acquisitions of Entek and Systems Modeling Corporation is being
amortized on a straight-line basis over 15 and 10 years, respectively.

     During 1999, the Company acquired four businesses for an aggregate purchase
price of $185 million, of which $178 million was allocated to intangible assets.
Goodwill is being amortized on a straight-line basis over periods ranging from
10 to 30 years, and the intangible assets are being amortized on a straight-line
basis over 10 years.

     Amounts recorded for liabilities assumed in connection with these
acquisitions were $1 million, $16 million and $41 million for the years ended
September 30, 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

     These acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and, accordingly, the
results of operations of these businesses have been included in the Consolidated
Statement of Operations since their respective dates of acquisition. Pro forma
financial information is not presented as the combined effect of these
acquisitions was not material to the Company's results of operations or
financial position.

5.  INVENTORIES

     Inventories are summarized as follows (in millions):



6.  PROPERTY

     Property is summarized as follows (in millions):




           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

7.  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Intangible assets are summarized as follows (in millions):



8.  SHORT-TERM DEBT

     Short-term debt consists of the following (in millions):



     The weighted average interest rate on short-term bank borrowings was 2.0%
at September 30, 2001 and 2.4% at September 30, 2000.

     At September 30, 2001, the Company had $1 billion of unsecured credit
facilities with various banks to support commercial paper borrowings. There were
no significant commitment fees or compensating balance requirements under these
facilities. Short-term credit facilities available to foreign subsidiaries
amounted to $191 million at September 30, 2001 and consisted of arrangements for
which there are no significant commitment fees.

9.  OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES

     Other current liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions):




           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10.  LONG-TERM DEBT

     Long-term debt consists of the following (in millions):



11.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The Company's financial instruments include short- and long-term debt and
foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The fair value of short-term debt
approximates the carrying value due to its short-term nature. At September 30,
2001 and 2000, the carrying value of long-term debt was $923 million and $925
million, respectively. The fair value of long-term debt, based upon quoted
market prices for the same or similar issues, was $887 million and $843 million
at September 30, 2001 and 2000, respectively.

     Foreign currency forward exchange contracts provide for the purchase or
sale of foreign currencies at specified future dates at specified exchange
rates. At September 30, 2001 and 2000, the Company had outstanding foreign
currency forward exchange contracts with notional amounts of $738 million and
$852 million, respectively, primarily consisting of contracts for the euro,
pound sterling, Canadian dollar, Australian dollar, and Swiss franc. Notional
amounts are stated in the U.S. dollar equivalents at spot exchange rates at the
respective dates. At September 30, 2001, the net carrying value of foreign
currency forward exchange contracts of $2 million was equal to its fair value
based upon quoted market prices for contracts with similar maturities. As of
September 30, 2001 and 2000, the foreign currency forward exchange contracts are
recorded in other current assets in the amounts of $11 million and $51 million,
respectively, and other current liabilities in the amounts of $9 million and $11
million, respectively. The Company does not anticipate any material adverse
effect on its results of operations or financial position relating to these
foreign currency forward exchange contracts. The Company has designated certain
foreign currency forward exchange contracts related to forecasted intercompany
transactions as cash flow hedges. The amount recognized in earnings as a result
of the ineffectiveness of cash flow hedges was not material.

     In February 2000, the Company entered into an interest rate swap contract
(the Swap) which effectively converted its $350 million aggregate principal
amount of 6.15% notes, payable in 2008, to floating rate debt based on 90 day
LIBOR (5.42% at September 30, 2000). At September 30, 2000, the fair value of
the Swap, based upon quoted market prices for contracts with similar maturities,
was approximately $13 million. On October 24, 2000, the Swap was terminated at a
net gain of $16 million. The gain is being amortized as a reduction of interest
expense over the remaining term of the 6.15% notes, payable in 2008.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12.  SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY

  Common Stock

     At September 30, 2001, the authorized stock of the Company consisted of one
billion shares of common stock, par value $1 per share, and 25 million shares of
preferred stock, without par value. At September 30, 2001, 32 million shares of
common stock were reserved for various employee incentive plans.

     Changes in outstanding common shares are summarized as follows (in
millions):



     For 2001, 2000 and 1999, dilutive stock options resulted in an increase in
average outstanding shares of 2.4 million, 2.1 million and 3.1 million,
respectively.

  Preferred Share Purchase Rights

     Each outstanding share of common stock provides the holder with one
Preferred Share Purchase Right (Right). The Rights will become exercisable only
if a person or group, without the approval of the board of directors, acquires,
or offers to acquire, 20% or more of the common stock, although the board of
directors is authorized to reduce the 20% threshold for triggering the Rights to
not less than 10%. Upon exercise, each Right entitles the holder to 1/100th of a
share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock of the Company (Junior
Preferred Stock) at a price of $250, subject to adjustment.

     Upon an acquisition of the Company, each Right (other than Rights held by
the acquirer) will generally be exercisable for $500 worth of either common
stock of the Company or common stock of the acquirer for $250. In certain
circumstances, each Right may be exchanged by the Company for one share of
common stock or 1/100th of a share of Junior Preferred Stock. The Rights will
expire on December 6, 2006, unless earlier exchanged or redeemed at $0.01 per
Right.

  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss

     Accumulated other comprehensive loss, including amounts related to Rockwell
Collins at September 30, 2000, consisted of the following (in millions):



     During 2001, unrealized gains on cash flow hedges of $22 million ($15
million after tax) were reclassified into earnings. Approximately $5 million of
the unrealized gains on cash flow hedges will be reclassified into earnings
during 2002. Management expects that these unrealized gains will be offset when
the hedged items are recognized in earnings.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

13.  STOCK OPTIONS

     Options to purchase common stock of the Company have been granted under
various incentive plans and by board action to directors, officers and other key
employees at prices equal to or above the fair market value of such stock on the
dates the options were granted. The plans provide that the option price for
certain options granted under the plans may be paid in cash, shares of common
stock or a combination thereof.

     Under the 2000 Long-Term Incentives Plan, the Company may grant up to 16
million shares of Company common stock as non-qualified options, incentive stock
options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock. Shares available for
future grant or payment under various incentive plans were 12 million at
September 30, 2001. None of the incentive plans presently permits options to be
granted after November 30, 2009. Stock options generally expire ten years from
the date they are granted and vest over three years (time-vesting options) with
the exception of performance-vesting options.

     In 2001, 2000 and 1999, the Company granted performance-vesting options.
These options expire ten years from the date they are granted and vest at the
earlier of (a) the date the market price of the Company's common stock reaches a
specified level for a pre-determined period of time or certain other financial
performance criteria are met or (b) a period of six to nine years from the date
they are granted.

     Information relative to stock options is as follows (shares in thousands):



     In connection with the Spinoff, the number and exercise prices of certain
options were adjusted in order to preserve the intrinsic value of the options
that were outstanding immediately before and after the Spinoff. For certain
other options, option holders received a combination of Rockwell and Rockwell
Collins options with adjustments made to the number and exercise prices of those
options to preserve the intrinsic value of the Rockwell and Rockwell Collins
options that were outstanding immediately before and after the Spinoff.
Outstanding Rockwell options held by Rockwell Collins employees generally were
converted into Rockwell Collins options.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

13.  STOCK OPTIONS -- (CONTINUED)

     In connection with the spinoff of Semiconductor Systems, the number and
exercise prices of certain options were adjusted in order to preserve the
intrinsic value of the options that were outstanding immediately before and
after the spinoff. For certain other options, option holders received a
combination of Rockwell and Conexant options with adjustments made to the number
and exercise prices of those options to preserve the intrinsic value of the
Rockwell and Conexant options that were outstanding immediately before and after
the spinoff. Outstanding Rockwell options held by Semiconductor Systems
employees were converted into Conexant options.

     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at September 30, 2001 (shares in thousands; remaining life in years):



     The Company's net income and earnings per share would have been reduced to
the following pro forma amounts if the Company accounted for its stock-based
plans using the fair value method provided by SFAS No. 123, Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation (in millions, except per share amounts):



     The 2001 pro forma net income includes $6 million ($4 million after tax, or
two cents per diluted share) of pro forma compensation expense related to the
spinoff of Rockwell Collins. The 1999 pro forma net income includes $87 million
($57 million after tax, or 29 cents per diluted share) of pro forma compensation
expense related to the spinoff of Semiconductor Systems. The pro forma effect of
stock options on net income for 2001 may not be indicative of the pro forma
effect on net income in future years.

     The weighted average fair value of options granted was $8.79, $16.30 and
$9.55 per share in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The fair value of each
option was estimated on the date of grant or subsequent date of option
adjustment using the Black-Scholes pricing model and the following assumptions:




           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

14.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS

     The Company sponsors pension and other postretirement benefit plans for its
employees. The pension plans cover most of the Company's employees and provide
for monthly pension payments to eligible employees upon retirement. Pension
benefits for salaried employees generally are based on years of credited service
and average earnings. Pension benefits for hourly employees generally are based
on specified benefit amounts and years of service. The Company's policy is to
fund its pension obligations in conformity with the funding requirements of
applicable laws and governmental regulations. Other postretirement benefits are
in the form of retirement medical plans and cover most of the Company's United
States employees and provide for the payment of certain medical costs of
eligible employees and dependents upon retirement.

     In connection with the Spinoff, Rockwell Collins assumed the former
Rockwell International Corporation domestic qualified plan (Rockwell Retirement
Plan). Pension plan obligations attributable to all of Rockwell's domestic
active employees and former employees of the Control Systems, Power Systems and
Electronic Commerce businesses were retained by Rockwell and a proportionate
share of pension plan assets were transferred from the Rockwell Retirement Plan
to a new pension plan established by Rockwell. The Company also retained
liabilities for other postretirement benefits for active and former employees.
The tables below reflect the continuing Rockwell plans.

     The components of net periodic benefit cost are as follows (in millions):



     The Company recognized a curtailment gain of $9 million and $14 million in
2000 and 1999, respectively, and special termination benefit charges of $3
million, $3 million and $11 million in 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

14.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS -- (CONTINUED)

     Benefit obligation, plan asset, funded status, and net liability
information is summarized as follows (in millions):



     In connection with the Spinoff, pension plan obligations attributable to
Rockwell Science Center domestic active and former employees and a proportionate
share of pension plan assets were transferred from the Rockwell Retirement Plan
to a new pension plan established by RSC. RSC also assumed its obligation for
other postretirement benefits for such active and former employees.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

14.  RETIREMENT BENEFITS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company uses an actuarial measurement date of June 30 to measure its
benefit obligations. Significant assumptions used in determining these benefit
obligations and net periodic benefit cost are summarized as follows (in weighted
averages):



- ---------------

* Decreasing to 5.5% after 2016.

     The discount rate, compensation increase rate and health care cost trend
rate assumptions are determined as of the measurement date. The expected return
on plan assets assumption is determined as of the previous measurement date.

  Pension Benefits

     The projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation and fair
value of plan assets for the pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations
in excess of the fair value of plan assets (underfunded plans) were $93 million,
$78 million and $20 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2001 and $63
million, $55 million and $1 million, respectively, as of September 30, 2000.

  Other Postretirement Benefits

     Assumed health care cost trend rates have a significant effect on amounts
reported for the retiree medical plans. A one-percentage point change in assumed
health care cost trend rates would have the following effect (in millions):



  Defined Contribution Savings Plans

     The Company also sponsors certain defined contribution savings plans for
eligible employees. Expense related to these plans was $22 million, $21 million
and $21 million, for 2001, 2000 and 1999, respectively.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

15.  OTHER INCOME, NET

     The components of other income, net are as follows (in millions):



     During 2000, the Company recorded a $32 million gain on the sale of real
estate, which was partially offset by a loss of $14 million on the sale of a
Power Systems business, and recorded $28 million of income resulting from the
demutualization of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company.

     In 1999, the Company recorded a loss of $29 million associated with the
write-off of its investment in Goss Graphic Systems, Inc. preferred stock, which
the Company received in connection with the sale of its graphic systems
business. In addition, the Company recorded a gain of $32 million on the sale of
Control Systems' North American Transformer business.

16.  INCOME TAXES

     The components of the income tax provision are as follows (in millions):



     During 2001, the Company reached agreement with various taxing authorities
on refund claims related to certain prior years and recorded $22 million as a
reduction of its income tax provision.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

16.  INCOME TAXES -- (CONTINUED)

     Net current deferred income tax benefits at September 30, 2001 and 2000
consist of the tax effects of temporary differences related to the following (in
millions):



     Net long-term deferred income taxes in the balance sheet at September 30,
2001 and 2000 consist of the tax effects of temporary differences related to the
following (in millions):




           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

16.  INCOME TAXES -- (CONTINUED)

     Management believes it is more likely than not that current and long-term
deferred tax assets will be realized through the reduction of future taxable
income. Significant factors considered by management in its determination of the
probability of the realization of the deferred tax assets include: (a) the
historical operating results of the Company ($453 million of United States
taxable income over the past three years), (b) expectations of future earnings,
and (c) the extended period of time over which the retirement medical liability
will be paid. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets
related to net operating loss carryforwards and foreign tax credit carryforwards
for which utilization is uncertain. The carryforward period for $1 million of
the net operating losses ends between 2002 and 2005. The carryforward period for
the remaining net operating losses is indefinite. The carryforward period for
all of the foreign tax credits ends in 2002.

     The effective income tax rate differed from the United States statutory tax
rate for the reasons set forth below:



     The income tax provisions were calculated based upon the following
components of income from continuing operations before income taxes (in
millions):



     No provision has been made for United States, state, or additional
non-United States income taxes related to approximately $239 million of
undistributed earnings of foreign subsidiaries which have been or are intended
to be permanently reinvested. It is not practical to determine the United States
federal income tax liability, if any, which would be payable if such earnings
were not permanently reinvested.

     The Company's United States income tax returns for the years 1995 through
1997 are currently under examination. In connection with the divestiture of the
Company's aerospace and defense business ("the A&D Business"), the spinoff of
the Company's automotive components business ("Automotive"), the Semiconductor
Systems spinoff, and the Rockwell Collins spinoff, the Company has retained all
tax liabilities and the right to all tax refunds related to United States and
certain non-U.S. operations of the A&D Business, Automotive, Semiconductor
Systems and Rockwell Collins for periods prior to the respective divestiture
dates. Management expects the examination of the Company's 1995 through 1997 tax
years will be completed during 2002. Management believes adequate provision for
income taxes has been made for all years through 2001.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

17.  SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT INFORMATION



     Income taxes paid and interest payments related to discontinued operations
for 2001, 2000 and 1999 were not significant.

     Minimum future rental commitments under operating leases having
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year aggregated $200 million as of
September 30, 2001 and are payable as follows (in millions): 2002, $44; 2003,
$37; 2004, $31; 2005, $23; 2006, $17, and after 2006, $48. Commitments from
third parties under sublease agreements having noncancelable lease terms in
excess of one year aggregated $44 million as of September 30, 2001 and are
receivable through 2008 at approximately $6 million per year.

18.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES

     Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of
substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes and other
activities affecting the environment have and will continue to have an effect on
the manufacturing operations of the Company. Thus far, compliance with
environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims has been
accomplished without material effect on the Company's liquidity and capital
resources, competitive position or financial condition.

     The Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party at 19
Superfund sites, excluding sites as to which the Company's records disclose no
involvement or as to which the Company's potential liability has been finally
determined or assumed by third parties. Management estimates the total
reasonably possible costs the Company could incur for the remediation of
Superfund sites at September 30, 2001 to be about $13 million, of which $9
million has been accrued.

     Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been asserted against
the Company alleging violations of federal, state and local environmental
protection requirements, or seeking remediation of alleged environmental
impairments, principally at previously owned properties. As of September 30,
2001, management has estimated the highest total reasonably possible costs the
Company could incur from these matters to be about $55 million. The Company has
recorded environmental accruals for these matters of $25 million. In addition to
the above matters, the Company assumed certain other environmental liabilities
in connection with the 1995 acquisition of Reliance Electric Company (Reliance).
The Company is indemnified by ExxonMobil Corporation (Exxon) for substantially
all costs associated with these Reliance matters. At September 30, 2001, the
Company has recorded a liability of approximately $29 million and a receivable
of approximately $28 million for these Reliance matters. Management estimates
the highest total reasonably possible costs for these matters to be
approximately $37 million for which the Company is substantially indemnified by
Exxon.

     Based on its assessment, management believes that the Company's
expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation necessary to
comply with present regulations governing environmental protection and other
expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and capital resources, competitive
position or financial condition. Management cannot assess the possible effect of
compliance with future requirements.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

18.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENT LIABILITIES -- (CONTINUED)

     Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or
asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its business, including
those pertaining to product liability, intellectual property, safety and health,
employment and contract matters. In connection with the divestiture of the A&D
Business to The Boeing Company (Boeing), Rockwell agreed to indemnify Boeing for
certain government contract and environmental matters related to operations of
the A&D Business for periods prior to the divestiture. In connection with the
spinoffs of Automotive, Semiconductor Systems and Rockwell Collins, the spun-off
companies have agreed to indemnify Rockwell for substantially all contingent
liabilities related to the respective businesses, including environmental and
intellectual property matters. Although the outcome of litigation cannot be
predicted with certainty and some lawsuits, claims, or proceedings may be
disposed of unfavorably to the Company, management believes the disposition of
matters which are pending or asserted will not have a material adverse effect on
the Company's business or financial condition.

     In the ordinary course of business, the Company has divested certain of its
businesses. As a result of such divestitures, there may be lawsuits, claims or
proceedings instituted or asserted against the Company related to the period
that the businesses were owned by the Company. Management believes that any
judgments against the Company related to such matters would not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business or financial condition.

19.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION

     Rockwell is a provider of industrial automation power, control and
information products and services. The Company is organized based upon products
and services and has three operating segments consisting of Control Systems,
Power Systems and Electronic Commerce. Following the spinoff of Rockwell
Collins, the Company has a 50 percent ownership interest in RSC and accounts for
its interest in RSC using the equity method.

     The Control Systems segment is a supplier of industrial automation
products, systems, software and services focused on helping customers control
manufacturing processes. Products include controllers, I/O (input/output)
systems, drives, sensors, packaged control products, operator interface devices,
software products and services and network monitoring products. These products
are primarily marketed under the Rockwell Automation, Allen-Bradley, and
Rockwell Software brand names. Major markets served include consumer products,
food and beverage, transportation, metals, mining, pulp and paper, petroleum,
specialty chemicals, pharmaceuticals, electric power, water treatment,
electronic assembly and semiconductor fabrication.

     The Power Systems segment is a supplier of industrial automation mechanical
power transmission products and industrial motors and drives. Products include
power transmission components, gear reducers, speed drives, shaft mounted
reducers, conveyor pulleys, shaft couplings, clutches, motor brakes, mounted
bearings and motors. These products are primarily marketed under the Dodge and
Reliance Electric brand names. Major markets served include mining, aggregate,
food/beverage, forestry, petrochemicals, metals, unit handling, air handling and
environmental.

     The Electronic Commerce segment is a solutions supplier for companies that
interact with their customers via the telephone, the internet, or both. Products
include automatic call distributors, computer telephony integration software,
information collection, reporting, queuing and management systems and call
center systems and consulting services. Major markets served include service,
transportation, energy, healthcare, retail, telecommunications and financial.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

19.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)

     The following tables reflect the sales and operating results of the
Company's reportable segments for the years ended September 30 (in millions):



     Other represents the sales and segment operating earnings of Rockwell
Science Center through the third quarter of 2001. Beginning with the fourth
quarter of 2001, the Company's 50 percent ownership interest in RSC is accounted
for using the equity method, and the Company's proportional share of RSC's
earnings or losses are included in general corporate-net.

     Among other considerations, the Company evaluates performance and allocates
resources based upon segment operating earnings before income taxes, interest
expense, costs related to corporate offices, nonrecurring special charges, gains
and losses from the disposition of businesses, earnings and losses from equity
affiliates, and incremental acquisition related expenses resulting from purchase
accounting adjustments such as goodwill and other intangible asset amortization,
depreciation, inventory and purchased research and development charges. The
accounting policies used in preparing the segment information are consistent
with those described in Note 1. Special charges are discussed in Note 3.

     Effective October 1, 2001, management changed its method of evaluating
segment performance to exclude from segment operating earnings all purchase
accounting items, including depreciation and intangible asset amortization.
Management believes the exclusion of these items provides additional insight
into the operating performance of the segments.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

19.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)

     The following tables summarize the identifiable assets at September 30, the
provision for depreciation and amortization and the amount of capital
expenditures for property for the years ended September 30 for each of the
reportable segments and Corporate (in millions):



     Identifiable assets at Corporate consist principally of cash, net deferred
income tax assets, property and the 50 percent ownership interest in RSC.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

19.  BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company conducts a significant portion of its business activities
outside the United States. The following tables reflect geographic sales and
property by geographic region (in millions):



     Sales are attributed to the geographic regions based on the country of
destination.

20.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)



     Net income for 2001 includes: (a) charges of $69 million ($45 million after
tax, or 25 cents per diluted share) for costs associated with realignment
actions in the third quarter; (b) charges of $22 million ($15 million after tax,
or eight cents per diluted share) for costs associated with realignment actions
in the fourth quarter and (c) a gain of $18 million ($12 million after tax, or
six cents per diluted share) resulting from the favorable settlement of an
intellectual property matter in the fourth quarter.


           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

20.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED) -- (CONTINUED)




     Net income for 2000 includes: (a) a net gain of $18 million ($12 million
after tax, or six cents per diluted share) resulting from the sale of real
estate in the second quarter which was partially offset by a loss on sale of a
business and (b) a gain of $28 million ($19 million after tax, or 10 cents per
diluted share) resulting from the demutualization of Metropolitan Life Insurance
Company in the third quarter.



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of
Rockwell International Corporation:

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Rockwell
International Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 30, 2001 and 2000,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareowners' equity, cash
flows, and comprehensive income for each of the three years in the period ended
September 30, 2001. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule
listed at Item 14(a)(2). These financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility
is to express an opinion on these financial statements and financial statement
schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Rockwell International
Corporation and subsidiaries at September 30, 2001 and 2000, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial
statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated
financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects
the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin
November 7, 2001



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.

     See the information under the captions ELECTION OF DIRECTORS and
INFORMATION AS TO NOMINEES FOR DIRECTORS AND CONTINUING DIRECTORS in the 2002
Proxy Statement.

     No nominee for director was selected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the nominee and any person other than the Company pursuant
to which such person is or was to be selected as a director or nominee. See also
the information with respect to executive officers of the Company under Item 4a
of Part I hereof.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     See the information under the captions EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION, OPTION
GRANTS AND AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES AND FISCAL YEAR-END VALUES and RETIREMENT
PLANS in the 2002 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     See the information under the captions VOTING SECURITIES and OWNERSHIP BY
MANAGEMENT OF EQUITY SECURITIES in the 2002 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     See the information under the caption BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND COMMITTEES in
the 2002 Proxy Statement.



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits.

        (1) Financial Statements (all financial statements listed below are
            those of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries).

           Consolidated Balance Sheet, September 30, 2001 and 2000.

           Consolidated Statement of Operations, years ended September 30, 2001,
           2000 and 1999.

           Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, years ended September 30, 2001,
           2000 and 1999.

           Consolidated Statement of Shareowners' Equity, years ended September
           30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

           Consolidated Statement of Comprehensive Income, years ended September
           30, 2001, 2000 and 1999.

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

           Independent Auditors' Report.

        (2) Financial Statement Schedule for the years ended September 30, 2001,
2000 and 1999.



           Schedules not filed herewith are omitted because of the absence of
           conditions under which they are required or because the information
           called for is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes
           thereto.

        (3) Exhibits.





          * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.





          * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.






          * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.







          * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.






          * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.




(b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

          The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 11, 2001 in
     respect of the completion on June 29, 2001 of the spin-off of its avionics
     and communications business to holders of shares of Common Stock, par value
     $1 per share, of the Company by means of the pro rata distribution to such
     holders of all the outstanding shares of Common Stock, par value $.01 per
     share, of Rockwell Collins, Inc., then a wholly-owned subsidiary of the
     Company, including the associated preferred share purchase rights (the
     "Distribution"). Rockwell Collins began operations as an independent,
     separately traded, publicly held company on June 30, 2001. The Form 8-K
     includes unaudited pro forma condensed consolidated financial information
     of the Company reflecting the Distribution (Items 2 and 7).



                                   SIGNATURES

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                          ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

                                          By   /s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                   William J. Calise, Jr.
                                                   Senior Vice President,
                                               General Counsel and Secretary

Dated: November 21, 2001

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW ON THE 21ST DAY OF NOVEMBER 2001 BY THE FOLLOWING
PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED.

             DON H. DAVIS, JR.*
         CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND
          CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
       (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

             BETTY C. ALEWINE*
                 DIRECTOR

              J. MICHAEL COOK*
                 DIRECTOR

           WILLIAM H. GRAY, III*
                 DIRECTOR

         WILLIAM T. MCCORMICK, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR

              JOHN D. NICHOLS*
                 DIRECTOR

             BRUCE M. ROCKWELL*
                 DIRECTOR

            JOSEPH F. TOOT, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR

             MICHAEL A. BLESS*
         SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT AND
          CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER
       (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER)

              DAVID M. DORGAN*
       VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER
      (PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER)

*By   /s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
    ----------------------------------
         WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.,
            ATTORNEY-IN-FACT**

**By authority of powers of attorney filed herewith



                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 2001, 2000 AND 1999



- ---------------

(a) Includes allowances for trade and other long-term receivables.

(b) Consists principally of uncollectible accounts written off.

                                       S-1


