
10-K405
ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORP.



 
                                                                [CONFORMED COPY]
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                            ------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                      THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1998. COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12383
 
                            ------------------------
 
                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 

 
 REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (714) 424-4565 (OFFICE OF
                                 THE SECRETARY)
 
                            ------------------------
 
                         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT
                          TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
 

 
                            ------------------------
 
                         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT
                          TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X  No _
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [  X ]
 
     The aggregate market value of registrant's voting stock held by
non-affiliates of registrant on November 30, 1998 was approximately $9.3
billion.
 
     189,674,156 shares of registrant's Common Stock, par value $1 per share,
were outstanding on November 30, 1998.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
     Certain information contained in the Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareowners of registrant to be held on February 3, 1999 is incorporated by
reference into Part III hereof.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                     PART I
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.
 
     Rockwell International Corporation (the Company or Rockwell), a Delaware
corporation, is a global electronic controls and communications company with
leadership positions in industrial automation, avionics and communications and
electronic commerce. The Company was incorporated in 1996 and is the successor
to the former Rockwell International Corporation as a result of a tax-free
reorganization completed on December 6, 1996 (the Reorganization), pursuant to
which the Company divested its former Aerospace and Defense businesses (the A&D
Business) to The Boeing Company (Boeing). The predecessor corporation was
incorporated in 1928. On September 30, 1997, the Company completed the spin-off
of its automotive component systems business (the Automotive Business) into an
independent, separately traded, publicly held company named Meritor Automotive,
Inc. (Meritor). On November 4, 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company
approved the spin-off of Conexant Systems, Inc. (Conexant), which after the
spin-off will be a separately traded public company owning and operating
Rockwell's semiconductor systems business (Semiconductor Systems). The spin-off,
which is expected to occur on December 31, 1998, will be at the rate of one
share of Conexant common stock for every two shares of the Company's common
stock, par value $1 per share (Common Stock), held as of the close of business
on December 11, 1998. The Company has received a favorable ruling from the
Internal Revenue Service as to the tax-free status of the spin-off. As used
herein, the terms the "Company" or "Rockwell" include subsidiaries and
predecessors unless the context indicates otherwise. Information included in
this Annual Report on Form 10-K refers to the Company's continuing businesses
unless otherwise indicated.
 
     For purposes hereof, whenever reference is made in any Item of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K to information under specific captions in Item 7,
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS (the MD&A), or in Item 8, CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND
SUPPLEMENTARY DATA (the Financial Statements), or to information in the Proxy
Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareowners of the Company to be held on
February 3, 1999 (the 1999 Proxy Statement), such information shall be deemed to
be incorporated therein by such reference.
 
     The Company's continuing business segments are engaged in research,
development, manufacture and service of electronic controls and communications
products as follows:
 
     Automation--industrial automation equipment and systems, including control
     logic, sensors, human-machine interface devices, motors, power and
     mechanical devices and software products.
 
     Avionics & Communications--avionics products and systems and related
     communications technologies primarily used in commercial and military
     aircraft and defense electronic systems for command, control,
     communications and intelligence; in-flight entertainment systems for
     commercial aircraft; and electronic commerce products for call center
     systems and personalized electronic commerce applications.
 
     Financial information with respect to the Company's business segments,
including their contributions to sales and operating earnings for the three
years ended September 30, 1998, is contained under the caption RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS in the MD&A on pages 12-14 hereof, and in Note 18 of the NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements on pages 38-40
hereof.
 
PRODUCTS
 
     Automation.  The Company's automation products include programmable logic
controllers, human-machine interface devices, communications networks, AC/DC
drives and drive systems, sensing and motion control devices, computer numeric
control systems, data acquisition products, standard and engineered motors,
mechanical power transmission equipment, global support services and software
products, which include programming, human-machine interface, process monitoring
and control, communications and Internet technologies. The Company is a leader
in plant floor automation, focusing on helping customers control processes and
become more competitive through increased flexibility, improved productivity and
information flow.
 
     Avionics & Communications.  Rockwell's Avionics & Communications businesses
provide electronic equipment for flight control, cockpit display, navigation,
voice and data communication, cockpit management, in-flight cabin management,
communications and passenger entertainment, radar, global positioning and other
command, control and communications devices and systems for airlines, corporate
aircraft, general aviation,

 
government and military applications; and transaction call processing systems
for customers requiring electronic commerce applications.
 
COMPETITIVE POSTURE
 
     The Company competes with many manufacturers which, depending on the
product involved, range from large diversified enterprises, comparable to or
greater than the Company in scope and resources, to smaller companies
specializing in particular products. Factors which affect the Company's
competitive posture are its research and development efforts, the quality of its
products and services and its marketing and pricing strategies.
 
     The Company's products are sold by its own sales force and through
distributors and agents.
 
GOVERNMENT CONTRACTS
 
     Approximately nine percent of the Company's sales is derived from United
States government contracts, almost entirely from its Avionics & Communications
business. The Avionics & Communications business supplies certain military
equipment to the United States government. In addition to normal business risks,
companies engaged in supplying military equipment to the United States
government are subject to unusual risks, including dependence on Congressional
appropriations and administrative allotment of funds, changes in governmental
procurement legislation and regulations and other policies which may reflect
military and political developments, significant changes in contract scheduling,
complexity of designs and the rapidity with which they become obsolete, constant
necessity for design improvements, intense competition for available United
States government business necessitating increases in time and investment for
design and development, difficulty of forecasting costs and schedules when
bidding on developmental and highly sophisticated technical work and other
factors characteristic of the industry. Changes are customary over the life of
United States government contracts, particularly development contracts, and
generally result in adjustments of contract prices.
 
     Moreover, various claims (whether based on United States government or
Company audits and investigations or otherwise) have been or may be instituted
or asserted against the Company related to its United States government contract
work, including claims based on business practices and cost classifications.
Although such claims are usually resolved by detailed fact-finding and
negotiation, on those occasions when they are not so resolved, civil or criminal
legal or administrative proceedings may ensue. Depending on the circumstances
and the outcome, such proceedings could result in fines, the cancellation of or
suspension of payments under one or more United States government contracts,
suspension or debarment proceedings affecting potential further business with
the United States government, or alteration of the Company's procedures relating
to the performance or obtaining of United States government contracts.
Management of the Company believes there are no claims, audits or investigations
currently pending which will have a material adverse effect on either the
Company's business or its financial statements.
 
ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS
 
     The Company regularly considers the acquisition or development of new
businesses and reviews the prospects of its existing businesses to determine
whether any should be modified, sold or otherwise discontinued.
 
     In the first quarter of 1998, the Company acquired the in-flight
entertainment business of Hughes-Avicom International, Inc. for $157 million. In
connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a charge of $103 million
($63 million after tax) for purchased research and development and recorded $70
million for other intangible assets, including developed technology, patents,
assembled workforce and goodwill, which are being amortized on a straight-line
basis over 10 years.
 
     In October 1996, the Company sold its Graphic Systems business for
approximately $600 million. On December 6, 1996, the Company completed the
divestiture of the A&D Business to Boeing. On September 30, 1997, the Company
completed the spin-off of Meritor. The Company expects to complete the spin-off
of
 

 
Conexant on December 31, 1998. The net (loss) income from operations of the
Graphic Systems business, the A&D Business, the Automotive Business and
Semiconductor Systems have been presented on the Company's consolidated
statement of operations included in the Financial Statements as (loss) income
from discontinued operations for all periods. The assets and liabilities of
Semiconductor Systems as of September 30, 1998 and 1997 have been classified on
the Company's consolidated balance sheet included in the Financial Statements as
net assets of Semiconductor Systems.
 
GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION
 
     The Company's principal markets outside the United States are in Australia,
Brazil, Canada, China, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, Mexico, South
Korea, Southeast Asia, Spain, Switzerland, The Netherlands and the United
Kingdom. In addition to normal business risks, operations outside the United
States are subject to other risks including, among other factors, the political,
economic and social environments, governmental laws and regulations, and
currency revaluations and fluctuations.
 
     Selected financial information by major geographic area for the three years
ended September 30, 1998 is contained in Note 18 of the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED
FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     In addition to research and development activities conducted by each of the
Company's businesses, the Company's Science Center conducts a basic research
program to support the strategies of the operating businesses and continues to
provide research services to Boeing and Meritor at agreed rates. At September
30, 1998, the Company employed approximately 5,200 professional engineers and
scientists and 2,600 supporting technical personnel.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     At September 30, 1998, the Company had approximately 41,000 employees, of
whom approximately 7,400 were employed outside the United States.
 
     In June 1998, in connection with its plan to restructure its continuing
businesses, the Company announced a worldwide workforce reduction of
approximately 3,000 employees. This workforce reduction is expected to be
substantially completed by the end of 1999.
 
RAW MATERIALS AND SUPPLIES
 
     Raw materials essential to the conduct of each of the Company's business
segments generally are available at competitive prices. Many items of equipment
and components used in the production of the Company's products are purchased
from others. In addition, the Avionics & Communications business generally
subcontracts major portions of systems. Although the Company has a broad base of
suppliers and subcontractors, it is dependent upon the ability of its suppliers
and subcontractors to meet performance and quality specifications and delivery
schedules.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION REQUIREMENTS
 
     Information with respect to the effect on the Company and its manufacturing
operations of compliance with environmental protection requirements and
resolution of environmental claims is contained in Note 17 of the NOTES TO
CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the Financial Statements. See also Item 3,
LEGAL PROCEEDINGS, on pages 6-8 hereof.
 
PATENTS, LICENSES AND TRADEMARKS
 
     Numerous patents and patent applications are owned or licensed by the
Company and utilized in its activities and manufacturing operations. Various
claims of patent infringement have been made against the Company. Management
believes that none of these claims will have a material adverse effect on the
consolidated financial statements of the Company. See Item 3, LEGAL PROCEEDINGS,
on pages 6-8 hereof. While

 
in the aggregate the Company's patents and licenses are considered important in
the operation of its business, management does not consider them of such
importance that loss or termination of any one of them would materially affect
the Company's business.
 
     The Company's name and its registered trademarks "Rockwell" and "Rockwell
International" are important to each of its business segments. In addition, the
Company owns a large number of other important trademarks applicable to only
certain of its products, such as "Collins" for navigation and communication
equipment, "Allen-Bradley" and "A-B" for electronic controls and systems for
industrial automation, "Reliance Electric" for electric motors and "Dodge" for
mechanical power transmission products.
 
SEASONALITY
 
     None of the Company's business segments is seasonal.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.
 
     At September 30, 1998, the Company's continuing businesses operated 88
plants and research and development facilities throughout the United States and
in Europe, Brazil, Canada, India, Mexico, Australia and the Far East. These
businesses also had approximately 367 sales offices, warehouses and service
centers. These facilities had an aggregate floor space of approximately 21.1
million square feet. Of this floor space, approximately 63 percent was owned by
the Company and approximately 37 percent was leased. At September 30, 1998,
approximately 680,000 square feet of floor space was not in use, most of which
was in owned facilities. A summary of floor space of these facilities at
September 30, 1998 is as follows:
 

 
     At September 30, 1998, Semiconductor Systems operated four manufacturing
facilities in the United States and one facility in Mexico. It also had 13
design centers and 23 sales offices. These facilities had an aggregate floor
space of approximately 3.0 million square feet, approximately 70 percent of
which was owned and approximately 30 percent of which was leased. Approximately
676,000 square feet of owned facilities was unused space at its wafer
fabrication facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado. Another 72,000 square feet
of leased office space in San Diego, California was unoccupied and 19,200 square
feet of leased warehouse space in El Paso, Texas was vacant. Prior to its
spin-off from the Company, Conexant will distribute its wafer fabrication
facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado to the Company. At September 30, 1998,
these facilities were included in net assets of Semiconductor Systems on the
Company's consolidated balance sheet included in the Financial Statements.
 

 
     There are no major encumbrances (other than financing arrangements which in
the aggregate are not material) on any of the Company's plants or equipment. In
the opinion of management, the Company's properties have been well maintained,
are in sound operating condition and contain all equipment and facilities
necessary to operate at present levels.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.
 
     Rocky Flats Plant.  On January 30, 1990, a civil action was brought in the
United States District Court for the District of Colorado against the Company
and another former operator of the Rocky Flats Plant (the Plant), Golden,
Colorado, operated from 1975 through December 31, 1989 by the Company for the
Department of Energy (DOE). The action alleges the improper production, handling
and disposal of radioactive and other hazardous substances, constituting, among
other things, violations of various environmental, health and safety laws and
regulations, and misrepresentation and concealment of the facts relating
thereto. The plaintiffs, who purportedly represent two classes, sought
compensatory damages of $250 million for diminution in value of real estate and
other economic loss; the creation of a fund of $150 million to finance medical
monitoring and surveillance services; exemplary damages of $300 million; CERCLA
response costs in an undetermined amount; attorneys' fees; an injunction; and
other proper relief. On February 13, 1991, the court granted certain of the
motions of the defendants to dismiss the case. The plaintiffs subsequently filed
a new complaint, and on November 26, 1991, the court granted in part a renewed
motion to dismiss. The remaining portion of the case is pending before the
court. On October 8, 1993, the court certified separate medical monitoring and
property value classes. Effective August 1, 1996, the DOE assumed control of the
defense of the contractor defendants, including the Company, in the action.
Beginning on that date, the costs of the Company's defense, which had previously
been reimbursed to the Company by the DOE, have been and are being paid directly
by the DOE. The Company believes that it is entitled under applicable law and
its contract with the DOE to be indemnified for all costs and any liability
associated with this action.
 
     On November 13, 1990, the Company was served with a summons and complaint
in another civil action, which the Company believes is totally without merit,
brought against the Company in the same court by James Stone, claiming to act in
the name of the United States, alleging violations of the U.S. False Claims Act
in connection with the Company's operation of the Plant (and seeking treble
damages and forfeitures) as well as a personal cause of action for alleged
wrongful termination of employment, seeking reinstatement with back pay and
other unspecified damages. On August 8, 1991, the court dismissed the personal
cause of action. On February 2, 1994, the court denied Rockwell's motion to
dismiss the complaint for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, and discovery is
proceeding. On December 6, 1995, the DOE notified the Company that it would no
longer reimburse costs incurred by the Company in defense of the action. On
November 19, 1996, the court granted the Department of Justice leave to
intervene in the case on the government's behalf and has set a February 1999
trial date. The Company is defending the action and believes it is entitled
under applicable law and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified for all
costs and any liability associated with this action.
 
     On January 8, 1991, the Company filed suit in the United States Claims
Court against the DOE, seeking recovery of $6.5 million of award fees to which
the Company alleges it is entitled under the terms of its contract with the DOE
for management and operation of the Plant during the period October 1, 1988
through September 30, 1989. On July 17, 1996, the government filed an amended
answer and counterclaim against the Company alleging violations of the U.S.
False Claims Act previously asserted in the civil action described in the
preceding paragraph. On March 20, 1997, the court stayed the case pending
disposition of the civil action described in the preceding paragraph. The
Company believes the government's counterclaim is without merit, and believes it
is entitled under applicable law and its contract with the DOE to be indemnified
for all costs and any liability associated with the counterclaim.
 
     Hanford Nuclear Reservation. On August 6, 1990 and August 9, 1990, civil
actions were filed in the United States District Court for the Eastern District
of Washington against the Company and the present and other former operators of
the DOE's Hanford Nuclear Reservation (Hanford), Hanford, Washington. The
Company operated part of Hanford for the DOE from 1977 through June 1987. Both
actions purport to be brought on behalf of various classes of persons and
numerous individual plaintiffs who resided, worked, owned or leased real
property, or operated businesses, at or near Hanford or downwind or downriver
from Hanford, at

 
any time since 1944. The actions allege the improper handling and disposal of
radioactive and other hazardous substances and assert various statutory and
common law claims. The relief sought includes unspecified compensatory and
punitive damages for personal injuries and for economic losses, and various
injunctive and other equitable relief.
 
     Other cases asserting similar claims (the follow-on claims) on behalf of
the same and similarly situated individuals and groups have been filed from time
to time since August 1990, and may continue to be filed from time to time in the
future. These actions and the follow-on claims have been (and any additional
follow-on claims that may be filed are expected to be) consolidated in the
United States District Court for the Eastern District of Washington under the
name In re Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation. Because the claims and
classes of claimants included in the actions described in the preceding
paragraph are so broadly defined, the follow-on claims filed as of December 3,
1998 have not altered, and possible future follow-on claims are not expected to
alter, in any material respect the scope of the litigation.
 
     Effective October 1, 1994, the DOE assumed control of the defense of
certain of the contractor defendants (including the Company) in the In re
Hanford Nuclear Reservation Litigation. Beginning on that date, the costs of the
Company's defense, which had previously been reimbursed to the Company by the
DOE, have been and are being paid directly by the DOE. The Company believes it
is entitled under applicable law and its contracts with the DOE to be
indemnified for all costs and any liability associated with these actions.
 
     Celeritas.  On September 27, 1995, Celeritas Technologies, Ltd. filed a
suit against the Company in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of
California, for patent infringement, misappropriation of trade secrets and
breach of contract relating to cellular telephone data transmission technology
utilized in certain modem products produced by Semiconductor Systems in 1995 and
1996. The court entered judgment against the Company in January 1997 and, in
ruling on post-trial motions in July 1997, entered a revised judgment awarding
damages of $57 million, plus interest. On July 20, 1998, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit reversed the holding of the trial court based on
patent infringement and found Celeritas's patent invalid but affirmed the trial
court holding based on breach of contract. The Company's petition for a
rehearing (and rehearing en banc) and a motion to certify the contract issue to
the California Supreme Court were denied in September 1998. The Company
continues to believe that the judgment is in error and on November 23, 1998
filed a petition for certiorari with the United States Supreme Court. At
September 30, 1998, $65 million had been accrued for the ultimate resolution of
this matter. Prior to the spin-off of Conexant, the Company will contribute $65
million in cash to Conexant, which will be placed in an escrow account to be
used to satisfy Conexant's obligation with respect to the Celeritas matter.
 
     Russellville.  On June 24, 1996, judgment was entered against the Company
in a civil action in the Circuit Court of Logan County, Kentucky on a jury
verdict awarding $8 million in compensatory and $210 million in punitive damages
for property damage. The action had been brought August 12, 1993 by owners of
flood plain real property near Russellville, Kentucky allegedly damaged by
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) discharged from a plant owned and operated by
the Company's Measurement & Flow Control Division prior to its divestiture in
March 1989. The Company believes that the verdict is unsupported by the evidence
and, on January 22, 1997, filed a notice of appeal. Since the Company believes
it is not reasonably possible that the punitive damages will be sustained on
appeal, the Company has not accrued any reserve for those damages.
 
     On March 24, 1997, the Circuit Court of Franklin County, Kentucky in
Commonwealth of Kentucky, Natural Resources and Environmental Protection Cabinet
vs. Rockwell, an action filed in 1986 seeking remediation of PCB contamination
resulting from unpermitted discharges of PCBs from the Company's former
Russellville, Kentucky plant, entered judgment establishing PCB cleanup levels
for the former plant site and certain offsite property and ordering additional
characterization of possible contamination in the Mud River and its floodplain.
On June 30, 1997, the Company filed a notice of appeal, but is nevertheless
proceeding with remediation and characterization efforts consistent with the
Court's ruling while simultaneously appealing that ruling. The Court deferred
any decision on the imposition of fines or penalties pending implementation of
an appropriate remediation program.
 

 
     Other.  In July 1995, a federal grand jury impaneled by the United States
District Court for the Central District of California began an investigation
into a July 1994 explosion at the Santa Susana Field Laboratory operated by the
Company's former Rocketdyne Division in which two scientists were killed and a
technician was injured. On April 11, 1996, pursuant to an agreement between the
Company and the United States Attorney for the Central District of California,
the Company entered a plea of guilty to two counts of unpermitted disposal of
hazardous waste and one count of unpermitted storage of hazardous waste, all of
which are felony violations of the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, and
paid a fine of $6.5 million to settle potential federal criminal claims arising
out of the federal government's investigation. Investigation under other U.S.
and California laws continues. While the Company has no information on the
status of these investigations, further civil sanctions could be imposed on the
current owner of the facility, Boeing North American, Inc. (BNA), for which the
Company would be required to indemnify BNA.
 
     On December 27, 1995, one shareowner, purporting to act derivatively on
behalf of the Company, commenced an action in the Superior Court of the State of
California for the County of Orange against 13 of the Company's directors, and
the Company as a nominal defendant, alleging principally breaches of fiduciary
duties in failing properly to manage the business of the Company in a manner to
prevent certain violations of applicable federal and state laws, including
environmental laws, by certain named and unnamed employees or agents of the
Company. The action seeks declaratory judgment, damages suffered by the Company
as a result of the alleged conduct, plaintiffs' costs and expenses and other
proper relief.
 
     On February 27, 1996, a similar suit, making similar allegations and
seeking similar relief, was filed against the Company and the same directors,
plus Don H. Davis, Jr., by two other shareowners in the Superior Court of the
State of California for the County of Los Angeles. On August 7, 1996, the Los
Angeles County action was dismissed voluntarily by the plaintiffs. On August 22,
1996, a First Amended Consolidated Complaint was filed in the Orange County
action, adding the plaintiffs from the dismissed Los Angeles County suit as
party plaintiffs to the Orange County suit. A Second Amended Consolidated
Complaint was filed in the Orange County action on November 27, 1996.
Subsequently, on February 4, 1997, plaintiffs voluntarily dismissed the action
with respect to two of the director-defendants, Judith L. Estrin and William H.
Gray, III. The Company and the director-defendants are defending the
consolidated action, and the parties are proceeding with discovery.
 
     Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be
instituted or asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its
business, including those pertaining to product liability, environmental, safety
and health, intellectual property, employment and government contract matters.
Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with certainty and some
lawsuits, claims or proceedings may be disposed of unfavorably to the Company,
management believes the disposition of matters which are pending or asserted
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial statements.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.
 
     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of 1998.
 
ITEM 4a.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.
 
     The name, age, office and position held with the Company and principal
occupations and employment during the past five years of each of the executive
officers of the Company as of December 3, 1998 are as follows:
 

 

 

 

 
     There are no family relationships, as defined, between any of the above
executive officers. No officer of the Company was selected pursuant to any
arrangement or understanding between him and any person other than the Company.
All executive officers are elected annually.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.
 
     The principal market on which the Company's Common Stock is traded is the
New York Stock Exchange. The Company's Common Stock is also traded on the
Pacific and London Stock Exchanges. On November 30, 1998, there were 58,262
shareowners of record of the Company's Common Stock.
 
     The following table sets forth the high and low trading price of the
Company's Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange--Composite Transactions
reporting system during each quarter of the Company's fiscal years ended
September 30, 1998 and 1997:
 

 
     On December 6, 1996, each Rockwell shareowner received .042 share
(presently .084 share) of Boeing common stock for each share of Rockwell Common
Stock or Class A Common Stock owned. On September 30, 1997, each Rockwell
shareowner received one-third of a share of Meritor common stock for each share
of Rockwell Common Stock owned. At September 30, 1998, such fractional shares of
Boeing and Meritor common stock per Rockwell share had values of $2.88 and
$5.02, respectively. Rockwell's current stock price does not reflect the value
of the Boeing and Meritor fractional shares.
 
     During the year ended September 30, 1998, the Company repurchased, through
open-market purchases, 18.5 million shares of Common Stock.
 
     The following table sets forth the aggregate quarterly cash dividends per
common share (comprised of the Common Stock and, until February 23, 1997, the
date of its automatic conversion to Common Stock, Class A Common Stock) during
each of the Company's five fiscal years ended September 30, 1998:
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Upon the spin-off of Meritor on September 30, 1997, the Company's annual
    $1.16 per share dividend was set at $1.02 for Rockwell and 14 cents for
    Meritor. Per share dividend amounts indicated do not include dividends paid
    on the fractional shares of Boeing and Meritor received on December 6, 1996
    and September 30, 1997, respectively, by Rockwell shareowners.
 
     On July 1, 1998, the Company issued 193, 240, 39 and 230 shares of
restricted stock, respectively, to the following directors of the Company:
George L. Argyros, Richard M. Bressler, William H. Gray, III and John D.
Nichols. These shares were issued pursuant to deferral elections made in
accordance with the Directors Stock Plan in partial or full payment for retainer
fees otherwise payable in cash. The issuance of all such shares was exempt from
the registration requirements of the Securities Act of 1933 pursuant to Section
4(2) thereof.
 

 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.
 
     The following sets forth selected consolidated financial data in respect of
the Company's continuing operations. The selected consolidated financial data
have been derived from the consolidated financial statements of the Company. The
data should be read in conjunction with the MD&A and the Financial Statements.
The statement of operations data for the five years ended September 30, 1998 and
the related balance sheet data have been derived from the audited consolidated
financial statements of the Company.
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Includes the impact of the following special items: pre-tax charges of $597
    million, or $2.57 per share, for costs associated with the comprehensive
    restructuring program announced in June 1998 and $103 million, or 31 cents
    per share, relating to the write-off of purchased research and development
    in connection with an acquisition in 1998; a charge of $23 million (before
    and after tax), or 11 cents per share, relating to the write-off of
    purchased research and development in connection with an acquisition in
    1997; and a pre-tax charge of $76 million, or 22 cents per share, relating
    to restructuring actions in 1996. Income from continuing operations and
    related per share amounts for 1996 also include a tax credit of $65 million,
    or 29 cents per share, related to the settlement of research and
    experimentation tax credit refund claims for years prior to 1996.
 
(2) Upon the spin-off of Meritor on September 30, 1997, the Company's annual
    $1.16 per share dividend was set at $1.02 for Rockwell and 14 cents for
    Meritor. Per share dividend amounts indicated do not include dividends paid
    on the fractional shares of Boeing and Meritor received on December 6, 1996
    and September 30, 1997, respectively, by Rockwell shareowners.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.
 
OVERVIEW
 
     During 1998 the Company announced several strategic actions intended to
complete Rockwell's transformation to a highly focused electronic controls and
communications company. These actions included the spin-off of the Company's
Semiconductor Systems business, which the Company's management expects to
complete on December 31, 1998, and implementation of a comprehensive
restructuring program and other cost-reduction initiatives across all of the
Company's continuing businesses. The Company's management is confident that the
Company's market leadership, coupled with global growth opportunities and
successful completion of these strategic actions, will enable the Company to
deliver increasing value for the Company's shareowners in 1999 and beyond.
 

 
     Rockwell Automation, the Company's largest business which comprised
two-thirds of the Company's total sales in 1998, maintained its position as the
leading supplier of industrial automation equipment, systems and services in
North America. In addition, during 1998 Rockwell Automation registered global
market share gains in several of its business segments. Rockwell Automation
posted 1998 operating earnings (before special charges) of $594 million, about
the same as last year. This was achieved despite softening demand in North
America, lower sales in Asia-Pacific and performance problems at the industrial
motors business. In November 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of
Anorad Corporation, the world leader in linear motor-based precision positioning
equipment. The Anorad acquisition immediately positions Rockwell Automation as
the global market share leader in linear motor technology.
 
     The Company's Avionics & Communications segment, which includes the
Rockwell Collins and Electronic Commerce businesses, had an excellent year in
1998. Rockwell Collins achieved an 18 percent increase in sales as both the
commercial air transport and business and regional aircraft systems businesses
capitalized on strong markets. In addition, the Company's government systems
business captured $1 billion in new orders in 1998. The Company's passenger
systems in-flight entertainment business won new orders totaling $460 million
during the nine months since the Company's acquisition of the business in
December 1997. Rockwell Electronic Commerce posted a 13 percent increase in
sales due to increased demand for its new Spectrum(TM) automatic call
distribution systems.
 
     Looking forward to 1999, the Company expects earnings per share from
continuing operations in the $2.90 to $3.00 range driven by profitable growth in
the Rockwell Collins government and passenger systems businesses, and by
delivering on the Company's commitment of $100 million in pre-tax savings from
its restructuring program and cost-reduction initiatives. The Company also
expects Rockwell Automation to offset the effects of soft global markets with
growth generated by such products as software, motion control, systems
activities, new value-added services and product offerings and a return to
profitability in its industrial motors business.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
Summary of Results of Operations
Continuing Operations
 

 
The special charges relate to the business segments as follows (in millions):
Automation, $488; Avionics & Communications, $99; and Corporate, $10 in 1998 and
Automation, $11; Avionics & Communications, $50;
 

 
and Corporate, $15 in 1996. Purchased research and development relates to the
acquisitions of an Avionics & Communications business in 1998 and an Automation
business in 1997. The 1996 provision for income taxes includes a $65 million
credit related to the settlement of research and experimentation tax credit
refund claims related to years prior to 1996.
 
  1998 Compared to 1997
 
     Sales increased six percent in 1998 to $6.8 billion from $6.4 billion in
1997 due primarily to strong markets for Rockwell Collins products. The
composition of sales was as follows (in billions):
 

 
     Earnings per share from continuing operations (before special items)
increased 10 percent in 1998 to $2.33 per share from comparable 1997 earnings
per share of $2.12. The related income from continuing operations for 1998
totaled $462 million, slightly higher than 1997's comparable income of $460
million.
 
     Special items in 1998 included a first quarter pre-tax charge of $103
million, or 31 cents per share, for purchased research and development in
connection with the acquisition of the passenger systems business and third
quarter pre-tax charges of $597 million, or $2.57 per share, for costs
associated with a comprehensive restructuring program, including a worldwide
workforce reduction, facility closings and consolidations, exiting non-strategic
businesses and write-offs of goodwill and other assets. In 1997, the special
item was a fourth quarter pre-tax charge of $23 million, or 11 cents per share,
for purchased research and development related to the acquisition of a Rockwell
Automation software business. Including special items, the 1998 loss from
continuing operations, before an accounting change, was $109 million, or 55
cents per share, compared to 1997 income from continuing operations of $437
million, or $2.01 per share.
 
     A significant component of the third quarter charges was the writedown of
long-lived assets (primarily goodwill) associated with Rockwell Automation's
industrial motors business. Since the Company's acquisition of Reliance Electric
Company in January 1995, the industrial motors business has performed below
expectations and was only marginally profitable through fiscal 1996. Operating
performance at industrial motors deteriorated further and, in the second half of
fiscal 1997 and the first nine months of fiscal 1998, operating losses were
incurred. As a result of these continuing operating losses, which included costs
associated with facility reorganization and consolidation activities, losses on
long-term customer commitments, and manufacturing and product quality issues,
and forecasts of future operating losses, management concluded that the
long-lived assets of the industrial motors business were impaired. As a result,
a charge was recorded to write down the carrying value of these assets to their
estimated fair value by approximately $266 million, or $1.32 per share. In
connection with the comprehensive restructuring program, the industrial motors
management team was reorganized. In addition, actions have been taken to improve
product quality and delivery, lower manufacturing costs and ensure new customer
orders are priced appropriately.
 
     Rockwell Automation demonstrated its ability in 1998 to perform in weak
global markets by offsetting flat sales in the United States and lower sales in
the Asia-Pacific region and Canada, with meaningful gains in Europe and Latin
America. Sales in 1998 of $4.5 billion were about the same as 1997. Automation
is the Company's only continuing business with significant foreign currency
exposures. Automation's sales in 1998 were adversely affected by approximately
$80 million due to currency rate fluctuations, primarily in the Asia-Pacific
region and Canada. The earnings impact of foreign currency fluctuations was
mitigated in 1998 through the use of forward contracts to hedge foreign currency
commitments. Excluding special items, operating earnings for 1998 were $594
million compared to $598 million in 1997. These earnings as a percent of sales
were 13.1 percent in 1998 compared to 13.3 percent in 1997 as operating
efficiencies from the cost-reduction actions begun in June 1998 substantially
offset the impacts of the performance issues at the industrial motors business
and sluggish North American markets. Operating results for 1998 included a
 

 
$16 million gain related to favorable resolution of certain environmental
matters with Exxon Corporation. Including special items, Rockwell Automation's
operating earnings totaled $106 million in 1998 compared to $575 million in
1997.
 
     Avionics & Communications achieved an 18 percent increase in sales during
1998 to $2.2 billion from $1.9 billion in 1997. Significant sales increases
occurred at the Company's commercial air transport and business and regional
aircraft systems businesses in 1998. Approximately one-third of the sales
increase in 1998 was due to inclusion of the passenger systems business, which
was acquired in December 1997. Avionics & Communications' operating earnings for
1998, before special items and a third quarter charge of $35 million for
estimated losses to be incurred on a government systems contract, were up 20
percent to $320 million in 1998 from $266 million in 1997. Operating earnings as
a percent of sales in 1998, before special items and the contract reserve, were
14.5 percent compared to 14.2 percent in 1997. Including the charge for
purchased research and development of $103 million, special charges of $99
million and the $35 million government contract reserve, Avionics &
Communications' operating earnings were $83 million in 1998 compared to $266
million in 1997.
 
     Effective October 1, 1997, the Company changed its method of accounting for
certain general and administrative costs related to government contracts of the
Rockwell Collins business to expense these costs as incurred. The Company
previously included these costs in inventory. The cumulative effect of this
accounting change was to increase 1998's net loss by $17 million, or nine cents
per share. Including the 1998 accounting change and the results of discontinued
operations, the net loss for 1998 was $427 million, or $2.16 per share, compared
to 1997 net income of $644 million, or $2.97 per share.
 
  1997 Compared to 1996
 
     Sales for continuing operations in 1997 increased nearly $600 million to
$6.4 billion from $5.8 billion in 1996 due to strong global demand and increased
market share at both Automation and Avionics & Communications. Income from
continuing operations in 1997, before an acquisition-related charge, was $460
million, or $2.12 per share, compared to $364 million, or $1.65 per share in
1996. Including the acquisition-related charge, income from continuing
operations for 1997 was $437 million, or $2.01 per share.
 
     Rockwell Automation achieved an 11 percent increase in operating earnings
in 1997, capitalizing on strong worldwide markets and continuing
cost-containment initiatives. Operating earnings, before an acquisition-related
special charge in 1997 and a restructuring charge in 1996, were $598 million in
1997 compared to $537 million in 1996. Including these charges, Rockwell
Automation earnings totaled $575 million in 1997 compared to 1996 earnings of
$526 million.
 
     Avionics & Communications increased sales in 1997 by 16 percent to $1.9
billion from $1.6 billion in 1996 primarily due to improved commercial air
transport markets. Operating earnings for 1997 were a record $266 million, up 50
percent from comparable 1996 operating earnings (before a restructuring charge)
of $177 million, due to the higher sales volume and the benefits from the 1996
restructuring actions. Avionics & Communications' 1996 earnings totaled $127
million, including the restructuring charge.
 
INCOME TAXES
 
     The Company's effective income tax rate, excluding the tax effects of
special items, declined to 36.3 percent in 1998 from 39.3 percent in 1997. The
lower tax rate in 1998 is attributable to a $16 million tax benefit associated
with the Company's donation in September 1998 of a trisonic wind tunnel to a
public university. Management believes the effective income tax rate will
continue to benefit in 1999 and beyond from ongoing tax planning initiatives.
 
MEDICAL PLAN CHANGES
 
     In 1998, the Company announced, as part of its cost-reduction initiatives,
that it will consolidate various employee and retiree medical plans into a
single, high-quality but more cost-effective program. The Company
 

 
expects these plan design changes to reduce the Company's medical costs for
active employees and retirees by about $35 million in 1999 and by approximately
$50 million annually thereafter.
 
DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     On November 4, 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the
spin-off of Semiconductor Systems into an independent, separately traded public
company, which will be named Conexant Systems, Inc. The spin-off, which is
expected to occur on December 31, 1998, will be at the rate of one share of
Conexant common stock for every two shares of Company common stock held as of
the close of business on December 11, 1998. The Company has received a favorable
ruling from the Internal Revenue Service as to the tax-free status of the
spin-off. Semiconductor Systems has been reported as a discontinued operation
for all periods presented.
 
     The loss from discontinued operations in 1998 of $301 million includes
after-tax charges of $90 million, principally related to the closure and
writedown of wafer fabrication facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado, and for
costs associated with a 10 percent workforce reduction. The Semiconductor
Systems loss for 1998 also includes after-tax charges of $40 million for modem
inventory write-offs, $26 million for intellectual property matters and $35
million for estimated operating losses expected to be incurred by Semiconductor
Systems between October 1, 1998, and December 31, 1998, the expected spin-off
date. The net loss also includes operating losses related to the significant
decline in modem prices, coupled with the Company's commitment to fund research
and development for new products.
 
     Discontinued operations for periods prior to 1998 include the Semiconductor
Systems, Automotive, Aerospace & Defense, and Graphic Systems businesses.
 
ACQUISITION OF PASSENGER SYSTEMS
 
     In December 1997, the Company acquired the in-flight entertainment (IFE)
business of Hughes-Avicom International, Inc., now called Rockwell Collins
Passenger Systems, for $157 million in cash. The excess of the purchase price
over the fair value of tangible net assets of $133 million was allocated to
intangible assets, including $103 million ($63 million after tax) for purchased
research and development, $23 million for developed technology, $5 million for
patents, $5 million for assembled workforce and $37 million for goodwill. The
intangible assets other than purchased research and development are being
amortized on a straight-line basis over 10 years.
 
     Purchased research and development represents the value assigned to
projects in process at the date of acquisition at passenger systems which had
not yet reached technological feasibility and had no alternative future use, and
was charged immediately to expense. The research and development projects are
principally related to two products: Total Entertainment System(TM) (TES), a
personal in-seat entertainment system incorporating video-on-demand, and an IFE
system that includes direct broadcast satellite (DBS) capability. At the date of
acquisition, the expected effort to complete the TES and DBS projects over the
next three years included software and hardware design and systems testing
efforts.
 
FINANCIAL CONDITION
 
     Rockwell's financial condition was strengthened during 1998 by the
implementation of working capital management initiatives at all of the
businesses. These initiatives reduced working capital levels and generated
approximately $450 million of operating cash flow in the last six months of
1998. For the full 1998 year, cash provided by operating activities totaled $723
million, an increase of 78 percent over 1997's cash from operations of $407
million.
 
     During 1998, investment by the continuing businesses in research and new
product development totaled $402 million, up seven percent from $377 million in
1997. New product investments at Rockwell Collins were up 12 percent in 1998 and
represented nearly half of the Company's total research and development
investment. This increase was primarily due to accelerated product development
at the Company's passenger
 

 
systems business. New product development investments were also higher in 1998
at both Automation and Electronic Commerce. The Company expects this level of
new product development to continue in 1999.
 
     The Company also invested $408 million in capital expenditures, an increase
of $72 million, or 21 percent from 1997. The higher investments in 1998 were
primarily due to the design and installation of integrated, enterprise-wide
information systems at each of the Company's businesses. The 1999 capital
spending plan is $400 million.
 
     The Company also spent approximately $980 million during 1998 in connection
with its stock repurchase program. At September 30, 1998, the Company had 190.6
million shares outstanding compared to 206.8 million at September 30, 1997. At
September 30, 1998, the Company had approximately $165 million remaining on its
current $500 million stock repurchase program. The Company expects to complete
this program in 1999, and no decision has been made regarding the continuation
of stock repurchases beyond this program.
 
     In January 1998, the Company issued $800 million aggregate principal amount
of long-term notes and debentures in a public offering. The proceeds of this
debt offering of approximately $750 million were used to repay $380 million of
outstanding short-term commercial paper borrowings, with the balance used for
general corporate purposes, including the Company's ongoing common stock
repurchase program. At September 30, 1998, the Company's debt to total capital
ratio was 25 percent. Assuming the spin-off of Conexant had occurred on
September 30, 1998, the Company's debt to total capital ratio would have been
approximately 32 percent.
 
     Another use of the Company's cash was the payment of dividends to
shareowners. Rockwell's dividends totaled $202 million, or $1.02 per share in
1998, compared to $248 million, or $1.16 per share in 1997. Upon the spin-off of
Meritor on September 30, 1997, the Company's annual $1.16 per share dividend was
set at $1.02 for Rockwell and $0.14 for Meritor. The Rockwell Board of Directors
declared a regular $0.255 per share quarterly dividend payable in December 1998.
 
YEAR 2000 READINESS DISCLOSURE
 
     The Year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs being written using
two digits rather than four digits to define the applicable year. Computer
equipment, software and other devices with embedded technology that are
time-sensitive may recognize a date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than the
year 2000. This could result in system failures or miscalculations causing
disruptions of operations, including, among other things, a temporary inability
to manufacture products, acquire or ship inventory, process transactions, send
invoices, or engage in other normal business activities. The inability of
business processes to function correctly in 2000 could have serious adverse
effects on companies and entities throughout the world.
 
     The Company has developed plans to address issues related to the impact of
the Year 2000 in five major areas: products, business systems (computer systems
that handle business processes), infrastructure (servers, desktop computers,
networks, telecommunication systems and software), manufacturing systems
(computer systems used in the manufacturing process) and suppliers. Each of the
five areas are undergoing the following process to ensure readiness for the Year
2000. First, in the inventory phase, all resources are inventoried to identify
those that have any type of software or hardware Year 2000 issues. Second, in
the assessment phase, all inventoried items are assessed to confirm that a Year
2000-related issue is present and the extent of remediation required. Third, in
the strategy phase, a remediation strategy is created to ensure substantial
completion of upgrades for critical systems by the middle of calendar 1999.
Fourth, in the conversion/upgrade phase, upgrades are performed on all items
identified in the inventory and assessment phases. Finally, in the testing
phase, all upgraded items are tested to verify Year 2000 readiness. The Company
has completed the inventory phase for all five areas and has substantially
completed the assessment and strategy phases for all five areas. At September
30, 1998, the Company was approximately 60 percent complete in the
conversion/upgrade phase for each of the five areas and is substantially
complete with the final testing for situations where the Company has completed
the conversion/upgrade phase.
 

 
     The Company, utilizing both internal and external resources to address the
Year 2000 issue, expects to be substantially complete with this project by the
middle of calendar 1999. The current estimate of total project costs is
approximately $48 million, which includes the cost of purchasing certain
hardware and software. Purchased hardware and software will be capitalized in
accordance with normal policy. Approximately two-thirds of the total cost
relates to the use of internal resources (primarily salary costs), and about 50
percent of the total project cost had been spent through September 30, 1998,
with substantially all of the remainder to be spent during 1999.
 
     The Company has enlisted the services of industry consultants and outside
contractors to assist with its Year 2000 identification, assessment, remediation
and testing efforts. The costs of the Company's Year 2000 identification,
assessment, remediation and testing efforts and the dates on which the Company
believes it will complete such efforts are based upon management's estimates,
which were derived using numerous assumptions regarding future events, including
the continued availability of certain resources, third-party remediation plans,
and other factors. Notwithstanding this comprehensive program to make a smooth
transition, there can be no assurance that these estimates will prove to be
accurate and actual results could differ materially from those currently
anticipated. Specific factors that could cause such material differences
include, but are not limited to, the availability and cost of personnel trained
in Year 2000 issues, the ability to identify, assess, remediate and test all
relevant computer codes and embedded technology. Moreover, the Company could be
adversely impacted by the Year 2000 issues faced by major distributors,
customers, vendors, governments and financial service organizations with which
the Company interacts.
 
     The Company believes its greatest uncertainties are in the manufacturing
and supplier areas, due to the number of equipment and materials suppliers
involved and their various stages of readiness for Year 2000. In particular, the
Company is dependent on equipment manufacturers to supply the upgrades required
to remediate Year 2000 issues in the manufacturing systems area and suppliers to
upgrade their systems to ensure an uninterrupted supply of materials. A Year
2000 failure by a significant equipment or materials supplier could result in
the temporary slowdown of production by the Company, the duration of which the
Company cannot reasonably estimate. As a result, the Company's contingency
planning centers heavily on the supplier and manufacturing systems areas. For
the top five to 10 percent of its critical materials and manufacturing
suppliers, the Company will conduct on-site reviews and intends to monitor
specific Year 2000 milestones to ensure compliance. The Company is in the
process of identifying specific Year 2000 compliance target dates for all
critical materials suppliers. In the event a supplier does not meet established
compliance milestones, which begin as early as April 1999, the Company will
implement contingency plans that include alternate sourcing and stockpiling of
materials.
 
     Part of the Company's initial assessment phase included a detailed Year
2000 questionnaire sent to all critical materials and manufacturing suppliers.
This questionnaire included questions on products, services, internal operating
systems and the supplier's own supply chain. As of September 30, 1998, the
Company has received responses from approximately 50 percent of those
questioned. The Company is following up the questionnaires, where necessary, to
ensure Year 2000 compliance.
 
     The varying definitions of "compliance with Year 2000" and the array of
products and services sold by the Company, both today and in the past, may lead
to claims whose impact on the Company is not currently estimable. The Company
has product and general liability insurance policies which provide coverage in
the event of certain product failures. The Company has not, however, purchased
Year 2000 specific insurance because, in management's view, the cost is
prohibitive and likely of little value. Of course, in many cases, the Company
contractually limits or disclaims consequential damages in the Company's sales
contracts. No assurance can be given that the aggregate cost of defending and
resolving such claims will not materially adversely affect the Company's results
of operations. Although some of the Company's agreements with manufacturers and
others from whom it purchases products contain provisions requiring such parties
to indemnify the Company under certain circumstances, there can be no assurance
that such indemnification arrangements will cover all of the Company's
liabilities and costs related to claims by third parties related to the Year
2000 issue.
 

 
     Business operations are also dependent on the Year 2000 readiness of
infrastructure suppliers in areas such as utilities, communications,
transportation and other services. In this environment, there will likely be
instances of failure that could cause disruptions in business processes. The
likelihood and effects of failures in infrastructure systems and in the supply
chain cannot be estimated. However, with respect to operations under its direct
control, management does not expect, in view of its Year 2000 readiness efforts
and the diversity of its suppliers and customers, that occurrences of Year 2000
failures will have a material adverse effect on the financial position or
results of operations of the Company.
 
QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     It is the policy of the Company not to enter into derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes. The Company does enter into foreign
currency forward exchange contracts in the ordinary course of business to
protect itself from adverse currency rate fluctuations on both firm and
anticipated foreign currency transactions. These contracts are generally for
terms of less than one year. Gains or losses relating to hedging firm
commitments are deferred and included in the measurement of the foreign currency
transaction subject to the hedge and gains or losses relating to anticipated
transactions are recognized currently.
 
     The Company's foreign currency forward exchange contracts are executed with
creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major industrial
countries. The notional amount of all of the Company's outstanding foreign
currency forward exchange contracts by country, including contracts relating to
discontinued operations, is as follows (in millions):
 

 
     The Company does not anticipate any material adverse effect on its results
of operations or financial position relating to these foreign currency forward
exchange contracts.
 
     Based on the Company's overall currency rate exposure at September 30,
1998, a 10 percent change in currency rates would not have had a material effect
on the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of the Company.
 
     See Note 10 of the NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS in the
Financial Statements on pages 30-31 hereof.
 
CAUTIONARY STATEMENT
 
     This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains statements relating to future
results of the Company (including certain projections and business trends) that
are "forward-looking statements" as defined in the Private Securities Litigation
Reform Act of 1995. Actual results may differ materially from those projected as
a result of certain risks and uncertainties, including but not limited to timely
completion of the Semiconductor Systems spin-off; the ultimate resolution of
lawsuits, claims and proceedings that have been or may be asserted against the
Company; the implementation of restructuring actions in accordance with
management's plans; economic and political changes in international markets
where the Company competes such as currency exchange rates, inflation rates,
recession, foreign ownership restrictions and other external factors over which
the Company has no control; domestic and foreign government spending, budgetary
and trade policies;
 

 
demand for and market acceptance of new and existing products; successful
development of advanced technologies; timely completion of Year 2000
modifications by the Company, governments and the Company's key suppliers and
customers; and competitive product and pricing pressures; as well as other risks
and uncertainties, including but not limited to those detailed from time to time
in the Company's Securities and Exchange Commission filings.
 

 
ITEM 8.  CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.
 
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN MILLIONS)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY
                    (IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)
 

 
See notes to consolidated financial statements.
 

 
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
1. ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  Basis of Presentation
 
     Except as indicated, amounts reflected in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto relate to the continuing operations of Rockwell
International Corporation (Rockwell or the Company) and have been restated to
present its semiconductor systems business (Semiconductor Systems) as a
discontinued operation (see Note 2). Prior year amounts have been reclassified
to conform with the current presentation.
 
  Consolidation
 
     The consolidated financial statements of the Company include the accounts
of the Company and all majority-owned subsidiaries in which the Company has
control. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated
in consolidation.
 
  Use of Estimates
 
     The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles which require management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated
financial statements. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
  Revenue Recognition
 
     Sales are generally recorded as products are shipped or services are
rendered, except sales under certain contracts requiring performance over
several periods, which are accounted for under the percentage-of-completion
method of accounting.
 
  Inventories
 
     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost (using LIFO, FIFO, or average
methods) or market (determined on the basis of estimated realizable values).
 
  Property
 
     Property is stated at cost. Depreciation of property is provided based on
estimated useful lives generally using accelerated and straight-line methods.
Significant renewals and betterments are capitalized and replaced units are
written off. Maintenance and repairs, as well as renewals of minor amount, are
charged to expense.
 
  Purchased Intangibles
 
     Goodwill and other intangible assets generally result from business
acquisitions. The Company accounts for business acquisitions, under the purchase
method, by assigning the purchase price to tangible and intangible assets and
liabilities, including research and development projects which have not yet
reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future use (purchased
research and development). Assets acquired and liabilities assumed are recorded
at their fair values; the appraised value of purchased research and development
is immediately charged to expense, and the excess of the purchase price over the
amounts assigned is recorded as goodwill.
 
     Goodwill is amortized using the straight-line method over periods generally
ranging from 10 to 40 years. Trademarks, patents, product technology, and other
intangibles are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful
lives, ranging from 5 to 40 years.
 

 
  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets
 
     Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment when events or circumstances
indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable,
and for all assets to be disposed of. Long-lived assets held for use are
reviewed for impairment by assessing their net realizable values based on
estimated undiscounted cash flows over their remaining useful lives. If
impairment is indicated, the carrying amount of the asset is reduced to its fair
value.
 
  Environmental Matters
 
     The Company records accruals for environmental matters in the accounting
period in which its responsibility is established and the cost can be reasonably
estimated. Revisions to the accruals are made in the periods in which the
estimated costs of remediation change. At environmental sites in which more than
one potentially responsible party has been identified, the Company records a
liability for its estimated allocable share of costs related to its involvement
with the site as well as an estimated allocable share of costs related to the
involvement of insolvent or unidentified parties. At environmental sites in
which the Company is the only responsible party, the Company records a liability
for the total estimated costs of remediation. Costs of future expenditures for
environmental remediation obligations are not discounted to their present value.
If recovery from insurers or other third parties is determined to be probable,
the Company records a receivable for the estimated recovery.
 
     In 1998, the Company adopted the American Institute of Certified Public
Accountants (AICPA) Statement of Position (SOP) No. 96-1, Environmental
Remediation Liabilities. Adoption of this standard did not have a material
effect on the financial statements.
 
  New Accounting Standards
 
     In 1998, the Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 128, Earnings Per Share. For 1998, the results of the Company's
continuing operations were a loss, making its stock options antidilutive.
Therefore, 1998 diluted per share amounts exclude 2.9 million shares of
potentially dilutive stock options and equal basic per share amounts. For 1997
and 1996, dilutive stock options resulted in an increase in outstanding shares
of 3.3 million and 3.5 million, respectively.
 
     In 1998, the Company adopted AICPA SOP No. 98-1, Accounting for the Costs
of Computer Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use (SOP 98-1). SOP 98-1
requires the cost of purchased software and certain costs incurred in developing
computer software for internal use to be capitalized and amortized over future
periods. During the year ended September 30, 1998, the Company's continuing
businesses capitalized $46 million of such costs that would have been charged to
expense under its previous accounting policy.
 
     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued SFAS No. 133,
Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities (SFAS 133), which
is effective for 2000. SFAS 133 will require the Company to record all
derivatives on the balance sheet at fair value. For derivatives that are hedges,
changes in the fair value of derivatives will be offset by the changes in the
fair value of the hedged assets, liabilities or firm commitments. The Company
believes the impact of adopting this standard will not be material to results of
operations or equity.
 
  Accounting Change
 
     Effective October 1, 1997, Rockwell changed its method of accounting for
certain general and administrative costs related to government contracts to
expense these costs as incurred. Under the previous accounting method, these
costs were included in inventory. The amount of general and administrative costs
included in inventory as of October 1, 1997, was $27 million ($17 million after
tax, or nine cents per share) and is presented as the cumulative effect of an
accounting change in the consolidated statement of operations for the year ended
September 30, 1998. The effect of the accounting change on income from
continuing operations in 1997 would not have been material.
 

 
2. DISCONTINUED OPERATIONS
 
     On November 4, 1998, the Board of Directors of the Company approved the
spin-off of Semiconductor Systems into an independent, separately traded public
company, which is named Conexant Systems, Inc. (Conexant). The spin-off, which
is expected to occur on December 31, 1998, will be at the rate of one share of
Conexant common stock for every two shares of Company Common Stock owned as of
the close of business on December 11, 1998. The Company has received a ruling
from the Internal Revenue Service that the spin-off will be tax-free to Company
shareowners.
 
     On September 30, 1997, the Company completed the spin-off of its automotive
component systems businesses (Automotive) into an independent company by
distributing all of the issued and outstanding shares of Meritor Automotive,
Inc. (Meritor) to the Company's shareowners on a pro-rata basis. In connection
with the transaction, Meritor made a special payment of $445 million to the
Company and the net assets of Meritor as of September 30, 1997 of $151 million
were recorded as a decrease to equity.
 
     In December 1996, the Company divested its former Aerospace and Defense
businesses (the A&D Business) by merging it with a subsidiary of The Boeing
Company (Boeing) in a tax-free reorganization (the Reorganization). In
connection with the Reorganization, all shares of Common Stock held in treasury
were canceled and the net liabilities of the A&D Business at the date of the
Reorganization of approximately $1.2 billion were recorded as an increase to
additional paid-in capital.
 
     In October 1996, the Company's Graphic Systems business (Graphic Systems)
was sold for approximately $600 million.
 
     The net assets of Semiconductor Systems consisted of the following (in
millions):
 

 
     Prior to the spin-off, Semiconductor Systems will distribute its wafer
fabrication facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado (and the related tax
benefit) to the Company. At September 30, 1998, these facilities had a net book
value of $42 million and a related deferred tax benefit of $36 million. These
facilities will be classified by the Company as assets held for disposal upon
distribution.
 

 
     Summarized results of discontinued operations are as follows (in millions):
 

 
     The 1998 net loss of Semiconductor Systems includes a $66 million charge
($40 million after tax) for inventory write-offs, a $43 million charge ($26
million after tax) for intellectual property matters and special charges of $147
million ($90 million after tax), all recorded in the fourth quarter. The special
charges include an asset impairment of $103 million related to the closure and
planned disposal of wafer fabrication facilities in Colorado Springs, Colorado,
$15 million for employee severance and voluntary early retirement program costs
associated with an approximate 10 percent worldwide workforce reduction, $11
million related to intangible asset write-offs and $18 million for other actions
including lease termination costs, contractual liabilities and other asset
write-offs. These actions are expected to be substantially completed by the end
of fiscal 1999. The 1998 net loss and net assets of Semiconductor Systems also
include accruals of $57 million ($35 million after tax) for an estimate of
Semiconductor Systems operating losses expected to be incurred from October 1,
1998 to December 31, 1998, the expected date of the spin-off, and $18 million
($16 million after tax) for related transaction costs.
 
     Semiconductor Systems' net income for 1997 includes a third quarter $30
million charge ($19 million after tax) for the write-off of purchased research
and development in connection with the acquisition of the Hi-Media broadband
communication chipset business of ComStream Corporation. Semiconductor Systems'
1996 net income includes a charge of $121 million (before and after tax) for the
write-off of purchased research and development in connection with the
acquisition of Brooktree Corporation.
 
     The 1997 and 1996 income of Automotive includes fourth quarter
restructuring charges of $21 million ($15 million after tax) and $46 million
($30 million after tax), respectively. The net income of Automotive for fiscal
1997 also includes a fourth quarter charge of $57 million ($48 million after
tax) for transaction and separation-related costs incurred in connection with
the spin-off of Meritor.
 
     The earnings of the A&D Business for the first two months of 1997 were
entirely offset by expenses related to the Reorganization.
 
     The discontinued businesses utilized certain management services provided
by the Company, including financial, legal, tax, corporate communications and
human resources. For the A&D Business, the costs of these services are allowable
overhead costs on government contracts and, accordingly, have been included in
 

 
the results of operations of this business. These costs have been allocated to
the A&D Business using a variety of factors, including sales, assets, inventory
and payroll and were $3 million and $35 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively.
Management believes that the method of allocating these costs to the A&D
Business is reasonable.
 
     Interest expense of $40 million and $169 million in 1997 and 1996,
respectively, has been allocated to the Automotive and A&D businesses based on
the actual interest expense associated with the borrowings assumed by Meritor
and Boeing.
 
3. SPECIAL CHARGES
 
     In the third quarter of 1998, the Company recorded special charges of $597
million ($508 million after tax, or $2.57 per share). These charges, including
the effects of fourth quarter adjustments, were as follows: goodwill and other
asset impairments, $415 million; severance and other employee separation costs
associated with a worldwide workforce reduction of approximately 3,000
employees, $110 million; and costs related to facility closures and
consolidations and exiting non-strategic businesses and product lines, $72
million. These actions are expected to be substantially completed by the end of
1999.
 
     Total cash expenditures are expected to approximate $176 million. The
Company spent approximately $20 million through September 30, 1998, of which $16
million related to severance and other employee separation costs, and expects to
spend approximately $92 million in 1999 related to these actions. As a result of
actions taken during the fourth quarter, the workforce was reduced by
approximately 800 employees.
 
     As of September 30, 1998, approximately $156 million is included in the
consolidated balance sheet for remaining activities associated with the third
quarter special charges. Of this amount, approximately $83 million and $11
million are included in compensation and benefits and in other liabilities,
respectively, for severance and other employee separation costs; and
approximately $28 million, $8 million, and $26 million are included in accounts
payable, other current liabilities, and other liabilities, respectively, for
costs of facility closures and consolidations and exiting non-strategic
businesses and product lines.
 
     The special charges also include an impairment of the long-lived assets of
Automation's industrial motors business (Motors). The impairment charge of $266
million resulted from the significant long-term decline in operating performance
and represents the excess of the carrying value of the long-lived assets
(including goodwill) of Motors over their estimated fair value as determined by
management, with the assistance of outside experts, utilizing accepted valuation
techniques. The Company also recorded impairment charges of $53 million related
to the long-lived assets of businesses which were sold during 1998 or are held
for disposition.
 
     During 1996, the Company recorded special charges of $76 million ($47
million after tax, or 22 cents per share). The special charges related to a
decision to discontinue or dispose of certain product lines of continuing
operations, as well as the costs associated with staff reductions in the
Automation and Avionics & Communications businesses. The provision included
asset impairments of $51 million, severance and other employee separation costs
of $9 million, and contractual commitments and other costs of $16 million. These
actions were substantially completed by the end of 1997.
 
     The special charges are reflected in the consolidated statement of
operations as follows (in millions):
 

 
     Revenues of businesses and product lines which are being exited were $197
million, $211 million and $199 million for 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
The net operating loss related to these businesses and product lines is not
material.
 

 
4. ACQUISITIONS OF BUSINESSES
 
     In the first quarter of 1998, the Company acquired the in-flight
entertainment business of Hughes-Avicom International, Inc. (Passenger Systems).
In connection with the acquisition, the Company recorded a charge of $103
million ($63 million after tax) for purchased research and development and
recorded $70 million for other intangible assets, including developed
technology, patents, assembled workforce and goodwill, which are being amortized
on a straight-line basis over 10 years. The remaining assets acquired and
liabilities assumed have been recorded at estimated fair values determined by
the Company's management based on information currently available. The Company
acquired several businesses in fiscal 1997 at a net cost of $51 million.
 
     These acquisitions were accounted for as purchases and, accordingly, the
results of operations of these businesses have been included in the consolidated
statement of operations since their dates of acquisition.
 
5. INVENTORIES
 
     Inventories are summarized as follows (in millions):
 

 
6. INTANGIBLE ASSETS
 
     Intangible assets are summarized as follows (in millions):
 

 
     The reduction in goodwill from 1997 to 1998 results principally from the
impairment charge related to Motors (see Note 3).
 
7. SHORT-TERM DEBT
 
     Short-term debt consisted of the following (in millions):
 

 

 
     Weighted average interest rates on short-term borrowings:
 

 
     At September 30, 1998, the Company had $1.5 billion of unsecured credit
facilities with various banks to support commercial paper borrowings. There were
no significant commitment fees or compensating balance requirements under these
facilities. Short-term credit facilities available to foreign subsidiaries
amounted to $285 million at September 30, 1998 and consisted of arrangements for
which there are no significant commitment fees.
 
8. OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES
 
     Other current liabilities are summarized as follows (in millions):
 

 
9. LONG-TERM DEBT
 
     Long-term debt consisted of the following (in millions):
 

 
     In January 1998, the Company issued $800 million aggregate principal amount
of long-term notes and debentures in a public offering consisting of the 6.15%
10-year notes issued at par, the 6.70% 30-year debentures issued at par, and the
5.20% 100-year debentures issued at a discount. The debt offering yielded
approximately $750 million of proceeds.
 
10. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
 
     The Company's financial instruments include cash, equity securities, short-
and long-term debt and foreign currency forward exchange contracts. At September
30, 1998, the carrying values of the Company's financial instruments
approximated their fair values based on current market prices and rates.
 
     It is the policy of the Company not to enter into derivative financial
instruments for speculative purposes. The Company does enter into foreign
currency forward exchange contracts in the ordinary course of business to
protect itself from adverse currency rate fluctuations on both firm and
anticipated foreign currency
 

 
transactions. These contracts are generally for terms of less than one year.
Gains or losses relating to hedging firm commitments are deferred and included
in the measurement of the foreign currency transaction subject to the hedge and
gains or losses relating to anticipated transactions are recognized currently.
 
     The Company's foreign currency forward exchange contracts are executed with
creditworthy banks and are denominated in currencies of major industrial
countries. The notional amount of all of the Company's outstanding foreign
currency forward exchange contracts aggregated $578 million and $239 million at
September 30, 1998 and 1997, respectively, including contracts relating to
discontinued operations. The Company does not anticipate any material adverse
effect on its results of operations or financial position relating to these
foreign currency forward exchange contracts.
 
11. CAPITAL STOCK
 
     At September 30, 1998, the authorized stock of the Company consisted of one
billion shares of Common Stock, with a $1 par value, and 25 million shares of
preferred stock, without par value. At September 30, 1998, 22 million shares of
Common Stock were reserved for various employee incentive plans. In fiscal 1997,
all outstanding shares of Class A Common Stock were converted into Common Stock.
 
     Changes in outstanding common shares are summarized as follows (in
millions):
 

 
  Preferred Share Purchase Rights
 
     Each outstanding share of Common Stock provides the holder with one
Preferred Share Purchase Right (Right). The Rights will become exercisable only
if a person or group acquires, or offers to acquire, 20% or more of the Common
Stock, although the Company is authorized to reduce the 20% threshold for
triggering the Rights to not less than 10%. Upon exercise, each Right entitles
the holder to 1/100th of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred
Stock of the Company (Junior Preferred Stock) at a price of $250, subject to
adjustment.
 
     Upon an acquisition of the Company, each Right (other than Rights held by
the acquiror) will generally be exercisable for $500 worth of Common Stock or
common stock of the acquiror for $250. In certain circumstances, each Right may
be exchanged by the Company for one share of Common Stock or 1/100th of a share
of Junior Preferred Stock. The Rights will expire on December 6, 2006, unless
earlier exchanged or redeemed at $0.01 per Right.
 
12. STOCK OPTIONS
 
     Options to purchase Common Stock of the Company have been granted under
various incentive plans to directors, officers and other key employees at prices
equal to or above the fair market value of such stock on the dates the options
were granted. The plans provide that the option price for certain options
granted under the plans may be paid in cash, the Company's Common Stock or a
combination thereof.
 
     Under the 1995 Long-Term Incentives Plan, the Company may grant up to 16
million shares of Company Common Stock as non-qualified options, incentive stock
options, stock appreciation rights and restricted stock. Shares available for
future grant or payment under various incentive plans were 9 million at
September 30, 1998. Stock options generally expire ten years from the date they
are granted and vest over three years. None of the incentive plans presently
permits options to be granted after September 30, 2005.
 

 
     Information relative to stock options is as follows (shares in thousands):
 

 
     In connection with the divestiture of the A&D Business and the spin-off of
Automotive, the number of options outstanding and the exercise prices of such
options were adjusted in order to preserve the value of the options that were
outstanding as of the date of each divestiture. Additionally, in connection with
the Automotive spin-off, Rockwell options granted to Automotive employees during
1997 were converted into Meritor options. In connection with the Semiconductor
Systems spin-off, outstanding Rockwell options will be adjusted to preserve the
value of such options on the date of the spin-off, including the conversion of
certain options to options for shares of Conexant.
 
     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at September 30, 1998 (shares in thousands; remaining life in years):
 

 
     In 1997, the Company adopted the disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No.
123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation (SFAS 123). Accordingly, no
compensation expense has been recorded relative to the Company's stock-based
compensation plans. If the Company accounted for its stock-based plans using the
fair value method provided by SFAS 123, the Company's net income and earnings
per share would have been reduced, and net loss and loss per share increased, to
the following pro forma amounts (in millions, except per share amounts):
 

 
     The pro forma effect on net loss for 1998 may not be indicative of the pro
forma effect on net income of future years.
 

 
     The weighted average fair value of options granted was $13.68, $15.38 and
$12.83 per share in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The fair value of each
option was estimated on the date of grant or subsequent date of option
adjustment using the Black-Scholes pricing model and the following assumptions:
 

 
13. RETIREMENT MEDICAL PLANS
 
     The Company has retirement medical plans which cover most of its United
States employees and provide for the payment of medical costs of eligible
employees and dependents upon retirement.
 
     Retirement medical expense for continuing operations consisted of the
following (in millions):
 

 
     The Company's retirement medical obligation at September 30, 1998 and 1997
consisted of the following (in millions):
 

 
- ---------------
 
* Decreasing to 5.5% after 2015.
 
     In 1998, the Company announced to its current and former United States
employees that it will be consolidating its employee and retiree medical plans
into one comprehensive medical benefits program. The changes announced include
offering one common plan design to all Rockwell active employees and retirees,
consolidating the number of medical benefit providers utilized by the Company
and increasing the amount of employee and retiree cost sharing. Unamortized
amounts related to this and other plan amendments at September 30, 1998 reflect
the accumulated cost reduction on the retirement benefit obligation and will
reduce future retirement medical expense.
 

 
     Increasing the health care cost trend rates by one percentage point would
increase the accumulated retirement medical obligation at September 30, 1998 by
approximately $35 million and would have increased 1998 retirement medical
expense by approximately $6 million.
 
14. RETIREMENT PENSION PLANS
 
     The Company has pension plans which cover most of its employees and provide
for monthly pension payments to eligible employees upon retirement. Pension
benefits for salaried employees generally are based on years of credited service
and average earnings. Pension benefits for hourly employees generally are based
on specified benefit amounts and years of service. The Company's policy is to
fund its pension obligations in conformity with the funding requirements of
applicable laws and governmental regulations.
 
     Net pension expense for continuing operations consisted of the following
(in millions):
 

 
     Pension plan assets are primarily equity securities, United States
Government obligations, and other fixed income investments whose values are
subject to fluctuations of the securities market. The actual return on plan
assets allocated to continuing operations was $398 million, $368 million, and
$503 million in 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. Differences between these
actual returns and the related assumed returns on plan assets are deferred and
considered in the determination of net pension expense in future periods.
 
     The reduction in the amount of interest on the projected benefit obligation
and the return on plan assets from 1996 to 1997 is a result of the assumption by
Boeing of the pension plan assets and liabilities relating to substantially all
of the former United States employees of Rockwell's continuing businesses as of
December 31, 1995 in connection with the Reorganization.
 

 
     The following table reconciles the funded status of the Company's pension
plans to amounts included in the balance sheet (in millions):
 

 

 
     The Company also sponsors certain defined contribution savings plans for
eligible employees. Expense related to these plans was $42 million, $46 million,
and $43 million for 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.
 
15. INCOME TAXES
 
     The components of the income tax provision are as follows (in millions):
 

 
     During 1996 the Company reached an agreement with the Internal Revenue
Service on its research and experimentation tax credit refund claim related to
certain prior years and recorded $65 million as a reduction of its provision for
income taxes.
 

 
     Net current deferred income tax benefits at September 30, 1998 and 1997
consist of the tax effects of temporary differences related to the following (in
millions):
 

 
     Net long-term deferred income taxes included in Other Liabilities in the
balance sheet at September 30, 1998 and 1997 consist of the tax effects of
temporary differences related to the following (in millions):
 

 
     Management believes it is more likely than not that current and long-term
tax assets will be realized through the reduction of future taxable income.
Significant factors considered by management in its determination of the
probability of the realization of the deferred tax assets include: (a) the
historical operating results of the Company ($2.9 billion of United States
taxable income over the past three years), (b) expectations of future earnings,
and (c) the extended period of time over which the retirement medical liability
will be paid. The valuation allowance represents the amount of tax benefits
related to net operating loss, capital loss and foreign tax credit carryforwards
that have not yet been recognized. The carryforward period for net operating and
capital losses expires between 1999 and 2006. The carryforward period for
foreign tax credits expires between 1999 and 2002.
 
     The consolidated income tax provision differed from income tax at the
United States statutory tax rate for the reasons set forth below (in millions):
 

 
     In September 1998, the Company donated a trisonic wind tunnel, valued at
$49 million, to a university.
 

 
     The income tax provisions were calculated based upon the following
components of (loss) income from continuing operations before income taxes (in
millions):
 

 
     No provision has been made for United States, state, or additional foreign
income taxes related to approximately $161 million of undistributed earnings of
foreign subsidiaries which have been or are intended to be permanently
reinvested.
 
     The Company's United States income tax returns for the years 1989 through
1994 are currently under examination. In connection with the divestiture of the
A&D Business, the Automotive spin-off and the expected Semiconductor Systems
spin-off, the Company has retained, and expects to retain, all tax liabilities
and the right to all tax refunds related to United States and certain non-U.S.
operations of the A&D Business, Automotive and Semiconductor Systems for periods
prior to the respective divestiture dates. Management believes that adequate
provision for income taxes has been made for all years through 1998.
 
16. SUPPLEMENTARY FINANCIAL STATEMENT INFORMATION
 

 
     Income taxes paid and interest payments related to discontinued operations
were (in millions) $3 and $1 in 1998, $25 and $56 in 1997, and $13 and $175 in
1996, respectively, and are included in the determination of the cash flows of
discontinued operations.
 
     Minimum future rental commitments under operating leases having
noncancelable lease terms in excess of one year aggregated $232 million as of
September 30, 1998 and are payable as follows (in millions): 1999, $51; 2000,
$43; 2001, $33; 2002, $25; 2003, $19; and after 2003, $61.
 
17. CONTINGENT LIABILITIES
 
     Federal, state and local requirements relating to the discharge of
substances into the environment, the disposal of hazardous wastes and other
activities affecting the environment have and will continue to have an impact on
the manufacturing operations of the Company. Thus far, compliance with
environmental requirements and resolution of environmental claims have been
accomplished without material effect on the Company's liquidity and capital
resources, competitive position or financial statements.
 
     The Company has been designated as a potentially responsible party at 23
Superfund sites, excluding sites as to which the Company's records disclose no
involvement or as to which the Company's potential liability has been finally
determined. Management estimates the total reasonably possible costs the Company
could incur for the remediation of Superfund sites at September 30, 1998 to be
about $16 million, substantially all of which has been accrued.
 
     Various other lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been asserted against
the Company alleging violations of federal, state and local environmental
protection requirements, or seeking remediation of alleged
 

 
environmental impairments, principally at previously owned properties. As of
September 30, 1998, management has estimated the total reasonably possible costs
the Company could incur for these matters to be about $132 million. The Company
has recorded environmental accruals for these matters of $97 million.
 
     Of the $97 million accrual for environmental matters, $35 million relates
to liabilities assumed in connection with the fiscal 1995 acquisition of
Reliance Electric Company. In 1998, the Company reached an agreement with Exxon
Corporation (Exxon) whereby Exxon will continue to indemnify the Company for
substantially all costs related to certain environmental matters, and also
reimburse the Company for substantially all costs related to an environmental
matter for which Exxon had previously disputed its obligation. Accordingly, in
1998, the Company recorded a $16 million receivable from Exxon related to the
previously disputed matter and has total receivables from Exxon related to these
matters of $32 million at September 30, 1998.
 
     Based on its assessment, management believes that the Company's
expenditures for environmental capital investment and remediation necessary to
comply with present regulations governing environmental protection and other
expenditures for the resolution of environmental claims will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company's liquidity and capital resources, competitive
position or financial statements. Management cannot assess the possible effect
of compliance with future requirements.
 
     Various lawsuits, claims and proceedings have been or may be instituted or
asserted against the Company relating to the conduct of its business, including
those pertaining to product liability, intellectual property, safety and health
and employment matters. Pursuant to the Reorganization, Rockwell has agreed to
indemnify Boeing for certain government contract and environmental matters
related to operations of the A&D Business for periods prior to the
Reorganization. In connection with the Automotive spin-off, Meritor has agreed
to indemnify the Company for substantially all contingent liabilities related to
Automotive. Although the outcome of litigation cannot be predicted with
certainty and some lawsuits, claims, or proceedings may be disposed of
unfavorably to the Company, management believes the disposition of matters which
are pending or asserted will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial statements.
 
     In connection with the Semiconductor Systems spin-off, Conexant will assume
all contingent liabilities related to its business, including environmental and
intellectual property matters. In September 1995, Celeritas Technologies, Ltd.
filed suit against the Company for patent infringement, misappropriation of
trade secrets and breach of contract relating to cellular telephone data
transmission technology utilized in certain modem products produced by
Semiconductor Systems. In July 1997, the court entered a judgment awarding
damages of $57 million, plus interest. On July 20, 1998, the U.S. Court of
Appeals for the Federal Circuit affirmed the trial court's judgment based on
breach of contract. The Company continues to believe the judgment is in error
and has filed a petition for certiorari with the United States Supreme Court. At
September 30, 1998, the Company had accrued a liability of approximately $65
million, which is included in net assets of Semiconductor Systems, for the
ultimate resolution of this matter. Prior to the date of the spin-off, the
Company will transfer $65 million in cash to Semiconductor Systems, which will
be placed in an escrow account to be used to satisfy Semiconductor Systems'
obligation with respect to the Celeritas matter.
 
18. BUSINESS SEGMENT INFORMATION
 
     The Company's business segments are engaged in research, development, and
manufacture and service of electronic controls and communications products as
follows:
 
        Automation--industrial automation equipment and systems, including
        control logic, sensors, human-machine interface devices, motors, power
        and mechanical devices and software products.
 
        Avionics & Communications--avionics products and systems and related
        communications technologies primarily used in commercial and military
        aircraft and defense electronic systems for command, control,
        communications and intelligence; in-flight entertainment systems for
        commercial aircraft; and electronic commerce products for call center
        systems and personalized electronic commerce applications.
 

 
     The following tables summarize segment information for continuing
operations (in millions):
 
SALES AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
 

 

 
     In 1998, the special charges relate to the business segments as follows (in
millions): Automation, $488; Avionics & Communications, $99; and Corporate, $10.
In addition, 1998 purchased research and development of $103 million relates to
the acquisition of Passenger Systems, an Avionics & Communications business. In
1997, purchased research and development of $23 million relates to the
acquisition of the remaining interest in an Automation software business. In
1996, the special charges relate to the business segments as follows (in
millions): Automation, $11; Avionics & Communications, $50; and Corporate, $15.
 
ASSET INFORMATION BY BUSINESS SEGMENT
 

 
     Corporate identifiable assets include cash and net deferred income tax
assets.
 

 

 
SALES, RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND ASSETS BY GEOGRAPHIC AREA
 

 
     In 1998, the special charges relate to the geographic areas as follows (in
millions): United States, $538; Europe, $44; Asia-Pacific, $12; Canada, $2; and
Latin America, $1. The 1998 and 1997 purchased research and development charges
of $103 million and $23 million, respectively, relate to the United States.
 
     United States sales include export sales to unaffiliated customers of $660
million in 1998, $581 million in 1997, and $591 million in 1996. The 1998 export
sales were to the following geographic areas: Canada, $128 million; Europe, $293
million; Asia-Pacific, $182 million; and Latin America, $57 million.
 

 

 
19. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
 

 
     Per share information is calculated for each quarterly and annual period
using average outstanding shares for that period. Therefore, the sum of the
quarterly per share amounts will not necessarily equal the annual per share
amounts presented.
 
     First quarter and full year net income (loss) includes a $27 million charge
($17 million after tax, or nine cents per share) related to the cumulative
effect of a change in accounting principle.
 
     Income (loss) from continuing operations before accounting change includes:
(a) the write-off of purchased research and development of $63 million after
tax, or 31 cents per share, related to the acquisition of the Passenger Systems
business in the first quarter, and (b) the effects of special charges recorded
in the third quarter of $508 million after tax, or $2.57 per share, related to
asset impairments, work force reductions, facility closures and consolidations
and exiting non-strategic businesses and product lines.
 

 
     The fourth quarter and full year income from continuing operations includes
the write-off of purchased research and development of $23 million (before and
after tax), or 11 cents per share, related to the acquisition of the remaining
interest in an Automation software business.
 

 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT
 
To the Directors and Shareowners of
Rockwell International Corporation:
 
     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet of Rockwell
International Corporation and subsidiaries as of September 30, 1998 and 1997,
and the related consolidated statements of operations, shareowners' equity, and
cash flows of each of the three years in the period ended September 30, 1998.
Our audit also included the financial statement schedule listed at Item
14(a)(2). These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedule based on
our audits.
 
     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.
 
     In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Rockwell International
Corporation and subsidiaries at September 30, 1998 and 1997, and the results of
their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended September 30, 1998, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.
 
     As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, in 1998
the Company changed its method of accounting for certain inventoriable general
and administrative costs related to government contracts.
 
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
Costa Mesa, California
November 4, 1998
 

 
     See also the table under the caption Summary of Results of Operations,
Continuing Operations, in the MD&A on page 12 hereof.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.
 
     None.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY.
 
     See the information under the captions ELECTION OF DIRECTORS and
INFORMATION AS TO NOMINEES FOR DIRECTORS AND CONTINUING DIRECTORS on pages 3-7
of the 1999 Proxy Statement. In addition, Richard M. Bressler, age 68, who has
been a director of the Company since 1986, has resigned effective December 30,
1998. He is Chairman of the Board Composition Committee and a member of the
Audit and Compensation and Management Development Committees of the Company's
Board of Directors. Mr. Bressler is the retired Chairman of the Board, El Paso
Natural Gas Company (Natural Gas Operations). He served as Chief Executive
Officer of Burlington Northern Inc. (rail transportation) from 1980 through
1988. Mr. Bressler retired in October 1990 as Chairman of both Burlington
Northern Inc. and Burlington Resources Inc. (natural resources operations),
positions he had held since 1982 and 1989, respectively. He served as Chairman
of the Plum Creek Management Company (timber operations) from April 1989 to
January 1993. He was Chairman of the El Paso Natural Gas Company from October
1990 through December 1993. Mr. Bressler is a director of Conexant and General
Mills, Inc. and is active in a number of business and civic organizations.
 
     No nominee for director was selected pursuant to any arrangement or
understanding between the nominee and any person other than the Company pursuant
to which such person is or was to be selected as a director or nominee. See also
the information with respect to executive officers of the Company under Item 4a
of Part I hereof.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.
 
     See the information under the captions EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION, OPTION
GRANTS, AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES AND FISCAL YEAR-END VALUES and LONG-TERM
INCENTIVES PLAN on pages 10-12 and RETIREMENT PLANS on page 17 of the 1999 Proxy
Statement.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.
 
     See the information under the captions VOTING SECURITIES and OWNERSHIP BY
MANAGEMENT OF EQUITY SECURITIES on pages 3 and 9-10, respectively, of the 1999
Proxy Statement.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.
 
     The Company during 1998 had purchases of approximately $18.7 million in the
normal course of business from The Timken Company, of which Joseph F. Toot, Jr.,
a director of the Company, was President and Chief Executive Officer through
December 1997. Based on the Company's knowledge of prevailing market conditions
and prices for the goods and services involved, the Company believes that such
transactions were on terms as favorable to the Company as those which might have
been obtained from entities with which directors of the Company were not
associated.
 
     The Company has entered into an agreement with Donald R. Beall, its retired
Chairman of the Board and a director, providing for his continued availability
as an advisor to the Company's management following his retirement through
September 30, 1999 (subject to extension) with compensation at an annual rate of
$600,000. In addition, Mr. Beall will continue to be covered under certain
medical benefit plans, to have the use of an automobile and, subject to
availability, the use of the Company's aircraft for business travel. He also
will be reimbursed for memberships in certain clubs and will have the use of
office facilities and secretarial assistance.
 

 
     The Company has entered into an agreement with Jodie K. Glore, its former
Senior Vice President and President & Chief Operating Officer--Rockwell
Automation, providing for his salary continuation through October 31, 1999. In
addition, Mr. Glore will be eligible to receive compensation under the Company's
Incentive Compensation Plan in respect of fiscal year 1998 and certain amounts
in respect of outstanding awards under the Company's 1995 Long-Term Incentives
Plan. Through October 31, 1999, Mr. Glore will continue to be covered under
certain medical benefit plans, to have use of an automobile and to be reimbursed
for membership in certain clubs.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.
 
     (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedule and Exhibits.
 
        (1) Financial Statements (all financial statements listed below are
            those of the Company and its consolidated subsidiaries).
 
           Consolidated Balance Sheet, September 30, 1998 and 1997.
 
           Consolidated Statement of Operations, years ended September 30, 1998,
           1997 and 1996.
 
           Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows, years ended September 30, 1998,
           1997 and 1996.
 
           Consolidated Statement of Shareowners' Equity, years ended September
           30, 1998, 1997 and 1996.
 
           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.
 
           Independent Auditors' Report.
 
        (2) Financial Statement Schedule for the years ended September 30, 1998,
            1997 and 1996.
 

 
           Schedules not filed herewith are omitted because of the absence of
           conditions under which they are required or because the information
           called for is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes
           thereto.
 
        (3) Exhibits.
 

 


 
- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


 
- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


 
- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


 
- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.


 
     (b) Reports on Form 8-K.
 
         No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period
         covered by this Report.
 
- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.
 
                                      ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
 
                                      By      /s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
                                         ---------------------------------------
 
                                                 WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
                                         SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, GENERAL COUNSEL
                                                      AND SECRETARY
 
Dated: December 3, 1998
 
     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW ON THE 3RD DAY OF DECEMBER 1998 BY THE FOLLOWING
PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES INDICATED.
 
            DON H. DAVIS, JR.*
        CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND
         CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER
      (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)
 
            GEORGE L. ARGYROS*
                 DIRECTOR
 
             DONALD R. BEALL*
                 DIRECTOR
 
           RICHARD M. BRESSLER*
                 DIRECTOR
 
          WILLIAM H. GRAY, III*
                 DIRECTOR
 
      JAMES CLAYBURN LA FORCE, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR
 
        WILLIAM T. MCCORMICK, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR
 
             JOHN D. NICHOLS*
                 DIRECTOR
 
            BRUCE M. ROCKWELL*
                 DIRECTOR
 
            WILLIAM S. SNEATH*
                 DIRECTOR
 
           JOSEPH F. TOOT, JR.*
                 DIRECTOR
 
            W. MICHAEL BARNES*
SENIOR VICE PRESIDENT, FINANCE & PLANNING
                   AND
    CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER (PRINCIPAL
            FINANCIAL OFFICER)
 
           WILLIAM E. SANDERS*
 VICE PRESIDENT AND CONTROLLER (PRINCIPAL
           ACCOUNTING OFFICER)
 
*By /s/ WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR.
     --------------------------------------------------------------
     WILLIAM J. CALISE, JR., ATTORNEY-IN-FACT**
 
** BY AUTHORITY OF POWERS OF ATTORNEY FILED HEREWITH.

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                       ROCKWELL INTERNATIONAL CORPORATION
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
 
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED SEPTEMBER 30, 1998, 1997 AND 1996
 

 
- ---------------
 
(a)  Includes allowances for commercial and other long-term receivables.
 
(b)  Uncollectible accounts written off.
 
(c)  Consists principally of amounts relating to businesses acquired, businesses
     sold and foreign currency translation adjustments.
 
                                       S-1

