
10-K405
AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

                       FOR ANNUAL AND TRANSITION REPORTS
                    PURSUANT TO SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                        SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

(MARK ONE)

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                                       OR

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

             FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM           TO

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-27275

                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE (617) 250-3000

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: NONE.

 SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT: COMMON STOCK, $.01
                                   PAR VALUE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statement
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting Common Stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $8,674,603,999 based on the
last reported sale price of the Common Stock on the Nasdaq consolidated
transaction reporting system on January 31, 2000.

     The number of shares outstanding of the registrant's Common Stock as of
January 31, 2000: 93,063,502 shares.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                               



                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

OVERVIEW

     Akamai provides a global delivery service for Internet content, streaming
media and applications that improves Web site speed, quality, reliability and
scalability and protects against Web site crashes due to demand overloads.
Akamai markets its services to large businesses and other businesses with an
Internet focus. Akamai's services deliver Akamai's customers' Web content and
applications through a worldwide server network by locating the content and
applications geographically closer to users. Using software that is based on
Akamai's proprietary mathematical formulas, or algorithms, Akamai monitors
Internet traffic patterns and delivers its customers' content and applications
by the most efficient route available. Akamai's services are easy to implement
and do not require its customers or their Web site visitors to make any hardware
or software modifications. Using Akamai's services, its customers have been able
to more than double the speed at which they deliver content to their users and,
in some instances, have been able to improve speeds by ten times or more.

     In February 2000, Akamai acquired Network24 Communications, Inc., a
provider of Internet broadcasting applications services, for approximately
599,152 shares of Akamai common stock and $12.5 million of cash.

     On February 6, 2000, Akamai entered into an agreement and plan of merger
with INTERVU Inc., a provider of services and automated tools for the streaming
of live and on-demand video and audio content over the Internet. Under the
agreement, each share of common stock and preferred stock of INTERVU will be
exchanged for shares of Akamai common stock in the merger, and INTERVU will
become a wholly-owned subsidiary of Akamai. Based on the number of shares of
INTERVU stock outstanding on February 6, 2000, Akamai is expected to issue
approximately 9.97 million shares of Akamai common stock in the merger. The
merger is subject to approval of the stockholders of INTERVU, certain regulatory
approvals and other customary closing conditions and is expected to close in the
second quarter of 2000.

     Akamai's technology originated from research that its founders began
developing at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1995. In April 1999,
Akamai introduced commercially its FreeFlow service for delivery of Internet
content. As of February 1, 2000, Akamai has deployed more than 2000 servers in
over 40 countries across more than 100 different telecommunications networks.

THE AKAMAI SOLUTION

     To use Akamai's services, customers identify and tag portions of their Web
site content and applications that require significant amounts of bandwidth,
such as advertising banners, icons, graphics, video and audio streaming,
interactive presentations and software downloads. These tagged items are
delivered over Akamai's server network. When users request these types of
content and applications, Akamai's technology routes the request to the server
that is best able to deliver the content most quickly based on the geographic
proximity, performance and congestion of all available servers on its network.
Akamai's network has the following capabilities:

     - Real-time Internet monitoring, which enables Akamai's servers to monitor
       in real-time the performance of its network and communicate the
       information to other servers in its network;

     - Dynamic server load management, which enables each server to react to
       Internet and server congestion, overloads and outages and respond by
       rerouting traffic around problems; and

     - Internet user connection management, which enables each server to map the
       geographic location of users so that content is delivered to each user
       from Akamai's most efficient server.

These capabilities enable Akamai's global network to provide delivery of Web
content through the optimal route without relying on any central point of
control.



AKAMAI SERVICES

  FreeFlow

     When implementing Akamai's FreeFlow service, its customers select bandwidth
intensive portions of their Web sites, such as complex graphics, advertisements,
logos, software downloads and pictures, which are delivered to users over
Akamai's network. FreeFlow service customers pay only for the Internet content
delivered through Akamai's service. Monthly usage charges are based on megabits
per second of content delivered. Customers commit to pay for a minimum usage
level over a fixed contract term, and pay additional fees when usage exceeds
this commitment. Monthly prices currently begin at $1,995 per megabit per
second, with discounts available for volume usage.

  FreeFlow Streaming

     Akamai's FreeFlow Streaming service provides for the delivery of streaming
audio and video content to Internet users over the Internet. Streaming media is
Internet content in the form of audio and/or video that a user can access and
play while downloading it from a content provider.

     Streaming content can be delivered in three forms:

     - on-demand -- which means that the user can view and/or listen to the file
       at any time, similar to a videotape in a VCR, or

     - events -- which means that the user can only view and/or listen to the
       file at a set time, similar to television; or

     - Webcast -- which means that the user views and/or listens to a continuous
       live broadcast program, similar to a daily line-up of programs on a
       television network or ongoing radio broadcast, as it occurs.

     FreeFlow Streaming supports all three forms of streaming content. Akamai's
FreeFlow Streaming service is designed to allow the user to enjoy enhanced
video/audio quality, scalability and reliability. The primary pricing model for
Akamai's FreeFlow Streaming service is based on megabytes of content delivered.
Customers commit to pay for a minimum usage level over a fixed contract term,
and pay additional fees when usage exceeds the commitment. The pricing is
scaled, so that a customer who commits to a higher level of monthly usage will
pay lower amount of money per megabyte delivered.

     As a result of its February 2000 acquisition of Network24, Akamai also
offers a set of applications for developing and delivering interactive media
broadcasts, including audio and video streaming. This set of applications
enables Web site owners to create customized programs of audio and video
content, synchronized PowerPoint(TM) presentations, audience polling, and
eCommerce capabilities in a format designed to engage users in an interactive
way. This set of applications can be used for product rollout presentations,
seminars, corporate earnings calls, distance learning, interactive entertainment
and other applications.

  EdgeAdvantage

     EdgeAdvantage is an integrated platform of Akamai's core technologies and
network infrastructure service used to offer Akamai's FreeFlow and FreeFlow
Streaming services, sometimes combined with third party tools and applications.
Akamai and its partners intend to use this platform to introduce a range of
value added services and applications to be used by Akamai's customers.

     Akamai believes that EdgeAdvantage will benefit its customers in two ways.
First, the EdgeAdvantage platform streamlines the deployment of applications to
be delivered through the Akamai network. Second, the speed and reliability of
applications delivered through the Akamai network will be improved. Examples of
Internet-based applications include personalization of content, dynamic ad
insertion, support for bandwidth-agile content, content transformation and other
common Web applications.



TECHNOLOGY

     Akamai's services incorporate the following technologies:

          URLs.  Akamai's technology changes the way in which content on a Web
     page is delivered to an Internet user without interrupting the normal data
     flow. Normally, when a user clicks on any Web page, the Web site returns a
     Hypertext Markup Language, or HTML, text file containing text and
     formatting instructions which the browser uses to display the page. This
     text file also contains the Universal Resource Locators, or URLs, of
     non-text objects on the page, such as photographs, banner advertisements,
     graphics and software downloads.

          Akamai's customers identify which of their Web objects are to be
     delivered over Akamai's network. The customer then runs a software utility
     provided by Akamai, called Launcher, which searches for the URLs of the
     selected objects and tags them with a special code. This modification
     transforms each URL for content to be delivered over Akamai's network into
     an "ARL," or Akamai Resource Locator. The result is that when a user's
     browser downloads an HTML file containing ARLs of Web objects for that
     page, the browser is automatically pointed to Akamai's network to retrieve
     those objects. Akamai's process does not require any modification to the
     browser or other personal computer configuration changes. While Akamai can
     serve the HTML as well as the objects embedded in it, Akamai's customers
     typically choose to serve the HTML themselves to maintain direct contact
     with the user. Thus, even while users are receiving content from Akamai's
     servers, Akamai's customers can continue to count Web site visitors, track
     user demographics and dynamically assemble Web page content, including the
     insertion of targeted advertising and other personalized content.

          Domain Name Servers.  The Internet relies on a distributed
     hierarchical database, called the Domain Name System, or DNS, to translate
     Web site names into numerical Internet Protocol, or IP, addresses. Akamai
     employs tiers of DNS, or name, servers that interact seamlessly with the
     Internet's standard DNS servers and intelligently direct a user's request
     for Web site content or applications toward the most efficient Akamai
     server to deliver the requested content or applications. When an Internet
     user requests a page containing content to be delivered over Akamai's
     network, the user's browser asks a Domain Name Server to find an IP address
     for the Akamai network. The DNS automatically directs the query to one of
     Akamai's top-level DNS servers rather than to the central Web site. The
     Akamai top-level DNS servers use proprietary mapping software to determine
     the approximate location of the user in the Internet. The top-level DNS
     server then refers the user's request to an Akamai low-level DNS server
     that is responsible for traffic near the user. The low-level DNS server
     then answers with the IP addresses of a group, or "region," of Akamai
     servers that can deliver the desired content to the user most quickly and
     reliably based on the geographic proximity, load and availability of all
     servers on the network. The low-level DNS servers use up-to-the-second
     information about Internet and server conditions to make the best routing
     decision for each user.

          Server Load Management.  Akamai's servers first determine the optimal
     region for serving content to a user at a given moment. Instead, Akamai
     uses proprietary algorithms to then balance the loads of all servers within
     each region and ensure that objects reside in the minimum number of servers
     required to deliver optimal performance.

          Real-Time Monitoring.  Akamai performs real-time monitoring of its own
     servers and of the Internet to make certain that content is delivered to
     users with the best performance and reliability. A key design principle of
     Akamai's system is the use of distributed control. Therefore, if any
     computer, data center or portion of the Internet fails, the Akamai services
     will continue operating.

     Akamai constantly monitors the performance of connections between various
locations around the Internet and Akamai's regions. Akamai uses numerous types
of network information to determine the performance of these connections. The
result is a "map" of the optimal Akamai region for each location at that point
in time. Akamai rebuilds this map periodically to reflect changing conditions.

     Real-time monitoring also ensures reliability. A region is suspended if the
data center in which Akamai's servers are located fails or is performing poorly.
However, even when this disruption occurs, the FreeFlow



service continues to function. To ensure fault tolerance, Akamai deploys back-up
low-level DNS servers in each region that physically reside in separate data
centers. These back-up DNS servers automatically direct users to servers in
alternate regions unaffected by the remote outage.

     To ensure reliability against the failure of an individual server, each
server is assigned a "buddy" server within a region. Buddy servers query one
another every second to sense all failures. If a server's buddy does not respond
to a query, that server takes over its buddy's IP address and serves all content
requested of the buddy.

CUSTOMERS

     Akamai began introduction of its services commercially in April 1999.
Akamai's customer base spans a broad spectrum of Internet categories. As of
February 1, 2000, Akamai had over 227 customers. Sales to Apple Computer and
Yahoo! represented 22% and 13%, respectively, of Akamai's total revenue for the
year ended December 31, 1999.

STRATEGIC ALLIANCES

     Akamai has strategic alliances with Apple Computer, Cisco Systems and
Microsoft Corporation and intends to enter into additional strategic alliances
with leading technology companies to accelerate market acceptance of its
services and to expand and enhance its global network. Akamai believes strategic
alliances can accelerate market acceptance of its technology and services,
increase its brand recognition and improve access to its target customer base.

  Apple Computer

     Akamai entered into a strategic alliance with Apple Computer effective as
of April 1, 1999 to improve the delivery of streaming media over the Internet.
Under the agreement, Akamai integrated its global Internet content delivery
service and Apple's QuickTime TV network, QuickTime 4 Player and QuickTime
Streaming Server. The combined technologies are designed to give Apple Macintosh
and Microsoft Windows users worldwide access to fast, reliable, high-resolution
streaming services through e-commerce, media and other Web sites.

     Under the terms of the strategic alliance, Apple has purchased Akamai's
FreeFlow and FreeFlow Streaming services and Akamai has agreed to be the
exclusive network provider to Apple for QuickTime TV, a service provided by
Apple for transmitting over the Internet live streams of Web content and
video-on-demand in QuickTime format. Akamai has also agreed to cause its network
to meet minimum capacity levels to support streaming media. Apple has designated
Akamai as the preferred network provider to Apple customers developing streaming
QuickTime content. To date, over two million streams of QuickTime content have
been delivered over Akamai's network.

     The term of Akamai's strategic alliance agreement with Apple extends
through April 30, 2001. Akamai has agreed on the fees to be paid by Apple for
Akamai's services through the first 18 months of the agreement. Thereafter,
Akamai will negotiate with Apple the fees for Akamai's services for the
remainder of the term of the agreement. Apple has agreed to pay to Akamai
minimum aggregate fees of $12.54 million under the agreement. The minimum fees
are based in part on Apple continuing to provide QuickTime TV. If Apple ceases
to provide QuickTime TV for any reason, the minimum fees to be paid by Apple
under the agreement may, at Apple's option, be reduced by up to 50% of the
amount of Akamai's services purchased by Apple for QuickTime TV in the
immediately preceding 12-month period. Minimum fees owed by Apple will also be
reduced by fees paid by third parties directly to Akamai for distribution of
QuickTime TV.

     Sales to Apple Computer were approximately $882,981, or 22.2% of revenue,
for the year ended December 31, 1999. Akamai expects that sales to Apple
Computer as a percentage of total sales will decrease, but that during calendar
year 2000, sales to Apple will continue to represent a significant portion of
its revenue.



  Cisco Systems

     In August 1999, Akamai entered into a strategic alliance with Cisco Systems
to enhance and jointly develop new content routing, switching and caching
technologies to improve the performance of Internet content delivery. Under the
strategic alliance, Cisco and Akamai are engaged in ongoing discussions to
jointly develop protocols and algorithms designed to enhance content-based
routing and switching technologies within Cisco's infrastructure to optimize
Akamai's Internet content delivery service. In addition, Cisco has agreed to
integrate Akamai's Internet content delivery technology into its networking
technology. Akamai has also agreed to explore new technologies to enable
next-generation switching designed to dynamically adapt to changing network
conditions. Under the agreement, each of Akamai and Cisco has also agreed to
joint marketing arrangements, including the promotion to its customers of the
use of the other's products and services, whenever commercially reasonable.

  Microsoft Corporation

     In September 1999, Akamai entered into a strategic alliance with Microsoft
Corporation to integrate Microsoft technologies into the Akamai network. As part
of the agreement, Akamai has integrated Microsoft Windows Media(TM) technologies
with Akamai's global Internet content delivery service, and Akamai is creating a
version of its software to support its FreeFlow service that works on Microsoft
Windows Server. In addition, Microsoft's Streaming Media Division has agreed to
become one of Akamai's Internet content delivery service customers.

     Under the terms of Akamai's agreement with Microsoft, Akamai has agreed to
modify its server software to operate on the Microsoft Windows Server operating
systems platform and to support Microsoft's streaming media format. In addition,
Akamai will explore with Microsoft other possible integration and support
opportunities.

     Microsoft has agreed to pre-pay Akamai fees totaling $1,000,000 for
services that Akamai will provide.

SALES, SERVICE AND MARKETING

     Akamai currently sells its service primarily through a direct sales force.
Akamai's plan is to continue to pursue heavily trafficked Web sites through its
direct sales force and to penetrate other markets through its reseller program
and other indirect distribution channels. As of February 11, 2000, Akamai had
136 employees in its sales and distribution organization, of whom 44 are in
direct sales. Currently Akamai's sales force is actively targeting both domestic
and international companies, focusing on Web sites that have the greatest number
of visitors, Fortune 100 companies and other companies with large operations
worldwide.

     In January 2000, Akamai established its new European headquarters based in
Munich, Germany, with offices in Paris, France and London, England. As of
February 11, 2000, Akamai had three employees in its European direct sales
force.

     In addition to its direct sales efforts, Akamai has implemented an Alliance
Partner Program with Web developers, systems integrators and Web-focused
application vendors and a Reseller program with Web hosting companies, system
integration firms and commerce service providers. Akamai encourages its alliance
partners to recommend the Akamai solution to their customers as part of their
design, integration and consulting work for those customers. As of February 11,
2000, Akamai had three employees in its Alliance Partner program group and six
employees in its Reseller program group.

     Akamai's technical consulting group directly supports its sales and
distribution efforts by providing technical consulting and integration
assistance to Akamai's current and prospective customers. As of February 11,
2000, Akamai had 24 employees in its technical consulting group.

     Akamai believes that a high level of customer service and support is
critical to the successful marketing and sale of its products and services.
Akamai is building a comprehensive service and support organization to meet the
needs of its customers. As of February 11, 2000, Akamai had 17 employees in its
customer service and support organization and 22 employees in its account
management organization. Akamai is seeking to hire



additional customer service and support personnel as its customer base grows and
as it introduces new products and services.

     To support its sales efforts and actively promote the Akamai brand name,
Akamai conducts comprehensive marketing programs. Akamai's marketing strategies
not only include an active public relations campaign, print advertisements,
online advertisements, trade shows, strategic partnerships and on-going customer
communications programs. Akamai participates in a variety of Internet, computer
and financial industry conferences. As of February 11, 2000, Akamai had 33
employees in its marketing organization.

NETWORK ALLIANCES

     As of February 18, 2000, Akamai's network was comprised of over 2000
servers in 40 countries across more than 100 telecommunication networks. Most of
Akamai's servers are currently deployed in data centers served by major domestic
and international Internet service providers. These Internet service providers
provide bandwidth to deliver content from Akamai's servers to Internet users.
Akamai also deploys its servers at smaller and medium-sized domestic and
international Internet service providers through its Akamai Accelerated Network
program. Under this program, Akamai offers use of its servers to Internet
service providers. In exchange, Akamai typically does not pay for rack space to
house its servers or bandwidth to deliver content from its servers to Internet
users. By hosting Akamai servers, Internet service providers obtain access to
popular content from the Internet that is served from the Akamai network. As a
result, when this content is requested by a user, the Internet service provider
does not need to pay for the bandwidth otherwise necessary to retrieve the
content from the originating Web site.

     Akamai is planning to expand and enhance its network by entering into
strategic relationships with network providers and integrating its technology
with networking and other network infrastructure products, such as routers and
switches, to facilitate implementation of its service by Internet service
providers. Akamai is also seeking to expand its network through the development
of technology designed to facilitate communications between its global network
of servers and third-party caching systems. If this technology is successfully
developed, third-party caches could effectively function as additional servers
on its network. Akamai has established relationships with cache vendors
Cacheflow, Cisco, InfoLibria, Network Appliance and Novell to develop interfaces
to facilitate communications between their caching products and Akamai's
network.

ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT

     Akamai believes that strong product and service development capabilities
are essential to enhancing its core technologies, developing new applications
for its technology and maintaining its competitiveness. Akamai has invested and
intends to continue to invest a significant amount of human and financial
resources in Akamai's engineering and development organization. As of February
11, 2000, Akamai had 167 employees devoted to engineering and development
efforts.

     Akamai is focusing its engineering and development efforts on enhancing its
FreeFlow and FreeFlow Streaming services and building on its technology to
develop new services. From its inception in August 1998 through December 31,
1999, Akamai's engineering and development expenses were approximately $12.0
million. Akamai expects to continue to commit significant resources to research
and development in the future. To date, all engineering and development expenses
have been expensed as incurred.

COMPETITION

     The market for Internet content delivery services is new, rapidly evolving
and intensely competitive. Akamai expects competition to increase both from
existing competitors and new market entrants for various components of its
service. Akamai competes primarily on the basis of:

     - performance of service, including speed of delivery, quality,
       reliability, peak crowd protection, and global content delivery
       capabilities;

     - ease of implementation and use of service;



     - types of content and applications delivered;

     - partnerships to provide complete customer solutions; and

     - price.

     Akamai competes primarily with companies offering products and services
that address Internet performance problems, including companies that provide
Internet content delivery services, streaming content delivery services and
equipment-based solutions to Internet performance problems, such as load
balancers and server switches.

     Akamai's competitors may be able to respond more quickly than Akamai can to
new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Some of
Akamai's current or potential competitors may bundle their products with other
software or hardware in a manner that may discourage Web site owners from
purchasing products Akamai offers or Internet service providers from being
willing to install Akamai servers.

     Increased competition could result in price reductions, fewer customer
orders, reduced gross margins and loss of market share, any of which could
materially and adversely affect Akamai's business, financial condition and
operations.

PROPRIETARY RIGHTS AND LICENSING

     Akamai's success and ability to compete are dependent on its ability to
develop and maintain the proprietary aspects of its technology and operate
without infringing on the proprietary rights of others. Akamai relies on a
combination of patent, trademark, trade secret and copyright laws and
contractual restrictions to protect the proprietary aspects of its technology.
These legal protections afford only limited protection for Akamai's technology.
Akamai currently has no issued patents; however, Akamai is seeking patent
protection on aspects of its Internet content delivery service. Akamai cannot
predict whether any patent application filed by Akamai will result in any issued
patent or, if a patent is issued, any meaningful protection. Akamai seeks to
limit disclosure of its intellectual property by requiring employees and
consultants with access to its proprietary information to execute
confidentiality agreements with it and by restricting access to its source code.
Due to rapid technological change, Akamai believes that factors such as the
technological and creative skills of its personnel, new product developments and
enhancements to existing products are more important than the various legal
protections of its technology to establishing and maintaining a technology
leadership position.

     Despite Akamai's efforts to protect its proprietary rights, unauthorized
parties may attempt to copy aspects of its products or to obtain and use
information that it regards as proprietary. The laws of many countries do not
protect Akamai's proprietary rights to as great an extent as do the laws of the
United States. Litigation may be necessary in the future to enforce Akamai's
intellectual property rights, to protect its trade secrets, to determine the
validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others or to defend against
claims of infringement or invalidity. Any such resulting litigation could result
in substantial costs and diversion of resources and could have a material
adverse effect on Akamai's business, operating results and financial condition.
There can be no assurance that Akamai's means of protecting its proprietary
rights will be adequate or that its competitors will not independently develop
similar technology. Any failure by Akamai to meaningfully protect its property
could have a material adverse effect on its business, operating results and
financial condition.

     In October 1998, Akamai entered into a license agreement with MIT under
which Akamai was granted a royalty-free, worldwide right to use and sublicense
the intellectual property rights of MIT under various patent applications and
copyrights relating to Internet content delivery technology. Akamai cannot
predict whether any of these applications will result in any issued patents or,
if patents are issued, any meaningful protection. Some of Akamai's technology is
based on technology licensed from MIT. The license has been granted to Akamai on
an exclusive basis, but is subject to the rights of the U.S. government to use
the licensed intellectual property in government-funded inventions. As part of
the license agreement, MIT retained the right to use the licensed intellectual
property for non-commercial, teaching and educational purposes. In connection
with the license agreement, Akamai issued 682,110 shares of its common stock to
MIT in



October 1998. The license agreement is irrevocable, but MIT may terminate the
agreement if Akamai ceases its business due to insolvency or if Akamai
materially breaches the terms of the license agreement.

EMPLOYEES

     As of February 11, 2000, Akamai had a total of 464 full-time and part-time
employees. Akamai's future success will depend in part on its ability to
attract, retain and motivate highly qualified technical and management
personnel, for whom competition is intense. Akamai's employees are not
represented by any collective bargaining unit. Akamai believes its relations
with its employees are good.

FACTORS AFFECTING FUTURE OPERATING RESULTS

     Akamai believes that this document contains "forward-looking statements"
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.
These statements are subject to risks and uncertainties and are based on the
beliefs and assumptions of management of Akamai, based on information currently
available to Akamai's management. Use of words such as "believes," "expects,"
"anticipates," "intends," "plans," "estimates," "should," "likely" or similar
expressions, indicate a forward-looking statement. Forward-looking statements
involve risks, uncertainties and assumptions. Certain of the information
contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K consists of forward-looking
statements. Important factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially from the forward-looking statements include the following:

AKAMAI'S BUSINESS IS DIFFICULT TO EVALUATE BECAUSE IT HAS A LIMITED OPERATING
HISTORY.

     Akamai was founded in August 1998 and began offering its services
commercially in April 1999. Akamai has limited meaningful historical financial
data upon which to base planned operating expenses and upon which investors may
evaluate it and its prospects. In addition, Akamai's operating expenses are
largely based on anticipated revenue trends and a high percentage of its
expenses are and will continue to be fixed in the short-term. You should
consider the risks and difficulties frequently encountered by companies like
Akamai in a new and rapidly evolving market. Akamai's ability to sell its
services and the level of success it achieves depends, among other things, on
the level of demand for delivery services for graphics, streaming media,
applications and other Internet content, which is a new and rapidly evolving
market. Akamai's business strategy may be unsuccessful, and it may not
successfully address the risks it faces.

AKAMAI IS ENTIRELY DEPENDENT ON ITS INTERNET CONTENT DELIVERY SERVICES AND ITS
FUTURE REVENUE DEPENDS ON THE COMMERCIAL SUCCESS OF ITS SERVICES.

     Currently, Akamai's future growth depends on the commercial success of its
Internet content delivery services and other services and products it may
develop and/or offer. While Akamai has been selling its services commercially
since April 1999, sales may not continue in the future. Akamai's other services
and products under development may not achieve widespread market acceptance. The
future revenue growth of FreeFlow Streaming will also depend, in part, on
customer acceptance of a combined or integrated Akamai/INTERVU service offering.
Failure of Akamai's current and planned services to operate as expected could
hinder or prevent their adoption. If Akamai's target customers do not adopt,
purchase and successfully deploy Akamai's current and planned services, Akamai's
revenue will not grow significantly and its business, results of operations and
financial condition will be seriously harmed. In addition, to the extent Akamai
promotes any portion of its technology as an industry standard by making it
readily available to users for little or no charge, Akamai may not receive
revenue that it might otherwise have received.

THE INTERNET CONTENT DELIVERY MARKET IS NEW AND AKAMAI'S BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF
IT DOES NOT DEVELOP AS AKAMAI EXPECTS.

     The market for Internet content delivery services is new. Akamai cannot be
certain that a broad-based market for its service will emerge or be sustainable.
If this market does not develop, or develops more slowly than Akamai expects,
its business, results of operations and financial condition will be seriously
harmed.



ANY FAILURE OF AKAMAI'S NETWORK INFRASTRUCTURE COULD LEAD TO SIGNIFICANT COSTS
AND DISRUPTIONS WHICH COULD REDUCE AKAMAI'S REVENUE AND HARM ITS BUSINESS,
FINANCIAL RESULTS AND REPUTATION.

     Akamai's business is dependent on providing its customers with fast,
efficient and reliable Internet content delivery services. To meet these
customer requirements Akamai must protect its network infrastructure against
damage from:

     - sabotage and vandalism;

     - human error;

     - physical or electronic intrusion and security breaches;

     - fire, earthquake, flood and other natural disasters;

     - power loss; and

     - similar events.

     Despite the efforts of Akamai, its network infrastructure may come under
attack by sabotage or vandalism. In addition, the occurrence of a natural
disaster or other unanticipated problems at one or more of Akamai's servers
could result in service interruptions or significant damage to equipment. Akamai
currently provides a FreeFlow service guarantee that its networks will deliver
Internet content 24 hours a day, seven days a week, 365 days a year. If Akamai
does not provide this service, the customer does not pay for its services on
that day. Any widespread loss or interruption of services would reduce its
revenue, and could harm its business, financial results and reputation.

BECAUSE AKAMAI'S INTERNET CONTENT DELIVERY SERVICES ARE COMPLEX AND ARE DEPLOYED
IN COMPLEX ENVIRONMENTS, THEY MAY HAVE ERRORS OR DEFECTS THAT COULD SERIOUSLY
HARM ITS BUSINESS.

     Akamai's Internet content delivery services are highly complex and are
designed to be deployed in and across numerous large and complex networks. As of
February 1, 2000, Akamai's network consisted of over 2,000 servers. Akamai and
its customers have also from time to time discovered errors and defects in
Akamai's software. In the future, there may be additional errors and defects in
Akamai's software that may adversely affect its services. If Akamai is unable to
efficiently fix errors or other problems that may be identified, Akamai could
experience:

     - loss of or delay in revenues and loss of market share;

     - loss of customers;

     - failure to attract new customers or achieve market acceptance;

     - diversion of development and engineering resources;

     - loss of credibility or damage to business reputation;

     - increased service costs; and

     - legal actions by Akamai's customers.

ANY FAILURE OF AKAMAI'S TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND NETWORK PROVIDERS TO PROVIDE
REQUIRED TRANSMISSION CAPACITY TO AKAMAI COULD RESULT IN INTERRUPTIONS IN
AKAMAI'S SERVICE.

     Akamai's operations are dependent in part upon transmission capacity
provided by third-party telecommunications network providers. Any failure of
such network providers to provide the capacity Akamai requires may result in a
reduction in, or interruption of, service to Akamai's customers. This failure
may be a result of the telecommunications providers or Internet service
providers experiencing interruptions or other failures, failing to comply with
or terminating their existing agreements with Akamai, or otherwise denying or
interrupting service or not entering into relationships with Akamai at all or on
terms commercially acceptable to Akamai. If Akamai does not have access to
third-party transmission capacity, Akamai could lose



customers. If Akamai is unable to obtain such capacity on terms commercially
acceptable to Akamai, Akamai's business and financial results, could suffer.

THE MARKETS IN WHICH AKAMAI OPERATES ARE HIGHLY COMPETITIVE AND AKAMAI MAY BE
UNABLE TO COMPETE SUCCESSFULLY AGAINST NEW ENTRANTS AND ESTABLISHED COMPANIES
WITH GREATER RESOURCES.

     Akamai competes in markets that are new, intensely competitive, highly
fragmented and rapidly changing. Akamai has experienced and expects to continue
to experience increased competition. Many of Akamai's current competitors, as
well as a number of Akamai's potential competitors, have longer operating
histories, greater name recognition and substantially greater financial,
technical and marketing resources than Akamai does. Some of Akamai's current or
potential competitors have the financial resources to withstand substantial
price competition. Moreover, many of Akamai's competitors have more extensive
brand recognition, customer bases, broader customer relationships and broader
industry alliances that they could use to their advantage in competitive
situations, including relationships with many of Akamai's current and potential
customers. Akamai's competitors may be able to respond more quickly than Akamai
can to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements. Some
of Akamai's current or potential competitors may bundle their services with
other services, software or hardware in a manner that may discourage Web site
owners from purchasing any service Akamai offers or Internet service providers
from installing Akamai's servers.

     As competition in the Internet content delivery market continues to
intensify, new solutions will come to market. Akamai is aware of other companies
that are focusing or may in the future focus significant resources on developing
and marketing products and services that will compete with Akamai. Akamai also
believes that it may face competition from other providers of competing Internet
content delivery services, including networking hardware and software
manufacturers, content distribution providers, traditional hardware
manufacturers, telecommunications providers, software database companies, and
large diversified software and technology companies. Increased competition could
result in:

     - price and revenue reductions and lower profit margins;

     - increased cost of service from telecommunications providers;

     - loss of customers; and

     - loss of market share.

     Any one of these could materially and adversely affect Akamai's business,
financial condition and results of operations.

AS PART OF AKAMAI'S BUSINESS STRATEGY, AKAMAI MAY ENTER INTO OR SEEK TO ENTER
INTO BUSINESS COMBINATIONS AND ACQUISITIONS WHICH MAY BE DIFFICULT TO INTEGRATE,
DISRUPT AKAMAI'S BUSINESS, DILUTE STOCKHOLDER VALUE OR DIVERT MANAGEMENT
ATTENTION.

     As a part of Akamai's business strategy, Akamai may enter into additional
business combinations and acquisitions. Acquisitions are typically accompanied
by a number of risks, including:

     - the difficulty of integrating the operations and personnel of the
       acquired companies;

     - the maintenance of acceptable standards, controls, procedures and
       policies;

     - the potential disruption of Akamai's ongoing business and distraction of
       management;

     - the impairment of relationships with employees and customers as a result
       of any integration of new management personnel;

     - the difficulty of incorporation of acquired technology and rights into
       Akamai's products and services;

     - expenses related to the acquisition;

     - potential unknown liabilities associated with acquired businesses; and



     - unanticipated expenses related to acquired technology and its integration
       into existing technology.

     Akamai acquired Network24 Communications, Inc. in February 2000 and may
encounter these risks to its business during its integration. On February 6,
2000, Akamai entered into an agreement to acquire INTERVU Inc. If successfully
completed, Akamai may experience difficulty in integrating the operations and
personnel of Akamai and INTERVU. If the acquisition of INTERVU is not
successfully completed, Akamai would be required to reevaluate its growth
strategy and will have incurred substantial expenses and spent significant
management time and resources in seeking to complete the acquisition. In
addition, with future acquisitions, Akamai could use substantial portions of its
available cash as all or a portion of the purchase price. Akamai could also
issue additional securities as consideration for these acquisitions, which could
cause its stockholders to suffer significant dilution. Akamai's acquisition of
Network24, its proposed acquisition of INTERVU and any future acquisitions, may
not generate any additional revenue and may pose risks to Akamai.

A SIGNIFICANT DECLINE IN SALES TO APPLE COMPUTER COULD REDUCE AKAMAI'S REVENUE
AND CAUSE ITS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS TO SUFFER.

     Akamai entered into a strategic alliance with Apple Computer, Inc.
effective as of April 1, 1999. Sales of its service to Apple Computer
represented approximately 22.2% of Akamai's revenue for the year ended December
31, 1999. Akamai expects that sales to Apple Computer as a percentage of total
sales will decrease, but that during calendar 2000 sales to Apple Computer will
continue to represent a significant portion of its revenue. Apple Computer has
the right to terminate the agreement on short notice if Akamai materially
breaches the agreement. A significant decline in sales to Apple Computer could
reduce Akamai's revenue and cause Akamai's business and financial results to
suffer.

IF ANY OF AKAMAI'S STRATEGIC ALLIANCES TERMINATES, THEN AKAMAI'S BUSINESS COULD
BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

     Akamai entered into strategic alliances with Apple Computer effective as of
April 1, 1999, with Cisco Systems, Inc. in August 1999 and with Microsoft
Corporation in September 1999. Under each of these agreements, Akamai is seeking
to jointly develop technology, services and/or products with its strategic
alliance partners and Akamai may not be successful. The strategic alliance with
Cisco may be terminated by Cisco or Akamai on short notice for any reason. The
strategic alliance with Apple Computer may be terminated by Apple Computer or
Akamai if the other party materially breaches the agreement, and the strategic
alliance with Microsoft may be terminated by Microsoft or Akamai if the other
party materially breaches the agreement. A termination of, or significant
adverse change in, Akamai's relationship with Apple Computer, Cisco or Microsoft
could have a material adverse effect on Akamai's business.

AKAMAI'S BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF IT IS UNABLE TO SCALE ITS NETWORK AS DEMAND
INCREASES.

     Akamai's network may not be scalable to expected customer levels while
maintaining superior performance. Akamai cannot be certain that its network can
connect and manage a substantially larger number of customers at high
transmission speeds. In addition, as customers' usage of bandwidth increases,
Akamai will need to make additional investments in its infrastructure to
maintain adequate data transmission speeds. Akamai cannot ensure that it will be
able to make these investments successfully or at an acceptable or commercially
reasonable cost.

     Upgrading Akamai's infrastructure may cause delays or failures in its
network. As a result, in the future Akamai's network may be unable to achieve or
maintain a sufficiently high transmission capacity. Akamai's failure to achieve
or maintain high capacity data transmission could significantly reduce demand
for Akamai service, reducing Akamai's revenue and causing its business and
financial results to suffer.

AKAMAI'S BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF IT DOES NOT RESPOND RAPIDLY TO TECHNOLOGICAL
CHANGES.

     The market for Internet content delivery services is likely to continue to
be characterized by rapid technological change, frequent new product and service
introductions and changes in customer requirements. Akamai may be unable to
respond quickly or effectively to these developments. If competitors introduce



products, services or technologies that are better than Akamai's or that gain
greater market acceptance, or if new industry standards emerge, Akamai's service
may become obsolete, which would materially and adversely affect its business,
results of operations and financial condition.

     In developing its services, Akamai has made, and will continue to make,
assumptions about the standards that its customers and competitors may adopt. If
the standards adopted are different from those which Akamai may now or in the
future promote or support, market acceptance of Akamai's service may be
significantly reduced or delayed and its business will be seriously harmed. In
addition, the introduction of services or products incorporating new
technologies and the emergence of new industry standards could render Akamai's
existing service obsolete.

IF AKAMAI'S LICENSE AGREEMENT WITH MIT TERMINATES, THEN ITS BUSINESS COULD BE
ADVERSELY AFFECTED.

     Akamai has licensed from MIT technology covered by various patent
applications and copyrights relating to Internet content delivery technology.
Some of Akamai's technology is based in part on the technology covered by these
patent applications and copyrights. MIT may terminate the license agreement if
Akamai ceases its business due to insolvency or if Akamai materially breaches
the terms of the license agreement. A termination of Akamai's license agreement
with MIT could have a material adverse effect on Akamai's business.

AKAMAI'S BUSINESS WILL BE ADVERSELY AFFECTED IF IT IS UNABLE TO PROTECT ITS
INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS FROM THIRD-PARTY CHALLENGES.

     Akamai relies on a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade
secret laws and restrictions on disclosure to protect its intellectual property
rights. These legal protections afford only limited protection; competitors may
gain access to Akamai's intellectual property which may result in the loss of
Akamai's customers.

     Although Akamai has licensed technology covered by patent applications
filed with the United States Patent and Trademark Office with respect to
Internet content delivery services, Akamai has no patents issued with respect to
its Internet content delivery services. Accordingly, neither Akamai's technology
nor technology licensed by Akamai is covered by patents that would preclude or
inhibit competitors from entering Akamai's market. Akamai's future patents, if
any, and patents licensed by Akamai, may be successfully challenged or may not
provide Akamai with any competitive advantages. Moreover, although Akamai has
filed international patent applications, none of Akamai's technology is patented
abroad. Akamai cannot be certain that any pending or future patent applications
will be granted, that any future patent will not be challenged, invalidated or
circumvented, or that rights granted under any patent that may be issued will
provide competitive advantages to Akamai. Monitoring unauthorized use of
Akamai's service is difficult and Akamai cannot be certain that the steps it has
taken will prevent unauthorized use of its technology, particularly in foreign
countries where the laws may not protect Akamai's proprietary rights as fully as
in the United States.

AKAMAI'S FAILURE TO INCREASE ITS REVENUE WOULD PREVENT IT FROM ACHIEVING AND
MAINTAINING PROFITABILITY.

     Akamai has never been profitable. Akamai has incurred significant losses
since inception and expects to continue to incur losses in the future. As of
December 31, 1999, Akamai had an accumulated deficit of $58.6 million. Akamai
cannot be certain that its revenue will continue to grow or that it will achieve
sufficient revenue to achieve profitability. Akamai's failure to significantly
increase its revenue would seriously harm its business and operating results.
Akamai has large fixed expenses, and it expects to continue to incur significant
and increasing sales and marketing, product development, administrative and
other expenses, including fees to obtain access to bandwidth for the transport
of data over its network. As a result, Akamai will need to generate
significantly higher revenues to achieve and maintain profitability. If Akamai's
revenue grows more slowly than Akamai anticipates or if its operating expenses
increase more than Akamai expects or cannot be reduced in the event of lower
revenue, Akamai's business will be materially and adversely affected.



THE VARIABLE SALES CYCLES FOR AKAMAI'S SERVICES MAY CAUSE REVENUE AND OPERATING
RESULTS TO VARY SIGNIFICANTLY FROM QUARTER TO QUARTER WHICH COULD ADVERSELY
AFFECT AKAMAI'S STOCK PRICE.

     At times, a customer's decision to purchase Akamai's Internet content
delivery service involves a lengthy evaluation process. Throughout the sales
cycle, Akamai spends considerable time and expense educating and providing
information to prospective customers about the use and benefits of its services.
Because of Akamai's limited operating history and the nature of Akamai business,
Akamai cannot predict these sales and deployment cycles. Long sales cycles may
cause Akamai's revenue and results of operations to vary significantly and
unexpectedly from quarter to quarter. If Akamai's operating results fall below
the expectations of securities analysts or investors in some future quarter or
quarters, the market price of its common stock could be adversely affected.

THE RATES AKAMAI CHARGES FOR ITS SERVICE MAY DECLINE OVER TIME WHICH WOULD
REDUCE ITS REVENUE AND COULD CAUSE ITS BUSINESS AND FINANCIAL RESULTS TO SUFFER.

     Akamai expects that its cost to obtain bandwidth capacity for the transport
of data over its network will decline over time as a result of, among other
things, the large amount of capital currently being invested to build
infrastructure providing additional bandwidth and volume discounts available to
Akamai as its network usage increases. Akamai expects the prices it charges for
its services may also decline over time as a result of, among other things,
existing and new competition in the markets Akamai addresses. As a result,
Akamai's historical revenue rates may not be indicative of future revenue based
on comparable traffic volumes. If Akamai fails to accurately predict the decline
in costs of bandwidth or, in any event, if Akamai is unable to sell its service
at acceptable prices relative to its bandwidth costs, or if it fails to offer
additional services from which it can derive additional revenue, Akamai's
revenue will decrease and its business and financial results will suffer.

AKAMAI'S BUSINESS AND PROSPECTS DEPEND ON DEMAND FOR AND MARKET ACCEPTANCE OF
THE INTERNET AND ITS INFRASTRUCTURE DEVELOPMENT.

     The increased use of the Internet for retrieving, sharing and transferring
information among businesses, consumers, suppliers and partners has only begun
to develop in recent years, and Akamai's success will depend in large part on
continued growth in the use of the Internet. Critical issues concerning the
commercial use of the Internet, including security, reliability, speed, cost,
ease of access, quality of service, regulatory initiatives and necessary
increases in bandwidth availability, remain unresolved and are likely to affect
the development of the market for Akamai's services. The adoption of the
Internet for information retrieval and exchange, commerce and communications
generally will require the acceptance of a new medium of conducting business and
exchanging information. Demand for and market acceptance of the Internet are
subject to a high level of uncertainty and are dependent on a number of factors,
including:

     - the growth in consumer access to and acceptance of new interactive
       technologies;

     - the development of technologies that facilitate interactive communication
       between organizations; and

     - increases in user bandwidth.

     If the Internet as a commercial or business medium fails to develop or
develops more slowly than expected, Akamai's business and prospects will suffer.

AKAMAI'S BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF IT DOES NOT ANTICIPATE AND MEET SPECIFIC
CUSTOMER REQUIREMENTS.

     Akamai's current and prospective customers may require features and
capabilities that its current service offerings do not have. To achieve market
acceptance for Akamai's service, Akamai must effectively and timely anticipate
and adapt to customer requirements and offer services that meet customer
demands. Akamai's failure to offer services that satisfy customer requirements
would seriously harm its business, results of operations and financial
condition.

     Akamai intends to continue to invest heavily in technology development. The
development of new or enhanced services and applications such as EdgeAdvantage,
is a complex and uncertain process that requires



the accurate anticipation of technological and market trends. Akamai may
experience design, integration, manufacturing, marketing and other difficulties
that could delay or prevent the development, introduction or marketing of new
services as well as enhancements. The introduction of new or enhanced services
and applications also requires that Akamai manage the transition from older
services in order to ensure that Akamai can deliver services to meet anticipated
customer demand. Akamai's inability to effectively manage this transition would
materially adversely affect its business, results of operations and financial
condition.

AKAMAI HAS LIMITED SALES AND MARKETING EXPERIENCE; AKAMAI'S BUSINESS WILL SUFFER
IF IT DOES NOT EXPAND AKAMAI'S DIRECT AND INDIRECT SALES ORGANIZATIONS AND ITS
CUSTOMER SERVICE AND SUPPORT OPERATIONS.

     Akamai currently has limited sales and marketing experience. Akamai's
limited experience may restrict its success gaining broad market acceptance of
its services or in commercializing its future services. Akamai's services
require a sophisticated sales effort targeted at a limited number of key people
within a prospective customer's organization. This sales effort requires the
efforts of trained sales personnel. Akamai needs to continue to expand its
marketing and sales organization in order to increase market awareness of its
service to a greater number of organizations and generate increased revenue.
Competition for these individuals is intense, and Akamai might not be able to
hire the kind and number of sales personnel it needs. In addition, Akamai
believes that its future success is dependent upon its ability to establish
successful relationships with a variety of distribution partners. If Akamai is
unable to expand its direct and indirect sales operations, it may not be able to
increase market awareness or sales of its service, which may prevent Akamai from
achieving and maintaining profitability.

     Hiring personnel is very competitive in Akamai's industry because there is
a limited number of people available with the necessary technical skills and
understanding of Akamai's market. Once Akamai hires them, they require extensive
training in Akamai's Internet content delivery service. If Akamai is unable to
expand its customer service and support organization and train them as rapidly
as necessary, Akamai may not be able to increase sales of its service, which
would seriously harm its business.

AKAMAI'S BUSINESS WILL SUFFER IF IT FAILS TO MANAGE ITS GROWTH PROPERLY.

     Akamai has expanded its operations rapidly since its inception. Akamai
continues to increase the scope of its operations and has grown its headcount
substantially. Akamai's total number of employees grew from 227 on September 30,
1999 to 464 on February 11, 2000. The merger with INTERVU is expected to
increase the total number of Akamai employees. In addition, Akamai plans to
continue to hire a significant number of employees this year. This growth has
placed, and Akamai's anticipated growth in future operations will continue to
place, a significant strain on its management systems and resources. Akamai's
ability to successfully offer its services and implement its business plan in a
rapidly evolving market requires an effective planning and management process.
Akamai expects that it will need to continue to improve its financial and
managerial controls, reporting systems and procedures, and will need to continue
to expand, train and manage its workforce worldwide. Competition for highly
skilled personnel is intense, especially in New England and central and southern
California. Akamai may fail to attract, assimilate or retain qualified personnel
to fulfill its current or future needs. Akamai's planned rapid growth places a
significant demand on management and financial and operational resources. In
order to grow and achieve future success, Akamai must:

     - retain existing personnel;

     - successfully integrate Network24 and INTERVU personnel;

     - hire, train, manage and retain additional qualified personnel; and

     - effectively manage multiple relationships with its customers, suppliers
       and other third parties.

     Failure to do so would have a materially adverse effect on its business,
results of operations and financial condition.



AKAMAI DEPENDS ON ITS KEY PERSONNEL TO MANAGE ITS BUSINESS EFFECTIVELY IN A
RAPIDLY CHANGING MARKET AND IF AKAMAI IS UNABLE TO RETAIN ITS KEY EMPLOYEES,
AKAMAI'S ABILITY TO COMPETE COULD BE HARMED.

     Akamai's future success depends upon the continued services of its
executive officers and other key technology, sales, marketing and support
personnel, who have critical industry experience and relationships that they
rely on in implementing Akamai's business plan. None of Akamai's officers or key
employees is bound by an employment agreement for any specific term. Akamai has
"key person" life insurance policies covering only the lives of F. Thomson
Leighton and Daniel M. Lewin. The loss of the services of any of Akamai's key
employees could delay the development and introduction of and negatively impact
its ability to sell its service. Akamai faces intense competition for qualified
personnel, including research and development, service and support and sales and
marketing personnel.

AKAMAI FACES RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS THAT COULD HARM ITS
BUSINESS.

     Akamai has expanded its international operations to Munich, Germany,
London, England and Paris, France. A key aspect of its business strategy is to
continue to expand its sales and support organizations internationally.
Therefore, Akamai expects to commit significant resources to expand its
international sales and marketing activities. However, Akamai may not be able to
maintain or increase market demand for its services which may harm its business.
Akamai is increasingly subject to a number of risks associated with
international business activities which may increase its costs, lengthen its
sales cycle and require significant management attention. These risks include:

     - market acceptance of Akamai's products and services by countries outside
       the United States;

     - increased expenses associated with marketing services in foreign
       countries;

     - general economic conditions in international markets;

     - currency exchange rate fluctuations;

     - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements resulting in unanticipated
       costs and delays;

     - tariffs, export controls and other trade barriers;

     - longer accounts receivable payment cycles and difficulties in collecting
       accounts receivable; and

     - potentially adverse tax consequences, including restrictions on the
       repatriation of earnings.

AKAMAI FACES A NUMBER OF UNKNOWN RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH YEAR 2000 PROBLEMS.

     Akamai has attempted to assess and must continue to monitor year 2000
issues. While Akamai has not experienced any year 2000 issues to date, there can
be no assurance that Akamai has identified and remediated all material year 2000
related issues. If Akamai's systems do not operate properly with respect to date
calculations involving the year 2000 and subsequent dates, it could experience a
system failure or miscalculations causing disruptions of operations, including
among other things, a temporary inability to process transactions, send invoices
or engage in similar normal business activities. The risks involve:

     - potential warranty or other claims by Akamai's customers;

     - errors in systems Akamai uses to run its business;

     - errors in systems used by Akamai's suppliers;

     - errors in systems used by Akamai's customers; and

     - potential reduced spending by other companies on Internet content
       delivery services as a result of significant spending on year 2000
       remediation.

     Akamai has designed its service for use in the year 2000 and beyond and
believes it is year 2000 ready. However, Akamai's service is used in conjunction
with larger networks involving sophisticated hardware and software products
supplied by other vendors. Each of Akamai's customers' networks involves
different combinations of third-party products. Akamai cannot evaluate whether
all of its products are year 2000 ready.



Akamai may face claims based on year 2000 problems in other companies' products
or based on issues arising from the integration of multiple products within the
overall network. Although no claims of this kind have been made, Akamai may in
the future be required to defend its service in legal proceedings which could be
expensive regardless of the merits of these claims.

     If Akamai's suppliers, vendors, major distributors, partners, customers and
service providers fail to correct their year 2000 problems, these failures could
result in an interruption in, or a failure of, Akamai's normal business
activities or operations. If a year 2000 problem occurs, it may be difficult to
determine which party's products have caused the problem. These failures could
interrupt Akamai's operations and damage its relationships with its customers.
Due to the general uncertainty inherent in the year 2000 problem resulting from
the readiness of third-party suppliers and vendors, Akamai is unable to
determine at this time whether year 2000 failures could harm its business and
its financial results.

     Akamai's customers' purchasing plans could be affected by year 2000 issues
if they need to expend significant resources to fix their existing systems to
address year 2000 issues. This situation may reduce funds available to purchase
Akamai's services.

AKAMAI COULD INCUR SUBSTANTIAL COSTS DEFENDING ITS INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY FROM
INFRINGEMENT OR A CLAIM OF INFRINGEMENT.

     Other companies or individuals, including Akamai's competitors, may obtain
patents or other proprietary rights that would prevent, limit or interfere with
Akamai's ability to make, use or sell its services. As a result, Akamai may be
found to infringe on the proprietary rights of others. In the event of a
successful claim of infringement against Akamai and its failure or inability to
license the infringed technology, its business and operating results would be
significantly harmed. Companies in the Internet market are increasingly bringing
suits alleging infringement of their proprietary rights, particularly patent
rights. Any litigation or claims, whether or not valid, could result in
substantial costs and diversion of resources. Intellectual property litigation
or claims could force Akamai to do one or more of the following:

     - cease selling, incorporating or using products or services that
       incorporate the challenged intellectual property;

     - obtain a license from the holder of the infringed intellectual property
       right, which license may not be available on reasonable terms; and

     - redesign products or services.

     If Akamai is forced to take any of these actions, its business may be
seriously harmed. Although Akamai carries insurance, its insurance may not cover
potential claims of this type or may not be adequate to indemnify Akamai for all
liability that may be imposed.

INTERNET-RELATED LAWS COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT AKAMAI'S BUSINESS.

     Laws and regulations which apply to communications and commerce over the
Internet are becoming more prevalent. A recent session of the United States
Congress resulted in Internet laws regarding children's privacy, copyrights,
taxation and the transmission of sexually explicit material. The European Union
recently enacted its own privacy regulations, and is currently considering
copyright legislation that may extend the right of reproduction held by
copyright holders to include the right to make temporary copies for any reason.
The law of the Internet, however, remains largely unsettled, even in areas where
there has been some legislative action. It may take years to determine whether
and how existing laws such as those governing intellectual property, privacy,
libel and taxation apply to the Internet. In addition, the growth and
development of the market for online commerce may prompt calls for more
stringent consumer protection laws, both in the United States and abroad, that
may impose additional burdens on companies conducting business online. The
adoption or modification of laws or regulations relating to the Internet, or
interpretations of existing law, could adversely affect Akamai's business.



AKAMAI MAY BE SUBJECT TO REGULATION, TAXATION, ENFORCEMENT OR OTHER LIABILITIES
IN UNEXPECTED JURISDICTIONS.

     Akamai provides services to customers located throughout the United States
and in several foreign countries. As a result, Akamai may be required to qualify
to do business, or be subject to tax or other laws and regulations, in these
jurisdictions even if it does not have a physical presence, employees or
property in these jurisdictions. The application of these multiple sets of laws
and regulations is uncertain, but Akamai could find that it is subject to
regulation, taxation, enforcement or other liability in unexpected ways, which
could materially adversely affect its business, financial condition and results
of operations.

AKAMAI'S STOCK PRICE HAS BEEN AND MAY CONTINUE TO BE VOLATILE, WHICH COULD
RESULT IN LITIGATION AGAINST AKAMAI.

     The market price of Akamai's common stock has been extremely volatile and
has fluctuated significantly in the past. The following factors could cause the
market price of common stock to continue to fluctuate significantly:

     - the addition or departure of key Akamai personnel;

     - variations in Akamai's quarterly operating results;

     - announcements by Akamai or its competitors of significant contracts, new
       or enhanced products or service offerings, acquisitions, distribution
       partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments;

     - changes in financial estimates by securities analysts;

     - Akamai's sales of common stock or other securities in the future;

     - changes in market valuations of networking, Internet and
       telecommunications companies;

     - fluctuations in stock market prices and volumes; and

     - changes in general economic conditions, including interest rate levels.

     In the past, class action litigation has often been brought against
companies following periods of volatility in the market price of those
companies' common stock. Akamai may become involved in this type of litigation
in the future. Litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention
and resources which could materially adversely affect its business and results
of operations.

INSIDERS HAVE SUBSTANTIAL CONTROL OVER AKAMAI WHICH COULD LIMIT OTHERS' ABILITY
TO INFLUENCE THE OUTCOME OF KEY TRANSACTIONS, INCLUDING CHANGES OF CONTROL.

     The executive officers, directors and entities affiliated with them, in the
aggregate, beneficially own approximately 63.2% of Akamai's outstanding common
stock. These stockholders, if acting together, are able to influence
significantly all matters requiring approval by Akamai's stockholders, including
the election of directors and the approval of mergers or other business
combination transactions.

PROVISIONS OF AKAMAI'S CHARTER DOCUMENTS MAY HAVE ANTI-TAKEOVER EFFECTS THAT
COULD PREVENT A CHANGE IN CONTROL EVEN IF THE CHANGE IN CONTROL WOULD BE
BENEFICIAL TO AKAMAI'S STOCKHOLDERS.

     Provisions of Akamai's amended and restated certificate of incorporation,
by-laws, and Delaware law could make it more difficult for a third party to
acquire Akamai, even if doing so would be beneficial to Akamai's stockholders.

THERE MAY BE SALES OF A SUBSTANTIAL AMOUNT OF AKAMAI'S COMMON STOCK AFTER THE
LOCK-UP PERIOD FROM AKAMAI'S INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING EXPIRES THAT COULD CAUSE
AKAMAI'S STOCK PRICE TO FALL.

     Akamai's current stockholders hold a substantial number of shares, which
they will be able to sell in the public market upon the expiration on April 26,
2000 of the lock-up period from Akamai's initial public offering. In addition,
Akamai expects to issue approximately 9.97 million shares of Akamai common stock
to the stockholders of INTERVU in the proposed merger with INTERVU. Sales of a
substantial number of



shares of Akamai's common stock within a short period of time could cause
Akamai's stock price to fall. In addition, the sale of these shares could impair
Akamai's ability to raise capital through the sale of additional stock.

THE UNPREDICTABILITY OF AKAMAI'S QUARTERLY RESULTS MAY ADVERSELY AFFECT THE
TRADING PRICE OF ITS COMMON STOCK.

     Akamai's revenue and operating results will vary significantly from quarter
to quarter due to a number of factors, many of which are outside of its control
and any of which may cause its stock price to fluctuate. The primary factors
that may affect Akamai include the following:

     - demand for Internet content delivery services and streaming services;

     - the timing and size of sales of Akamai's services;

     - the timing of recognizing revenue and deferred revenue;

     - new product and service introductions and enhancements by Akamai's
       competitors and itself;

     - changes in Akamai's pricing policies or the pricing policies of Akamai's
       competitors;

     - Akamai's ability to develop, introduce and deliver new products, services
       and enhancements that meet customer requirements in a timely manner;

     - the length of the sales cycle for Akamai's services;

     - increases in the prices of, and availability of, the products, services,
       components or raw materials Akamai purchases, including bandwidth;

     - Akamai's ability to attain and maintain quality levels for its services;

     - expenses related to testing of Akamai's services;

     - costs related to acquisitions of technology or businesses; and

     - general economic conditions as well as those specific to the Internet and
       related industries.

     Akamai plans to increase significantly its operating expenses to fund
greater levels of engineering and development, expand its sales and marketing
operations, broaden its customer support capabilities, continue to develop new
distribution channels and continue to expand internationally. Akamai also plans
to expand its general and administrative functions to address the increased
reporting and other administrative demands and the increasing size of Akamai's
business.

     Akamai's operating expenses are largely based on anticipated revenue trends
and a high percentage of its expenses are, and will continue to be, fixed in the
short term. As a result, a delay in generating or recognizing revenue for the
reasons set forth above, or for any other reason, could cause significant
variations in Akamai's operating results from quarter to quarter and could
result in substantial operating losses.

     Due to the above factors, Akamai believes that quarter-to-quarter
comparisons of its operating results are not a good indication of its future
performance. It is likely that in some future quarters, Akamai's operating
results may be below the expectations of public market analysts and investors.
In this event, the price of Akamai's common stock will probably fall.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

     Akamai's headquarters are currently in approximately 130,000 square feet of
leased office space located in two locations in Cambridge, Massachusetts. In
addition, Akamai's west coast offices are in approximately 21,930 square feet of
leased office space located at 1400 Fashion Island Boulevard in San Mateo,
California. In connection with its acquisition of Network24, Akamai assumed the
lease for approximately 7,360 square feet of office space located at 10261 Bubb
Road, in Cupertino, California.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     Akamai is not party to any material legal proceedings.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     Pursuant to a Written Consent of Stockholders of Akamai dated October 14,
1999, the following matters were approved by the holders of 40,285,456 shares of
the Akamai common stock (out of 44,922,810 shares then outstanding and entitled
to vote) and 5,261,104 shares of Akamai convertible preferred stock (out of
5,965,719 shares then outstanding and entitled to vote):

     (a) Akamai's Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation increasing
         the number of authorized shares of common stock and authorized a class
         of undesignated shares of preferred stock;

     (b) Akamai's Amended and Restated By-laws;

     (c) The election of the following persons as directors of Akamai to hold
         office until their successors are duly elected and qualified:

              Arthur H. Bilger
              George H. Conrades
              Todd A. Dagres
              F. Thomson Leighton
              Daniel M. Lewin
              Terrance G. McGuire
              Edward W. Scott

     (d) Classification of the members of the Board of Directors into three
         classes of directors;

     (e) Approval of the amendment to Akamai's Second Amended and Restated 1998
         Stock Incentive Plan increasing the number of shares of Akamai common
         stock reserved for issuance from 22,755,600 shares to 28,755,600
         shares;

     (f) Adoption of Akamai's 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan; and

     (g) Ratification of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP as Akamai's independent
         accountants for year ended December 31, 1999.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

(a) Price Range of Common Stock

     Akamai's common stock is listed on the Nasdaq National Market under the
symbol "AKAM." Public trading of Akamai's common stock commenced on October 29,
1999. Prior to that, there was no public market for Akamai's common stock. The
following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sale
price per share of the common stock on the Nasdaq National Market:



     As of December 31, 1999, there were 228 holders of record of Akamai's
common stock.

     Akamai has never paid or declared any cash dividends on shares of its
common stock or other securities and does not anticipate paying any cash
dividends in the foreseeable future. Akamai currently intends to retain all
future earnings, if any, for use in the operation of its business.



RECENT SALES OF UNREGISTERED SECURITIES

     COMMON STOCK

     On March 15, 1999, Akamai issued and sold 1,260,000 shares of its common
stock, at a purchase price of approximately $0.042 per share, to Earl P.
Galleher III pursuant to a stock restriction agreement.

     On March 26, 1999, Akamai issued 120,000 shares of common stock, 600,000
shares of common stock and 5,940,000 shares of common stock pursuant to stock
restriction agreements with Steven Heinrich, Arthur H. Bilger and George
Conrades, respectively, at a purchase price of approximately $0.333 per share.

     On May 18, 1999, Akamai issued and sold 600,000 shares of common stock, at
price of approximately $0.833 per share, to Paul Sagan pursuant to a stock
restriction agreement granted under the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan.

     On July 1, 1999, Akamai issued and sold 10,000 shares of its common stock,
at a purchase price of $0.835 per share, to Amos Hostetter pursuant to the
exercise of a stock option.

     On July 1, 1999, Akamai issued and sold 10,000 shares of its common stock,
at a purchase price of $0.835 per share, to Benjamin A. Gomez pursuant to the
exercise of a stock option.

     On July 23, 1999, Akamai issued and sold an aggregate of 1,300,000 shares
of its common stock, at a purchase price of $2.50 per share, to Timothy Weller
and Robert O. Ball III pursuant to stock restriction agreements.

     On August 23, 1999, Akamai issued and sold 112,500 shares of its common
stock, at a purchase price of approximately $0.014 per share, to Bruce Maggs
pursuant to the exercise of a stock option.

     On August 30, 1999, Akamai issued and sold 315,000 shares of its common
stock, at a purchase price of $1.0833 per share, to Warren Recicar pursuant to
the exercise of a stock option.

     On October 7, 1999, Akamai issued and sold 90,000 shares of its common
stock, at a purchase price of approximately $0.011 per share, to Scott Smith
pursuant to the exercise of a stock option.

     The stock restriction agreements give Akamai the right to repurchase all or
a portion of any unvested shares at their purchase price in the event that the
person ceases to provide services to Akamai.

     SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK AND SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK

     On April 16, 1999 and April 30, 1999 Akamai issued an aggregate of
1,327,500 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock to 24 investors for a
per share purchase price of $15.07. In October 1999, Akamai issued an aggregate
of 145,195 shares of its Series C convertible preferred stock to Baker
Communications Fund, L.P. for a per share purchase price of $34.436.

     Series D Preferred Stock On June 21, 1999 Akamai issued an aggregate of
685,194 shares of Series D convertible preferred stock to Apple Computer Inc.
Ltd. for a per share purchase price of $18.243.

     Series E Preferred Stock On August 6, 1999 Akamai issued an aggregate of
1,867,480 shares of Series E convertible preferred stock to Cisco Systems, Inc.
for a per share purchase price of $26.239.

     Series F Preferred Stock On September 20, 1999 Akamai issued an aggregate
of 985,545 shares of Series F convertible preferred stock to Microsoft
Corporation for a per share purchase price of $15.22.

     All of the above shares of convertible preferred stock converted into
shares of common stock upon the closing of Akamai's initial public offering of
common stock on November 3, 1999.

     Grants of Stock Options From January 1999 to October 1999, Akamai granted
stock options to purchase 15,240,300 shares of common stock at exercise prices
ranging from $0.01 to $19.80 per share to employees, consultants and directors
pursuant to its 1998 Stock Incentive Plan.



     On April 16, 1999, Akamai granted an option to purchase up to 145,195
shares of its Series C convertible preferred stock at an exercise price of
$34.436 per share to Baker Communications Fund, L.P. pursuant to a Series B
convertible preferred stock and Series C convertible preferred stock purchase
agreement.

     Issuances of Notes and Warrants On January 27, 1999, Akamai issued a
warrant to Silicon Valley Bank to purchase up to 74,499 shares of common stock
at an exercise price of approximately $0.40 per share.

     On May 7, 1999, Akamai issued 15% senior subordinated notes in the
principal amount of $15,000,000 and warrants to purchase up to 2,002,836 shares
of common stock at an exercise price of approximately $2.50 per share to 20
investors pursuant to a 15% senior subordinated notes and warrants to purchase
common stock purchase agreement.

     15% Senior Subordinated Note Financing On May 7, 1999, Akamai issued 15%
senior subordinated notes in the aggregate principal amount of $15,000,000
coupled with warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,002,836 shares of common
stock for an exercise price of approximately $2.50 per share to 20 investors.

     No underwriters were involved in any of the foregoing sales of securities.
Such sales were made in reliance upon an exemption from the registration
provisions of the Securities Act set forth in Section 4(2) thereof relative to
sales by an issuer not involving any public offering or the rules and
regulations thereunder, or, in the case of options to purchase common stock,
Rule 701 of the Securities Act. All of the foregoing securities are deemed
restricted securities for the purposes of the Securities Act.

(b)  Use of Proceeds from Sales of Registered Securities

     On November 3, 1999 Akamai sold 9,000,000 shares of its common stock in an
initial public offering at a price of $26.00 per share pursuant to a
Registration Statement on Form S-1 (the "Registration Statement") (Registration
No. 333-85679) that was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange
Commission on October 28, 1999. Morgan Stanley Dean Witter, Donaldson Lufkin &
Jenrette, Salomon Smith Barney and Thomas Weisel Partners LLC were the managing
underwriters of the offering. The aggregate proceeds to Akamai from the offering
were $217.6 million after deducting an aggregate of $16.4 million in
underwriting discounts and commission to the underwriters. None of the proceeds
of the offering were paid by Akamai, directly or indirectly, to any director,
officer or general partner of Akamai or any of their associates, or to any
persons owning ten percent or more of the outstanding stock of Akamai. In
addition to underwriting discounts and commissions, the expenses incurred in
connection with the offering were approximately $2.2 million, including $850,000
for Directors and Officers Insurance, $400,000 of legal costs, $460,000 of
accounting costs, $50,000 of printing costs, $188,000 of registration, filing
and listing costs, and other costs of approximately $300,000. During the period
from the offering to December 31, 1999, Akamai has used the proceeds as follows:
approximately $12.0 million for network equipment and computer equipment and
hardware, $12.2 million for the repayment of senior subordinated notes, $5.8
million for payroll and benefits, $2.5 million for advertising expenses and $1.8
million for bandwith costs.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The following selected financial data should be read in conjunction with
Akamai's consolidated financial statements and related notes and with
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and other financial data included elsewhere in this annual report on
Form 10-K. The statement of operations data for the period from inception
(August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998 and the year ended December 31, 1999 are
derived from audited consolidated financial statements included elsewhere in
this annual report on Form 10-K.









ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS.

     The following discussion should be read together with Akamai's consolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes appearing elsewhere in this annual
report on Form 10-K. This annual report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking
statements that involve risks and uncertainties. Actual results may differ from
those indicated in forward-looking statements as a result of certain factors
including, but not limited to, those set forth under the heading "Factors
Affecting Future Operating Results."

OVERVIEW

     Akamai provides a global delivery service for Internet content, streaming
media and applications that improves Web site speed, quality, reliability and
scaleability and protects against Web site crashes due to demand overloads.
Akamai markets its services to large businesses and other businesses with an
Internet focus. Akamai's services deliver Akamai's customers' Web content and
applications through a worldwide server network by locating the content and
applications geographically closer to users.

     Since Akamai's inception, Akamai has incurred significant losses, and as of
December 31, 1999, Akamai had an accumulated deficit of $58.6 million. Akamai
has not achieved profitability on a quarterly or an annual basis, and
anticipates that it will continue to incur net losses. Akamai expects to incur
significant engineering and development and sales, general and administrative
expenses and, as a result, Akamai will need to generate significant revenue for
it to achieve and maintain profitability.

     Akamai derives its revenue from the sale of its FreeFlow and FreeFlow
Streaming services under contracts with terms typically ranging from 12 to 36
months. Akamai recognizes revenue based on fees for the amount of Internet
content delivered through its services. These contracts also provide for minimum
monthly fees. Customers are typically billed monthly in advance for minimums and
monthly in arrears for usage above the minimums. In the future, Akamai also
expects to derive revenue for implementation, installation, usage and other fees
that would be recognized over the period of the related contracts.

     To date, substantially all of Akamai's revenue has been derived from
customers based in the United States. Akamai expects that revenue from customers
based outside the United States will increase in future periods. To date,
substantially all of Akamai's revenue has been derived from direct sales and
Akamai expects that revenue through indirect distribution channels will increase
in future periods. For the year ended December 31, 1999, Apple Computer
accounted for 22% of Akamai's revenue and Yahoo! accounted for 13% of its
revenue.

     Cost of services consists of depreciation of network equipment used in
providing Akamai's services, fees paid to network providers for bandwidth and
monthly fees paid to third-party network data centers for housing Akamai's
servers. Akamai enters into contracts for bandwidth with third-party network
providers with terms typically ranging from six months to three years. These
contracts may commit Akamai to minimum monthly fees plus additional fees for
bandwidth usage above Akamai's contracted level. Under Akamai's accelerated
networks program, Akamai provides use of its servers to smaller Internet service
providers which, in turn, provide Akamai with rack space for its servers and
access to their bandwidth. Akamai does not recognize as revenue any value to the
Internet service providers associated with the use of Akamai's servers and does
not expense the value of the rack space and bandwidth Akamai receives. Akamai
believes that, to date, the values provided under this program have been
insignificant.

     Engineering and development expenses consist primarily of salaries and
related personnel costs and costs related to the design, development, testing,
deployment and enhancement of Akamai's services and Akamai's network. Akamai has
to date expensed its engineering and development costs as incurred. Akamai
believes that research and development is critical to its strategic product
development objectives and intends to continue to enhance its technology to meet
the changing requirements of the market demand. As a result, Akamai expects its
engineering and development expenses to increase in the future.

     Sales, general and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries
and related costs of sales and marketing, operations and finance personnel and
recruiting expenses, professional fees and legal and accounting services. Akamai
expects that sales, general and administrative expenses will increase in the
future



as Akamai hires additional personnel, expands its operations, initiates
additional marketing programs, establishes sales offices in new locations and
incurs additional costs related to the growth of its business and its operations
as a public company.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     PERIOD FROM INCEPTION (AUGUST 20, 1998) THROUGH DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND THE
YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

     Revenue. Akamai recorded no revenue for the period from inception (August
20, 1998) to December 31, 1998. Revenue for the year ended December 31, 1999 was
$4.0 million. The increase in revenue was due to sales of services, which were
commercially introduced in April 1999.

     Cost of Services. Cost of services expenses were $31,000 for the period
from inception (August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998 and represented 3.4% of
total operating expenses in fiscal 1998. Cost of services expenses were $9.0
million for the year ended December 31, 1999 and represented 14.9% of total
operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 1999. The increase in cost of
services expenses was due to the commencement of testing of Akamai's FreeFlow
service in early 1999 and commercial introduction of services in April 1999.
Gross margins, defined by revenue less cost of services, were negative largely
due to the fixed cost of building a global network of servers. The average
selling price of Akamai's services as measured in dollars per Mega bits per
second, or Mbps, exceeds Akamai's average cost of bandwidth as measured in
dollars per Mbps. Gross margins are expected to improve as Akamai increases its
number of customers and volume of revenue relative to the growth in its network
infrastructure.

     Engineering and Development. Engineering and development expenses were
$229,000 for the period from inception (August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998
and represented 25.4% of total operating expenses in fiscal 1998. Engineering
and development expenses for the year ended December 31, 1999 were $11.7 million
and represented 19.4% of total operating expenses for the year ended December
31, 1999. Approximately $9.7 million of the increase was attributable to
personnel and payroll related expenses resulting from an increase in headcount.
Akamai's West Coast office had 28 research and development employees as of
December 31, 1999.

     Sales, General and Administrative. Sales, general and administrative
expenses were $435,000 for the period from inception (August 20, 1998) to
December 31, 1998 and represented 48.3% of total operating expenses in fiscal
1998. Sales, general and administrative expenses for the year ended December 31,
1999 were $29.7 million and represented 49.1% of total operating expenses for
the period. Approximately $11.2 million of the increase was due to sales,
general and administrative personnel and payroll related expenses resulting from
an increase in headcount. Approximately $7.7 million of the increase was
attributable to advertising campaigns initiated during the year.

     Equity Related Compensation. Equity related compensation expenses consist
of the amortization of deferred stock compensation resulting from the grant of
stock options or shares of restricted stock at exercise or sale prices deemed to
be less than the fair value of the common stock on the grant date. At December
31, 1999, deferred stock compensation, which is a component of stockholders'
equity, was $29.7 million. This amount is being amortized ratably over the
vesting periods of the applicable stock options and restricted shares, typically
four years, with 25% vesting on the first anniversary of the grant date and the
balance vesting 6.25% quarterly thereafter. Akamai expects to incur equity
related compensation expenses of at least $8.7 million in 2000, $8.7 million in
2001, $8.7 million in 2002 and $3.6 million in 2003.

     Interest Income, Net. Interest income, net was $10,000 and $2.3 million for
the period from inception (August 20, 1998) through December 31, 1998 and the
year ended December 31, 1999, respectively. Interest income, net consists of
interest earned on Akamai's cash equivalent balances, net of interest expense.
Interest income increased in 1999 due to interest on proceeds from the sale of
preferred stock and the sale of common stock in Akamai's initial public
offering. This was partially offset by an increase in interest expense from the
issuance of subordinated notes during the year ended December 31, 1999.



     Extraordinary Loss From Early Extingishment of Debt. During April 1999,
Akamai issued 15% subordinated demand notes payable in the aggregate amount of
$15.0 million due in May 2004. In connection with the notes, Akamai also issued
warrants to purchase an aggregate of 2,002,836 shares of common stock at $2.50
per share in exchange for cash. These warrants expire in May 2004. In December
1999, Akamai utilized a portion of the proceeds from the initial public offering
to exercise its right to pay a portion of the notes and as a result, recognized
an extraordinary loss from the early extinguishment in the amount of $3.4
million. As of December 31, 1999, $2.8 million of the subordinated notes
remained outstanding and are expected to be paid off in the first quarter of
fiscal 2000.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Initially, Akamai financed its operations primarily through private sales
of its capital stock and issuance of senior subordinated notes totaling
approximately $124.6 million in net proceeds through December 31, 1999. In
November 1999, Akamai sold registered shares of common stock through an initial
public offering. The net proceeds to Akamai from the offering were $217.6
million after deducting an aggregate of $16.4 million in underwriting discounts
and commission to the underwriters. Akamai has also financed its operations
through borrowings under long-term debt agreements for the purchase of capital
equipment in the amount of $1.5 million. At December 31, 1999, cash and cash
equivalents totaled $270 million.

     Cash provided by operating activities was $2,000 for the period from
inception (August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998 and cash used in operating
activities was $32.3 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. Net cash
flows from operating activities in each period reflect increasing net losses
partially offset by increases in accounts payable and accrued expenses.

     Cash used in investing activities was $1.5 million for the period from
inception (August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998 and $25.9 million for the year
ended December 31, 1999. Net cash used for investing activities in each period
reflect purchases of property and equipment, primarily servers for deployment
and expansion of Akamai's network, information systems used to operate the
business, and facilities improvements.

     Cash provided by financing activities was $8.3 million for the period from
inception (August 20, 1998) through December 31, 1998 and $321.0 million for the
year ended December 31, 1999. Cash provided by financing activities for these
periods was derived primarily from the sale of common stock in an initial public
offering and from private sales of convertible preferred stock and the issuance
of 15% senior subordinated notes. In December 1999, Akamai paid $12.2 million of
the senior subordinated notes, including accrued interest. Akamai has an
equipment line of credit of $1.5 million, collateralized by the property and
equipment, which bears interest at the greater of 7.0% per year or the current
36 month treasury yield plus 275 basis points. At December 31, 1999,
approximately $1.1 million was outstanding under this line of credit.

     Akamai believes that the net proceeds from the initial public offering,
together with its current cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, will
be sufficient to meet its anticipated cash needs for working capital and capital
expenditures for at least the next 12 months. If cash generated from operations
is insufficient to satisfy Akamai's liquidity requirements, it may seek to sell
additional equity or debt securities. If additional funds are raised through the
issuance of debt securities, these securities could have rights, preferences and
privileges senior to those accruing to holders of common stock, and the term of
this debt could impose restrictions on Akamai's operations. The sale of
additional equity or convertible debt securities could result in additional
dilution to Akamai's stockholders, and Akamai cannot be certain that additional
financing will be available in amounts or on terms acceptable to Akamai, if at
all. If Akamai is unable to obtain this additional financing, it may be required
to reduce the scope of its planned technology, services or product development
and sales and marketing efforts, which could harm its business, financial
condition and operating results. It is Akamai's intention to at all times
maintain cash on hand and borrowing capacity to meet funding needs for 18 to 24
months in the future.

     Akamai has designed its services for use in the year 2000 and beyond and
believes it is year 2000 ready. Akamai has developed a contingency plan to
address situations that may result if it experiences significant year 2000
problems. As part of Akamai's contingency plan, it maintains a fully operational
back-up site and



conducts network monitoring 24 hours per day. Akamai's back-up site is located
at one of its server sites and is equipped with power generation and
communication alternatives.

     Akamai's services are used in conjunction with larger networks involving
sophisticated hardware and software products supplied by other vendors. Each of
Akamai's customers' networks involves different combinations of third-party
products. Akamai cannot evaluate whether all of these products are year 2000
ready. Akamai may face claims based on year 2000 problems in other companies'
products or on problems arising from the integration of multiple products within
the overall network. Although no claims of this kind have been made, Akamai may
in the future be required to defend its services in legal proceedings which
could be expensive regardless of the merits of these claims.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for Derivatives and
Hedging Activities," which establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including derivative instruments embedded in other
contracts, and for hedging activities. Akamai will adopt SFAS No. 133 as
required by SFAS No. 137, "Deferral of the Effective Date of the FASB Statement
No. 133," in fiscal year 2001. Akamai does not expect the adoption of SFAS No.
133 to have an impact on its financial condition or results of operations.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     Akamai does not use derivative financial instruments. Akamai generally
places its marketable securities investments in high quality credit investments,
primarily U.S. Government obligations and corporate obligations with contractual
maturities of less than three months. Akamai does not expect any material loss
from its marketable securities investments and believes that its potential
interest rate exposure is not material.



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS





                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of
Akamai Technologies, Inc.:

     In our opinion, the accompanying balance sheets and the related statements
of operations, cash flows and convertible preferred stock and stockholders'
equity (deficit) present fairly in all material respects, the financial position
of Akamai Technologies, Inc. and its subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and
1999 and the results of their operations and their cash flows for the period
from inception (August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998 and the year ended
December 31, 1999, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. These financial statements are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We conducted our audits of these
statements in accordance with auditing standards generally accepted in the
United States which require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the
accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our
audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed above.

                                          /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
January 25, 2000, except for Note 14,
as to which the date is February 28, 2000



                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                (in thousands, except share and per share data)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                (in thousands, except share and per share data)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                   (DEFICIT)

  FOR THE PERIOD FROM INCEPTION (AUGUST 20, 1998) TO DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND THE
                          YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999
                (in thousands, except share and per share data)


  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                (in thousands, except share and per share data)



  The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial
                                  statements.



                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.  NATURE OF BUSINESS:

     Akamai provides a global delivery service for Internet content, streaming
media and applications that improves Web site speed, quality, reliability and
scaleability and protects against Web site crashes due to demand overloads.
Akamai markets its services to large businesses and other businesses with an
Internet focus. Akamai's services deliver Akamai's customers' Web content and
applications through a worldwide server network by locating the content and
applications geographically closer to users.

     The Company has a single operating segment, global delivery service for
Internet content, streaming media and applications. The Company has no
organizational structure dictated by product lines, geography or customer type.
Substantially all revenue earned to date has been generated from U.S. based
customers.

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Akamai and
its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany transactions and
balances have been eliminated.

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES:

  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     Cash equivalents consist of cash held in bank deposit accounts and
short-term, highly liquid investments with remaining maturities of three months
or less at the date of purchase.

  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over estimated useful lives of
three to five years. Leasehold improvements are depreciated over the shorter of
related lease terms or the estimated useful lives. Property and equipment
acquired under capital lease is depreciated over the shorter of related lease
terms or the useful life of the asset. Upon retirement or sale, the costs of the
assets disposed and the related accumulated depreciation are removed from the
accounts and any resulting gain or loss is included in the determination of
income. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred.

  INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     Intangible assets consist primarily of the cost of acquired license rights
to content delivery technology. Intangible assets are amortized using the
straight-line method over ten years, based on the estimated useful life. The
carrying value of the intangible assets is reviewed on a quarterly basis for the
existence of facts or circumstances both internally and externally that may
suggest impairment. To date, no such impairment has occurred. The Company
determines whether an impairment has occurred based on gross expected future
cash flows and measures the amount of the impairment based on the related future
estimated discounted cash flows. The cash flow estimates used to determine the
impairment, if any, contain management's best estimates, using appropriate and
customary assumptions and projections at that time. Accumulated amortization was
$8,918 and $56,064 at December 31, 1998 and 1999, respectively.

  REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Company derives revenue from the sale of its services under contracts
with terms typically ranging from 12 to 36 months. The Company recognizes
revenue based on fees for the amount of Internet content delivered through the
Company's services. These contracts also provide for minimum monthly fees.
Revenue may also be derived from one-time implementation, installation, usage
and other fees which are recognized over the period of the related contracts.
Deferred revenue consists of billings in excess of revenue recognized.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  COST OF SERVICES

     Cost of services consists of depreciation of network equipment used in
providing the Company's services, fees paid to network providers for bandwidth
and monthly fees for housing the Company's servers in third-party network data
centers. The Company enters into contracts for bandwidth with third-party
network providers with terms typically ranging from six months to three years.
These contracts commit the Company to minimum monthly fees plus additional fees
for bandwidth usage above the contracted level. Under the Akamai accelerated
networks program, the Company provides Akamai servers without charge to smaller
Internet service providers which, in turn, provide the Company with rack space
for the Company's servers and bandwidth to deliver content. The Company does not
recognize as revenue any value to the Internet service providers associated with
the use of the Company's servers and does not expense the value of the rack
space and bandwidth received.

  STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

     The Company accounts for stock-based awards to employees using the
intrinsic value method as prescribed by Accounting Principles Board Opinion
("APB") No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," and related
interpretations. Accordingly, no compensation expense is recorded for options
issued to employees in fixed amounts and with fixed exercise prices at least
equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock at the date of
grant. The Company has adopted the provisions of Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation," through disclosure only (Note 9). All stock-based awards to
nonemployees are accounted for at their fair value in accordance with SFAS No.
123.

  ENGINEERING AND DEVELOPMENT COSTS

     Engineering and development costs consist primarily of salaries and related
personnel costs for the design, deployment, testing and enhancement of the
Company's service and the Company's network.

     Costs incurred in the engineering and development of the Company's service
are expensed as incurred, except for certain software development costs. Costs
associated with the development of computer software are expensed prior to the
establishment of technological feasibility (as defined by SFAS No. 86,
"Accounting for the costs of Computer Software to be Sold, Leased, or Otherwise
Marketed") and capitalized thereafter. The Company also has adopted Statement of
Position ("SOP") 98-1, which requires computer software costs associated with
internal use software to be charged to operations as incurred until certain
capitalization criteria are met. Costs eligible for capitalization under SFAS
No. 86 and SOP 98-1 have been insignificant to date.

  CONCENTRATIONS OF CREDIT RISK

     Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of cash, cash equivalents and
accounts receivable. At December 31, 1998 and 1999, the Company had cash
balances at certain financial institutions in excess of federally insured
limits. However, the Company does not believe that it is subject to unusual
credit risk beyond the normal credit risk associated with commercial banking
relationships.

     For the year ended December 31, 1999, two customers accounted for 22% and
13%, respectively, of total revenue.

  INCOME TAXES

     Deferred taxes are determined based on the difference between the financial
statement and tax basis of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in
effect in the years in which the differences are expected to


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

reverse. Valuation allowances are provided if, based upon the weight of
available evidence, it is more likely than not some or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized.

  ADVERTISING EXPENSE

     The Company recognizes advertising expense as incurred. Advertising expense
was approximately $7.7 million for the year ended December 31, 1999. There was
no advertising expense for the period from inception (August 20, 1998) to
December 31, 1998.

  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The carrying amounts of the Company's financial instruments, which include
cash equivalents, accounts receivable, notes receivable, accounts payable,
accrued expenses and notes payable approximate their fair values at December 31,
1998 and 1999.

  OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     The Company has adopted SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income,"
which established standards for reporting and displaying comprehensive income
and its components in a financial statement that is displayed with the same
prominence as other financial statements. Comprehensive loss is equal to net
loss, for the period from inception (August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998 and
for the year ended December 31, 1999.

  USE OF ESTIMATES

     The presentation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amount of revenue and expenses during the reporting
period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Significant estimates
in these financial statements include valuation of deferred tax assets and
useful lives of depreciable assets.

  RECLASSIFICATIONS

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to confirm to the current
year presentation.

  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENT

     In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities," which establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments and hedging activities. It requires that an
entity recognize all derivatives as either assets or liabilities in the
statement of financial position and measure those instruments at fair value. The
Company, to date, has not engaged in derivative and hedging activities, and
accordingly does not believe that the adoption of SFAS No. 133 will have a
material impact on the financial reporting and related disclosures of the
Company. The Company will adopt SFAS No. 133 as required by SFAS No. 137,
"Deferral of the Effective Date of the FASB Statement No. 133," in fiscal year
2001.

3.  NET LOSS PER SHARE:

     Basic net loss per share is computed using the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during the period. Dilutive net loss per share is
computed using the weighted average number of common shares outstanding during
the period, plus the dilutive effect of potential common stock. Potential common
stock consists of convertible preferred stock, unvested restricted common stock,
stock options and warrants.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table sets forth potential common stock excluded from the
calculation of earnings per share since their inclusion would be antidilutive:



4.  PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT:

     Property and equipment consists of the following:



     Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment for the
period from inception (August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998 and for the year
ended December 31, 1999 was $41,152 and $3.4 million, respectively.

     Equipment under capital leases at:



5.  SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES:

     During April 1999, Akamai entered into note and warrant purchase agreements
with private investors. Under the agreements, Akamai issued 15% subordinated
demand notes payable in the aggregate amount of $15.0 million due in May 2004.
In connection with the notes, the Company also issued warrants to purchase an
aggregate of 2,002,836 shares of common stock at $2.50 per share in exchange for
cash. These warrants expire in May 2004. The fair value of the warrants at the
time of issuance was estimated to be approximately $3.9 million, which was
recorded as additional paid-in capital and reduced the carrying value of the
notes. The fair value was estimated using the Black-Scholes model with the
following assumptions: dividend yield of 0%, volatility of 100%, risk free
interest rate of 5.1% and an expected life of five years. The discount on the
notes is being amortized over the term of the notes. For the year ended December
31, 1999, interest expense of


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

$1.5 million related to the fair value of the warrants was recognized. In
December 1999, the Company exercised its right to pay off the notes in full and
paid $12.2 million in interest and principal. The remaining unpaid balance of
$2.8 million is expected to be paid in the first quarter of fiscal 2000. The
Company recognized an extraordinary loss from early extinguishment of debt of
$3.4 million (or $0.11 per share) during the year ended December 31, 1999.

6.  COMMITMENTS:

  LEASES

     The Company leases its facilities and certain equipment under operating
leases. Rent expense for the period from inception (August 20, 1998) to December
31, 1998 and for the year ended December 31, 1999 was $36,000 and $599,000,
respectively. The leases expire at various dates through March 1, 2006 and
generally require the payment of real estate taxes, insurance, maintenance and
operating costs. The Company also leases certain equipment under capital leases.
The minimum aggregate future obligations under noncancelable leases and
equipment loans as of December 31, 1999 are as follows:



  EQUIPMENT LOAN

     The Company received an equipment loan from its bank for $1.5 million on
January 26, 1999. The equipment loan is repayable in monthly installments of
$46,317 for 36 months, with a lump sum payment of $112,500 due in February 2002.
Interest expense on the loan for the year ended December 31, 1999 was $131,603.

     In connection with the equipment loan, the Company issued warrants for the
purchase of 74,499 shares of common stock at a purchase price of $0.40 per
share. The warrants were exercisable upon issuance and expire on January 26,
2002. The Company estimated the value of the warrants to be $25,000 at the date
of issuance, which has been recorded as additional paid-in capital and reduced
the carrying value of the equipment loan. The fair value was estimated using the
Black-Scholes model with the following assumptions: dividend yield of 0%,
volatility of 100%, risk free interest rate of 5.1% and an expected life of
three years. The discount on the note is being amortized over the estimated life
of the loan. In November 1999, the warrants were fully exercised.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  BANDWIDTH USAGE AND CO-LOCATION COSTS

     The Company has commitments for bandwidth usage and co-location with
various network service providers. For the years ending December 31, 2000, 2001
and 2002, the minimum commitments are approximately $10.9 million, $3.8 million,
and $1.2 million, respectively. Some of these agreements may be amended to
either increase or decrease the minimum commitments during the life of the
contract.

7.  CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK:

     The authorized capital stock of the Company consists of (i) 300,000,000
shares of voting common stock ("common stock") authorized for issuance with a
par value of $0.01, and (ii) 5,000,000 shares of undesignated preferred stock
with a par value of $0.01. Prior to the closing of the Company's initial public
offering, the Company authorized 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock with a par
value of $0.01, of which 1,100,000 shares were designated as Series A
convertible preferred stock ("Series A preferred stock"), 1,327,500 shares were
designated as Series B convertible preferred stock ("Series B preferred stock"),
145,195 shares were designated as Series C convertible preferred stock ("Series
C preferred stock"), 685,194 shares were designated as Series D convertible
preferred stock ("Series D preferred stock"), 1,867,480 shares were designated
as Series E convertible preferred stock ("Series E preferred stock") and 985,545
shares were designated as Series F convertible preferred stock ("Series F
preferred stock").

     All outstanding shares of preferred stock automatically converted into
shares of common stock upon the closing of the initial public offering as
follows:



  SERIES A CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

     In November and December 1998, the Company issued 1,100,000 shares of
Series A preferred stock at $7.60 per share to investors for total consideration
of $8,283,758 (net of offering costs of $76,242).

     Prior to conversion of the Series A preferred stock, the holders of the
Series A preferred stock had voting rights equivalent to the number of shares of
common stock into which their shares of Series A preferred stock were
convertible. Dividends were required to be paid when dividends were declared on
common stock. The Series A preferred stock was convertible at any time by the
holders, at the then applicable conversion rate adjusted for certain events
including stock splits and dividends. The Series A preferred stock was
redeemable, subject to the approval of the holders of 66% of the then
outstanding shares of Series A preferred stock beginning November 23, 2003 if
the Company had not made a qualified initial public offering of its common
stock. Upon liquidation, holders of Series A preferred stock were entitled to
receive, out of funds then generally available, $7.60 per share, plus any
declared and unpaid dividends thereon. Following payment to holders of all other
classes of preferred stock to which the Series A preferred stock was
subordinated, holders of Series A preferred stock were then entitled to share in
remaining available funds on an "as-if converted" basis with holders of common
stock.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  SERIES B CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

     In April 1999, the Company issued 1,327,500 shares of Series B preferred
stock at $15.066 per share to private investors for total consideration of
$19,875,115 (net of offering costs of $125,000). In addition, the Company issued
a warrant to purchase 145,195 shares of Series C preferred stock at an exercise
price of $34.436 per share which expired at the earlier of (i) December 31, 1999
and (ii) the date immediately prior to the consummation of a qualified initial
public offering. The warrant was exercised in October 1999.

     Prior to conversion of the Series B preferred stock, the holders of Series
B preferred stock had voting rights equivalent to the number of shares of common
stock into which their shares of Series B preferred stock were convertible.
Dividends accrued annually and were cumulative at a rate of 8% of the original
purchase price of $15.066 per share, on a per share basis. Dividends were only
required to be paid in the event of a liquidation or redemption, as defined. The
Series B preferred stock was convertible at any time by the holders, at the then
applicable conversion rate adjusted for certain events including stock splits.
The Series B preferred stock was redeemable, as defined, subject to the approval
of the holders of 66% of the then outstanding shares of Series B preferred stock
beginning April 16, 2004 if the Company had not made a qualified initial public
offering of its common stock. Upon liquidation, holders of Series B preferred
stock were entitled to receive, out of funds then generally available, $15.066
per share, plus any accrued and unpaid dividends, thereon. Following payment to
holders of all other classes of preferred stock to which the Series B preferred
stock was subordinated, holders of Series B preferred stock were then entitled
to share in remaining available funds on an "as if converted" basis with holders
of common stock.

  SERIES C CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

     In connection with the Series B preferred stock issuance, one holder of the
Series B preferred stock received the option to purchase 145,195 shares of
Series C preferred stock at the purchase price of $34.436 per share. The option
to purchase the Series C preferred stock expired upon the earlier of an initial
public offering or December 31, 1999. The option was exercised in October 1999.

     Prior to conversion of the Series C preferred stock, the holders of the
Series C preferred stock had voting rights equivalent to the number of shares of
common stock into which their shares of Series C preferred stock were
convertible. Dividends accrued annually and were cumulative at a rate of 8% of
the original purchase price of $34.436 per share, on a per share basis.
Dividends were only required to be paid in the event of a liquidation or
redemption. The Series C preferred stock was convertible at any time by the
holders, at the then applicable conversion rate (1-to-1 on the date of issuance;
6.256-to-1 at September 30, 1999) adjusted for certain events including stock
splits and dividends subject to the approval of the holders of 66% of the then
outstanding shares of Series C preferred stock beginning April 5, 2003 if the
Company had not made a qualified initial public offering of its common stock.
Upon liquidation, holders of Series C preferred stock were entitled to receive,
out of funds generally available, $34.436 per share, plus any accrued and unpaid
dividends, thereon. Following payment to holders of all other classes of
preferred stock to which Series C was subordinated, holders of Series C
preferred stock were then entitled to share in remaining available funds on an
"as if converted" basis with holders of common stock.

  SERIES D CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

     In June 1999, the Company issued 685,194 shares of Series D preferred stock
at $18.243 per share to private investors for total consideration of $12,475,000
(net of offering costs of $25,000).

     Prior to conversion of the Series D preferred stock, the holders of Series
D preferred stock had voting rights equivalent to the number of shares of common
stock into which their shares of Series D preferred stock were convertible.
Dividends accrued annually and were cumulative at a rate of 8% of the original
purchase price of $18.243 per share, on a per share basis. Dividends were
required to be paid only in the event of a


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

liquidation or redemption, as defined. The Series D preferred stock was
convertible at any time by the holders, at the then applicable conversion rate
adjusted for certain events including stock splits and dividends. The Series D
preferred stock was redeemable, as defined, subject to the approval of the
holder of 66% of the then outstanding shares of Series D preferred stock.

     The holder of the Series D preferred stock is also a customer of the
Company. In June 1999, the holder of the Series D preferred stock entered into a
services agreement with the Company at customary rates. The aggregate minimum
value of the services agreement is $12.54 million through April 2001. Revenue
recognized from this customer for the period ended December 31, 1999 was
$882,981.

  SERIES E CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

     In August 1999, the Company issued 1,867,480 shares of Series E preferred
stock at $26.239 per share to a private investor for total consideration of
$48,966,282 (net of offering costs of $34,526).

     Prior to conversion of the Series E preferred stock, the holders of Series
E preferred stock had voting rights equivalent to the number of shares of common
stock into which the shares of Series E preferred stock were convertible.
Dividends accrued annually and were cumulative at a rate of 8% of the original
purchase price of $26.239 per share, on a per share basis. Dividends were
required to be paid only in the event of a liquidation or redemption. The Series
E preferred stock was convertible at any time by the holders, at the then
applicable conversion rate adjusted for certain events such as stock splits and
dividends. The Series E preferred stock was redeemable, subject to the approval
of the holders of 66% of the then outstanding shares of Series E preferred
stock.

  SERIES F CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK

     In September 1999, the Company issued 985,545 shares of Series F preferred
stock at $15.22 per share to a private investor for total consideration of
$14,987,595 (net of offering costs of $12,400).

     Prior to conversion of the Series F preferred stock, the holders of Series
F preferred stock had voting rights equivalent to the number of shares of common
stock into which the shares of Series F preferred stock were convertible.
Dividends accrued annually and were cumulative at a rate of 8% of the original
purchase price of $15.22 per share, on a per share basis. Dividends were
required to be paid only in the event of a liquidation or redemption. The Series
F preferred stock was convertible at any time by the holders, at the then
applicable conversion rate adjusted for certain events such as stock splits and
dividends. The Series F preferred stock was redeemable, subject to the approval
of the holders of 66% of the then outstanding shares of Series F preferred
stock.

8.  STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT):

  PUBLIC OFFERING

     In October 1999, Akamai completed an initial public offering of 9,000,000
shares of its common stock for net proceeds of $215.4 million after underwriting
discounts and commissions and offering expenses. As a result, all outstanding
shares of preferred stock automatically converted into 38,467,466 shares of
common stock.

  STOCK SPLIT

     On January 28, 1999, the Company effected a 3-for-1 stock split through a
stock dividend of common stock. On May 25, 1999, the Company effected a 3-for-1
stock split through a stock dividend of common stock. On September 8, 1999 the
Company effected a 2-for-1 stock split through a stock dividend of common


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

stock. All references to preferred and common stock share and per share amounts
including options and warrants to purchase common stock have been retroactively
restated to reflect the stock splits.

  COMMON STOCK

     The common stockholders are entitled to one vote per share. At December 31,
1999, the Company had reserved 16,397,611 shares of common stock for future
issuance upon the exercise of warrants and stock options.

  NOTES RECEIVABLE FROM OFFICERS FOR STOCK

     In the connection with the issuance of restricted common stock, the Company
received full recourse notes receivable from the Chief Executive Officer,
President, Chief Financial Officer and the General Counsel of the Company in the
amounts of $1,980,000, $500,000, $2,620,000 and $624,000, respectively. These
notes bear interest between 5.3% and 6.1%, and are payable in full by March 26,
2009, May 18, 2009, July 23, 2009 and July 23, 2009, respectively.

9.  STOCK PLANS:

  1998 OPTION PLAN

     In 1998, the Board of Directors adopted the 1998 Stock Incentive Plan (the
"1998 Option Plan") for the issuance of incentive and nonqualified stock options
and restricted stock awards. The number of shares of common stock reserved for
issuance under the 1998 Option Plan is 28,755,600 shares. Options to purchase
common stock and restricted stock awards are granted at the discretion of the
Board of Directors.

     Under the terms of the 1998 Option Plan, the exercise price of incentive
stock options granted must not be less than 100% (110% in certain cases) of the
fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, as determined by the
Board of Directors. The exercise price of nonqualified stock options may be less
than the fair market value of the common stock on the date of grant, as
determined by the Board of Directors but in no case may the exercise price be
less than the statutory minimum. Vesting of options granted is at the discretion
of the Board of Directors, which typically is four years. The term of options
granted cannot exceed ten years (five years for incentive stock options granted
to holders of more than 10% of the voting stock of the Company.)

     A restricted stock award provides for the issuance of common stock to
directors, officers, consultants and other key personnel at prices determined by
a Committee selected by the Board of Directors. Participants' unvested shares
are subject to repurchase by the Company at the original purchase price for up
to four years. Generally, 25% of the shares vest on the first anniversary of the
date of purchase and, thereafter, the remaining shares vest on a quarterly basis
through the fourth anniversary of the date of purchase. As of December 31, 1998
and 1999, the Company had the right to repurchase up to 3,283,200 and 9,874,750
unvested shares, respectively. Such shares may be repurchased at the original
purchase prices ranging from $0.01 to $2.50 per share.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A summary of activity under the Company's 1998 Option Plan for the period
from inception (August 20, 1998) to December 31, 1998 and the year ended
December 31, 1999 is presented below:



     There were 31,282,100 shares of restricted common stock issued outside of
the plan in the period ended December 31, 1998. As of December 31, 1998 and
1999, the Company had the right to repurchase up to 14,765,904 and 9,355,680
unvested shares, respectively.



     The following table summarizes information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1999:




                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURE

     As discussed in Note 2, the Company has adopted SFAS No. 123 through
disclosure only. Had the Company accounted for stock options to employees under
the fair value method prescribed under SFAS No. 123, Akamai's net losses and
basic and diluted net loss per share on a pro forma basis would be as follows:



     The effects of applying SFAS No. 123 in this pro forma disclosure are not
indicative of future amounts.

     The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the following assumptions:



     From inception (August 20, 1998) through December 31, 1998, the Company
recorded $1,711,591 in deferred compensation for restricted stock awards and
options to purchase common stock granted at exercise or purchase prices
subsequently determined to be below the fair value of the common stock.
Compensation expense of $205,617 was recognized during the period from inception
(August 20, 1998) through December 31, 1998. For the year ended December 31,
1999, the Company recorded $38,229,769 in deferred compensation for restricted
stock awards and options to purchase common stock granted at exercise or
purchase prices subsequently determined to be below the fair value of common
stock. Compensation expense of $10,005,216 was recognized during the year ended
December 31, 1999.

  EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     In August 1999, the Board of Directors adopted the 1999 Employee Stock
Purchase Plan. The 1999 Employee Stock Purchase Plan provides for the issuance
of up to 600,000 shares of common stock to participating employees.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10.  INCOME TAXES:

     The provision for income taxes consists of the following:



     The Company's effective tax rate varies from the statutory rate as follows:



     Based on the Company's current financial status, realization of the
Company's deferred tax assets does not meet the "more likely than not" criteria
under SFAS No. 109 and, accordingly, a valuation allowance for the entire
deferred tax asset amount has been recorded. The components of the net deferred
tax asset (liability) and the related valuation allowance are as follows:



     As of December 31, 1999, the Company has federal and state net operating
loss carryforwards of approximately $37.5 million which begin to expire in 2019
and 2004, respectively. The Company also has federal and state tax credit
carryforwards of $323,000 and $247,000, respectively.

     Ownership changes resulting from the Company's issuance of capital stock
may limit the amount of net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that can
be utilized annually to offset future taxable income. The amount of the annual
limitation is determined based upon the Company's value immediately prior to the


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

ownership change. Subsequent significant changes in ownership could further
affect the limitation in future years.

11.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLAN:

     In January 1999, the Company established a savings plan for its employees
which is designed to be qualified under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue
Code. Eligible employees are permitted to contribute to the 401(k) plan through
payroll deductions within statutory and plan limits. The Company has not
contributed to the savings plan to date.

12.  SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION:

     The following is the supplemental cash flow information for all periods
presented:



13.  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL RESULTS (UNAUDITED):

     The following tables set forth certain unaudited quarterly results of
operations of the Company for the year ended 1999. In the opinion of management,
this information has been prepared on the same basis as the audited consolidated
financial statements and all necessary adjustments, consisting only of normal
recurring adjustments, have been included in the amounts stated below to present
fairly the quarterly information when read in conjunction with the audited
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto included elsewhere in this
annual report on Form 10-K. The quarterly operating results are not necessarily
indicative of future results of operations.


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



14.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS:

  MERGER AGREEMENT WITH NETWORK24 COMMUNICATIONS, INC.

     On February 10, 2000, the Company consummated the acquisition of Network24
Communications, Inc. ("Network24"). The Company acquired all of the outstanding
common and preferred stock of Network24 in exchange for 599,152 shares of Akamai
common stock and $12.5 million in cash. Akamai also issued options and warrants
exercisable for 195,862 shares of Akamai's common stock in exchange for all
outstanding options and warrants exercisable for Network24 common stock. The
value of the acquisition is estimated to be $198.2 million based on the fair
value of the consideration paid plus direct acquisition costs. The acquisition
will be accounted for using the purchase method.

  MERGER AGREEMENT WITH INTERVU INC.

     On February 6, 2000, Akamai entered into a definitive agreement to acquire
INTERVU Inc. ("INTERVU"). Under the agreement, the Company will acquire all of
the outstanding common stock and preferred stock of INTERVU in exchange for
approximately 9.97 million shares of Akamai common stock. Akamai will also issue
options and warrants exercisable for approximately 2.16 million shares of
Akamai's common stock in exchange for all outstanding options and warrants
exercisable for INTERVU common stock. The value of the acquisition is estimated
to be $2.837 billion based on the fair value of the consideration paid plus
direct acquisition costs. The acquisition will be accounted for using the
purchase method.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The executive officers and directors of Akamai, and their ages and
positions as of January 31, 2000, are as follows:



- ---------------
(1) Member of the Compensation Committee

(2) Member of the Audit Committee

     Set forth below is certain information regarding the professional
experience for each of the above-named persons.

     George H. Conrades has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Akamai since April 1999 and as a director since December 1998. Mr. Conrades has
also been a venture partner of Polaris Venture Partners, Inc., an early stage
investment company, since August 1998. From August 1997 to July 1998, Mr.
Conrades served as Executive Vice President of GTE and President of GTE
Internetworking, an integrated telecommunication services firm. Mr. Conrades
served as Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer of BBN
Corporation, a national Internet services provider and Internet technology
research and development company, from January 1994 until its acquisition by GTE
Internetworking in July 1997. Prior to joining BBN Corporation, Mr. Conrades was
an IBM Senior Vice President and a Member of IBM's Corporate Management Board.
Mr. Conrades is currently a director of CBS and Infinity Broadcasting, a media
company. He is also an interim member of the board of ICANN, the Internet
Corporation for the Assignment of Names and Numbers, a non-profit organization
established by the United States government to oversee the administration of
Internet names and addresses.

     Paul Sagan joined Akamai in October 1998 as Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer and has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since
May 1999. Mr. Sagan was the Senior Advisor to the World Economic Forum, a
Geneva, Switzerland-based organization, from July 1997 to August 1998. From
December 1995 to December 1996, Mr. Sagan was the President and Editor of Time
Inc. New Media, an affiliate of Time Warner, Inc., a global media and
entertainment company. From September 1992 to



December 1995, Mr. Sagan served as a vice president and senior vice president of
Time Warner Cable, a division of Time Warner, Inc.

     F. Thomson Leighton co-founded Akamai and has served as Chief Scientist and
a director since August 1998. Dr. Leighton has been a professor of Mathematics
at MIT since 1982 and has served as the Head of the Algorithms Group in MIT's
Laboratory for Computer Science since its inception in 1996. Dr. Leighton is
currently on sabbatical from MIT. Dr. Leighton is a former two-term chair of the
2,000-member Association of Computing Machinery Special Interest Group on
Algorithms and Complexity Theory, and a former two-term Editor-in-Chief of the
Journal of the ACM, one of the nation's premier journals for computer science
research.

     Daniel M. Lewin co-founded Akamai and has served as a director since August
1998. Mr. Lewin served as President of Akamai from August 1998 to May 1999 and
as Chief Technology Officer since May 1999. Since July 1996, Mr. Lewin has been
a Ph.D. candidate in the Algorithms Group at MIT's Laboratory for Computer
Science. From May 1994 to May 1996, Mr. Lewin worked at IBM's research
laboratory in Haifa, Israel as a full-time Research Fellow and Project Leader
responsible for the development and support of IBM's Genesys system.

     Timothy Weller joined Akamai in August 1999 as Chief Financial Officer.
From July 1993 until August 1999, Mr. Weller was an equity research analyst at
Donaldson, Lufkin & Jenrette, an investment banking firm. Mr. Weller holds a
Ph.D. in Electrical Engineering from the University of Illinois.

     Robert O. Ball III has served as Vice President and General Counsel of
Akamai since July 1999 and has served as Secretary since August 1999. From June
1996 until August 1999, Mr. Ball was a Partner and Chair of the Electronic
Commerce Practice Team at Alston & Bird LLP, a law firm. From 1991 until May
1996, Mr. Ball was a Partner at Cashin, Morton & Mullins, a law firm.

     Peter Danzig joined Akamai in September 1999 as Vice President of
Technology. Prior to joining Akamai, from March 1997 to August 1999, Mr. Danzig
served as acting Chief Technology Officer of the NetCache group at Network
Appliance, Inc., a provider of network data solutions. Mr. Danzig founded
Internet Middleware Corporation, a provider of web caching solutions, in May
1996 and served as its Chief Technology Officer until it was acquired by Network
Appliance in March 1997. From January 1990 to May 1996, Mr. Danzig was an
Assistant Professor of Computer Science at the University of Southern
California.

     Earl P. Galleher III has served as Vice President of Worldwide Sales and
Support of Akamai since March 1999. From March 1996 until August 1998, Mr.
Galleher was employed with Digex, Inc., a national Internet carrier, where he
served as Vice President and General Manager from March 1996 to January 1997 and
as the President of the Web Site Management Division from January 1997 to August
1998. From November 1991 to February 1996, Mr. Galleher served as Director of
Marketing at American Mobile Satellite Corporation, a mobile voice and data
service provider.

     David Goodtree has served as the Vice President of Strategy and Products
since December 1999. From March 1999 until December 1999 Mr. Goodtree served as
Vice President of Marketing. From October 1994 to March 1999, Mr. Goodtree
served as Group Director at Forrester Research, Inc., an independent technology
research firm. Prior to joining Forrester Research, Inc., from October 1990 to
September 1994, Mr. Goodtree managed product development for MCI Communications
Corporation, now known as MCI WorldCom, Inc., a telecommunications company.

     Steven P. Heinrich has served as Vice President of Human Resources of
Akamai since March 1999. Prior to joining Akamai, Mr. Heinrich established
Constellation Consulting, Inc., a human resources consulting firm specializing
in early stage, high technology businesses. From November 1979 to October 1997,
Mr. Heinrich was employed by BBN Corporation where he served as the Vice
President of Human Resources from March 1993 to October 1997.

     Jonathan Seelig co-founded Akamai in August 1998 and has served as Vice
President of Strategy and Corporate Development since that time. From January
1995 to September 1997, Mr. Seelig worked for ECI Telecom, Ltd., a provider of
digital telecommunications and data transmission systems to network service



providers. Mr. Seelig is presently on a leave of absence as an M.B.A. candidate
at MIT's Sloan School of Management.

     Arthur H. Bilger has served as a director of Akamai since November 1998 and
has served as Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors since August 1999. From
December 1994 until March 1997, Mr. Bilger was president, chief operating
officer and a member of the board of directors of New World Communications Group
Incorporated, an entity engaged in television broadcasting and production. From
August 1990 until December 1994, Mr. Bilger was a founding principal of Apollo
Advisors, L.P. and Lion Advisors, L.P., entities engaged in the management of
securities investments. Mr. Bilger is currently a director of Mandalay Resort
Group, an owner and operator of hotel casino facilities.

     Todd A. Dagres has served as a director of Akamai since November 1998.
Since February 1996, Mr. Dagres has been a general partner of Battery Ventures,
a venture capital firm. From February 1994 to February 1996, Mr. Dagres was a
Principal and Senior Technology Analyst at Montgomery Securities, now known as
Banc of America Securities LLC, an investment bank and brokerage firm.

     Terrance G. McGuire has served as a director of Akamai since April 1999.
Mr. McGuire is a founder and has been a general partner of Polaris Venture
Partners, Inc. since June 1996. Since 1992, Mr. McGuire has also been a general
partner of Burr, Egan, Deleage & Co., a venture capital firm.

     Edward W. Scott has served as a director of Akamai since April 1999. Mr.
Scott is a founder and general partner of the Baker Communications Fund, a
communications private equity fund. He has been a general partner of that firm
since March 1996. From December 1990 until March 1996, Mr. Scott was a private
equity investor with the Apollo Investment Fund, L.P.

     Each executive officer serves at the discretion of the board of directors
and holds office until his successor is elected and qualified or until his
earlier resignation or removal. There are no family relationships among any of
the directors or executive officers of Akamai.



ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

SUMMARY COMPENSATION TABLE

     The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the
compensation earned by (1) each of the persons who served during 1999 as
Akamai's chief executive officer and (2) each of Akamai's four other most highly
compensated executive officers who received annual compensation in excess of
$100,000 in 1999, collectively referred to below as the Named Executive
Officers. In the table below, columns required by the regulations of the
Securities and Exchange Commission have been omitted where no information was
required to be disclosed under those columns.



- ---------------
(1) Mr. Conrades commenced employment with Akamai in April 1999; Mr. Lewin
    co-founded Akamai in August 1998; Mr. Sagan commenced employment with Akamai
    in October 1998; Mr. Ball commenced employment with Akamai in July 1999; Mr.
    Galleher commenced employment with Akamai in March 1999; and Mr. Goodtree
    commenced employment with Akamai in March 1999.

(2) Other compensation in the form of perquisites and other personal benefits
    has been omitted because such perquisites and other personal benefits
    contributed less than $50,000 or 10% of the total salary and bonus for each
    Named Executive Officer for such year.

(3) Daniel M. Lewin served as President of Akamai until May 18, 1998 when he
    became Chief Technology Officer.



OPTION GRANTS IN LAST FISCAL YEAR

     The following table sets forth each grant of stock options during 1999 to
each of the Named Executive Officers. No stock appreciation rights were granted
during such fiscal year.



- ---------------
(1) The exercise price was equal to the fair market value of Akamai's common
    stock as determined by the Board of Directors on the date of grant.

(2) The potential realizable value is calculated based on the term of the option
    at the time of grant. Stock price appreciation of 5% and 10% is assumed
    pursuant to rules promulgated by the Securities and Exchange Commission and
    does not represent Akamai's prediction of its stock price performance. The
    potential realizable values at 5% and 10% appreciation are calculated by
    assuming that the exercise price on the date of grant appreciates at the
    indicated rate for the entire term of the option and that the option is
    exercised at the exercise price and sold on the last day of its term at the
    appreciated price.

OPTIONS EXERCISED IN LAST FISCAL YEAR

     The following table sets forth for each of the Named Executive Officers
options exercised and the number and value of securities underlying unexercised
options that are held by the Named Executive Officers as of December 31, 1999.
None of the Named Executive Officers exercised options in 1999.



- ---------------
(1) On December 31, 1999, the last sale price reported on the Nasdaq National
    Market for Akamai's common stock was $327 5/8 per share.



ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     The following table sets forth information as to the number of shares of
Akamai common stock beneficially owned as of February 15, 2000 by the following:

     - each person who beneficially owns more than 5% of the outstanding shares
       of Akamai common stock,

     - each director of Akamai,

     - each Named Executive Officer and

     - Akamai executive officers and directors as a group.

     Beneficial ownership is determined in accordance with the rules of the
Securities and Exchange Commission, and includes voting and investment power
with respect to shares. Unless otherwise indicated below, to Akamai's knowledge,
all persons named in the table have sole voting and investment power with
respect to their shares of common stock, except to the extent authority is
shared by spouses under applicable law. Unless otherwise indicated, the address
of each person owning more than 5% of the outstanding shares of common stock is
c/o Akamai Technologies, Inc., 500 Technology Square, Cambridge, Massachusetts
02139.



- ---------------
 (*) Represents less than 1%



 (1) Includes 157,906 shares held by Battery Investment Partners IV, LLC.
     Battery Ventures IV, L.P. is the managing member of Battery Investment
     Partners IV, LLC.

 (2) Includes 934,668 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants exercisable
     within 60 days after February 15, 2000.

 (3) Includes 1,485,000 shares held by Lawrence T. Warble, Trustee Under
     Agreement Dated August 10, 1999, and 8,694 shares issuable upon the
     exercise of warrants exercisable within 60 days after February 15, 2000.
     Excludes shares held by entities affiliated with Polaris Venture Management
     Co. II, L.L.C., of which Mr. Conrades is a general partner.

 (4) Represents 6,377,474 shares by Polaris Venture Partners II L.P., 151,625
     shares held by Polaris Venture Partners Founders' Fund II L.P., 130,356
     shares issuable upon exercise of warrants held by Polaris Venture Partners
     II L.P. and exercisable within 60 days after February 15, 2000 and 3,168
     shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants held by Polaris Venture
     Partners Founders' Fund II L.P. and exercisable within 60 days after
     February 15, 2000. Polaris Venture Management Co. II, L.L.C. is the general
     partner of Polaris Venture Partners and Polaris Venture Founders' Fund II
     L.P.

 (5) Represents 594,000 shares held by the Arthur H. Bilger 1996 Family Trust,
     1,220,872 shares held by ADASE Partners, L.P., 57,660 shares held by AT
     Investors LLC and 13,350 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants held
     by AT Investors LLC and exercisable within 60 days after February 15, 2000.
     Mr. Bilger, a director of Akamai, is the managing member of the general
     partner of ADASE Partners, L.P. and managing member of AT Investors LLC.
     Mr. Bilger disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by the Arthur
     H. Bilger 1996 Family Trust, ADASE Partners, L.P. and AT Investors LLC
     except to the extent of his pecuniary interest in those entities. Excludes
     shares held by Baker Communications Fund, L.P., of which Mr. Bilger is a
     limited partner.

 (6) Represents 10,111,398 shares held by Battery Ventures IV, L.P. and 157,906
     shares held by Battery Investment Partners IV, LLC. Battery Ventures IV,
     L.P. is the managing member of Battery Investment Partners IV, LLC. Todd A.
     Dagres, a director of Akamai, is a general partner of Battery Ventures IV,
     L.P. Mr. Dagres disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by
     Battery Ventures IV, L.P. and Battery Investment Partners IV, LLC except to
     the extent of his pecuniary interest in those entities.

 (7) Represents 6,377,474 shares held by Polaris Venture Partners II L.P.,
     151,625 shares held by Polaris Venture Partners Founders' Fund II L.P.,
     130,356 shares issuable upon exercise of warrants held by Polaris Venture
     Partners II L.P. and exercisable within 60 days after February 15, 2000 and
     3,168 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants held by Polaris Venture
     Partners Founders' Fund II L.P. and exercisable within 60 days after
     February 15, 2000. Polaris Venture Management Co. II, L.L.C. is the general
     partner of Polaris Venture Partners II L.P. and Polaris Venture Partners
     Founders' Fund II L.P. Terrance G. McGuire, a director of Akamai, is a
     general partner of Polaris Venture Management Co. II, L.L.C. Mr. McGuire
     disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by Polaris Venture
     Partners II L.P. and Polaris Venture Partners Founders' Fund II L.P. except
     to the extent of his pecuniary interest in those entities.

 (8) Represents 6,483,803 shares held by Baker Communications Fund, L.P. and
     934,668 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants exercisable within 60
     days after February 15, 2000 held by Baker Communications Fund, L.P. Baker
     Capital Partners, LLC is general partner of Baker Fund, L.P. Edward W.
     Scott, a director of Akamai, is a general partner of Baker Communications
     Fund, L.P. Mr. Scott disclaims beneficial ownership of the shares held by
     Baker Communications Fund, L.P. except to the extent of his pecuniary
     interest in Baker Communications Fund, L.P.

 (9) Represents 1,080,000 shares held by Donald A. Glassberg, Trustee of the
     Paul Sagan Investment Trust. Mr. Sagan disclaims beneficial ownership of
     shares held by Donald A. Glassberg, Trustee of the Paul Sagan Investment
     Trust except to the extent of his pecuniary interest herein. Includes 1,932
     shares issuable upon the exercise of options exercisable within 60 days
     after February 15, 2000.

(10) Includes 6,450 shares issuable upon the exercise of warrants exercisable
     within 60 days after February 15, 2000.



(11) Includes 315,000 shares issuable upon the exercise of options exercisable
     within 60 days after February 15, 2000.

(12) Includes 100 shares held as custodian for each of Mr. Ball's three minor
     children.

(13) Includes 1,517,368 shares issuable upon the exercise of options and
     warrants exercisable within 60 days after February 15, 2000.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

ISSUANCES OF PREFERRED STOCK AND 15% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTES

     In 1999, Akamai issued and sold convertible preferred stock and 15% senior
subordinated notes coupled with warrants to purchase common stock at an exercise
price of approximately $2.50 per share to the following persons and entities who
are executive officers, directors or 5% or greater stockholders of Akamai. For
more detail on shares of stock held by these purchasers, see "Security Ownership
of Certain Beneficial Holders and Management" on page 51.



- ---------------
(1) Upon the closing of Akamai's initial public offering on November 3, 1999,
    each share of Series B convertible preferred stock automatically converted
    into six shares of Akamai common stock.

(2) Excludes securities held by Baker Communications Fund, L.P., of which Mr.
    Bilger is a limited partner. Mr. Bilger is the managing member of the
    general partner of ADASE Partners, L.P. and the managing member of AT
    Investors LLC. Mr. Bilger's shares of common stock issued upon conversion of
    Series B convertible preferred stock and his notes and warrants are held by
    AT Investors LLC. Mr. Bilger disclaims beneficial ownership of the
    securities held by ADASE Partners, L.P. and AT Investors LLC except to the
    extent of his pecuniary interest in those entities.

(3) Includes 969 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock held by Battery
    Investment Partners IV, LLC, of which Battery Ventures IV, L.P. is a
    managing member.

(4) Excludes securities held by entities affiliated with Polaris Venture
    Management Co. II, L.L.C., of which Mr. Conrades is a general partner.

(5) Represents 231,687 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock, 15%
    senior subordinated notes in the principal amount of $976,271 and 130,356
    warrants held by Polaris Venture Partners II L.P. and 5,631 shares of Series
    B convertible preferred stock, 15% senior subordinated notes in the
    principal amount of $23,729 and 3,168 warrants held by Polaris Venture
    Partners Founders Fund II L.P.

SERIES B FINANCING.

     On April 16, 1999 and April 30, 1999, Akamai issued an aggregate of
1,327,500 shares of Series B convertible preferred stock to 24 investors,
including Arthur H. Bilger, Baker Communications Fund, L.P., Battery Ventures
IV, L.P., Battery Investment Partners IV, LLC, George H. Conrades, Earl P.
Galleher III, Jonathan Seelig, Polaris Venture Partners II L.P., Polaris Venture
Partners Founders Fund II L.P. and Paul



Sagan. The per share purchase price for the Series B convertible preferred stock
was $15.07. As part of Akamai's Series B financing, Akamai granted Baker
Communications Fund, L.P. an option to purchase up to 145,195 shares of Akamai's
Series C convertible preferred stock and an option to purchase 5% of the shares
sold in the initial public offering. In October 1999, Baker exercised both of
these options.

15% SENIOR SUBORDINATED NOTE FINANCING.

     On May 7, 1999 Akamai issued 15% senior subordinated notes in the aggregate
principal amount of $15,000,000 coupled with warrants to purchase an aggregate
of 2,002,836 shares of common stock for an exercise price of approximately $2.50
per share to 20 investors, including Arthur H. Bilger, Baker Communications
Fund, L.P., George H. Conrades, Earl P. Galleher III, Jonathan Seelig, Polaris
Venture Partners II L.P., Polaris Venture Partners Founders Fund II L.P. and
Paul Sagan. The 15% senior subordinated notes had a term of five years and an
interest rate of 15% per year, compounded annually. As of December 31, 1999,
$2.8 million in aggregate principal amount remained outstanding under the 15%
senior subordinated notes.

ISSUANCES OF COMMON STOCK

     The following table presents selected information regarding Akamai's
issuances of common stock to its executive officers and directors in 1999.
Akamai issued the shares of common stock set forth in the table below pursuant
to stock restriction agreements with each of the executive officers and
directors which give Akamai rights to repurchase all or a portion of any
unvested shares at their purchase price in the event that the person ceases to
provide services to Akamai. Some of these stock restriction agreements prohibit
Akamai from repurchasing shares following a change in control of Akamai.



     Akamai agreed to the material terms of each of the preferred stock
issuances described above after arms'-length negotiations. All future
transactions, including loans between Akamai and its officers, directors,
principal stockholders and their affiliates will be approved by a majority of
Akamai's board of directors, including a majority of the independent and
disinterested directors on Akamai's board of directors, and will continue to be
on terms no less favorable to Akamai than could be obtained from unaffiliated
third parties.

AGREEMENTS WITH EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     On March 26, 1999, in connection with the issuance of restricted common
stock, Akamai loaned $1,980,000 to George H. Conrades, Akamai's Chief Executive
Officer and Chairman of the Board of Directors. The loan bears interest at a
rate of 5.3% per year, compounded annually until paid in full. The loan must be
paid in full by March 26, 2009 or earlier to the extent of proceeds, net of
taxes, received by Mr. Conrades upon his sale of capital stock of Akamai. On
March 26, 1999 Akamai entered into a severance agreement with Mr. Conrades. The
severance agreement requires Akamai to pay Mr. Conrades a lump-sum cash payment
equal to 299% of his average annual salary and bonus for the most recent three
years if his employment is terminated by Akamai other than for cause within two
years following a change in control of Akamai.

     On May 18, 1999, in connection with the issuance of restricted common
stock, Akamai loaned $500,000 to Paul Sagan, Akamai's President and Chief
Operating Officer. The loan bears interest at a rate of 5.3% per year,
compounded annually until paid in full. The loan must be paid in full by May 18,
2009 or earlier to the extent of proceeds, net of taxes, received by Mr. Sagan
upon his sale of capital stock of Akamai.



     On July 23, 1999, in connection with the issuance of restricted common
stock, Akamai loaned $623,750 to Robert O. Ball III, Akamai's Vice President and
General Counsel. The loan bears interest at a rate of 6.1% per year, compounded
annually until paid in full. The loan must be paid in full by July 23, 2009 or
earlier to the extent of proceeds, net of taxes, received by Mr. Ball upon his
sale of capital stock of Akamai.

     On July 23, 1999, in connection with the issuance of restricted common
stock, Akamai loaned $2,619,750 to Timothy Weller, Akamai's Chief Financial
Officer. The loan bears interest at a rate of 6.1% per year, compounded annually
until paid in full. The loan must be paid in full by July 23, 2009 or earlier to
the extent of proceeds, net of taxes, received by Mr. Weller upon his sale of
capital stock of Akamai.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a) The following documents are included in this Annual Report on Form
10-K.

          1. Financial Statements (see Item 8 -- Financial Statements and
             Supplementary Data included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K).

        2. The schedule listed below and the Report of Independent Accountants
           on Financial Statement Schedule are filed as part of this Annual
           Report on Form 10-K:



     All other schedules are omitted as the information required is inapplicable
or the information is presented in the consolidated financial statements or the
related notes.

3. Exhibits







- ---------------
  * Incorporated by reference to Akamai's Form S-1 (File No. 333-85679), as
    amended, filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on August 21,
    1999.

 ** Incorporated by reference to Akamai's Current Report on Form 8-K filed with
    the Securities and Exchange Commission on February 8, 2000.

*** Incorporated by reference to Akamai's Schedule 13D filed with the Securities
    and Exchange Commission on February 16, 2000.

  + Confidential treatment requested for certain portions of this Exhibit
    pursuant to Rule 406 promulgated under the Securities Act, which portions
    were omitted and filed separately with the Securities and Exchange
    Commission.

     (b) No Current Reports on Form 8-K were filed by Akamai during the fiscal
         quarter ended December 31, 1999.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          Akamai Technologies, Inc.

                                          By: /s/ ROBERT O. BALL III
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            Robert O. Ball III
                                            Vice President, General Counsel and
                                            Secretary
March 2, 2000

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.





                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS

                      REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS ON
                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

To the Board of Directors
of Akamai Technologies, Inc.:

Our audits of the consolidated financial statements referred to in our report
dated January 25, 2000, except for Note 14, as to which the date is February 28,
2000, appearing in Item 8 in this Form 10-K also included an audit of the
financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)(2) of this Form 10-K. In our
opinion, this financial statement schedule presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein when read in conjunction with the
related consolidated financial statements.

                                          /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP

Boston, Massachusetts
March 1, 2000

                                       S-1


                           AKAMAI TECHNOLOGIES, INC.

                SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



                                       S-2

