
10-K


                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D. C. 20549
                                                    

                                   FORM 10-K
                                                    

             Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the
                        Securities Exchange Act of 1934

For the fiscal year ended January 31, 1999    Commission file number: 1-724

                        PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                            DELAWARE              13-1166910
                (State of incorporation)        (IRS Employer
                                                 Identification No.)
                              200 Madison Avenue
                           New York, New York 10016
                   (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 212-381-3500
                        (Registrant's telephone number)
                                                          

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                                        Name of Each Exchange
                      Title of Each Class               on Which Registered  
              Common Stock, $1.00 par value             New York Stock Exchange
              Preferred Stock Purchase Rights           New York Stock Exchange
                                                     

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
                                      NONE           
                                                      

   Indicate by check mark whether registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for at least 90 days.

                               Yes  X   No     

   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  (  )

   The aggregate market value of the voting stock of registrant held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant as of April 1, 1999 was approximately 
$185,000,000.
                                                     

   Number of shares of Common Stock outstanding as of April 1, 1999:
27,287,985.
                                                     

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

                                                    Location in Form 10-K
                      Document                      in which incorporated 

              Registrant's Proxy Statement               Part III
                for the Annual Meeting of
         Stockholders to be held on June 17, 1999



                                     * * *

*******************************************************************************
*                                                                            *
* SAFE HARBOR STATEMENT UNDER THE PRIVATE SECURITIES LITIGATION REFORM ACT OF*
* 1995                                                                       *
*                                                                            *
* This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains certain forward-looking           *
* statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of      *
* 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, including,    *
* without limitation, statements relating to the Company's plans, strategies,*
* objectives, expectations and intentions, are made pursuant to the safe     *
* harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. *
* Investors are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are           *
* inherently subject to risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be     *
* predicted with accuracy, and some of which might not be anticipated,       *
* including, without limitation, the following: (i) the Company's plans,     *
* strategies, objectives, expectations and intentions are subject to change  *
* at any time at the discretion of the Company; (ii) the levels of sales of  *
* the Company's apparel and footwear products, both to its wholesale         *
* customers and in its retail stores, and the extent of discounts and        *
* promotional pricing in which the Company is required to engage; (iii) the  *
* Company's plans and results of operations will be affected by the          *
* Company's ability to manage its growth and inventory; (iv) the timing      *
* and effectiveness of programs dealing with the Year 2000 issue; and        *
* (v) other risks and uncertainties indicated from time to time in the       *
* Company's filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.             *
*                                                                            *
******************************************************************************


                                    PART I
Item 1.  Business

   Unless the context otherwise requires, the term "Company" means Phillips-
Van Heusen Corporation ("PVH") and its subsidiaries ("Subsidiaries").  The
Company's fiscal year is based on the 52-53 week period ending on the Sunday
on or closest to January 31 and is designated by the calendar year in which
the fiscal year commences.  The Company derives market share data information
used herein from various industry sources.

Overview

   The Company is a leading marketer of men's, women's and children's apparel
and footwear, sold under four nationally recognized brand names -- Van Heusen,
Bass, Izod and Geoffrey Beene -- in the dress shirt, casual footwear, and
sportswear categories.  From February 1995 until February 1999, the Company
had also owned a fifth nationally recognized brand, Gant.  On February 26,
1999, the Company sold the Gant trademark and certain related assets
associated with the Company's Gant operations to Pyramid Sportswear AB, which
was the brand's international licensee.

The Company is brand focused and manages the design, sourcing and
manufacturing of substantially all of its products on a brand by brand basis.
The Company's products include both dress and sport shirts and casual shoes
and, to a lesser extent, sweaters, neckwear, furnishings, bottoms, outerwear
and leather and canvas accessories.  Excluding Gant, approximately 20% of the
Company's net sales in fiscal 1998 were derived from sales of dress shirts,
33% from sales of footwear and related products and 47% from sales of other
apparel goods, primarily branded sportswear.  The Company markets its products
at a wholesale level through national and regional department store chains and
also directly to consumers through its own retail stores, generally located in
factory outlet retail malls.  The Company believes that marketing through the
wholesale channel provides the opportunity to build brand equity and
represents its core business, and views its retail business as a complement to
its strong branded positions in the wholesale market.  



   Excluding sales of Gant products, the Company's Van Heusen, Bass, Izod and
Geoffrey Beene brands collectively accounted for approximately 93% of the
Company's net sales in fiscal 1998.  The Company owns three of the four
brands, with sales of the fourth -- Geoffrey Beene -- being under licensing
agreements with that designer.  In fiscal 1998, the Company began marketing
DKNY brand men's dress shirts under a licensing agreement with Donna Karan. 
In addition, in March 1999, the Company entered into a licensing agreement
with Supreme International to market dress shirts under the John Henry and
Manhattan brands. 

   The Company's brands enjoy national recognition in their respective sectors
of the market and share a rich heritage with between 40 and 120 years of
operating history.  In the United States, Van Heusen is the best selling men's
dress shirt brand, the best selling men's woven sport shirt brand and the best
selling men's sweater brand.  Geoffrey Beene is the best selling men's
designer dress shirt brand in the United States.  The Company believes that
its overall share of the United States men's dress shirt market, including its
branded, designer and private label offerings, is the largest of any company. 
In the United States, Izod and Izod Club brand products include one of the
best selling men's sweater brands, one of the best selling men's basic knit
shirts and the number one ranked golf apparel brand in pro shops and resorts. 
Bass is the leading brand of men's, women's and children's casual shoes at the
moderate price range in the United States. 

   The Company markets its four premier brands to different segments of the
market, appealing to varied demographic sectors and a broad spectrum of
consumers.  This diversity of the Company's brands is intended to minimize
competition among the brands.  The Van Heusen brand, designed to target the
moderate price range, appeals to a fashion sensitive 'middle American'
consumer.  The typical Bass consumer is fashion conscious with a sense of
individuality, attitude and a youthful, spirited point of view.  The Company's
Izod brand is 'active inspired', designed to sell on the main floor of
department stores largely in knitwear categories in the moderate to upper
moderate price range.  Geoffrey Beene is targeted toward a more fashion-
forward consumer who is prepared to purchase apparel in the upper moderate
price range.  The Company's products are designed to appeal to relatively
stable demographic sectors and generally are not reliant on rapidly changing
fashion trends. 

   The Company believes that because of its strong brands it is well-
positioned to capitalize on several trends that have affected the apparel and
footwear sectors in recent years.  These include the stabilization of the
department store sector with a smaller number of stronger players, among which
the Company ranks its most important customers; the continued importance of
branding as a measure of product differentiation; and the stabilization of the
dress shirt sector after several years of modest decline.  

   Consistent with its strategy of developing its brands, the Company has
focused on the wholesale sector -- primarily department stores -- as the key
source of distribution for its products.  The Company believes that the
wholesale channel generally, and department stores specifically, provide the
best means of promoting a fully conceptualized image for each of its brands
and of securing broad awareness of its products and image.  The Company's
wholesale customers for branded and designer apparel include May Co.,
Federated, JC Penney, Dayton Hudson, Belk's and Saks, Inc.  The Company's
customers for footwear include Federated, May Co., Dillard's, Dayton Hudson,
Belk's and Saks, Inc.  

   While focused on the wholesale sector, the Company also sells its products
directly to consumers in Company-owned stores located primarily in factory
outlet retail malls.  At the end of fiscal 1998, the Company operated 666
stores, 26 of which are Gant stores which will close in fiscal 1999.  The
remaining stores are operated in four formats, matching each of the Company's
premier brands -- Van Heusen, Bass, Izod and Geoffrey Beene.  Van Heusen and
Bass, which have the broadest national recognition, followed by Izod, are in
the broadest range of malls.  Geoffrey Beene stores are located in malls where
that brand has greater name recognition.  Historically, the Company
participated in the significant expansion of the factory outlet mall sector,



capitalizing on mall expansion to build a portfolio of approximately 1,000
stores and generate significant sales and cash flow growth.  However, this
strategy left the Company reliant on mall growth rather than on brand and
market share development as the primary driver of expansion, contributing to a
deterioration in the quality and stability of earnings and failed to
strengthen the image and brand equity in its major businesses.  Since 1995,
the Company has significantly reduced the number of its retail locations and
has closed its least profitable stores to optimize its portfolio.  The
Company's retail presence remains an important complement to its strong
branded positions in the wholesale market, facilitating product
experimentation, the gathering of market intelligence and effective inventory
control. 

   The Company was incorporated in the State of Delaware in 1976 as the
successor to a business begun in 1881, and, with respect to Bass, a business
begun in 1876.  The Company's principal executive offices are located at 200
Madison Avenue, New York, New York 10016; its telephone number is (212) 381-
3500. 

Business

 Apparel

  Dress Shirts 

   The Company's dress shirts currently are marketed principally under the Van
Heusen and Geoffrey Beene brands.  These two brands are the leaders in men's
dress shirts in their respective markets, with a combined unit market share in
the key United States department store sector of 30% in 1998, an increase of
four percentage points over the prior year.  In addition, the Company markets
its dress shirts under the Bass and Etienne Aigner brands, as well as under
various private label names.  In fiscal 1998, the Company began marketing DKNY
brand men's dress shirts under a licensing agreement with Donna Karan.  In
addition, in March 1999, the Company entered into a licensing agreement with
Supreme International to market dress shirts under the John Henry and
Manhattan brands. 

   Van Heusen dress shirts have provided a strong foundation for the Company
for most of its 118-year history and now constitute the best-selling men's
dress shirt brand in the United States.  The Van Heusen dress shirt is
marketed at wholesale in the moderate price range to major department stores
and men's specialty stores nationwide, including Federated, May Co., JC Penney
and Mervyns.  Its primary competitors are 'Arrow' brand and private label
shirts. 

   The Company markets Geoffrey Beene men's dress shirts under a license
agreement with that designer, which expires in 2003, and which may be
extended, at the Company's option, through 2013.  Geoffrey Beene dress shirts
are the best-selling men's designer dress shirts in the United States. 
Geoffrey Beene dress shirts are sold in the upper moderate price range to
major department stores and men's specialty stores nationwide, including
Federated, May Co. and Saks, Inc.  Geoffrey Beene dress shirts compete with
those of other designers, including 'Perry Ellis' and 'Ralph Lauren Polo'. 

   Bass dress shirts are marketed at wholesale to major department stores,
including Federated and Dayton Hudson, and are sold in the upper moderate
price range.  DKNY dress shirts are sold in the better price range to major
department stores and men's specialty stores nationwide, including Federated,
May Co. and Saks, Inc.  DKNY dress shirts are targeted to younger and more
contemporary customers. 

   Private label programs offer the retailer the ability to create its own
line of exclusive merchandise and give the retailer control over distribution
of the product.  Private label represents an opportunistic business which
leverages the Company's strong design and sourcing expertise.  The Company's
customers work with the Company's designers to develop shirts in the styles,
sizes and cuts which the customers desire to sell in their stores with their
particular store names or private labels.  Private label programs offer the


consumer quality product and offer the retailer the opportunity to enjoy
higher margins and product exclusivity.  Private label products, however, do
not have the same level of consumer recognition as branded products and
private label manufacturers do not generally provide retailers with the same
breadth of services and in-store sales and promotional support as branded
manufacturers.  The Company markets at wholesale men's dress shirts under
private labels to major national retail chains and department stores,
including JC Penney, Sears, May Co., Target and Federated.  The Company
believes it is one of the largest marketers of private label dress shirts in
the United States. 

  Sportswear 

   The Company's sportswear products are marketed principally under the Van
Heusen, Izod, Izod Club and Geoffrey Beene brands. 

   Van Heusen is the best-selling men's woven sport shirt brand and best-
selling men's sweater brand in the United States.  Van Heusen apparel also
includes knit sport shirts and golf apparel.  Like Van Heusen branded dress
shirts, Van Heusen branded sport shirts and sweaters are marketed at wholesale
in the moderate price range to major department stores and men's specialty
stores nationwide, including JC Penney, Mervyns, May Co. and Federated.  The
Company believes that the main floor classification business in department
stores is becoming increasingly important and that there are few important
brands in that category.  As a result, the Company believes that the success
of Van Heusen dress shirts in department stores where it is part of the
stores' classification offerings supports its presence in the department
stores' sportswear classification offerings and presents a significant
opportunity for further development. 

   The product mix targeted for Van Heusen outlet stores is intended to
satisfy the key apparel needs of men from dress furnishings to sportswear and
of women for sportswear.  Van Heusen stores' merchandising strategy is focused
on achieving a classic and/or updated traditional look in a range of primarily
moderate price points.  Target customers represent the broadest spectrum of
the American consumer. 

   Izod occupies a major presence in department stores as a main floor
lifestyle classification sportswear brand.  Izod branded apparel products
consist of active inspired men's and women's sportswear, including Izod
sweaters (one of the best-selling men's sweater brands in the United States),
knitwear (one of the best-selling basic knit shirt brand in the United
States), slacks, fleecewear and microfiber jackets.  These products are
marketed in the moderate to upper moderate price range in major department
store locations, including May Co., Federated, JC Penney, Saks, Inc. and
Belk's. 

   The Company continues to upgrade its growing product line from the core of
the pique knit shirt and has expanded its wholesale customer base
significantly.  The Company has expanded the Izod brand to include apparel
appropriate for the fall and winter seasons, including long-sleeve knit
shirts, fleecewear and microfiber jackets. 

   The Company's Izod outlet stores market Izod branded men's and women's
active-inspired sportswear.  Target customers are generally brand loyalists
who expect quality and fashion at reasonable prices. 

   Izod Club branded golf apparel is marketed principally to golf pro shops
and resorts across the United States in the better price range and is ranked
as the number one golf brand in that channel of distribution.  Products
marketed in the Izod Club men's and women's collections include knit shirts,
sweaters, bottoms, outerwear, windshirts, headwear and hosiery.  Izod Club
women's products have been sold since 1997 at Nordstrom stores and since 1998
at Dayton Hudson department stores.  Izod Club has developed a professional
golf tournament strategy, which was highlighted by its management of the 


merchandising efforts at the 1998 U.S. Open.  In addition, four of the top
women golf professionals on the LPGA tour wear Izod Club golf apparel, making
the Izod Club brand highly visible on the golf course and on televised LPGA
events. 

   The Company's Geoffrey Beene stores offer dress and sport shirts, neckwear,
furnishings, outerwear, bottoms and sportswear.  Through their product mix,
the Geoffrey Beene stores seek to meet the full needs of men's wardrobes
(excluding suits) from dress furnishings to sportswear.  The merchandising
strategy is focused on an upscale, fashion forward consumer who is prepared to
purchase apparel in the upper moderate price range.  Most Geoffrey Beene
stores also offer a full line of women's casual apparel bearing the Geoffrey
Beene name.  The Company offers Geoffrey Beene products in its stores under a
license agreement which expires in 2002 and is renewable, at the Company's
option, through 2011.  

   Geoffrey Beene products are styled to be more fashion-forward than the
Company's Van Heusen brand, and the Geoffrey Beene brand name recognition is
more geographically focused, versus the broader based familiarity with the Van
Heusen, Bass or Izod labels.  In recognition of this, the Company has closed a
significant number of its Geoffrey Beene retail outlets in parts of the
country where brand recognition was not strong, which has resulted in a
substantial improvement in store productivity and inventory turn and a
significant increase in profitability. 

   Beginning in fiscal 1999, the Company plans to capitalize on the success of
Geoffrey Beene dress shirts by introducing Geoffrey Beene sportswear into the
men's classification departments of department stores.

   The Company's extensive resources in both product development and sourcing
have permitted it to market successfully private label sport shirts to major
retailers, including Wal-Mart, Target and Sears.  Private label golf apparel
is marketed to traditional department and specialty stores, national retail
chains and catalog merchants.  The Company also markets private label shirts
to companies in service industries, including major airlines and food chains.
The Company believes it is one of the largest marketers of private label sport
shirts in the United States. 

 Footwear and Related Products 

   The Company manufactures, procures for sale and markets a broad range of
updated casual and dress casual shoes and related products for men, women and
children under the Bass brand.  The brand has a long history of highly
recognizable and innovative products.  Bass is the leading brand of men's,
women's and children's casual shoes at the moderate price range in the United
States.

   With the continued trend to a more casual workplace, Bass is well-
positioned to deliver appropriate fashion products.  Traditional and classic
footwear continues to be less important, while modern and updated styles take
over as fashion right.  The brand's updated casual and dress casual footwear
assortments fit directly into this trend.

   Bass' traditional wholesale customers are major department stores and
specialty shoe stores throughout the United States, including Federated, May
Co., Dillard's, Dayton Hudson, Belk's and Saks, Inc.  Bass also markets its
footwear internationally and sells limited amounts of footwear to retailers in
Europe, Canada, South America, the Middle East, Africa and Asia.  All footwear
is designed in-house, regardless of source, to maintain tight control of the
styling and quality offered by the brand. 

   The Company's Bass factory outlet retail stores typically carry an
assortment of Bass shoes and accessories for men, women and children, in the
moderate price range, as well as complementary products not sold to wholesale
customers. 



Competition 

   The apparel industry is highly competitive due to its fashion orientation,
its mix of large and small producers, the flow of domestic and imported
merchandise and the wide diversity of retailing methods.  The Company's
apparel wholesale divisions experience competition in branded, designer and
private label products.  Some of the larger dress shirt competitors include:
Cluett American ('Arrow' brand); Salant Corporation ('Perry Ellis' brand);
Smart Shirt (private label shirt division of Kellwood); Capital Mercury
(private label shirts); and Oxford Industries (private label shirts). The
increase in the Company's dress shirts' market share is, in part, attributable
to the decrease in sales of the 'Arrow' brand of Cluett American.  The
Geoffrey Beene brand has increased its lead in sales over other dress shirt
brands.  Some of the larger sportswear competitors include: Warnaco ('Chaps'
brand); Supreme International ('Natural Issue' brand); Ashworth ('Cutter and
Buck' brand) and 'Arrow' sport shirts.

   The shoe industry is characterized by fragmented competition. 
Consequently, retailers and consumers have a wide variety of choices regarding
brands, style and price.  However, over the years, Bass has maintained its
important position in the traditional casual footwear market, and few of its
competitors have the significant brand recognition of Bass.  The Company's
primary competitors include Dexter, Rockport, Eastland, Sperry and Sebago. 
The Company believes, however, that it manufactures a more extensive line of
footwear for both genders and children and in a broader price range than any
of its competitors. 

   Based on the variety of the apparel and footwear marketed by the Company,
the various channels of distribution it has developed, its logistics and
sourcing expertise, and the strength of the Company's brands, the Company
believes it is particularly well-positioned to compete in the apparel and
footwear industries. 

Merchandise Design and Product Procurement 

   Each brand employs its own designers, product line builders and separate
merchandise product development groups, creating a structure that focuses on
the brand's special qualities and identity.  These designers, product line
builders and merchants consider consumer taste, fashion trends and the
economic environment when creating a product plan for a particular season for
their brand.  Each brand also employs sourcing specialists who focus on the
manufacturing and sourcing needs of the particular brand.  In addition, the
Company operates a world-wide network providing technical support and quality
control to those sourcing specialists.  The apparel and footwear merchandise
manufactured by the Company, as well as the vast majority of its sourced
products, are planned, designed and sourced through the efforts of its various
merchandise/product development and sourcing groups. 

   The process from initial design to finished product varies greatly, but
generally spans nine to 12 months prior to each selling season.  Apparel and
footwear product lines are developed primarily for two major selling seasons,
spring and fall.  However, certain Company product lines require more frequent
introductions of new merchandise.  Raw materials and production commitments
are generally made four to 12 months prior to production and quantities are
finalized at that time.  In addition, sales are monitored regularly at both
the retail and wholesale levels and modifications in production can be made
both to increase or reduce availability.  The Company's substantial efforts in
the area of quick response to sales trends (through the expanded use of EDI)
enhance its inventory flexibility and reduce production overruns.  EDI
provides a computer link between the Company and its wholesale customers that
enables both the customer and the Company to track sales, inventory and
shipments. 

   A portion of the Company's dress shirts are manufactured in the Company's
domestic apparel manufacturing facility in Alabama as well as in Costa Rica
and Honduras. However, most of the Company's dress shirts and substantially
all of its sportswear are sourced and manufactured to the Company's
specifications by independent manufacturers in the Far East, Middle East and


Caribbean areas who meet its quality and cost requirements.  Footwear is
manufactured in the Company's factories located in Puerto Rico and the
Dominican Republic, as well as by independent manufacturers which meet its
quality and cost requirements, principally located in Brazil and the Far East.

   The Company's foreign offices, located principally in Hong Kong, Taiwan,
the Philippines, Singapore and throughout Central America, enable the Company
to monitor the quality of the goods manufactured by, and the delivery
performance of, its suppliers.  The Company continually seeks additional
suppliers throughout the world for its sourcing needs and places its orders in
a manner designed to limit the risk that a disruption of production at any one
facility could cause a serious inventory problem.  The Company has not
experienced significant production delays or difficulties in importing goods.
The Company's purchases from its suppliers are effected through individual
purchase orders specifying the price and quantity of the items to be produced. 
Generally, the Company does not have any long-term, formal arrangements with
any of the suppliers which manufacture its products.  The Company believes
that it is the largest customer of many of its manufacturing suppliers and
that its long-standing relationships with its suppliers provide the Company
with a competitive advantage over its competitors.  No single supplier is
critical to the Company's production needs, and the Company believes that an
ample number of alternative suppliers exist should the Company need to secure
additional or replacement production capacity. 

   The Company purchases raw materials, including shirting fabric, buttons,
thread, labels, yarn, piece goods and leather, from domestic and foreign
sources based on quality, pricing and availability (including quotas and
duties).  The Company believes it is one of the largest procurers of shirting
fabric worldwide and purchases the majority of its shirting fabric from
overseas manufacturers, due, principally, to decreased domestic production.
The Company monitors factors affecting textile production and imports and
remains flexible in order to exploit advantages in obtaining materials from
different suppliers and different geographic regions.  Rawhide leather for
Bass footwear is procured mainly from domestic suppliers.  Bass monitors the
leather market and makes purchases on the spot market or through blanket
contracts with suppliers as price trends dictate.  No single supplier of raw
materials is critical to the Company's production needs and the Company
believes that an ample number of alternative suppliers exist should the
Company need to secure additional or replacement raw materials. 

Advertising and Promotion 

   The Company has used national advertising to communicate the Company's
marketing message since the 1920s.  The Company advertises primarily in
national print media, including fashion, entertainment/human interest,
business, men's, women's and sports magazines.  The Company continues its
efforts in cooperative advertising, as it believes that brand awareness and
in-store positioning are further supplemented by the Company's continuation of
such a program. 

   In the Company's retail sector, the Company relies upon local outlet mall
developers to promote traffic for their centers.  Outlet center developers
employ multiple formats, including signage (highway billboards, off-highway
directional signs, on-site signage and on-site information centers), print
advertising (brochures, newspapers and travel magazines), direct marketing (to
tour bus companies and travel agents), radio and television, and special
promotions. 

Trademarks 

   The Company has the exclusive right to use the Izod name in most countries,
the Van Heusen name in North, Central and South America as well as the
Philippines, and the exclusive worldwide right to use the Bass name for
footwear.  The Company has registered or applied for registration of numerous
other trademarks for use on a variety of items of apparel and footwear and
related products and owns many foreign trademark registrations.  It presently
has pending a number of applications for additional trademark registrations.


 
The Company regards its trademarks and other proprietary rights as valuable
assets and believes that they have significant value in the marketing of its
products. 

Licensing 

   The Company has various agreements under which it licenses the use of its
brand names.  The Company licenses the Van Heusen name for apparel products in
Canada and in most of the South and Central American countries.  In the United
States, the Company currently licenses the use of the Van Heusen name for
various products that it does not manufacture or source, including boy's
apparel, sleepwear, eyeglasses, neckwear and other accessories and is
exploring the possibility of licensing the name for use on other products. 
The Company licenses the use of the Izod name for infants, toddlers and
children's clothing, 'big and tall' apparel and men's headwear and sleepwear
in the United States, and for men's and women's sportswear in Canada. 

   The Company plans to continue expanding its worldwide marketing efforts,
utilizing licenses and other techniques for all its brands, especially under
the Izod and Izod Club trademarks.  A substantial portion of sales by its
domestic licensing partners are made to the Company's largest customers. 
While the Company has significant control over its licensing partners'
products and advertising, it relies on its licensing partners for, among other
things, operational and financial control over their businesses.  In addition,
failure by the Company to maintain its existing licensing alliances could
adversely affect the Company's financial condition and results of operations.
Although the Company believes in most circumstances it could replace existing
licensing partners if necessary, its inability to do so for any period of time
could adversely affect the Company's revenues both directly from reduced
licensing revenue received and indirectly from reduced sales of the Company's
other products.  To the extent the equity and awareness of each of the
Company's brands grows, the Company expects to gain even greater opportunities
to build on its licensing efforts. 

Tariffs and Import Restrictions 

   A substantial portion of the Company's products is manufactured by
contractors located outside the United States.  These products are imported
and are subject to United States Customs laws, which impose tariffs as well as
import quota restrictions established by the United States government.
However, a significant portion of the Company's apparel products is imported
from its Caribbean Basin manufacturing facilities and is therefore eligible
for certain duty-advantaged programs commonly known as '9802 Programs' and
NAFTA benefits for imports from Mexico.  While importation of goods from
certain countries from which the Company obtains goods may be subject to
embargo by United States Customs authorities if shipments exceed quota limits,
the Company closely monitors import quotas and can, in most cases, shift
production to contractors located in countries with available quotas.  The
existence of import quotas has, therefore, not had a material adverse effect
on the Company's business. 

Employees

   As of January 31, 1999, the Company employed approximately 7,550 persons on
a full-time basis and approximately 3,500 persons on a part-time basis. 
Approximately 4% of the Company's 11,050 employees are represented for the
purpose of collective bargaining by three different unions.  Additional
persons, some represented by these three unions, are employed from time to
time based upon the Company's manufacturing schedules and retailing seasonal
needs.  The Company believes that its relations with its employees are
satisfactory.  



Item 2.  Properties

   The Company maintains its principal executive offices at 200 Madison
Avenue, New York, New York, occupying approximately 132,000 square feet under
a lease which expires on May 31, 2014.  The Company also maintains
administrative offices in Bridgewater, New Jersey, where the Company occupies
a building of approximately 153,000 square feet under a lease which expires on
July 30, 2007 and in Portland, Maine, where the Company occupies a building of
approximately 99,000 square feet under a lease which expires on October 1,
2008.  The following tables summarize the manufacturing facilities, warehouses
and distribution centers, administrative offices and retail stores of the
Company:

                                    Apparel

                                                            Square Feet of
                                                         Floor Space (000's) 

                                                        Owned  Leased  Total

Manufacturing Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       57    124     181
Warehouses and Distribution Centers. . . . . . . . .    1,769    123   1,892
Administrative . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       16    333     349
Retail Stores. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        6  1,678   1,684

                                                        1,848  2,258   4,106

                         Footwear and Related Products

                                                        Owned  Leased  Total

Manufacturing Facilities . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        0    145     145
Warehouses and Distribution Centers. . . . . . . . .      179     57     236
Administrative . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       20    123     143
Retail Stores. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .        8  1,371   1,379
                                                    
                                                          207  1,696   1,903

   Information with respect to minimum annual rental commitments under leases
in which the Company is a lessee is included in the note entitled "Leases" in
the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Item 8 of this
report.  

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

   The Company is a party to certain litigation which, in the Company's
judgment based in part on the opinion of legal counsel, will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.  

Item 4.  Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   None.




                                    PART II

Item 5.  Market for Registrant's Common Stock and Related Security Holder
Matters

   Certain information with respect to the market for the Company's common
stock, which is listed on the New York Stock Exchange, and related security
holder matters appears under the heading "Selected Quarterly Financial Data"
on page F-18 and under the heading "Ten Year Financial Summary" on pages F-20
and F-21.  As of April 1, 1999, there were 1,448 stockholders of record of the
Company's common stock.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data

   Selected Financial Data appears under the heading "Ten Year Financial
Summary" on pages F-20 and F-21.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations

                       Adjusted Statements of Operations

(In thousands)                               1998         1997         1996

Net Sales                                 $1,303,085   $1,350,007   $1,359,593
Cost of goods sold                           856,160      891,965      910,517

Gross profit before non-recurring charges    446,925      458,042      449,076

SG&A expenses before Y2K costs and
  non-recurring charges                      394,940      412,495      401,338

Income before interest, taxes, Y2K costs
  and non-recurring charges                   51,985       45,547       47,738
Interest expense, net                         26,112       20,672       23,164

Income before taxes, Y2K costs and
  non-recurring charges                       25,873       24,875       24,574
Income tax expense                             6,696        5,954        6,044

Income from ongoing operations before
  Y2K costs and  non-recurring charges        19,177       18,921       18,530
Y2K costs, net of tax benefit                 (6,290)                         

Extraordinary loss on debt retirement,
  net of tax benefit                          (1,060)
Non-recurring charges, net of tax benefit                 (85,500)            

Net income (loss)                         $   11,827   $  (66,579)  $   18,530

                             Adjusted Segment Data

(In thousands)                               1998         1997         1996

Net sales-Apparel                         $  896,863   $  911,047   $  897,370
Net sales-Footwear and Related Products      406,222      438,960      462,223

Total net sales                           $1,303,085   $1,350,007   $1,359,593

Operating income-Apparel                  $   50,302   $   45,416   $   30,021
Operating income-Footwear and
  Related Products                            17,183       15,382       32,888

Total operating income                    $   67,485   $   60,798   $   62,909
Corporate expenses                           (15,500)     (15,251)     (15,171)

Income-before interest, taxes, Y2K costs
  and non-recurring charges               $   51,985   $   45,547   $   47,738


   The foregoing adjusted statements of operations and segment data segregate
Year 2000 computer conversion costs (Y2K costs) and non-recurring charges from
the Company's ongoing operations. 

   The results of operations in 1998 include pre-tax Y2K costs of $8.5
million.  The results of operations in 1997 include pre-tax non-recurring
charges of $132.7 million, relating principally to a series of actions the
Company has taken to accelerate the execution of its ongoing strategy to build
its brands.  Such costs and charges have been shown as separate components of
selling, general and administrative expenses in the respective consolidated
financial statements, except for $46.0 million of non-recurring charges
related to inventory markdowns that was included in cost of goods sold.

   The review which follows discusses PVH's results of operations before such
costs and charges.

   Fiscal 1998 was very much a year of contrasts.  We accomplished a great
deal toward our strategic goal of maximizing the value of our brands. 
However, overall financial results were disappointing as our earnings were
relatively flat and we did not reach our current year financial goal of 15%
earnings growth.

On the plus side:

o  Bass footwear recovered from its unsuccessful brand repositioning efforts
   in 1997.  Our Footwear and Related Products segment, in the early stages of
   its financial turnaround, increased its operating income 12% over the prior
   year.  A major cost reduction program has been implemented allowing Bass to
   return to its heritage positioning at moderate price points.  And its new
   lines for Spring and Fall, 1999 have been met with considerable enthusiasm
   from its wholesale customers.

o  Our Apparel segment recorded an 11% operating income improvement over the
   prior year, led by the performance of our Dress Shirt group.  Van Heusen
   and Geoffrey Beene again increased their share of the department store
   dress shirt market-to a combined 30% in 1998 compared with 26% in 1997 and
   21% in 1996.  In addition, our very successful introduction of DKNY dress
   shirts, under a new license agreement with Donna Karan, adds a younger,
   more contemporary component to our Dress Shirt group.

o  The recently completed sale of the Gant brand to Pyramid Sportswear both
   strengthens our financial position and optimizes our mix of sportswear
   brands.  It allows us to focus on our moderate to upper-moderate sportswear
   brands-Van Heusen, Izod and Geoffrey Beene. We believe we can achieve the
   same success in sportswear on the main floor of department stores that we
   have realized in our dress shirt business.  In addition, our 19% ownership
   in Pyramid gives us an ongoing participation in the highly successful
   international operations of Gant.

o  The refinancing of our balance sheet early in 1998, together with our $100
   million Debentures due 2023 provide a solid and secure financial base which
   will allow us to focus our full attention on the execution of our strategic
   business plan.  However, the higher interest costs associated with this
   refinancing partially offset the 14% increase in operating earnings
   achieved this year.

   Operating earnings in 1998 were negatively impacted by a Fall season which
began slowly and never fully recovered.  The much-publicized unseasonably warm
weather was a key factor in the slow start of Fall.  This, in turn, cut short
Fall's full price selling season and forced significant amounts of promotional
selling in the fourth quarter.  This not only slowed retail sales,
particularly in the sportswear area, but also increased considerably the cost
of gross margin support to our wholesale customers.



   Still, we have managed our inventory well and are entering Spring 1999 with
clean inventory positions.  Most importantly we believe we can build on the
successes we did have in 1998.  The financial disappointments of the past Fall
season will not impede our plans for rebuilding our business, including
improved financial performance in 1999. 

Results of Operations

   PVH manages and analyzes its operating results by two vertically integrated
business segments: (i) Apparel and (ii) Footwear and Related Products.

Apparel

   Net sales of the Apparel segment were $896.9 million in 1998 compared with
$911.0 million in 1997 and $897.4 million in 1996. The current year sales
decline resulted principally from our planned strategic initiatives to close
underperforming retail outlet stores and to divest our private label sweater
manufacturing business.  At the same time, PVH's sales of wholesale branded
products increased 9% and 24% in 1998 and 1997, respectively, to $421.7
million in 1998 from $387.2 million in 1997 and $311.9 million in 1996.  The
major areas of growth in both 1998 and 1997 were Van Heusen, Geoffrey Beene
and Izod.

   Gross margin increased to 33.3% in 1998 from 32.9% in 1997 and 31.3% in
1996.  The margin improvement was driven by our Dress Shirt business, which
benefited significantly from its manufacturing reconfiguration enabling it to
reduce product costs through our worldwide sourcing network.  Offsetting a
substantial portion of this benefit was weaker sportswear gross margins
particularly at Gant and Izod.  A weak Fall season driven initially by
unseasonably warm weather resulted in slow sales and increased promotions at
department stores, thereby significantly increasing the cost of markdown
allowances to our wholesale customers.

   Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of sales were
down slightly in 1998 to 27.7% compared with 27.9% in 1997 and 1996.  The
current year decline relates to a decrease in 1998 advertising spending
compared with 1997 levels.

   Operating income increased 10.8% in 1998 to $50.3 million compared with
$45.4 million in 1997 and $30.0 million in 1996 primarily resulting from the
performance of our Dress Shirt group.  Our dress shirt leadership position
with the Van Heusen and Geoffrey Beene brands was further enhanced with the
very successful launch of DKNY dress shirts.  In early 1999 we entered into an
agreement to license dress shirts for the John Henry and Manhattan brands,
which enables us to further leverage our dress shirt strengths and expertise.

Footwear and Related Products

   Net sales of the Footwear and Related Products segment declined 7.5% to
$406.2 million in 1998 compared with $439.0 million in 1997 which was down 5%
from $462.2 million in 1996.  The closing of underperforming retail outlet
stores was a factor in the Bass sales reduction in 1998 and 1997.  However,
the larger negative factor was the disappointing results of our attempt to
reposition the Bass brand to higher price points in the second half of 1997.
This higher priced positioning did not meet with consumer support and resulted
in a significant inventory build-up, which carried into the second quarter of
1998.  This situation negatively impacted both 1998 and 1997 sales and
operating income.

   While Bass is in the early stages of a financial turnaround, operating
income increased 11.7% to $17.2 million in 1998 from $15.4 million in 1997,
albeit a substantial reduction from $32.9 million in 1996.  The sales problem
described above resulted in a significant reduction in Bass' 1998 and 1997
gross profit contribution dollars compared with 1996 gross profit levels and
substantially lowered operating income in both years.  We addressed this issue
aggressively by completely changing line management responsible for the Bass
business, closing our U.S. mainland manufacturing facility and redirecting the
sourcing of Bass product.  We have lowered our costs considerably, enabling


Bass to be positioned at moderate price points, which we believe should enable
Bass to return to its historically high level of profitability.  The Bass
price positioning misstep negatively impacted both 1997 and 1998 operating
income; however it is behind us as we begin 1999.

   Gross margin was 36.1% in 1998 compared with 36.0% in 1997 and 36.3% in
1996.  Gross margins were negatively impacted by higher inventory liquidation
markdowns in 1998 and 1997.  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a
percentage of sales were 31.9% in 1998 down slightly compared with 32.5% in
1997 due to a decrease in 1998 advertising spending. Selling, general and
administrative expenses as a percentage of sales in 1996 was 29.2%.  The
increase in 1997 was caused principally by higher advertising, design and
selling costs to support product presentation.

Corporate Expenses

   Corporate expenses were $15.5 million in 1998 compared with $15.3 million
in 1997 and $15.2 million in 1996.

Interest Expense

   Interest expense was $26.1 million in 1998 compared with $20.7 million and
$23.2 million in 1997 and 1996, respectively.  The increase in 1998 reflects
the impact of funding the Company's 1997 restructuring initiatives as well as
the refinancings completed in the first quarter of 1998 which, while extending
maturities, also increased overall borrowing costs.  A strong cash flow in
1996 resulted in lower debt levels during 1997, thereby reducing interest
expense in 1997.

Non-Recurring Charges

   PVH recorded pre-tax non-recurring charges in 1997 of $132.7 million ($85.5
million after tax) relating principally to exiting the sweater manufacturing
business and U.S. mainland footwear manufacturing, consolidating and
contracting plant and warehouse and distribution facilities, closing
underperforming retail outlet stores, and modifying a repositioning of Bass. 

Year 2000

   The Year 2000 (Y2K) issue is the result of computer programs using two
digits rather than four to define the applicable year.  Such computer systems
will be unable to interpret dates beyond the year 1999, which could cause a
system failure or other computer errors, leading to disruptions in operations. 
PVH has initiated a comprehensive Y2K Project to address this issue and is
utilizing both internal and external resources to complete it.

   The Company completed an assessment of Y2K requirements for the systems
supported by its Information Technology Department which included contacting
its software suppliers.  The impacted systems, including those that are part
of the Company's data processing infrastructure, are now Y2K compliant as a
result of modification or replacement.  The systems have been tested and are
in use.  They have been fully implemented in all areas, except the Company
still needs to implement certain Y2K compliant retail systems for a number of
its retail outlet stores.  In addition, the Company is addressing the Y2K
issue as it relates to its end user computing area.  These are expected to be
compliant by June 30, 1999. 

   The Company has communicated with suppliers, equipment vendors, service
providers and customers to determine the extent to which it is vulnerable to
the failure of these parties to remedy any Y2K issues.  Most of these parties
have stated that they intend to be Y2K compliant by 2000.  In conjunction with
this, the Company has developed contingency plans for its major suppliers and
merchandise carriers, where feasible, to mitigate Y2K risks.  The Company's
electronic commerce systems, used by many of its major customers, are Y2K
compliant and are being installed in accordance with each customer's schedule.

   The total cost of the Y2K Project is estimated to be $22 million and is
being funded through operating cash flows.  Of the total Project cost,


approximately $3 million is attributable to the purchase of new software,
which will be capitalized, with the remaining cost expensed as incurred. 

   PVH presently believes that the Y2K issue will not pose significant
operational problems for its computer systems.  However, no assurance can be
given that this issue, as it relates to PVH's internal systems or those of
other companies on which it relies, will not have a material adverse impact on
PVH's operations. 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

The following table shows key cash flow elements over the last three years: 


   Cash flow before non-recurring charges and Y2K costs, as noted in the table
above was positive in each of the past three years.  The cash outflow of $34.1
million in 1998 and 1997 relates to the 1997 restructuring initiatives
described above.  At year-end 1998, the Company had, as a result of these
charges, tax loss and credit carryforwards of $44.2 million-which may be
utilized to offset some $113 million of future U.S. pre-tax income.

   Capital spending in 1998 was $38.2 million compared with $17.9 million in
1997 and $22.6 million in 1996.  The  higher level of 1998 spending reflects
the expenditure of $20.7 million related to the consolidation of all New York
office space into a single location.  Our new headquarters, at 200 Madison
Avenue, provides the Company with more square footage at an annual occupancy
cost savings of $500,000 or a 10% reduction compared with 1998 New York
occupancy costs.  Capital expenditures for 1999 are anticipated at about $30
million.

   On April 22, 1998 we issued $150 million of 9.5% Senior Subordinated Notes
due May 1, 2008, and used the proceeds to eliminate our intermediate term
senior notes and reduce our revolving credit debt and eliminate any debt
amortization over the next 10 years.  At the same time, we re-syndicated our
revolving credit facility, which was scheduled to mature in early 1999, with a
new $325 million senior secured credit facility with a group of 12 banks. 
These refinancings, while increasing our cost of debt capital, provide a
secure financial base and allow us to focus our attention on the execution of
our strategic business plan.

   Total debt as a percentage of total capital was 54.0% at year-end 1998
compared with 53.0% and 43.1% at year-end 1997 and 1996, respectively.



   On February 26, 1999 we completed the sale of Gant to Pyramid Sportswear,
the brand's international licensee.  Sale proceeds net of employee severance
and liquidation costs, should approximate $65 million and will initially be
used to reduce debt.  The combination of our strengthened capital structure
together with the added liquidity provided by this sale positions us to take
advantage of any investment opportunities which may arise.

Market Risk

   The Company's debt at January 31, 1999 includes both variable rate short-
term debt and fixed rate long-term debt.  Based on the amount of variable rate
short-term debt outstanding at January 31, 1999 and the average net amount of
such debt which the Company anticipates to be outstanding during 1999, the
Company believes that a change of 100 basis points in interest rates would not
have a material effect on the Company's financial position.  The long-term
debt footnote to the Company's consolidated financial statements outlines the
principal amounts, interest rates, fair values and other terms required to
evaluate the expected sensitivity of interest rate changes on the fair value
of the Company's fixed rate long-term debt.

Seasonality 

   PVH'S business is seasonal, with higher sales and income during its third
and fourth quarters, which coincide with the Company's two peak retail selling
seasons: the first running from the start of the back to school and Fall
selling seasons beginning in August and continuing through September, and the
second being the Christmas selling season beginning with the weekend following
Thanksgiving and continuing through the week after Christmas. 

   Also contributing to the strength of the third quarter is the high volume
of Fall shipments to wholesale customers which are generally more profitable
than Spring shipments.  The slower Spring selling season at wholesale combines
with retail seasonality to make the first quarter particularly weak. 

Safe Harbor Statement Under the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995

   Forward-looking statements in this Annual Report to Stockholders,
including, without limitation, statements relating to PVH's plans, strategies,
objectives, expectations and intentions, are made pursuant to the safe harbor
provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Investors
are cautioned that such forward-looking statements are inherently subject to
risks and uncertainties, many of which cannot be predicted with accuracy, and
some of which might not be anticipated, including, without limitation, the
following: (i) PVH's plans, strategies, objectives, expectations and
intentions are subject to change at any time at the discretion of the Company;
(ii) the levels of sales of PVH's apparel and footwear products, both to its
wholesale customers and in its retail stores, and the extent of discounts and
promotional pricing in which the Company is required to engage; (iii) PVH's
plans and results of operations will be affected by the Company's ability to
manage its growth and inventory; (iv) the timing and effectiveness of programs
dealing with the Year 2000 issue; and (v) other risks and uncertainties
indicated from time to time in PVH's filings with the Securities and Exchange
Commission. 

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

   Information with respect to Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About
Market Risk appears under the heading "Market Risk" in Item 7.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

   See page F-1 for a listing of the consolidated financial statements and
supplementary data included in this report.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

   None.



                                   PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Executive Officers of the Registrant

   The following table sets forth certain information concerning the Company's
Executive Officers:

   Name                                      Position                    Age

Bruce J. Klatsky       Chairman and Chief Executive Officer; 
                         Director                                         50
Mark Weber             President and Chief Operating Officer;
                         Director                                         50
Emanuel Chirico        Executive Vice President and 
                         Chief Financial Officer                          41
Irwin W. Winter        Executive Vice President; Director                 65
Allen E. Sirkin        Vice Chairman                                      56
Michael J. Blitzer     Vice Chairman                                      49


   Mr. Bruce J. Klatsky has been employed by the Company in various capacities
over the last 27 years, and was President of the Company from 1987 to 1998. 
Mr. Klatsky has served as a director of the Company since 1985 and was named
Chief Executive Officer in 1993 and Chairman of the Board of Directors in
1994.

   Mr. Mark Weber has been employed by the Company in various capacities over
the last 27 years, had been a Vice President of the Company since 1988, was
Vice Chairman of the Company since 1995 and was named President and Chief
Operating Officer in 1998.  

   Mr. Emanuel Chirico has been employed by the Company as Vice President and
Controller since 1993.  Mr. Chirico was named Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer in 1998.

   Mr. Irwin W. Winter joined the Company in 1987 as Vice President, Finance
and Chief Financial Officer.  Mr. Winter was named Executive Vice President in
1995.  He is retiring from the Company effective April 30, 1999.  

   Mr. Allen E. Sirkin has been employed by the Company since 1985.  He served
as Chairman of the Company's Apparel Group since 1990 and was named Vice
Chairman of the Company in 1995.

   Mr. Michael J. Blitzer has been employed by the Company in various
capacities over the last 19 years.  Mr. Blitzer was named Vice Chairman of the
Company in 1998.

   Additional information required by Item 10 is incorporated herein by
reference to the section entitled "Election of Directors" of the Company's
proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 17,
1999.

Item 11.  Executive Compensation

   Information with respect to Executive Compensation is incorporated herein
by reference to the sections entitled "Executive Compensation", "Compensation
Committee Report on Executive Compensation" and "Performance Graph" of the
Company's proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on
June 17, 1999.



Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

   Information with respect to the Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial
Owners and Management is incorporated herein by reference to the section
entitled "Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management" of
the Company's proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be
held on June 17, 1999.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

   Information with respect to Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled "Election of
Directors" and "Compensation of Directors" of the Company's proxy statement
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on June 17, 1999.
























                                    PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)(1) See page F-1 for a listing of the consolidated financial statements
       included in Item 8 of this report.

(a)(2) See page F-1 for a listing of financial statement schedules submitted
       as part of this report.

(a)(3) The following exhibits are included in this report:

   Exhibit
   Number 

    3.1    Certificate of Incorporation (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           5 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
           ended January 29, 1977).

    3.2    Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, filed June 27, 1984
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3B to the Company's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 3, 1985).

    3.3    Certificate of Designation of Series A Cumulative Participating
           Preferred Stock, filed June 10, 1986 (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit A of the document filed as Exhibit 3 to the Company's
           Quarterly Report as filed on Form 10-Q for the period ended May 4,
           1986).

    3.4    Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, filed June 2, 1987
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3(c) to the Company's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1988).

    3.5    Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, filed June 1, 1993
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 to the Company's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 30, 1994).

    3.6    Amendment to Certificate of Incorporation, filed June 20, 1996
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's Report
           on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 28, 1996).

    3.7    By-Laws of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation, as amended through 
           June 18, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the
           Company's Report on Form 10-Q for the period ended July 28, 1996). 

    4.1    Specimen of Common Stock certificate (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 4 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           fiscal year ended January 31, 1981).

    4.2    Preferred Stock Purchase Rights Agreement (the "Rights Agreement"),
           dated June 10, 1986 between PVH and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A.
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company's Quarterly
           Report as filed on Form 10-Q for the period ended May 4, 1986).

    4.3    Amendment to the Rights Agreement, dated March 31, 1987 between PVH
           and The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A. (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 4(c) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           year ended February 2, 1987).

    4.4    Supplemental Rights Agreement and Second Amendment to the Rights
           Agreement, dated as of July 30, 1987, between PVH and The Chase
           Manhattan Bank, N.A. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit (c)(4)
           to the Company's Schedule 13E-4, Issuer Tender Offer Statement,
           dated July 31, 1987).



    4.5    Notice of extension of the Rights Agreement, dated June 5, 1996,
           from Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation to The Bank of New York
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.13 to the Company's report
           on Form 10-Q for the period ended April 28, 1996).
    
    4.6    Credit Agreement, dated as of April 22, 1998, among PVH, the group
           of lenders party hereto, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
           Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent, and Citicorp USA, Inc.,
           as Documentation Agent (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.6 to
           the Company's report on Form 10-Q for the period ended May 3,
           1998).

    4.7    Amendment No. 1, dated as of November 17, 1998, to the Credit
           Agreement, dated as of April 22, 1998, among PVH, the group of
           lenders party hereto, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as Administrative
           Agent and Collateral Agent, and Citicorp USA, Inc., as
           Documentation Agent. 

    4.8    Consent, Waiver and Amendment No. 2, dated as of February 23, 1999,
           to the Credit Agreement, dated as of April 22, 1998, among PVH, the
           group of lenders party hereto, The Chase Manhattan Bank, as
           Administrative Agent and Collateral Agent, and Citicorp USA, Inc.,
           as Documentation Agent. 

    4.9    Indenture, dated as of April 22, 1998, with PVH as issuer and Union
           Bank of California, N.A., as Trustee (incorporated by reference to
           Exhibit 4.7 to the Company's report on Form 10-Q for the period
           ended May 3, 1998).

    4.10   Indenture, dated as of November 1, 1993, between PVH and The Bank
           of New York, as Trustee (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.01
           to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (Reg. No. 33-
           50751) filed on October 26, 1993). 

   *10.1   1987 Stock Option Plan, including all amendments through April 29,
           1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company's
           report on Form 10-Q for the period ended May 4, 1997).

   *10.2   Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Special Severance Benefit Plan, as
           amended as of April 16, 1996 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit
           10.4 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal
           year ended January 28, 1996). 

   *10.3   Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Capital Accumulation Plan
           (incorporated by reference to the Company's Report on Form 8-K
           filed on January 16, 1987).

   *10.4   Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Amendment to Capital Accumulation
           Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(n) to the Company's
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended February 2,
           1987).

   *10.5   Form of Agreement amending Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Capital
           Accumulation Plan with respect to individual participants
           (incorporated by reference to  Exhibit 10(1) to the Company's
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31,
           1988).

   *10.6   Form of Agreement amending Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Capital
           Accumulation Plan with respect to individual participants
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company's report
           on Form 10-Q for the period ending October 29, 1995). 

   *10.7   Agreement amending Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Capital
           Accumulation Plan with respect to Bruce J. Klatsky (incorporated by
           reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the Company's report on Form 10-Q for
           the period ended May 4, 1997).


   *10.8   Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Supplemental Defined Benefit Plan,
           dated January 1, 1991, as amended and restated on June 2, 1992
           (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 1993).

   *10.9   Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Supplemental Savings Plan,
           effective as of January 1, 1991 and amended and restated as of
           April 29, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the
           Company's report on Form 10-Q for the period ended May 4, 1997).

   *10.10  Non-Incentive Stock Option Agreement, dated as of December 3, 1993,
           between the Company and Bruce J. Klatsky (incorporated by reference
           to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
           the fiscal year ended January 29, 1995).  

   *10.11  Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation 1997 Stock Option Plan, effective
           as of April 29, 1997 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 to
           the Company's report on Form 10-Q for the period ending August 3,
           1997).

   *10.12  Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Senior Management Bonus Program for
           fiscal year 1998 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.15 to the
           Company's report on Form 10-Q for the period ending August 2,
           1998).

    21.    Subsidiaries of the Company.

    23.    Consent of Independent Auditors.

    27.    Financial Data Schedule

(b) Reports filed on Form 8-K filed during the fourth quarter of 1998:

    None

(c) Exhibits: See (a)(3) above for a listing of the exhibits included as part
    of this report.

(d) Financial Statement Schedules: See page F-1 for a listing of the
    financial statement schedules submitted as part of this report.

(e) The Company agrees to furnish to the Commission upon request a copy of
    each agreement with respect to long-term debt where the total amount of
    securities authorized thereunder does not exceed 10% of the total
    consolidated assets of the Company.

* Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be
  identified pursuant to Item 14(a) of this report.















                                  SIGNATURES

   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                             PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                                         
                             By:         Bruce J. Klatsky           
                                           Bruce J. Klatsky
                                  Chairman, Chief Executive
                                     Officer and Director

                             Date:  April 21, 1999

   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.

     Signature                      Title                         Date

  Bruce J. Klatsky       Chairman, Chief Executive             April 21, 1999
     Bruce J. Klatsky     Officer and Director (Principal  
                          Executive Officer)

      Mark Weber         President, Chief Operating            April 12, 1999
        Mark Weber        Officer and Director

   Irwin W. Winter       Executive Vice President and          April 12, 1999
      Irwin W. Winter      Director

   Emanuel Chirico       Executive Vice President and          April 21, 1999
     Emanuel Chirico       Chief Financial Officer

   Vincent A. Russo      Vice President and Controller         April 12, 1999
     Vincent A. Russo      (Principal Accounting Officer)

   Edward H. Cohen       Director                              April 12, 1999
      Edward H. Cohen

  Joseph B. Fuller       Director                              April 21, 1999
      Joseph B. Fuller

  Joel H. Goldberg       Director                              April 13, 1999
      Joel H. Goldberg

    Marc Grosman         Director                              April 13, 1999
      Marc Grosman

 Dennis F. Hightower     Director                              April 13, 1999
     Dennis F. Hightower

Maria Elena Lagomasino   Director                              April 13, 1999
     Maria Elena Lagomasino

    Harry N.S. Lee       Director                              April 13, 1999
        Harry N.S. Lee

     Bruce Maggin        Director                              April 13, 1999
       Bruce Maggin

   Slyvia M. Rhone       Director                              April 21, 1999
      Slyvia M. Rhone

   Peter J. Solomon      Director                              April 12, 1999
      Peter J. Solomon




FORM 10-K-ITEM 14(a)(1) and 14(a)(2)

PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES



14(a)(1) The following consolidated financial statements and supplementary
         data are included in Item 8 of this report:

     Consolidated Statements of Operations--Years Ended 
       January 31, 1999, February 1, 1998 and February 2, 1997 . . . .   F-2 

     Consolidated Balance Sheets--January 31, 1999 and 
       February 1, 1998. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   F-3

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years Ended 
       January 31, 1999, February 1, 1998 and February 2, 1997 . . . .   F-4

     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders' 
       Equity--Years Ended January 31, 1999, February 1, 1998
       and February 2, 1997. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   F-5

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. . . . . . . . . . . .   F-6

     Selected Quarterly Financial Data . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   F-18

     Report of Ernst & Young LLP, Independent Auditors . . . . . . . .   F-19

     10 Year Financial Summary . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   F-20




14(a)(2) The following consolidated financial statement schedule is included
         herein:


     Schedule II   -  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts. . . . . . . .   F-22


   All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable
accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not
required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and therefore have
been omitted.

















                                      F-1

                                           PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                                        (In thousands, except per share data)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.












                                                         F-2

                                           PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                                             CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                          (In thousands, except share data)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.









                                                         F-3

                                           PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                                   (In thousands)

See notes to consolidated financial statements.






                                                         F-4

                                  PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CHANGES IN STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
                                  (In thousands, except share data)


See notes to consolidated financial statements.
























                                                         F-5

                                           PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                                     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                          (In thousands, except share data)

Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

     Principles of Consolidation - The consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of PVH and its subsidiaries. Significant intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.  

     Use of Estimates - The preparation of the financial statements in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management
to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the
financial statements and accompanying notes.  Actual results could differ from
the estimates.

     Fiscal Year - Fiscal years are designated in the financial statements and
notes by the calendar year in which the fiscal year commences. Accordingly,
results for fiscal years 1998 and 1997 represent the 52 weeks ended January
31, 1999 and February 1, 1998, respectively.  Fiscal year 1996 represents the
53 weeks ended February 2, 1997.

     Cash and Cash Equivalents - PVH considers all highly liquid investments
with a maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents.

     Asset Impairments - PVH records impairment losses on long-lived assets
(including goodwill) used in operations when events and circumstances indicate
that the assets might be impaired and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to
be generated by the related assets are less than the carrying amounts of those
assets.

     Inventories - Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market. Cost
for certain apparel inventories of $91,414 (1998) and $90,999 (1997) is
determined using the last-in, first-out method (LIFO).  Cost for footwear and
certain sportswear inventories is determined using the first-in, first-out
method (FIFO).

     Property, Plant and Equipment - Depreciation is computed principally by
the straight line method over the estimated useful lives of the various
classes of property.

     Goodwill - Goodwill, net of accumulated amortization of $14,481 and
$11,358 in 1998 and 1997, respectively, is amortized principally using the
straight line method over 40 years.  

     Contributions from Landlords - PVH receives contributions from landlords
primarily for fixturing retail stores which the Company leases.  Such amounts
are amortized as a reduction of rent expense over the life of the related
lease.  

     Fair Value of Financial Instruments - Using discounted cash flow analyses,
PVH estimates that the fair value of all financial instruments approximates
their carrying value, except as noted in the footnote entitled "Long-Term
Debt".






                                                         F-6

                                  PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)


Summary of Significant Accounting Policies (Continued)

     Stock-Based Compensation - PVH accounts for its stock options under the
provisions of APB Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees,"
and complies with the disclosure requirements of FASB Statement No. 123,
"Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation".

     Advertising - Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and totalled 
$28,239 (1998), $37,762 (1997) and $19,427 (1996).

Earnings Per Share

     PVH computed its basic and diluted earnings per share by dividing net
income or loss by:

     The deferred tax provision recorded in 1998 excludes $571 of tax benefit
related to the extraordinary loss on debt retirement.

     Taxes paid were $2,197 (1998), $1,155 (1997) and $1,262 (1996).  In
addition, PVH received an income tax refund of $16,987 in 1996.













                                                         F-7

                              PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)


Income Taxes (Continued)

     The approximate tax effect of items giving rise to the deferred income tax
asset recognized in the Company's balance sheets is as follows:


     A reconciliation of the statutory Federal income tax to the income tax
expense (benefit) is as follows:

Inventories

     Inventories are summarized as follows:

     Inventories would have been approximately $8,400 and $12,000 higher than
reported at January 31, 1999 and February 1, 1998, respectively, if the FIFO
method of inventory accounting had been used for all apparel.  During 1998,
certain inventories were reduced, resulting in the liquidation of LIFO
inventory layers.  The effect of these inventory liquidations was to increase
net income by $2,000 in 1998.  





                                                         F-8

                                   PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Property, Plant and Equipment

     Property, plant and equipment, at cost, are summarized as follows:

Long-Term Debt

     Long-term debt, exclusive of current portion, is as follows:

     PVH issued $100,000 of 7.75% Debentures due 2023 on November 15, 1993 with
a yield to maturity of 7.80%.  Interest is payable semi-annually.  Based on
current market conditions, PVH estimates that the fair value of these
Debentures on January 31, 1999, using discounted cash flow analyses, was
approximately $88,100.

     On April 22, 1998, PVH completed a refinancing of its Revolving Credit
Facility and its 7.75% Senior Notes by entering into a new $325,000 Senior
Secured Credit Facility with a group of banks and by issuing $150,000 of 9.5%
Senior Subordinated Notes due May 1, 2008.  The net proceeds from the Senior
Subordinated Notes were used to retire the 7.75% Senior Notes and to repay a
portion of the amount due under PVH's prior Revolving Credit Facility.  In
connection with the early retirement of the 7.75% Senior Notes, PVH paid a
yield maintenance premium of $1,446 and wrote off certain debt issue costs of
$185.  These items have been classified as an extraordinary loss, net of tax
benefit of $571, in 1998.









                                                         F-9

                                  PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                      NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Long-Term Debt (Continued)

     The 9.5% Senior Subordinated Notes have a yield to maturity of 9.58%, and
interest is payable semi-annually.  Based on current market conditions, PVH
estimates that the fair value of these Notes on January 31, 1999, using
discounted cash flow analyses, was approximately $123,700.  In connection with
the 9.5% Senior Subordinated Notes, PVH entered into an interest rate hedge
agreement.   Due to an increase in interest rates between the date PVH entered
into the hedge agreement and the date the 9.5% Senior Subordinated Notes were
issued, PVH received $1,075, which is being amortized as a reduction of
interest expense over the life of the 9.5% Senior Subordinated Notes.

     PVH's new $325,000 Credit Facility includes a revolving credit facility
which allows PVH, at its option, to borrow and repay amounts up to $325,000. 
The Facility also includes a letter of credit facility with a sub-limit of
$250,000 provided, however, that the aggregate maximum amount outstanding
under both the revolving credit facility and the letter of credit facility is
$325,000.  Interest is payable quarterly at a spread over LIBOR or the prime
rate, at the borrower's option, with the spread based on PVH's credit rating
and certain financial ratios.  The Facility also provides for payment of a fee
on the unutilized portion of the Facility.  All outstanding borrowings and
letters of credit under this credit facility are due April 22, 2003.

     In connection with the 7.75% Debentures and the $325,000 Credit Facility,
substantially all of PVH's assets have been pledged as collateral.

     The weighted average interest rate on outstanding revolving credit
borrowings at January 31, 1999 and February 1, 1998 was 7.1% and 6.4%,
respectively.

     The amount outstanding under the letter of credit facility as of January
31, 1999 was $120,466.

     Interest paid was $23,652 (1998), $20,784 (1997) and $24,039 (1996).

     There are no scheduled maturities of long-term debt until 2008.

Stockholders' Equity

     Preferred Stock Rights - On June 10, 1986, the Board of Directors declared
a distribution of one Right (the "Rights") to purchase Series A Cumulative
Participating Preferred Stock, par value $100 per share, for each outstanding
share of common stock.  As a result of subsequent stock splits, each
outstanding share of common stock now carries with it one-fifth of one Right.

     Under certain circumstances, each Right will entitle the registered holder
to acquire from the Company one one-hundredth (1/100) of a share of said
Series A Preferred Stock at an exercise price of $100.  The Rights will be
exercisable, except in certain circumstances, commencing ten days following a
public announcement that (i) a person or group has acquired or obtained the
right to acquire 20% or more of the common stock, in a transaction not
approved by the Board of Directors or (ii) a person or group has commenced or
intends to commence a tender offer for 30% or more of the common stock (the
"Distribution Date").




                                                        F-10

                                 PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Stockholders' Equity - (Continued) 

     If PVH is the surviving corporation in a merger or other business
combination then, under certain circumstances, each holder of a Right will
have the right to receive upon exercise the number of shares of common stock
having a market value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right.

     In the event PVH is not the surviving corporation in a merger or other
business combination, or more than 50% of PVH's assets or earning power is
sold or transferred, each holder of a Right will have the right to receive
upon exercise the number of shares of common stock of the acquiring company
having a market value equal to two times the exercise price of the Right.

     At any time prior to the close of business on the Distribution Date, PVH
may redeem the Rights in whole, but not in part, at a price of $.05 per Right. 
During 1996, the rights were extended for a period of 10 years from the date
of initial expiration and will expire on June 16, 2006.

     Stock Options - Under PVH's stock option plans, non-qualified and
incentive stock options ("ISOs") may be granted.  Options are granted at fair
market value at the date of grant. ISOs and non-qualified options granted have
a ten year duration.  Generally, options are cumulatively exercisable in three
installments commencing three years after the date of grant.

     Under APB Opinion No. 25, PVH does not recognize compensation expense
because the exercise price of the Company's stock options equals the market
price of the underlying stock on the date of grant.  Under FASB Statement No.
123, proforma information regarding net income and earnings per share is
required as if the Company had accounted for its employee stock options under
the fair value method of that Statement.

     For purposes of proforma disclosures, PVH estimated the fair value of
stock options granted since 1995 at the date of grant using the Black-Scholes
option pricing model.  The estimated fair value of the options is amortized to
expense over the options' vesting period.  

     The following summarizes the assumptions used to estimate the fair value
of stock options granted in each year and certain proforma information:

                                           1998         1997       1996

Risk-free interest rate                    5.56%         6.49%       6.61%
Expected option life                     7 Years      7 Years     7 Years 
Expected volatility                        29.9%         26.0%       30.6%
Expected dividends per share             $ 0.15      $   0.15     $  0.15 
Weighted average estimated fair                
  value per share of options granted     $ 4.83      $   5.43     $  5.29

Proforma net income (loss)               $9,994      $(68,242)    $17,396 
Proforma basic and diluted net income 
  (loss) per share                       $ 0.37      $  (2.52)    $  0.65 




                                                        F-11

                                   PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Stockholders' Equity - (Continued)

     Other data with respect to stock options follows:

     Of the outstanding options at January 31, 1999, 372,808 shares have an
exercise price below $12.25, 2,750,445 shares have an exercise price from
$12.25 to $16.50 and 2,320 shares have an exercise price above $16.50.  The
weighted average remaining contractual life for all options outstanding at
January 31, 1999 is 7.8 years.

     Of the outstanding options at January 31, 1999 and February 1, 1998,
options covering 642,905 and 650,479 shares were exercisable at a weighted
average price of $11.89 and $10.56, respectively. Stock options available for
grant at January 31, 1999 and February 1, 1998 amounted to 717,822 and
1,704,250 shares, respectively.

Leases

     PVH leases retail stores, manufacturing facilities, office space and
equipment. The leases generally are renewable and provide for the payment of
real estate taxes and certain other occupancy expenses. Retail store leases
generally provide for the payment of percentage rentals based on store sales
and other costs associated with the leased property.

     At January 31, 1999, minimum annual rental commitments under non-
cancellable operating leases, including leases for new retail stores which had
not begun operating at January 31, 1999, are as follows: 

     1999 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $ 54,006
     2000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    41,269
     2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    31,799
     2002 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    26,405
     2003 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    19,738
     Thereafter . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    75,908
     Total minimum lease payments . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $249,125



                                                        F-12

                                   PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)


Leases (Continued)

     Rent expense, principally for real estate, is as follows:

                                               1998          1997       1996

     Minimum. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   $61,402      $65,177      $67,914
     Percentage and other . . . . . . . . .    11,139       11,139       11,166

                                              $72,541      $76,316      $79,080

Retirement and Benefit Plans

     PVH has noncontributory, defined benefit pension plans covering
substantially all U.S. employees meeting certain age and service requirements.
For those vested (after five years of service), the plans provide monthly
benefits upon retirement based on career compensation and years of credited
service. It is PVH's policy to fund pension cost annually in an amount
consistent with Federal law and regulations. The assets of the plans are
principally invested in a mix of fixed income and equity investments.  

     PVH and its domestic subsidiaries also provide certain postretirement
health care and life insurance benefits.   Employees become eligible for these
benefits if they reach retirement age while working for the Company.  Retirees
contribute to the cost of this plan, which is unfunded.

     In 1998, PVH adopted FASB Statement No. 132, "Employers' Disclosure about
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits".  The disclosures for 1997 and
1996 have been restated to comply with the requirements of Statement No. 132
and to present the applicable data on a basis consistent with 1998.

     Following is a reconciliation of the changes in the benefit obligation for
each of the last two years:






                                                        F-13

                                   PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)


Retirement and Benefit Plans - (Continued)

      Following is a reconciliation of the fair value of the assets held by
PVH's pension plans for each of the last two years:

      Net benefit cost recognized in each of the last three years is as follows:

      Following is a reconciliation of the benefit obligation at the end of each
of the last two years to the amounts recognized on the balance sheet:

   

      Included in the above disclosures are certain pension plans with projected
and accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets of $4,664 and
$2,895, respectively, as of January 31, 1999, and $4,264 and $2,652,
respectively, as of February 1, 1998.

                                                        F-14

                                   PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                       NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Retirement and Benefit Plans - (Continued)

     The assumed health care cost trend rate assumed for 1999 through 2009 is
6.0%.  Thereafter, the rate assumed is 5.5%.  If the assumed health care cost
trend rate increased or decreased by 1%, the aggregate effect on the service
and interest cost components of the net postretirement benefit cost for 1998
and on the postretirement benefit obligation at January 31, 1999 would be as
follows:

                                                 1% Increase      1% Decrease

      Impact on service and interest cost           $  337         $  (281)
      Impact on year-end benefit obligation         $3,829         $(3,258)    

      Significant rate assumptions used in determining the benefit obligations
at the end of each year and benefit cost in the following year, were as
follows:

                                                          1998         1997

      Discount rate                                       7.00%        7.25%
      Rate of increase in compensation                                 
       levels (applies to pension plans only)             4.00%        4.00%
      Long-term rate of return on assets                  9.00%        8.75%


      PVH has an unfunded supplemental defined benefit plan covering 23 current
and retired executives under which the participants will receive a
predetermined amount during the 10 years following the attainment of age 65,
provided that prior to the termination of employment with PVH, the participant
has been in the plan for at least 10 years and has attained age 55.  At
January 31, 1999 and February 1, 1998, $9,357 and $8,309, respectively, are
included in other liabilities as the accrued cost of this plan.

      PVH has a savings and retirement plan (the "Associates Investment Plan")
and a supplemental savings plan for the benefit of its eligible employees who
elect to participate.  PVH contributions to the plans are equal to 50% of the
amounts contributed by participating employees with respect to the first 6% of
compensation and were $2,222 (1998), $1,959 (1997) and $2,249 (1996).  

Segment Data 

      PVH manages and analyzes its operating results by its two vertically
integrated business segments:  (i) Apparel and (ii) Footwear and Related
Products.  In identifying its reportable segments, PVH evaluated its operating
divisions and product offerings.  PVH aggregated the results of its apparel
divisions into the Apparel segment, which derives revenues from marketing
dresswear, sportswear and accessories, principally under the brand names Van
Heusen, Izod, Izod Club, Geoffrey Beene and Gant (see subsequent event
footnote).  PVH's footwear business has been identified as the Footwear and
Related Products segment.  This segment derives revenues from marketing casual
and weekend footwear, apparel and accessories under the Bass brand name.








                                                        F-15

                                  PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                     NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Segment Data - (Continued)

     Sales for both segments occur principally in the United States.   

(1) 1997 operating income includes charges for facility and store closing,
    restructuring and other expenses of $78,465 for the Apparel segment and
    $54,235 for the Footwear and Related Products segment.

(2) 1998 Corporate capital expenditures are related principally to the
    relocation of PVH's New York City corporate headquarters.












                                                        F-16
 
                              PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                    NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)



Facility and Store Closing, Restructuring and Other Expenses

     During 1997, PVH recorded pre-tax charges of $132,700, related principally
to a series of actions the Company has taken to accelerate the execution of
its ongoing strategies to build its brands.  The primary initiatives related
to the charges were the closing and restructuring of certain manufacturing and
warehouse facilities, closing underperforming retail outlet stores and
modifying a repositioning of Bass.

The cost components of the charges are as follows:

Inventory markdowns included in cost of goods sold         $ 46,000    
Fixed asset write-offs                                       40,800
Termination benefits for approximately 2,150 employees       19,500
Lease and other obligations                                  19,100
Other                                                         7,300 
                                                           $132,700 

     During 1997 and 1998, PVH charged approximately $84,900 and $38,000 to the
reserve, respectively, of which approximately $26,600 and $17,600 related to
inventory markdowns.  As of January 31, 1999, approximately $9,800 remains in
this reserve to fund the completion of the 1997 initiatives.

Subsequent Event

     On February 26, 1999, PVH sold the Gant trademark and certain related
assets associated with the Company's Gant operations for $71,000 in cash to
Pyramid Sportswear AB ("Pyramid"), which was the brand's international
licensee.  Pyramid is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pyramid Partners AB, in
which PVH has a minority interest.  In connection with this transaction, PVH
expects to realize no gain or loss, after writing off certain assets
associated with its Gant operations, including goodwill.  Sales of Gant
products in 1998 were $81,900.  

Other Comments 

     One of PVH's directors, Mr. Harry N.S. Lee, is a director of TAL Apparel
Limited, an apparel manufacturer and exporter based in Hong Kong.  During
1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company purchased approximately $26,700, $26,500 and
$35,000, respectively, of products from TAL Apparel Limited and certain
related companies.

     The Company is a party to certain litigation which, in management's
judgement based in part on the opinion of legal counsel, will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position.

     During 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company paid a $0.0375 per share cash
dividend each quarter on its common stock.

     Certain items in 1997 and 1996 have been reclassified to present them on a
basis consistent with 1998.





                                                        F-17

                                       PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                               SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA - UNAUDITED
                                    (In thousands, except per share data)


       




















                                                                 F-18

                          REPORT OF ERNST & YOUNG LLP, INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



To the Stockholders and the Board of Directors
Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation


     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Phillips-
Van Heusen Corporation and subsidiaries as of January 31, 1999 and February 1,
1998, and the related consolidated statements of operations, changes in
stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended January 31, 1999.  These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Phillips-Van
Heusen Corporation and subsidiaries at January 31, 1999 and February 1, 1998,
and the consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each
of the three years in the period ended January 31, 1999 in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.


                                                    E&Y SIGNATURE STAMP

New York, New York 
March 9, 1999





















                                                        F-19

                                     PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION
                                        TEN-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY
                     (In thousands, except per share data, percents and ratios)


                                                                 F-20

                                          PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION
                                         TEN-YEAR FINANCIAL SUMMARY (CONTINUED)



                                                                 F-21


                                                                 SCHEDULE II 

                                           PHILLIPS-VAN HEUSEN CORPORATION

                                          VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                                   (In thousands)






                  
(a)  Provisions for doubtful accounts.
(b)  Recoveries of doubtful accounts previously written off.
(c)  Primarily uncollectible accounts charged against the allowance provided
     therefor.
















                                                        F-22

                                                                    EXHIBIT 21

                                           SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT


      The following table lists all of the subsidiaries of the Company and the
jurisdiction of incorporation of each subsidiary.  Each subsidiary does business
under its corporate name indicated in the table.

    Name                          State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation

G. H. Bass Franchises Inc.                           Delaware

G. H. Bass Caribbean, Inc.                           Delaware

Caribe M&I Ltd.                                      Cayman Islands

GHB (Far East) Limited                               Hong Kong

Phillips-Van Heusen (Far East) Ltd.                  Hong Kong

Confecciones Imperio, S.A.                           Costa Rica

Camisas Modernas, S.A.                               Guatemala

G. H. Bass Comercio
 Exportacacao Ltda.                                  Brazil

PVH Retail Corp.                                     Delaware

The IZOD Corporation                                 Pennsylvania

Phillips-Van Heusen Puerto Rico LLC                  Delaware

BassNet, Inc.                                        Delaware



                                                                  EXHIBIT 23
 

Report and Consent of Independent Auditors

Our audits included the financial statement schedule of Phillips-Van Heusen
Corporation listed in Item 14(a)(2).  This schedule is the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion based
on our audits.  In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred to
above, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as
a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

We consent to the incorporation by reference in 

    (i) Post-Effective Amendment No. 2 to the Registration Statement (Form S-8,
    No. 2-73803), which relates to the Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation Employee
    Savings and Retirement Plan,

    (ii) Registration Statement (Form S-8, No. 33-50841) and Registration
    Statement (Form S-8, No. 33-59602), each of which relate to the Phillips-
    Van Heusen Corporation Associates Investment Plan for Residents of the
    Commonwealth of Puerto Rico,

    (iii) Registration Statement (Form S-8, No. 33-59101), which relates to the
    Voluntary Investment Plan of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation (Crystal
    Brands Division),

    (iv) Post-Effective Amendment No. 4 to Registration Statement (Form S-8,
    No. 2-72959), Post Effective Amendment No. 6 to Registration Statement
    (Form S-8, No. 2-64564), and Post Effective Amendment No. 13 to
    Registration Statement (Form S-8, No. 2-47910), each of which relate to the
    1973 Employee's Stock Option Plan of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation, 

    (v) Registration Statement (Form S-8, No. 33-38698), Post-Effective
    Amendment No. 1 to Registration Statement (Form S-8, No. 33-24057) and
    Registration Statement (Form S-8, No. 33-60793), each of which relate to
    the Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation 1987 Stock Option Plan, 

    (vi) Registration Statement (Form S-8, No. 333-29765) which relates to the
    Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation 1997 Stock Option Plan, and

    (vii) Registration Statement (Form S-4, No. 333-57203), which relates to
    the 9.5% Senior Subordinated Notes due 2008

of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation and in the related Prospectuses of our
report dated March 9, 1999, with respect to the consolidated financial
statements and our report included in the preceding paragraph with respect to
the financial statement schedule of Phillips-Van Heusen Corporation included
in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) for the year ended January 31, 1999.



                                                      ERNST & YOUNG LLP


New York, New York
April 26, 1999
 




