ITEM 1.BUSINESS

Wells Fargo & Company is a corporation organized under the laws of Delaware and a financial holding
company and a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended (BHC Act). Its principal business is to act as a holding company for its subsidiaries.
References in this report to “the Parent” mean the holding company. References to “we,” “our,” “us”
or “the Company” mean the holding company and its subsidiaries that are consolidated for financial
reporting purposes.

We are the product of two significant mergers, the first occurring on November 2, 1998, between
Norwest Corporation (Norwest) and the former Wells Fargo & Company, in which Norwest survived the
merger and assumed the Wells Fargo & Company name, and the second occurring on December 31, 2008,
between the Company and Wachovia Corporation (Wachovia) in which the Company survived the merger.
We acquired Wachovia in a transaction valued at $12.5 billion to Wachovia common stockholders.
Wachovia, based in Charlotte, North Carolina, was one of the nation’s largest diversified financial
services companies, providing a broad range of retail banking and brokerage, asset and wealth
management, and corporate and investment banking products and services to customers through 3,300
financial centers in 21 states from Connecticut to Florida and west to Texas and California, and
nationwide retail brokerage, mortgage lending and auto finance businesses.

At December 31, 2009, we had assets of $1.2 trillion, loans of $783 billion, deposits of $824
billion and stockholders’ equity of $112 billion. Based on assets, we were the fourth largest bank
holding company in the United States. At December 31, 2009, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. was the
Company’s principal subsidiary with assets of $609 billion, or 49% of the Company’s assets. As a
result of our acquisition with Wachovia, we also owned Wachovia Bank, N.A., with assets of $510
billion at December 31, 2009.

At December 31, 2009, we had 267,300 active, full-time equivalent team members.

Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and
amendments to those reports, are available free at www.wellsfargo.com (select “About Us,” then
“Investor Relations – More,” then “More SEC Filings”) as soon as reasonably practicable after they
are electronically filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). They
are also available free on the SEC’s website at www.sec.gov.





DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

General

We are a diversified financial services company. We provide retail, commercial and corporate
banking services through banking stores located in 39 states and the District of Columbia:

AlabamaIowaNorth DakotaAlaskaKansasOhioArizonaMarylandOregonArkansasMichiganPennsylvaniaCaliforniaMinnesotaSouth CarolinaColoradoMississippiSouth DakotaConnecticutMontanaTennesseeDelawareNebraskaTexasFloridaNevadaUtahGeorgiaNew JerseyVirginiaIdahoNew MexicoWashingtonIllinoisNew YorkWisconsinIndianaNorth CarolinaWyoming

We provide other financial services through subsidiaries engaged in various businesses,
principally: wholesale banking, mortgage banking, consumer finance, equipment leasing, agricultural
finance, commercial finance, securities brokerage and investment banking, insurance agency and
brokerage services, computer and data processing services, trust services, investment advisory
services, mortgage-backed securities servicing and venture capital investment.

We have three operating segments for management reporting purposes: Community Banking; Wholesale
Banking; and Wealth, Brokerage and Retirement. The 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders includes
financial information and descriptions of these operating segments.

Competition

The financial services industry is highly competitive. Our subsidiaries compete with financial
services providers, such as banks, savings and loan associations, credit unions, finance companies,
mortgage banking companies, insurance companies, and mutual fund companies. They also face
increased competition from nonbank institutions such as brokerage houses, as well as from financial
services subsidiaries of commercial and manufacturing companies. Many of these competitors enjoy
fewer regulatory constraints and some may have lower cost structures.

Securities firms and insurance companies that elect to become financial holding companies may
acquire banks and other financial institutions. Combinations of this type could significantly
change the competitive environment in which we conduct business. The financial services industry is
also likely to become more competitive as further technological advances enable more companies to
provide financial services. These technological advances may diminish the





importance of depository institutions and other financial intermediaries in the transfer of funds
between parties.

REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

We describe below, and in Notes 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend Restrictions) and 25 (Regulatory and
Agency Capital Requirements) to Financial Statements included in the 2009 Annual Report to
Stockholders, the material elements of the regulatory framework applicable to us. The description
is qualified in its entirety by reference to the full text of the statutes, regulations and
policies that are described. Banking statutes, regulations and policies are continually under
review by Congress and state legislatures and federal and state regulatory agencies, and a change
in them, including changes in how they are interpreted or implemented, could have a material effect
on our business. The regulatory framework applicable to bank holding companies is intended to
protect depositors, federal deposit insurance funds, consumers and the banking system as a whole,
and not necessarily investors in bank holding companies such as the Company.

Statutes, regulations and policies could restrict our ability to diversify into other areas of
financial services, acquire depository institutions, and pay dividends on our capital stock. They
may also require us to provide financial support to one or more of our subsidiary banks, maintain
capital balances in excess of those desired by management, and pay higher deposit insurance
premiums as a result of a general deterioration in the financial condition of depository
institutions. See the “Risk Factors” section in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders for
additional information.

General

Parent Bank Holding Company.As a bank holding company, the Parent is subject to regulation under
the BHC Act and to inspection, examination and supervision by its primary regulator, the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System (Federal Reserve Board or FRB). The Parent is also subject
to the disclosure and regulatory requirements of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, both as administered by the SEC. As a listed company
on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE), the Parent is subject to the rules of the NYSE for listed
companies.

Subsidiary Banks.Our subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination
primarily by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency (OCC) and also by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) and the FRB. The foreign branches and representative offices of our
subsidiary national banks are subject to regulation and examination by their respective foreign
financial regulators as well as by the OCC and the FRB. Our state-chartered banks are subject to
primary federal regulation and examination by the FDIC and, in addition, are regulated and examined
by their respective state banking departments.





Nonbank Subsidiaries.Many of our nonbank subsidiaries are also subject to regulation by the FRB
and other applicable federal and state agencies. Our insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by applicable state insurance regulatory agencies, as well as the FRB. Our brokerage
subsidiaries are regulated by the SEC, the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (FINRA) and, in
some cases, the Municipal Securities Rulemaking Board, and state securities regulators. Our other
nonbank subsidiaries may be subject to the laws and regulations of the federal government and/or
the various states as well as foreign countries in which they conduct business.

Parent Bank Holding Company Activities

“Financial in Nature” Requirement.We became a financial holding company effective March 13, 2000.
We continue to maintain our status as a bank holding company for purposes of other FRB regulations.
As a bank holding company that has elected to become a financial holding company pursuant to the
BHC Act, we may affiliate with securities firms and insurance companies and engage in other
activities that are financial in nature or incidental or complementary to activities that are
financial in nature. “Financial in nature” activities include securities underwriting, dealing and
market making; sponsoring mutual funds and investment companies; insurance underwriting and agency;
merchant banking; and activities that the FRB, in consultation with the Secretary of the U.S.
Treasury, determines to be financial in nature or incidental to such financial activity.
“Complimentary activities” are activities that the FRB determines upon application to be
complementary to a financial activity and do not pose a safety and soundness risk.

Interstate Banking. Under the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Act (Riegle-Neal Act),
a bank holding company may acquire banks in states other than its home state, subject to any state
requirement that the bank has been organized and operating for a minimum period of





time, not to exceed five years, and the requirement that the bank holding company not control,
prior to or following the proposed acquisition, more than 10% of the total amount of deposits of
insured depository institutions nationwide or, unless the acquisition is the bank holding company’s
initial entry into the state, more than 30% of such deposits in the state (or such lesser or
greater amount set by the state).

The Riegle-Neal Act also authorizes banks to merge across state lines, thereby creating interstate
branches. Banks are also permitted to acquire and to establish new branches in other states where
authorized under the laws of those states.

Regulatory Approval.In determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition, federal bank
regulators will consider, among other factors, the effect of the acquisition on competition,
financial condition, and future prospects including current and projected capital ratios and
levels, the competence, experience, and integrity of management and record of compliance with laws
and regulations, the convenience and needs of the communities to be served, including the acquiring
institution’s record of compliance under the CRA, and the effectiveness of the acquiring
institution in combating money laundering activities.

Dividend Restrictions

The Parent is a legal entity separate and distinct from its subsidiary banks and other
subsidiaries. A significant source of funds to pay dividends on our common and preferred stock and
principal and interest on our debt is dividends from the Parent’s subsidiaries. Various federal and
state statutory provisions and regulations limit the amount of dividends the Parent’s subsidiary
banks and certain other subsidiaries may pay without regulatory approval. Federal bank regulatory
agencies have the authority to prohibit the Parent’s subsidiary banks from engaging in unsafe or
unsound practices in conducting their businesses. The payment of dividends, depending on the
financial condition of the bank in question, could be deemed an unsafe or unsound practice. The
ability of the Parent’s subsidiary banks to pay dividends in the future is currently, and could be
further, influenced by bank regulatory policies and capital guidelines. For information about the
restrictions applicable to the Parent’s subsidiary banks, see Note 3 (Cash, Loan and Dividend
Restrictions) to Financial Statements included in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders.

The Parent’s Board reduced its quarterly common stock dividend to $0.05 per share in second quarter
2009 to retain current period earnings and build common equity. As a participant in the Supervisory
Capital Assessment Program (SCAP) the Parent must consult with the Federal Reserve staff before
increasing the level of dividends. The FRB published clarifying supervisory guidance in first
quarter 2009,SR 09-4 Applying Supervisory Guidance and Regulations on the Payment of Dividends,
Stock Redemptions, and Stock Repurchases at Bank Holding Companies,pertaining to the FRB’s
criteria, assessment and approval process for reductions in capital. As with all 19 participants in
the SCAP, under this supervisory letter, before raising our common dividend, the Parent must
consult with the Federal Reserve staff and demonstrate that its actions are consistent with the
existing supervisory guidance, including demonstrating that its internal capital assessment process
is consistent with the complexity of its activities and risk profile.





Holding Company Structure

Transfer of Funds from Subsidiary Banks.The Parent’s subsidiary banks are subject to restrictions
under federal law that limit the transfer of funds or other items of value from such subsidiaries
to the Parent and its nonbank subsidiaries (including affiliates) in so-called “covered
transactions.” In general, covered transactions include loans and other extensions of credit,
investments and asset purchases, as well as certain other transactions involving the transfer of
value from a subsidiary bank to an affiliate or for the benefit of an affiliate. Unless an
exemption applies, covered transactions by a subsidiary bank with a single affiliate are limited to
10% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus and, with respect to all covered transactions with
affiliates in the aggregate, to 20% of the subsidiary bank’s capital and surplus. Also, loans and
extensions of credit to affiliates generally are required to be secured by qualifying collateral. A
bank’s transactions with its nonbank affiliates are also generally required to be on arm’s length
terms.

Source of Strength.The FRB has a policy that a bank holding company is expected to act as a
source of financial and managerial strength to each of its subsidiary banks and, under appropriate
circumstances, to commit resources to support each such subsidiary bank. This support may be
required at times when the bank holding company may not have the resources to provide the support.

The OCC may order an assessment of the Parent if the capital of one of its national bank
subsidiaries were to become impaired. If the Parent failed to pay the assessment within three
months, the OCC could order the sale of the Parent’s stock in the national bank to cover the
deficiency.

Capital loans by the Parent to any of its subsidiary banks are subordinate in right of payment to
deposits and certain other indebtedness of the subsidiary bank. In addition, in the event of the
Parent’s bankruptcy, any commitment by the Parent to a federal bank regulatory agency to maintain
the capital of a subsidiary bank will be assumed by the bankruptcy trustee and entitled to a
priority of payment.

Depositor Preference.The Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDI Act) provides that, in the event of
the “liquidation or other resolution” of an insured depository institution, the claims of
depositors of the institution (including the claims of the FDIC as subrogee of insured depositors)
and certain claims for administrative expenses of the FDIC as a receiver will have priority over
other general unsecured claims against the institution. If an insured depository institution fails,
insured and uninsured depositors, along with the FDIC, will have priority in payment ahead of
unsecured, nondeposit creditors, including the Parent, with respect to any extensions of credit
they have made to such insured depository institution.

Liability of Commonly Controlled Institutions.All of the Company’s subsidiary banks are insured
by the FDIC. FDIC-insured depository institutions can be held liable for any loss incurred, or
reasonably expected to be incurred, by the FDIC due to the default of an FDIC-insured depository
institution controlled by the same bank holding company, and for any assistance provided by the
FDIC to an FDIC-insured depository institution that is in danger of default and that is controlled
by the same bank holding company. “Default” means generally the





appointment of a conservator or receiver. “In danger of default” means generally the existence of
certain conditions indicating that a default is likely to occur in the absence of regulatory
assistance.

Capital Requirements

We are subject to regulatory capital requirements and guidelines imposed by the FRB, which are
substantially similar to those imposed by the OCC and the FDIC on depository institutions within
their jurisdictions. Under these guidelines, a depository institution’s or a holding company’s
assets and certain specified off-balance sheet commitments and obligations are assigned to various
risk categories. A depository institution’s or holding company’s capital, in turn, is classified
into one of three tiers. Tier 1 capital includes common equity, noncumulative perpetual preferred
stock, a limited amount of cumulative perpetual preferred stock at the holding company level, and
minority interests in equity accounts of consolidated subsidiaries, less goodwill and certain other
deductions. Tier 2 capital includes, among other things, perpetual preferred stock not qualified as
Tier 1 capital, subordinated debt, and allowances for loan and lease losses, subject to certain
limitations. Tier 3 capital includes qualifying unsecured subordinated debt. At least one-half of a
bank’s total capital must qualify as Tier 1 capital.

National banks and bank holding companies currently are required to maintain Tier 1 capital and the
sum of Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital equal to at least 4% and 8%, respectively, of their total
risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items, such as standby letters of
credit). The risk-based capital rules state that the capital requirements are minimum standards
based primarily on broad credit-risk considerations and do not take into account the other types of
risk a banking organization may be exposed to (e.g., interest rate, market, liquidity and
operational risks). The FRB may, therefore, set higher capital requirements for categories of banks
(e.g. systematically important firms), or for an individual bank as situations warrant. For
example, holding companies experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions are expected to
maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum supervisory levels, without
significant reliance on intangible assets. For these reasons, we are expected to operate with a
capital position well above the minimum ratios, with the amount of capital held to be determined by
us though an internal capital assessment that corresponds to our broad risk exposure.

The regulatory capital rules state that voting common stockholders’ equity should be the dominant
element within Tier 1 capital and that banking organizations should avoid overreliance on
non-common equity elements. During 2009, in conjunction with the FRB’s SCAP stress test process,
the ratio of Tier 1 common equity to risk weighted assets became significant as a measurement of
the predominance of common equity in Tier 1 capital. There is currently no mandated minimum ratio.

In June 2004, the Basel Committee on Bank Supervision published new international guidelines for
determining regulatory capital that are designed to be more risk sensitive than the existing
framework and to promote enhanced risk management practices among large, internationally active
banking organizations. The United States federal bank regulatory agencies each approved a final
rule similar to the international guidelines in November 2007. This new advance capital adequacy
framework is known as “Basel II,” and is intended to more closely align regulatory





In addition, the federal bank regulatory agencies have established minimum leverage (Tier 1 capital
to adjusted average total assets) guidelines for banks within their regulatory jurisdiction. These
guidelines provide for a minimum leverage ratio of 3% for banks that meet certain specified
criteria, including excellent asset quality, high liquidity, low interest rate exposure and the
highest regulatory rating. Institutions not meeting these criteria are required to maintain a
leverage ratio of 4%. Our Tier 1 and total risk-based capital ratios and leverage ratio as of
December 31, 2009, are included in Note 25 (Regulatory and Agency Capital Requirements) to
Financial Statements included in the 2009 Annual Report to Stockholders. At December 31, 2009, the
Company and each of its subsidiary banks were “well capitalized” under the applicable regulatory
capital adequacy guidelines.

In addition, in 2009, the FRB conducted a test under the SCAP to forecast capital levels for
financial institutions in an adverse economic scenario. Following the results of that stress test,
the FRB required the Company to generate a $13.7 billion regulatory capital buffer by November 9,
2009. The Company exceeded this requirement through an $8.6 billion (gross proceeds) common stock
offering, strong revenue performance, realization of deferred tax assets, and other internally
generated sources, including core deposit intangible amortization.

From time to time, the FRB and the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council (FFIEC)
propose changes and amendments to, and issue interpretations of, risk-based capital guidelines and
related reporting instructions. In addition, the FRB has closely monitored capital levels of the
institutions it supervises during the ongoing financial disruption, and may require such





institutions to modify capital levels based on FRB determinations. Such determinations, proposals
or interpretations could, if implemented in the future, affect our reported capital ratios and net
risk-adjusted assets.

As an additional means to identify problems in the financial management of depository institutions,
the FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to establish certain non-capital safety and
soundness standards for institutions for which they are the primary federal regulator. The
standards relate generally to operations and management, asset quality, interest rate exposure,
executive compensation and risk management. The agencies are authorized to take action against
institutions that fail to meet such standards.

The FDI Act requires federal bank regulatory agencies to take “prompt corrective action” with
respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that do not meet minimum capital requirements. A
depository institution’s treatment for purposes of the prompt corrective action provisions will
depend upon how its capital levels compare to various capital measures and certain other factors,
as established by regulation.

Deposit Insurance Assessments

Our bank subsidiaries, including Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. and Wachovia Bank, N.A., are members of the
Deposit Insurance Fund (DIF) maintained by the FDIC. Through the DIF, the FDIC insures the deposits
of our banks up to prescribed limits for each depositor. The DIF was formed March 31, 2006, upon
the merger of the Bank Insurance Fund and the Savings Insurance Fund in accordance with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Reform Act of 2005 (the Act). The Act established a range of 1.15% to 1.50%
within which the FDIC board of directors may set the Designated Reserve Ratio (reserve ratio or
DRR). The current target DRR is 1.25%. However, the Act has eliminated restrictions on premium
rates based on the DRR and granted the FDIC Board the discretion to price deposit insurance
according to risk for all insured institutions regardless of the level of the reserve ratio.

To maintain the DIF, member institutions are assessed an insurance premium based on their deposits
and their institutional risk category. The FDIC determines an institution’s risk category by
combining its supervisory ratings with its financial ratios and other risk measures. For large
institutions (assets of $10 billion or more), the FDIC generally determines risk by combining
supervisory ratings, the institution’s long-term debt issuer ratings and, beginning April 1, 2009,
certain financial ratios.

Recent depository institutional failures have resulted in a decline in the DIF reserve ratio to
below 1.15%. Under the Act, in October 2008 the FDIC Board adopted a Restoration Plan to return the
DIF to its statutorily mandated minimum reserve ratio of 1.15% within five years. In February 2009,
given the extraordinary circumstances facing the banking industry, the Board amended its
Restoration Plan to allow the Fund seven years to return to the ratio of 1.15%. In May 2009,
Congress amended the statute governing establishment of the Plan to allow the FDIC up to eight
years to return the DIF reserve ratio back to 1.15%, absent extraordinary circumstances.





In 2009, the FDIC undertook several measures in an effort to replenish the DIF. On February 27,
2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule modifying the risk-based assessment system and set new initial
base assessment rates beginning April 1, 2009. Rates range from a minimum of 12 cents per $100 of
domestic deposits for well-managed, well-capitalized institutions with the highest credit ratings,
to 45 cents per $100 for those institutions posing the most risk to the DIF. Risk-based adjustments
to the initial assessment rate may lower the rate to 7 cents per $100 of domestic deposits for
well-managed, well-capitalized banks with the highest credit ratings or raise the rate to 77.5
cents per $100 for depository institutions posing the most risk to the DIF.

On May 22, 2009, the FDIC adopted a final rule imposing a 5 basis point special assessment on each
insured depository institution’s assets minus Tier 1 capital as of June 30, 2009. The amount of the
special assessment for any institution was limited to 10 basis points times the institution’s
assessment base for the second quarter 2009. On September 29, 2009, the FDIC increased the annual
assessment rates uniformly by 3 basis points beginning in 2011. On November 17, 2009, the FDIC
amended its regulations to require insured institutions to prepay their estimated quarterly
risk-based assessments for the fourth quarter of 2009, and for all of 2010, 2011, and 2012. For
purposes of determining the prepayment, the FDIC used the institution’s assessment rate in effect
on September 30, 2009. The combined prepayment amount for our banking subsidiaries was $3.9
billion.

On January 12, 2010, the FDIC issued an advance notice of proposed rulemaking seeking
comment on ways the FDIC’s risk-based assessment system could be changed to account for the
risks posed by certain employee compensation programs. The FDIC is concerned with adjusting
risk-based assessment rates to adequately compensate the DIF for risks inherent in the design of
certain compensation programs. Any change to the risk-based assessment system would be
intended to improve the way risk is differentiated among institutions
rather than generate revenue for the DIF.

All FDIC-insured depository institutions must also pay an annual assessment towards interest
payments on bonds issued by the Financing Corporation, a federal corporation chartered under the
authority of the Federal Housing Finance Board. The bonds (commonly referred to as FICO bonds) were
issued to capitalize the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation. FDIC-insured depository
institutions paid approximately 1.02 to 1.14 cents per $100 of assessable deposits in 2009. The
FDIC established the FICO assessment rate effective for first quarter 2010 at 1.06 cents annually
per $100 of assessable deposits.

In 2009, under the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program, participating institutions paid a
premium of 10 cents per $100 to fully insure domestic noninterest-bearing transaction accounts. The
assessment was paid on account balances in excess of the insurance limits. Our bank subsidiaries
will not participate in this program beginning January 1, 2010.

The FDIC may terminate a depository institution’s deposit insurance upon a finding that the
institution’s financial condition is unsafe or unsound or that the institution has engaged in
unsafe or unsound practices or has violated any applicable rule, regulation, order or condition
enacted or imposed by the institution’s regulatory agency. The termination of deposit insurance for
one or more of our bank subsidiaries could have a material adverse effect on our earnings,
depending on the collective size of the particular banks involved.





Fiscal and Monetary Policies

Our business and earnings are affected significantly by the fiscal and monetary policies of the
federal government and its agencies. We are particularly affected by the policies of the FRB, which
regulates the supply of money and credit in the United States. Among the instruments of monetary
policy available to the FRB are (a) conducting open market operations in United States government
securities, (b) changing the discount rates of borrowings of depository institutions, (c) imposing
or changing reserve requirements against depository institutions’ deposits, and (d) imposing or
changing reserve requirements against certain borrowings by banks and their affiliates. These
methods are used in varying degrees and combinations to directly affect the availability of bank
loans and deposits, as well as the interest rates charged on loans and paid on deposits. The
policies of the FRB may have a material effect on our business, results of operations and financial
condition.

Privacy Provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act and Restrictions on Cross-Selling

Federal banking regulators, as required under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act (the GLB Act), have
adopted rules limiting the ability of banks and other financial institutions to disclose nonpublic
information about consumers to nonaffiliated third parties. The rules require disclosure of privacy
policies to consumers and, in some circumstances, allow consumers to prevent disclosure of certain
personal information to nonaffiliated third parties. The privacy provisions of the GLB Act affect
how consumer information is transmitted through diversified financial services companies and
conveyed to outside vendors.

Federal financial regulators have issued regulations under the Fair and Accurate Credit
Transactions Act, which have the effect of increasing the length of the waiting period, after
privacy disclosures are provided to new customers, before information can be shared among different
affiliated companies for the purpose of cross-selling products and services between those
affiliated companies. This may result in certain cross-sell programs being less effective than they
have been in the past.

Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002

The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (Sarbanes-Oxley) implemented a broad range of corporate governance
and accounting measures to increase corporate responsibility, to provide for enhanced penalties for
accounting and auditing improprieties at publicly traded companies, and to protect investors by
improving the accuracy and reliability of disclosures under federal securities laws. We are subject
to Sarbanes-Oxley because we are required to file periodic reports with the SEC under the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934. Among other things, Sarbanes-Oxley and/or its implementing
regulations have established new membership requirements and additional responsibilities for our
audit committee, imposed restrictions on the relationship between us and our outside auditors
(including restrictions on the types of non-audit services our auditors may provide to us), imposed
additional responsibilities for our external financial statements on our chief executive officer
and chief financial officer, expanded the disclosure requirements for our corporate insiders,
required our management to evaluate our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control
over financial reporting, and required our auditors to issue a report on our internal control over
financial reporting. The NYSE has imposed a number of new corporate governance requirements as
well.





Patriot Act

The Uniting and Strengthening America by Providing Appropriate Tools Required to Intercept and
Obstruct Terrorism Act of 2001 (Patriot Act) is intended to strengthen the ability of U.S. law
enforcement agencies and intelligence communities to work together to combat terrorism on a variety
of fronts. The Patriot Act has significant implications for depository institutions, brokers,
dealers and other businesses involved in the transfer of money. The Patriot Act requires us to
implement new or revised policies and procedures relating to anti-money laundering, compliance,
suspicious activities, and currency transaction reporting and due diligence on customers. The
Patriot Act also requires federal bank regulators to evaluate the effectiveness of an applicant in
combating money laundering in determining whether to approve a proposed bank acquisition.

U.S. Treasury’s TARP Capital Purchase Program

On October 28, 2008, we issued preferred stock and a warrant to purchase our common stock to the
U.S. Treasury as a participant in the TARP Capital Purchase Program. On December 23, 2009, we
redeemed all of the preferred stock issued to the U.S. Treasury and repaid the entire $25 billion
investment plus accrued dividends. The U.S. Treasury continues to hold the warrant. During the
period that the U.S. Treasury owned the preferred stock, we were subject to numerous additional
regulations, including restrictions on our ability to increase our common stock dividend,
limitations on the compensation arrangements for our senior executive officers and the next 20 most
highly compensated employees, and additional corporate governance standards. Following the
redemption of the preferred stock, we are no longer subject to these regulations other than certain
reporting and certification obligations related to activities during 2009.

FDIC Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program

We participated in the FDIC’s Temporary Liquidity Guarantee Program (TLGP). The TLGP had two
components: the Debt Guarantee Program, which provided a temporary guarantee of newly issued senior
unsecured debt issued by eligible entities; and the Transaction Account Guarantee Program, which
provided a temporary unlimited guarantee of funds in noninterest-bearing transaction accounts at
FDIC-insured institutions. The Debt Guarantee Program expired on October 31, 2009, and Wells Fargo
opted out of the Transaction Account Guarantee Program effective December 31, 2009.

Future Legislation

In light of current conditions in the U.S. and global financial markets and the U.S. and global
economy, legislators, the presidential administration and regulators have increased their focus on
the regulation of the financial services industry. Proposals that could substantially intensify the
regulation of the financial services industry have been and are expected to continue to be
introduced in the U.S. Congress, in state legislatures and from applicable regulatory authorities.
These proposals may change banking statutes and regulation and our operating environment in
substantial and unpredictable ways. If enacted, these proposals could increase or decrease our cost
of doing business, impact our compensation structure, limit or expand permissible activities





or affect the competitive balance among banks, savings associations, credit unions, and other
financial institutions. We cannot predict whether any of these proposals will be enacted and, if
enacted, the effect that it, or any implementing regulations, would have on our business, results
of operations or financial condition.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION

Additional information in response to this Item 1 can be found in the 2009 Annual Report to
Stockholders under “Financial Review” on pages 34-87 and under “Financial Statements” on pages
90-186. That information is incorporated into this report by reference.



