
10-K405
w46360e10-k405.txt
FORM 10-K FOR AMETEK FOR 2000




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934
                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                       OR

[]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
          FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM                TO

                           COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12981

                            -----------------------------

                                    AMETEK, INC.
               (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



                                 (610) 647-2121
              REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:

SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:





     INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS. YES  [X]  NO  []

     INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K.   [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of February 28, 2001, was $872,680,247.

     The number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2001,
was 32,783,926.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     Part III incorporates information by reference from the Proxy Statement for
the Annual Meeting of Stockholders on May 22, 2001.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                  AMETEK, INC.

                          2000 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT
                               




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

GENERAL DEVELOPMENT OF BUSINESS

     AMETEK, Inc. ("AMETEK" or the "Company") was incorporated in Delaware in
1986 and is the successor to AMETEK, Inc., which was originally incorporated in
Delaware in 1930 under the name of American Machine and Metals, Inc. The Company
maintains its principal executive offices in suburban Philadelphia at 37 North
Valley Road, Paoli, PA 19301. AMETEK is a leading global manufacturer of
electronic instruments and electric motors with operations in North America,
Europe, Asia and South America. The Company is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange (symbol: AME). AMETEK is a component of the S&P MidCap 400 and the
Russell 2000 indices. For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company achieved
$1 billion in sales for the first time. Approximately one-third of 2000 sales
were to international markets.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     The Company markets its products worldwide through two operating groups,
the Electronic Instruments Group ("EIG") and the Electromechanical Group
("EMG"). EIG builds technologically advanced monitoring, testing, and
calibration instruments, and display devices for the aerospace, power
generation, process and industrial markets. The Company believes that EMG is the
world's largest manufacturer of air-moving electric motors for vacuum cleaners
and other floor-care products, and is a preeminent producer of brushless
air-moving motors for aerospace, mass-transit, medical and computer markets. EMG
also produces specialty metals for the electronics, telecommunications,
consumer, automotive and other markets. The Company's recently expanded product
offering includes switches for telecommunications, and it continues to grow
through acquisitions focused on niche markets in instrumentation, technical
motors and specialty metals.

COMPETITIVE STRENGTHS

     Management believes that the Company has several significant competitive
advantages, which assist it in sustaining and enhancing its market positions.
The Company's principal strengths include:

     Significant Market Share.  The Company maintains significant market shares
in many of its targeted niche markets, because of its ability to produce and
deliver high quality products at a low cost. In the EIG segment, the Company
maintains significant positions in many of its niche market segments within the
aerospace, power instrument, process, and industrial instrumentation markets. In
the EMG segment, the Company is the largest manufacturer of air-moving electric
motors for the global floor-care market. Management believes that the Company's
significant market share, along with its newest and expanded motor plants,
combining advanced technology and lower cost, play key roles in expanding its
electromechanical product lines and providing new market opportunities.

     Technological and Development Capabilities.  AMETEK believes it has certain
technological advantages over its competitors, that allow it to maintain leading
market positions by developing innovative products. The Company has historically
grown its business by extending its technical expertise into the manufacture of
customized products for its customers, and through acquisitions. EIG competes in
specialized instrumentation markets, including process measurement,
heavy-vehicle dashboard and aerospace instruments, primarily on the basis of
product innovation. An example of this innovation has been demonstrated with the
Company's leverage of its core competency in jet engine temperature sensors to
design a flame-sensor system for a broad range of industrial and utility
applications including land-based gas turbines. The Company has an established
reputation for technological innovation, service and reliability, which has led
to successful strategic alliances. EMG focuses on enhancing motor-blower
cost-performance through advances in power, efficiency, weight and quieter
operation. The Company believes that EMG's technical leadership has helped to
create a broad range of product features that have opened new markets, such as
outdoor power equipment.



     Efficient and Low-Cost Manufacturing Operations.  The Company's competitive
cost position is a significant advantage in growing its businesses and its
overall global market share. The Company has established motor plants in China,
the Czech Republic, Mexico and Brazil to lower manufacturing costs and achieve
strategic proximity to customers, enhancing its ability to increase
international sales and market share. Additionally, several electronics
instruments businesses are also locating a portion of their manufacturing
operations in low cost locales. Furthermore, strategic acquisitions, joint
ventures and alliances in Europe, North America and Asia have resulted in
additional synergies and cost savings through the consolidation of operations,
new product lines and distribution channels, and low-cost manufacturing
operations benefiting both operating groups.

     Experienced Management Team.  Another important component of the Company's
recent success has been the continued strength of its management team and its
commitment to the performance of the Company. In November 2000, the Board of
Directors of the Company announced its President and Chief Executive Officer had
been elected as Chairman of the Board of Directors. The election completes the
Company's executive management transition, which commenced in 1996. Over the
past several years, the Company has made considerable advances in its
operational excellence initiatives, including self-directed work teams and
expanded colleague participation. AMETEK's senior management has extensive
experience in its businesses and is financially committed to the Company's
success through Company stock ownership guidelines.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

     AMETEK's objectives are to increase the Company's earnings growth and
financial returns through a combination of operating and financial strategies.
Operational strategies include business acquisitions and cost reduction programs
designed to achieve double-digit annual percentage growth in earnings per share
and a superior return on total capital. Financial strategies have included
public debt issuance, bank debt refinancing, local source financing in certain
foreign countries, accounts receivable securitization and share repurchases.
AMETEK's strong commitment to continuing earnings growth led the Company to
accelerate the implementation of certain cost reduction programs at the end of
1998 and again in the fourth quarter of 2000 to achieve its best-cost
objectives.

     The Company's long-term growth strategy consists of the following four
elements:

     Strategic Acquisitions and Alliances.  In 2000, acquisitions played an
important role in driving the growth of the Company. AMETEK completed two
strategic acquisitions in 2000. These businesses, with combined annualized sales
of $104 million, extended AMETEK's technology base, market channels and product
offerings. In the past two years, the Company has completed six acquisitions
with $225 million in annualized sales. Those acquisitions have enhanced AMETEK's
position in aerospace and process instruments, electromechanical products,
electric power generation instruments and food service controls. Through these
and prior acquisitions, the Company's management team has gained considerable
experience in successfully acquiring and integrating businesses. The Company
intends to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions, both domestically and
internationally, to expand and strengthen its product lines, improve its market
share positions and increase earnings through sales growth (see Recent
Acquisitions).

     Global and Market Expansion.  AMETEK's largest international presence is in
Europe where it holds a leading market position in floorcare motors. The
Company's operations in Denmark, Italy, Germany, the Czech Republic and the
United Kingdom provide design and engineering capability, product line breadth,
enhanced European distribution channels, and lower cost production in Europe.
Growth in Mexico, Asia, and South America has resulted from the opening and
expansion of low-cost electric motor and instruments plant in Reynosa, Mexico,
and motor manufacturing plants in Shanghai, China and near Sao Paulo, Brazil.
Coupled with a direct sales and marketing presence in Singapore and the
continuing success of AmeKai - the Company's joint venture in China and Taiwan
that manufactures low-cost pressure gauges for world markets, AMETEK continues
to broaden its geographic market expansion and market penetration.

     New Product Development.  The Company seeks to improve its current market
position and enter complementary markets through its product development
programs. In the EIG segment, the Company applies concurrent engineering to
develop specialized products for the markets in which it competes. In 2000


EIG was selected by a major customer to provide the engine sensor suite for a
new jet engine. The new jet engine is undergoing detailed design using
concurrent engineering. After testing in 2002, it is scheduled for certification
by the U.S. Federal Aviation Administration in 2003. EIG's new Dycor(R) CG
1100-RTP oxygen analyzer was developed specifically for the semiconductor
industry's latest rapid thermal processing (RTP) silicon wafer fabrication
systems. The new Dycor analyzer improves process yields and maximizes RTP
equipment throughput by detecting oxygen contamination at the parts-per-million
level and allowing continued wafer production as soon as the oxygen content is
at acceptable operating levels. EIG introduced a new hydrogen sulfide analyzer
in 2000 completing a suite of advanced monitoring tools for the natural gas
industry. The new analyzer offers an economical solution for identifying
potentially costly off-spec gas and represents a significant advance over
previous technologies. During 2000, EMG added to its INFIN-A-TEK(R) family of
switched-reluctance vacuum motors with a new two-stage vacuum blower that
complements the INFIN-A-TEK vacuum motor introduced in 1999. EMG now offers a
family of INFIN-A-TEK motors for a range of floor-care equipment and other
applications that currently use series universal vacuum motors, such as material
handling devices. EMG also is one of the world's premier producers of advanced
brushless direct-current (DC) motors and motor-blowers. EMG brushless motors are
used in aerospace, military, business machine, mass-transit, and medical
applications. During 2000, EMG extended its line of compact motors.

     Operational Excellence.  The Company seeks to further improve its current
market position and maintain its low cost position through a continuation of its
operational excellence strategy. The Company believes its dedication to focusing
on flow manufacturing, participative management culture, operating efficiency
and asset management increases the Company's manufacturing quality, return on
operating assets and customer satisfaction while significantly shortening
production cycle times and lowering its operating and administrative costs. This
strategy has served to strengthen the Company's competitive position across its
business lines. Operational excellence is the keystone strategy for improving
the Company's profit margins, and it has assisted in successfully achieving
synergies from the integration of acquired companies.

     International alliances such as AmeKai in China and Taiwan have provided
further low-cost international manufacturing sources. The Company's focus on
team-based, demand flow manufacturing and participative management also enabled
it to complete a motor production consolidation in Europe, plant expansions in
Brazil, China, and Mexico, and other cost-reduction initiatives.

2000 OVERVIEW

OPERATING PERFORMANCE

     In 2000, AMETEK achieved record sales in excess of $1 billion. It also
achieved its seventh consecutive year of double-digit percentage growth in
income and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations. Acquisitions,
growth in certain key markets and cost reduction initiatives were the primary
contributors to this strong performance.

     The Company set records for operating income, net income, and diluted
earnings per share from continuing operations in 2000.

SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM

     Under the Company's current $50 million share repurchase authorization,
approximately $27 million is available for share repurchases. During 2000, the
Company purchased 83,500 shares of its common stock.

RECENT ACQUISITIONS

     In August 2000, the Company acquired the assets of certain businesses of
Prestolite Electric Incorporated ("Prestolite") for approximately $61 million in
cash. Prestolite manufactures switches, industrial battery chargers and
direct-current (DC) motors. The acquisition is now part of EMG.

     In September 2000, the Company acquired the assets of Rochester Instruments
Systems ("RiS") along with the power instrumentation product line of a related
United Kingdom based company for approximately $20 million in cash. RiS is a
leading supplier of measurement instruments for the electric power generation
and distribution market. The acquisition is now part of EIG.



FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT OPERATING SEGMENTS, FOREIGN OPERATIONS, AND EXPORT
SALES

     Reportable segment and geographic information is shown on pages 41 through
43 this report.

     One of the Company's four growth strategies is global and market expansion,
which is subject to certain risks that are inherent in conducting business
outside the United States. Those include fluctuation in currency exchange rates
and controls, restrictions on the movement of funds, import and export controls,
and other economic, political and regulatory policies of the countries in which
business is conducted. The Company's high level of foreign sales has resulted
from a combination of export sales of products manufactured in the United
States, sales from overseas operations, and sales resulting from strategic
alliances.

NARRATIVE DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

     The products and markets of each operating segment are described below:

  EIG

     EIG applies its specialized market focus and superior technology to produce
monitoring, calibration, and display instruments for the aerospace, power,
process, and industrial markets.

     EIG's growth is based on the four corporate strategies. EIG designs
products for specific customer applications, which are significantly different
from, or technologically ahead of competitive products. EIG has reduced costs by
implementing operational improvements, achieving acquisition synergies,
improving supply chain management, and workforce reductions. EIG is among the
leaders in many of the specialized markets it serves, including aerospace
fuel-flow meters, heavy-vehicle instrument panels, oxygen analyzers, level
measurement products, power instruments, and pressure gauges. About 26% of the
2000 sales were to markets outside the United States.

     EIG employs approximately 3,800 people, of which approximately 500 are
covered by collective bargaining agreements. It has 27 manufacturing facilities:
21 in the United States, 5 in Europe and one in Canada.

     Aerospace and Power Instruments Market and Product Lines

     Approximately 37% of EIG revenues are from the sale of aerospace and power
instruments. Aerospace products include airborne data systems, turbine engine
temperature measurement products, vibration-monitoring systems, indicators and
displays, fuel and fluid measurement products and sensors, switches, cable
harnesses and transducers. Its customers are the leading producers of airframes
and jet engines for commercial airlines and aircraft operators. EIG serves all
segments of commercial aerospace, including helicopters, business jets, commuter
aircraft, and commercial airliners. It also serves, in a limited capacity, the
aerospace aftermarket. Customer support includes parts warehousing and
maintenance programs. Aerospace products are designed to customer specifications
at design centers in Sellersville, PA, Wilmington, MA, and Costa Mesa, CA, and
are manufactured to stringent operational and reliability requirements.
Manufacturing operations are located in Binghamton, NY, Wilmington, MA, and
Costa Mesa, CA. A repair and maintenance facility is located near Seattle, WA.

     The aerospace business operates in specialized markets, where its products
have a technological and/or cost advantage. Its 50 plus years of experience as
an aerospace supplier and its long-standing customer relationships with global
commercial aircraft OEMs are significant competitive advantages. Among other
aircraft, its newest products are in service on the Boeing 777 airliner, the
Bombardier Global Express business jet and the Agusta 109 helicopter. Recent
acquisitions have complemented and expanded EIG's core sensor and transducer
product line used in a wide range of industrial and aerospace applications.

     The September 2000 acquisition of Rochester Instruments complements and
expands EIG's position in electric power instruments, which includes a full
suite of instrumentation for gas turbines derived from core technology and is
being developed by the Company for the aerospace industry. Power instruments
include



power transducers and meters, event and transient recorders, annunicators, and
alarm monitoring systems to measure, monitor and record variables in the
generation and distribution of electric power.

     Process Instruments Market and Product Lines

     Approximately 31% of EIG sales are process measurement, industrial, and
analytical instruments. These include pressure gauges and transducers; oxygen,
moisture, combustion and liquid analyzers, and emission monitors; electronic
pressure sensors and transmitters. The focus is on the process industry, which
includes refinery and petrochemical plants, power generation, specialty gas,
water and waste treatment, natural gas distribution, and semiconductor
fabrication, servicing the industrial process control and air emissions
monitoring markets, as well as products providing for monitoring sulfur
emissions, where AMETEK is already a world leader. The acquisition of
Drexelbrook and Patriot Sensors in 1999 expands AMETEK's level measurement
instrumentation business. Drexelbrook and Patriot Sensors operate as separate
units of a new division within EIG - AMETEK Sensor Technology. EIG is one of the
leaders in the North American pressure gauge market, which has been adversely
affected by low-cost offshore products. EIG has addressed this issue through a
50%-owned joint venture that manufactures low-cost pressure gauges in China and
Taiwan, where the joint venture also markets those products. EIG is refocusing
its domestic manufacturing on more advanced pressure measurement products.

     Industrial Instrumentation Markets and Product Lines

     Approximately 32% of EIG sales are to the industrial instrumentation
market. EIG's Mansfield & Green product line which was combined with the
Chatillon and Lloyd Instruments product lines to form the Test and Calibration
Instruments (T&CI) division, is well-positioned for global expansion in the $800
million force measurement market. T&CI manufactures a comprehensive line of
force-measurement and material testing devices in the United States and Europe,
including hand-held gauges, electronic instruments and test stands. It also
provides analytical software and support services. T&CI's products are marketed
worldwide under the Chatillon, Lloyd, Erichsen, and Davenport brand names
through a global network of distributors, sales representatives, and direct
sales.

     The Dixson business provides EIG with a strong position in the U.S.
heavy-truck instrument market, including agricultural, construction, and
off-road vehicles. Dixson has a market position in Europe, and product
development capabilities in solid-state instruments that primarily monitor
engine-operating parameters. EIG also has a leading position in the food service
instrumentation business as a result of the 1999 acquisition of the NCC
business. This business fits strategically with the custom electronic controls
produced by Dixson for heavy-vehicle, foodservice, and industrial markets. NCC
is a leading source for stand-alone and integrated timing controls for the
foodservice industry.

     The Chemical Products division produces silicas, phenolic resins, and
Teflon(R) (a registered trademark of DuPont) polymer products for
high-temperature and highly corrosive applications and heat exchangers. Product
applications include protective welding curtains and products for the filtering
of molten metal. EIG also is a custom compounder of specialty resins and
thermoplastics with enhanced properties, such as fire retardance and improved
adhesion. Markets include electronics, automotive parts, appliances, and
telecommunications.

     Customers

     EIG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that
customer would have a material adverse effect on EIG's operations. Approximately
20% of EIG's 2000 sales were made to its five largest customers.

  EMG

     EMG is the world's largest producer of high-speed, air-moving electric
motors for OEMs of floor-care products. The design and manufacture of small
vacuum motors with fans rotating at high speeds requires advanced manufacturing
technology. EMG addresses complex motor-blower dynamics including heat, noise,


vibration, and wear, in designing its customized products. The Group's specialty
motors business is the world leader in the brushless DC motor market. EMG also
produces specialty metal products used in the electronics, telecommunications,
consumer, automotive, and other markets. EMG has a leading market share for its
electric motors in North America and Western Europe and a growing share in the
Pacific Rim. It has expanded its operations worldwide by leveraging
manufacturing and technological expertise developed over many years.

     EMG also has developed its business by extending its technological
expertise in manufacturing high-speed, air-moving electric motors to a variety
of targeted markets, with its primary focus currently on the floor-care market
and small appliances. EMG has formed alliances with OEM customers to design and
manufacture cost-effective products for numerous floor-care applications. EMG
also is using its technological and marketing expertise to further penetrate new
markets, such as the outdoor power equipment market, where it is establishing
alliances with major customers.

     To achieve further global expansion, EMG is building on its market
leadership in the floor-care markets of North America and Europe through
initiatives in Eastern Europe, Latin America, and the Pacific Rim. Electric
motor production operations in China, Mexico, the Czech Republic and Brazil,
began contributing to production capacity late in 1999. Those expanding
operations are focusing on reducing costs and expanding global markets. About
37% of EMG's 2000 sales were to customers outside the United States.

     EMG employs approximately 4,200 people, of whom approximately 1,800 are
covered by collective bargaining agreements. It has 20 manufacturing facilities:
13 in the United States, 2 in Italy, and one each in China, the Czech Republic,
Mexico, Brazil, and the United Kingdom. In 2000, the Company completed the
previously announced consolidation of two of its Italian motor plants, serving
the floor-care market. EMG also expanded the operations of its Italian motor
division to an existing motor plant in the Czech Republic, and it completed the
closure of the Group's Cambridge, Ohio plant. EMG's flexible production lines
are designed for low-cost, high-volume operations. Advanced technological
resources enable EMG to provide its customers with custom-designed products. The
Group produced approximately 26 million motors in 2000, aided by the Prestolite
acquisition in August 2000, and increased production in Brazil. This is compared
with 22 million motors produced in 1999.

     Floor-Care Market and Product Line

     About 47% of EMG sales are to floor-care markets, where it has the leading
share through sales of air-moving electric motors to most of the world's major
floor-care OEMs. The customers include vertically integrated OEMs that produce
some of their own motors. EMG produces motor-blowers for a full range of
floor-care products, ranging from hand-held, canister, and upright vacuums to
central vacuums for residential use. High-performance vacuum motors also are
marketed for commercial and industrial applications.

     A portion of sales initiatives in the global floor-care business has been
directed toward marketing products to vertically integrated vacuum cleaner
manufacturers that decide to outsource all or part of their motor production to
realize the economic and operational advantages of reducing or discontinuing
their own motor production. By purchasing motors from EMG, vacuum cleaner
manufacturers can reduce the otherwise substantial capital investment necessary
to manufacture motors for rapidly changing consumer demands. The global consumer
trend toward owning a variety of floor-care products increases the need for
availability of these products by OEMs, which are striving to operate more
cost-effectively and to be responsive to customer needs.

     EMG's new product development focuses on enhancing motor-blower
cost-performance through advances in power, efficiency, size, weight, and
quieter operation. EMG's INFIN-A-TEK motor-blower is the first switched
reluctance electric motor-blower for the floor-care market.

     EMG has a significant position in the European floor-care market. The
electric motors it produces in Italy and the Czech Republic are similar to those
produced in the United States.



     Brushless Motor Market and Product Line

     EMG's brushless motors are used in computer equipment, business machines,
and medical equipment. Brushless motors offer spark-free commutation and high
reliability. They are increasingly utilized in medical and other applications in
which long life and speed control are important. The Rotron motor business and
its integration with the technical motor division to form AMETEK Rotron, has
added to AMETEK's already strong core competency in brushless air-moving motors.
With Rotron, AMETEK now has significant growth opportunities in the expanding
brushless motor market. Continuing product developments include the use of
brushless motors in systems designed to assist patients with sleep breathing
disorders, hospital air-mattresses, and gasoline fume-recovery systems used by
gas stations, as well as electronic power devices for the military,
mass-transit, and aerospace markets. In 1999 EMG's technical motor division
launched its DurA-tek(TM) motor, a three-inch drop-in replacement for brush-type
motors. It also introduced a redesigned line of the MICRO-Jammer(TM)
motor-blower and an enhanced version of the MINIJAMMER(TM) brushless DC
motor-blower for medical devices, dental equipment, business machines and a host
of commercial applications.

     Outdoor Power Equipment Market and Product Line

     EMG manufactures motors for the outdoor power equipment market, including
lawn and garden equipment, as well as electric chain saws, high-pressure power
washers, and low-pressure paint sprayers. EMG is capitalizing on its
manufacturing infrastructure, technical expertise, and global marketing
strengths in air-moving electric motors to create growth opportunities in this
market, such as expanding applications for the Group's World Lamination(TM)
design motor and WorldLamb(TM) motor-blowers, originally designed for floor-care
applications, to include the outdoor power equipment market. EMG now serves most
of the world's major producers of outdoor power equipment.

     Specialty Metals Markets and Product Line

     The Specialty Metals business manufactures high-purity, engineered metal
powders, high-purity strip and wire from metal powders, and clad products, with
specific metallurgical properties. Its niche market focus is based upon
proprietary manufacturing technology and strong customer relations. Its expanded
product lines of nickel and copper-based wire alloys, have added to the
Company's capabilities in the manufacturing of specialty wire for electronic,
communication, and computer applications. The Company has also expanded its
product line of metal matrix composites, which are used in thermal management
applications for electronics products by acquiring an exclusive license to
produce composites of silicon-carbide aluminum in the United States. Other new
product developments include patented Ultra(TM) stainless steel metal powders
and copper-based Spinodal(TM) alloys. Markets served by the business include
electronics, telecommunications, automotive, consumer products, and energy
production.

     Prestolite Switch, Industrial Battery Chargers and DC Motor Market and
Product Lines

     The August 2000 acquisition of the Prestolite Electric switch, industrial
battery charger, and direct-current (DC) motor businesses have greatly expanded
the products offered by EMG. The switch business produces contactors, solenoids,
and other electromechanical devices for the telecommunications and
materials-handling markets. The battery charger business designs and
manufactures high-quality industrial battery chargers for use in the
materials-handling market. These businesses have strong market positions,
superior technologies, and reputations for quality and service. They were
combined into a new operating division, Prestolite Power and Switch, that will
serve as a platform for additional acquisitions. The DC motor products were
folded into AMETEK's global specialty motors business.

     Customers

     EMG is not dependent on any single customer such that the loss of that
customer would have a material adverse effect on EMG's operations. Approximately
17% of EMG's sales for 2000 were made to its five largest customers.



MARKETING

     Generally, the Company's marketing efforts are organized and carried out at
the group and division levels. EIG makes significant use of distributors and
sales representatives in marketing its products. However, its specialized
customer base of aircraft and jet engine manufacturers are served primarily by
its direct sales engineers. Given the similarity and technical nature of its
many products as well as its significant worldwide market share, EMG conducts
most of its domestic and international marketing activities through a direct
sales force, and makes some use of sales representatives and distributors both
in the U.S. and in other countries.

COMPETITION

     In general, most of the Company's markets are highly competitive. The
principal elements of competition for the Company's products are price, product
technology, distribution, quality, and service.

     In the markets served by EIG, the Company believes that it is one of the
world's largest pressure gauge manufacturers, ranks among the leading U.S.
producers of certain measuring and control instruments, and is a leading
manufacturer in the U.S. heavy vehicle instrumentation and power instruments
markets. It also is one of the leading instrument and sensor suppliers to
commercial aviation. Competition is strong and could intensify for certain EIG
products especially in the Company's pressure gauge and heavy vehicle
instrumentation businesses. Both of these businesses have several strong
competitors. In the process and analytical instruments markets, numerous
companies in each specialized market compete on the basis of product quality,
performance, and innovation. The Company's aerospace and power instruments
businesses have a number of diversified competitors, which vary depending on the
specific market niche.

     EMG has several U.S. based competitors in the U.S. floor-care market.
Competition is increasing from Asian motor manufacturers who serve the U.S.
floor-care market. There is potential competition from vertically integrated
manufacturers of floor-care products that produce their own motor-blowers. Many
of these manufacturers would also be potential EMG customers if they decided to
outsource their motor production. In Europe, competition comes from a small
group of large international competitors and numerous small competitors. EMG's
Prestolite businesses have competition from a limited number of companies in
each of their markets. Some competitors have greater financial and technical
resources. Competition is generally based on product innovation, performance and
price. EMG's specialty metal products business has several specialized product
lines that have few competitors. The primary competition is from alternative
materials and processes.

BACKLOG AND SEASONAL VARIATIONS OF BUSINESS

     The Company's approximate backlog of unfilled orders by business segment at
the dates specified was as follows:



     Of the total backlog of unfilled orders at December 31, 2000, approximately
93% is expected to be shipped by December 31, 2001. The Company believes that
neither its business as a whole, nor either of its operating segments, is
subject to significant seasonal variations, although certain individual
operations experience some seasonal variability.

RAW MATERIALS

     The Company's business segments obtain raw materials and supplies from a
variety of sources, and generally from more than one supplier. However, for EMG,
certain items, including various base metals and



certain steel components, are available only from a limited number of suppliers.
The Company believes its sources and supplies of raw materials are adequate for
its needs.

RESEARCH, PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND ENGINEERING

     The Company is committed to research, product development, and engineering
activities that are designed to identify and develop potential new and improved
products or enhance existing products. Research, product development, and
engineering costs during the past three years were $45.9 million, $42.2 million
and $42.1 million, in 2000, 1999, and 1998 respectively. These amounts included
net Company-funded research and development expenses of $23.8 million, $21.6
million and $23.4 million, respectively. Such expenditures were directed toward
the development of new products and processes, and the improvement of existing
products and processes.

ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

     Information with respect to environmental compliance by the Company is set
forth on page 20 of this report in the section of Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations entitled
"Environmental Matters."

PATENTS, LICENSES, AND TRADEMARKS

     The Company owns numerous unexpired U.S. patents, and foreign patents,
including counterparts of its more important U.S. patents, in the major
industrial countries of the world. The Company is a licensor or licensee under
patent agreements of various types, and its products are marketed under various
registered and unregistered U.S. and foreign trademarks and trade names.
However, the Company does not consider any single patent or trademark, or any
group thereof, essential either to its business as a whole or to either of its
business segments. The annual royalties received or paid under license
agreements are not significant to either of its business segments or to the
Company's overall operations.

EMPLOYEES

     At December 31, 2000, the Company employed approximately 8,100 individuals
in its EMG, EIG and corporate operations, of which approximately 2,300 were
covered by collective bargaining agreements.

WORKING CAPITAL PRACTICES

     The Company does not have extraordinary working capital requirements in
either of its business segments. Customers generally are billed at normal trade
terms, which may include extended payment provisions. Inventories are closely
controlled and maintained at levels related to production cycles and are
responsive to the normal delivery requirements of customers.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company has 47 operating plant facilities in 16 states and 10 foreign
countries. Of these facilities, 32 are owned by the Company and 19 are leased.
The properties owned by the Company consist of approximately 554 acres, of which
approximately 3.8 million square feet are under roof. Under lease is a total of
approximately 764,000 square feet. The leases expire over a range of years from
2001 to 2015, with renewal options for varying terms contained in most of the
leases. Production facilities in Taiwan, China and Korea provide the Company
with additional production capacity through the Company's 50% ownership in a
joint venture. The Company also has one idle production facility available for
sale. The Company's executive offices in Paoli, PA occupy approximately 34,000
square feet under a lease that will expire in 2002.



     The Company's machinery, plants, and offices are in satisfactory operating
condition and are adequate for the uses to which they are put. The operating
facilities of the Company by business segment are summarized in the following
table:



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     None.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's security holders,
through the solicitation of proxies or otherwise, during the last quarter of the
fiscal year ended December 31, 2000.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The principal market on which the Company's common stock is traded is the
New York Stock Exchange. The Company's common stock is also listed on the
Pacific Exchange, Inc. On February 28, 2001, there were approximately 2,800
record holders of the Company's common stock.

     Market price and dividend information with respect to the Company's common
stock are set forth on pages 43 and 44 in the section of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements entitled "Quarterly Financial Data
(Unaudited)." Future dividend payments by the Company will be dependent on
future earnings, financial requirements, contractual provisions of debt
agreements, and other relevant factors.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA





- ---------------
(1) Amounts in 1998 include a nonrecurring pretax charge for cost reduction
    initiatives totaling $8.0 million, ($4.8 million after-tax or $0.14 per
    diluted share).

(2) Amounts in 1998 include an extraordinary loss on the early repayment of debt
    of $8.7 million ($0.26 per diluted share). Amounts in 1997 and 1996 include
    discontinued operations of the former Water Filtration Business.

(3) See description of nonrecurring charge in Note 1 above. All amounts are
    based on continuing operations.

(4) EBITDA represents income from continuing operations before interest, taxes,
    depreciation and amortization, amortization of deferred financing costs, and
    nonrecurring items. It should not be considered, however, as an alternative
    to operating income as an indicator of the Company's operating performance,
    or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of the Company's overall
    liquidity as presented in the Company's financial statements. Furthermore,
    EBITDA measures shown for the Company may not be comparable to similarly
    titled measures given by other companies.

(5) Amount in 2000 and 1999 excludes $1 million and $44 million, respectively,
    of net cash proceeds received from an accounts receivable securitization
    program.

(6) Without considering the effect of the accounts receivable securitization
    program referred to in note 5 above; total debt as a percentage of
    capitalization at December 31, 2000 and 1999 would have been 59.1% and
    63.6%, respectively.



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

     Management's discussion and analysis of the Company's financial condition
and results of operations set forth below should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements of the Company and the related notes shown in
the index on page 22 of this report.

  Business Overview

     In 2000, the Company reported record sales, operating income, net income
and diluted earnings per share that resulted in double-digit percentage growth
when compared with 1999. The Company continues to achieve several major
objectives under its four growth strategies: Strategic Acquisitions and
Alliances, Global and Market Expansion, New Products and Operational Excellence.
Significant events of 2000 were:

     - Sales exceeded $1 billion for the first time in the Company's history.

     - The seventh consecutive year of double-digit percentage growth in
       earnings per share from continuing operations.

     - The completion of two new business acquisitions: The August acquisition
       of businesses that produce switches, industrial battery chargers, and
       direct-current (DC) motors for the telecommunications and
       material-handling markets, which is included within the Electromechanical
       Group (EMG), and the September acquisition of a business that produces
       power measurement instruments and is included within the Electronic
       Instruments Group (EIG).

     - Continuing with the Company's global plan to lower its cost structure,
       operational excellence initiatives, in 2000, included the shift of
       production to lower-cost facilities in Mexico, China, Brazil and the
       Czech Republic. This action along with the consolidation of the Company's
       European motor operations resulted in improved operating profit margins
       for both the EIG and the EMG business segments.

     - The Company continued its emphasis on investment in research, development
       and engineering, spending $45.9 million in 2000, an increase of 8.8% over
       1999.

     - Benefiting from the investment in research and development, new product
       sales (from products introduced within the past three years) increased
       17.3% over 1999 to $125.6 million.



  Results of Operations

     The following table sets forth net sales and income of the Company by
business segment and on a consolidated basis for the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999, and 1998:



- ---------------
(1) After elimination of intra-and intersegment sales, which are not significant
    in amount.

(2) 2000 and 1998 includes charges for cost realignment initiatives and cost
    reduction initiatives.

(3) Segment operating income represents sales less all direct costs and expenses
    (including certain administrative and other expenses) applicable to each
    segment, but does not include interest expense.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999.

  Results of Operations

     The Company reported sales for 2000 of $1,024.7 million, an increase of
10.8% from sales of $924.8 million in 1999, driven by the contributions of the
Company's acquisitions and strength in several core markets. EIG's sales were
$509.5 million in 2000, an increase of 13.0% from sales of $451.1 million in
1999. Without recent acquisitions, sales for EIG would have been slightly lower
than in 1999 due largely to a decline in demand for heavy-vehicle instruments.
For the EMG segment, sales were $515.2 million in 2000, an increase of 8.7% from
sales of $473.7 million in 1999 due to improved conditions in specialty metal
markets along with contributions from an acquisition, reduced somewhat by
continued competitive factors and adverse currency translation effects from
international businesses. International sales reported by both segments totaled
$324.9 million in 2000, an increase of $23.0 million or 7.6% from 1999. Export
shipments from the United States in 2000 were $179.1 million, compared with
$158.5 million in 1999.

     New orders for 2000 were $1,037.6 million, an increase of 9.9% from $944.5
million for 1999. The order backlog at December 31, 2000 was $256.4 million,
compared with $243.5 million at December 31, 1999. New orders from the
acquisitions made by the Company during the year were the primary reason for the
increase.

     The Company's plan to lower its cost structure globally through operational
excellence initiatives continues to have a positive effect on segment operating
income and margins in 2000. Total segment operating income improved to $156.3
million for 2000, an increase of 13.7%, compared with segment operating income
of $137.5 million for 1999, primarily from the acquisitions and strength in core
businesses. Operating margins in 2000 were 15.3% of sales, an increase from
14.9% in 1999. Improved operating margins were primarily the result of
operational excellence initiatives, including increased motor production at the
Company's lower cost facilities, improved supply chain management and flow
manufacturing expansion in EIG. The Company also



benefited from lower overall net pension costs resulting primarily from a higher
return on pension investment assets. After deducting corporate administrative
expenses, consolidated operating income was $135.9 million or 13.3% of net
sales, an increase of $17.1 million, or 14.3%, when compared with 1999 operating
income of $118.8 million or 12.8 % of net sales.

     Selling, general, and administrative (SG&A) expenses were $95.1 million in
2000, compared with $79.4 million in 1999, a $15.7 million increase due mainly
to acquisitions completed in late 1999 and 2000. As a percentage of sales, SG&A
was 9.3% in 2000, compared with 8.6% in 1999. The acquisitions were the primary
contributors to an increase in selling expenses. Corporate general and
administrative expenses increased slightly, but were flat year to year, as a
percentage of sales.

     Interest expense was $29.2 million in 2000, an increase of 17.9%, compared
with $24.8 million in 1999. Higher average debt levels to finance acquisitions
as well as higher average borrowing rates, were the primary reasons for the
increase.

     Net income for 2000 rose 12.8% and was $68.5 million, or $2.11 per diluted
share, compared with net income for 1999 of $60.8 million, or $1.85 per diluted
share. The increase in net income was due primarily to the higher sales and
operating income discussed above.

  Fourth Quarter Results

     Sales for the fourth quarter of 2000 were $258.2 million, compared with
$236.0 million in the fourth quarter of 1999, an increase of $22.2 million, or
9.4%. The increase in sales was driven by acquisitions made in 2000 and late
1999.

     Operating income for the fourth quarter of 2000 was $34.1 million, compared
with $29.5 million for the fourth quarter of 1999, an increase of $4.6 million
or 15.5%. The acquired businesses, combined with continued productivity gains as
a result of the Company's operational excellence initiatives and cost reduction
programs, were the primary reasons for the increase in operating income. As a
result of slowing U.S. economic growth, in the fourth quarter of 2000, the
Company accelerated certain cost realignment initiatives. These initiatives
include a more aggressive movement of certain production activities to low-cost
locations, and the resizing of several businesses. These actions resulted in a
fourth quarter 2000 pretax charge of $3.4 million. Also, fourth quarter 2000
results include a pretax gain of $3.6 million due to the resolution of a
contract issue with a major customer in the Electronic Instruments Group.

     Net income for the fourth quarter of 2000 totaled $17.2 million, or $0.53
per diluted share, an increase of 14.8% from the fourth quarter of 1999 net
income of $15.0 million, or $0.46 per diluted share.

  Operating Segment Results

     The ELECTRONIC INSTRUMENTS GROUP (EIG) sales were $509.5 million in 2000,
an increase of 13.0% from 1999 sales of $451.1 million. The 2000 acquisition of
a business, along with a business acquired in December 1999, drove the
year-to-year increase in sales. The heavy-vehicle instruments business reported
significantly lower sales in 2000 due to weak market conditions, which began in
the second quarter of 2000, compared to robust market conditions in 1999. EIG's
aerospace and power instrument businesses continue to grow through acquisitions
and core growth, expanding the Company's technology, market scope and
penetration. Also, the process instruments business continues to rebound from
weak market conditions experienced during the first nine months of 1999.

     EIG's operating income for 2000 increased to $78.7 million from $70.0
million in 1999, an increase of 12.6%. The acquisitions described above were the
primary reasons for the increase in operating income. Profit margins were flat
year to year at 15.5%. Improved operating performance, primarily by EIG's
aerospace and process businesses was reduced by margin declines on lower sales
of heavy-vehicle instruments.

     The ELECTROMECHANICAL GROUP (EMG) sales for 2000 were $515.2 million, an
increase of 8.7%, from sales of $473.7 million in 1999. The 2000 acquisition of
businesses and improved market conditions within the specialty metals market,
drove the year-to-year increase in sales. Partially reducing the sales increase
were



EMG's operations in Europe, where competitive pricing pressures and currency
translation changes continue to adversely affect EMG's sales.

     EMG's operating income for 2000 increased to $77.6 million from $67.6
million in 1999, a 14.8% increase. The acquisition described above, along with
improved market conditions within the specialty metals market, were the primary
reasons for the increase in operating income. Partially offsetting the profit
improvement were lower profits at EMG's motor operations in Europe, due to the
adverse effects on sales noted above. Operating margins improved to 15.1% of
sales in 2000 from 14.3% in 1999 due to the higher sales, and lower operating
costs in EMG's worldwide motor operations, as a result of the operational
excellence and cost reduction initiatives.

YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, COMPARED WITH YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

  Results of Operations

     The Company reported sales for 1999 of $924.8 million, down slightly from
sales of $927.5 million in 1998. EIG's sales increased by 8.9% to $451.1 million
in 1999 from $414.2 million in 1998 because of the incremental sales generated
by strategic acquisitions made during the year. Sales to heavy-vehicle
manufacturers were strong along with an improving process instruments business.
Without the acquisitions, sales for EIG would have been lower than in 1998 due
largely to changes in the mix of sales and to slightly lower demand in process
instruments and aerospace markets. Aerospace markets were down from peak levels
in 1998. For the EMG group, competitive factors in international markets caused
slightly lower unit shipments in 1999 when compared with 1998. The result was a
decline in EMG reported sales to $473.7 million in 1999 from $513.3 million in
1998, a decrease of 7.7%. A change in the mix of U.S. sales also contributed to
the EMG's sales decline. Sales by both segments to foreign markets totaled
$302.0 million in 1999, a decrease of $43.0 million or 12.5% from 1998. Export
shipments from the United States in 1999 were $158.5 million, compared with
$162.6 million in 1998.

     New orders for 1999 were $944.5 million, an increase of 4.2% from $906.1
million for 1998. The order backlog at December 31, 1999 was $243.5 million,
compared with $223.8 million at December 31, 1998. New orders from the strategic
acquisitions made by the Company during the year were the primary reason for the
increase.

     The Company's plan to lower its cost structure globally under the
operational excellence initiatives, announced in the fourth quarter of 1998, had
a positive effect on operating income and margins. Total segment operating
income improved to $137.5 million for 1999 compared with operating income of
$125.7 million for 1998, before a fourth quarter 1998 non-recurring charge, an
increase of 9.3%. Operating margins improved to 14.9% from 13.6% for the
comparable period. The operational excellence initiatives and the impact of new
acquisitions, along with the transition of a portion of the Company's motor
production to a lower cost facility in Reynosa, Mexico, the closing and
consolidation of certain EMG motor plants in Europe, improved supply chain
management and flow manufacturing expansion in EIG, along with related workforce
reductions drove margins to higher levels. Consolidated operating income was
$118.8 million or 12.8% of net sales, an increase of $14.3 million when compared
with 1998 operating income of $104.5 million or 11.3 % of net sales, before the
$8.0 million pretax nonrecurring charge. Selling, general and administrative
expenses were $79.4 million in 1999, a $2.7 million decrease when compared with
1998 when SG&A totaled $82.1 million. As a percent of sales, SG&A was 8.6% in
1999, slightly lower than in 1998. The corporate cost reduction initiative was
the driving force behind the reduction in general and administrative expense.
Selling expense was flat year-to-year, as new EIG selling expense from
acquisitions almost entirely offset reduced selling costs for the EMG group.

     Interest expense was $24.8 million in 1999 compared with $23.7 million in
1998, an increase of 4.7%. Higher average debt levels to finance acquisitions,
was the primary reason for the increase in interest expense. Other income, net
decreased to $0.4 million in 1999 from $4.6 million in 1998 primarily because of
lower gains from the sale of securities and idle property.

     Net income for 1999 was $60.8 million, or $1.85 per diluted share, compared
with net income for 1998 of $41.7 million, or $1.24 per diluted share. The 1998
net income includes an after-tax nonrecurring charge of



$4.8 million or $0.14 per diluted share, and an after-tax extraordinary charge
for the early repayment of long-term debt of $8.7 million, or $0.26 per diluted
share. Without the nonrecurring charge and the extraordinary item in 1998, net
income would have been $55.3 million, or $1.64 per diluted share.

     The weighted average shares outstanding during 1999 were 32.3 million
shares, compared with 32.7 million shares for 1998. The reduction reflects
purchases by the Company through its share repurchase program. The Company
repurchased 0.5 million shares in 1999. After accounting for the dilutive effect
of issued stock options and other stock awards, the weighted average diluted
shares outstanding were 32.9 million shares for 1999, compared with 33.7 million
shares for 1998.

  Fourth Quarter Results

     Sales for the fourth quarter of 1999 were $236.0 million, compared with
$206.8 million in the fourth quarter 1998. Operating income for the fourth
quarter 1999 was $29.5 million, compared with $20.1 million for the fourth
quarter 1998, before a nonrecurring pretax charge of $8.0 million. The 14%
increase in sales was driven by the strategic acquisitions made by the Company
during 1999, and a stronger worldwide motor market during the fourth quarter of
1999. The acquisitions, combined with productivity gains as a result of the
Company's operational excellence initiatives and cost reduction programs were
the primary reasons for a 46.8% gain in operating income. Net income for the
fourth quarter of 1999 totaled $15.0 million, or $0.46 per diluted share, up 37%
from the fourth quarter 1998 net income of $11.0 million or $0.33 per diluted
share, excluding the after-tax effect of the nonrecurring charge of $4.8
million. The fourth quarter 1999 tax rate was 34.9%, a rate more normal than the
1998 fourth quarter tax rate of 21.4%. The 1998 fourth quarter benefited from a
lower effective tax rate due to lower foreign pretax income, which would be
taxed at higher rates than in the U.S., and favorable foreign tax adjustments
relating to certain prior tax years.

  Operating Segment Results

     The ELECTRONIC INSTRUMENTS GROUP (EIG) sales were $451.1 million in 1999,
an increase of 8.9% from 1998 sales of $414.2 million. The Company's 1999
acquisition of businesses, which produce electronic instruments and controls,
transducers, sensors, and gauges, drove the year-to-year increase in sales. A
business acquired in December 1999, which specializes in the design and
manufacture of continuous level measurement and control devices has subsequently
enhanced sales growth. The heavy-vehicle instruments business was strong in 1999
because of robust market conditions for heavy trucks. Also, the Company's
process instruments business rebounded from weak market conditions during the
first nine months of 1999. The aerospace business continues to grow because of
the acquisitions described above, expanding the Company's aerospace technology
and market breadth, despite aerospace markets being down slightly from peak
levels in 1998.

     Group Operating income for 1999 increased to $70.0 million from $58.0
million in 1998, an increase of 20.6%. The acquisitions described above were the
primary reasons for the large increase in operating income. Profit margins
improved significantly to 15.5% from 14.0% for the same comparable period. The
Group margins benefited from work force reductions directed toward improving
productivity, and supply chain management savings. EIG's operating income for
1998 was $55.7 million, after a fourth quarter 1998 nonrecurring charge of $2.3
million for cost reduction activities.

     The ELECTROMECHANICAL GROUP (EMG) sales for 1999 were $473.7 million, a
$39.5 million decrease from sales of $513.3 million in 1998. Weak market
conditions in Europe and Asia, where major competitive pricing pressures
affected EMG's motor operations, as well as lower demand were the primary
reasons for the sales decline.

     Operating income for 1999 was essentially unchanged at $67.6 million.
Improved profitability from the relocation of a portion of its U.S. motor
production to lower cost facilities in Reynosa, Mexico was offset by lower
profits at the Company's motor operations in Europe and Asia on lower unit
volume shipped as a result of market and price competition. Operating margins,
however, improved dramatically to 14.3% in 1999 from 13.2% in 1998. As of
December 31, 1999, approximately 40% of EMG's North American motor production
for floorcare applications and outdoor power equipment is produced in Mexico.
Operations at the Company's


Cambridge, Ohio plant ceased in the first quarter of 2000. The plant relocation
and rationalization activity in Europe stemming from the 1998 cost reduction
initiatives is now complete. EMG's operating income in 1998 was $62.5 million,
after a fourth quarter 1998 $5.2 million nonrecurring charge for the above
mentioned cost reduction activities.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Cash provided by operating activities before proceeds from the sale of
accounts receivable totaled $78.7 million for 2000, compared with $86.6 million
for 1999, a decrease of $7.9 million. The decrease was caused primarily by
higher cash outflows to fund operating working capital requirements due in part
to higher accounts receivable levels related to increased sales and to higher
inventory levels partly associated with the Company's move of certain products
to its low-cost manufacturing facilities. Other long-term liabilities decreased
primarily because of the funding and settlement of a contract issue with a
customer in the fourth quarter of 2000. Net proceeds received from sales of
accounts receivables to a third party under an accounts receivable sales
agreement provided cash of $1 million in 2000, compared with $44 million of cash
provided in 1999. Total net cash provided by operating activities in 2000 was
$79.7 million compared with $130.6 million in 1999. Under the accounts
receivable sales agreement, entered into in 1999, the Company, through a wholly-
owned, special purpose subsidiary, can sell up to $50 million of eligible
accounts receivable.

     Cash used for investing activities was $107.4 million for 2000, compared
with $148.0 million for 1999. Cash outlays for new business acquisitions totaled
$81 million in 2000, compared with $147.5 million in 1999. Also, the prior year
included proceeds received from the sale of investment assets of $29.5 million,
compared with $3.3 million in 2000.

     Financing activities provided cash of $26.2 million in 2000, compared with
$16.3 million provided in 1999. In 2000, net short-term borrowings increased
$25.2 million, primarily to fund the 2000 acquisitions. During 1999, short-term
borrowings increased $37.8 million and the Company made net payments on long-
term debt of $9.1 million, which included the final repayment on its 9 3/4%
Notes. Common stock repurchases totaled $1.6 million in 2000, compared with $9.3
million in 1999.

     As a result of all the Company's cash flow activities, cash and cash
equivalents decreased $1.4 million since year-end 1999, to $7.2 million at
December 31, 2000. The Company believes that it has sufficient cash generating
capabilities and available financing facilities to enable it to meet its needs
in the foreseeable future.

NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company adopted the Securities and
Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, "Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements". The SAB summarizes certain of the staff's
views in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue
recognition in the financial statements. The adoption of the Bulletin did not
have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations,
financial position, or cash flows.

     In September, 2000, the FASB issued Statement No. 140, "Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities -- A Replacement of FASB Statement 125". The Statement requires
extensive disclosures about securitizations entered into during the period and
retained interests in securitized financial assets at the balance sheet date,
accounting policies, sensitivity information relating to retained interests, and
cash flows distributed to the transferor. The accounting requirements of
Statement 140 are effective for transfers occurring after March 31, 2001.
However, the expanded disclosures about securitizations and collateral are
effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2000. The Company is
continuing to study the future impact of adopting the accounting changes of this
Statement. The Company adopted the disclosure requirement by the Statement, for
fiscal year 2000, which are included in footnote 5 of the financial statements.

     On July 1, 2000, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 44,
"Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation". The
Interpretation provides guidance on the application of APB



Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". The adoption of this
Interpretation did not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated
results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities". The Statement requires recognition of all
derivative instruments measured at fair value in the statement of financial
position. Gains or losses resulting from changes in the value of derivatives
would be accounted for depending on the intended use of the derivative and
whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. In June 1999, the FASB approved a
one-year delay in the effective date of this Statement until January 2001.

     In June 2000, the FASB issued Statement No. 138, "Accounting for Certain
Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities". This Statement amends
Statement No. 133 for certain impractical aspects of the original Statement
which were incompatible with many common current hedging approaches. Statement
No. 138 is effective simultaneously with Statement No. 133.

     The provisions of SFAS 133 and related amendments and interpretations
became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2001, including the
interim periods of that year. Based on the Company's limited use of derivative
financial instruments, adoption of these Statements did not have a significant
effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position,
or cash flows.

INTERNAL REINVESTMENT

  Capital Expenditures

     Capital expenditures were $29.6 million for 2000, compared with $30.3
million for 1999. Approximately 74% of the expenditures in 2000 were for
equipment to increase productivity and expand capacity. The Company's 2001
capital expenditures are expected to increase when compared to 2000 levels, with
a continuing emphasis on spending to improve productivity, and expand low cost
manufacturing facilities.

  Product Development and Engineering

     Product development and engineering expenses are directed toward the
development and improvement of new and existing products and processes. Such
expenses were $45.9 million in 2000, an increase from $42.2 million for 1999,
and $42.1 million for 1998. Included in the amounts above are net expenses for
research and development of $23.8 million for 2000, $21.6 million for 1999, and
$23.4 million for 1998.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

     The Company is subject to environmental laws and regulations as well as
stringent cleanup requirements. It also has been named a potentially responsible
party at several sites that are the subject of government-mandated cleanups. No
amounts were charged to expense in 2000 for environmental cleanup. Amounts
charged to expense for environmental cleanup were approximately, $0.9 million in
1999, and $0.3 million in 1998.

     It is not possible to accurately quantify the potential financial impact of
actions regarding environmental matters, but the Company believes, based on past
experience and current evaluations, that the outcome of these actions is not
likely to have a material adverse effect on the future results of operations,
financial position, or cash flows of the Company.

IMPACT OF INFLATION

     The Company attempts to minimize the impact of inflation through cost
reduction programs and by improving productivity. In addition, the Company uses
the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method of accounting for most inventories (whereby
the cost of products sold approximates current costs), and therefore, the impact
of inflation is substantially reflected in operating costs. In general, the
Company believes programs are in place that are designed to monitor the impact
of inflation and to take necessary steps to minimize inflation's effect on
operations.



MARKET RISK DISCLOSURE

     The Company's primary exposure to market risks includes fluctuations in
interest rates on its short-term and long-term debt and in foreign currency
exchange rates.

     The Company's long-term debt is fixed rate and its short-term debt is
variable rate. These financial instruments are more fully described in the notes
to the financial statements.

     The foreign currencies to which the Company has the most significant
exchange rate exposure is the Italian lira, and the European Euro currency.
Exposure to foreign currency rate fluctuation is mitigated, when possible,
through the use of natural hedges, whereby, purchases and sales in the same
foreign currency and with similar maturities offset one another. Translation of
foreign financial statements into U.S. dollars have not had a significant effect
on the operating results reported by the Company.

     Based on a hypothetical ten percent adverse movement in interest rates and
foreign currency exchange rates, the potential losses in future earnings, fair
value of risk sensitive financial instruments, and cash flows are immaterial,
although the actual effects may differ materially from the hypothetical
analysis.

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

     Except for historical information contained herein, certain matters
discussed in this Form 10-K are "forward looking statements" as defined in the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act (PSLRA) of 1995, which involve risks
and uncertainties that exist in the Company's operations and business
environment, and are subject to change based on various important factors. The
Company wishes to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of the PSLRA by
cautioning readers that numerous important factors discussed below, among
others, in some cases have caused, and in the future could cause, the Company's
actual results to differ materially from those expressed in any forward-looking
statements made by, or on behalf of, the Company. The following include some,
but not all, of the factors or uncertainties that could cause actual results to
differ from projections:

     - An economic slowdown, or unforeseen price reductions in the Company's
       global market segments, with adverse effects on profit margins.

     - The Company's ability to continue achieving its cost reduction
       objectives, due in part to varying prices and availability of certain raw
       materials and semifinished materials and components.

     - Underutilization of the Company's existing factories and plants, or plant
       expansions or new plants; possibly resulting in production
       inefficiencies. Higher than anticipated, or unanticipated start-up
       expenses and production delays at new plants.

     - The unanticipated expenses of divesting businesses, or of assimilating
       newly-acquired businesses into the Company's business structure; as well
       as the impact of unusual expenses from business strategies, asset
       valuations, acquisitions, divestitures and organizational structures.
       Acquisition and divestiture strategies may face legal and regulatory
       delays and other unforeseeable obstacles beyond the Company's control.

     - Unpredictable delays or difficulties in the development of key new
       product programs, and the risk of not recovering major research and
       development expenses, and/or the risks of major technological shifts away
       from the Company's technologies and core competencies.

     - A prolonged slowing of the growth rate in the U.S. and Europe for
       electric motor products, aerospace, heavy-vehicle and process
       instrumentation; as well as a restriction in the ability of heavy-vehicle
       manufacturers to secure components manufactured by outside suppliers.

     - Rapid or unforeseen escalation of the cost of regulatory compliance
       and/or litigation, including but not limited to, environmental
       compliance, product-related liability, assertions related to intellectual
       property rights and licenses, adoption of new, or changes in accounting
       policies and practices and the application of such policies and
       practices.



     - The effects, in the United States and abroad, of changes in trade
       practices; monetary and fiscal policies; laws and regulations; other
       activities of governments, agencies and similar organizations; and social
       and economic conditions, such as trade restrictions or prohibitions;
       unforeseen inflationary pressures and monetary fluctuation; import and
       other charges or taxes; the ability or inability of the Company to
       obtain, or hedge foreign currencies, foreign currency exchange rates and
       fluctuation in those rates. This would include extreme currency
       fluctuations; protectionism and confiscation of assets; nationalizations
       and unstable governments and legal systems, and intergovernmental
       disputes.

     - Variation in the level of orders booked, which can be affected by general
       economic conditions, intensity of competition and continued marketplace
       acceptance of products.

     The Company believes that it has the product offerings, facilities,
personnel and competitive and financial resources for continued business
success. However, future revenues, costs, margins, product mix and profits are
all influenced by a number of factors, as discussed above.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     Information concerning market risk is set forth under the heading "Market
Risk Disclosure" in "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" on page 21 herein.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA





                         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of AMETEK, Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of AMETEK,
Inc. as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated statements
of income, cash flows, and stockholders' equity for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 2000. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of
AMETEK, Inc. at December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States.

                                                 /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Philadelphia, PA
January 22, 2001



                                  AMETEK, INC.

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME



                            See accompanying notes.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEET



                            See accompanying notes.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY



(1) Amounts presented are net of tax based on an average effective tax rate of
    35%, except for foreign currency translation adjustments, which are
    presented on a pretax basis.

(2) Includes reclassification adjustment for gains included in net income for
    2000, 1999, and 1998 of $0.3 million, $0.1 million, and $1.2 million,
    respectively.

                            See accompanying notes.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS



                            See accompanying notes.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  Basis of Consolidation

     The accompanying consolidated financial statements reflect the operations,
financial position and cash flows of AMETEK, Inc. (the "Company"), and include
the accounts of the Company and subsidiaries, after elimination of all
significant intercompany transactions in consolidation.

  Use of Estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting
principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make
estimates and assumptions that affect amounts reported in the financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates and assumptions.

  Cash Equivalents, Securities, and Other Investments

     All highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when
purchased are considered cash equivalents. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, all of
the Company's equity securities and fixed income securities (primarily those of
a captive insurance subsidiary) are considered available-for-sale. The aggregate
market value of such securities at December 31, 2000 and 1999 was: 2000 -- $16.4
million ($16.0 million amortized cost) and 1999 -- $14.5 million ($16.1 million
amortized cost). The Company's other investments are accounted for by the equity
method.

  Inventories

     Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or market, cost being
determined principally by the last-in, first-out (LIFO) method of inventory
valuation, and market on the basis of the lower of replacement cost or estimated
net proceeds from sales. The excess of the first-in, first-out (FIFO) value over
the LIFO value at December 31, 2000 and 1999 was $31.6 million and $33.2
million, respectively.

  Property, Plant and Equipment

     Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Expenditures for
additions to plant facilities, or that extend their useful lives, are
capitalized. The cost of tools, jigs, and dies, and maintenance and repairs is
charged to operations as incurred. Depreciation of plant and equipment is
calculated principally on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives
of the related assets.

  Revenue Recognition

     The Company generally recognizes revenue when products are shipped and
services are rendered. The policy with respect to sales returns and allowances
generally provides that a customer may not return products, or be given
allowances, except at the Company's option. The aggregate provisions for
estimated warranty costs (not significant in amount) are recorded at the time of
sale and periodically adjusted to reflect actual experience.

  Research and Development

     Company-funded research and development costs are charged to operations as
incurred and during the past three years were: 2000-$23.8 million, 1999-$21.6
million, and 1998-$23.4 million.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Earnings Per Share

     The calculation of basic earnings per share is based on the average number
of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share
reflect the effect of all potentially dilutive securities (primarily outstanding
common stock options). The following table presents the number of shares used in
the calculation of basic earnings per share and diluted earnings per share:



  Foreign Currency Translation

     Assets and liabilities of foreign operations are translated by using
exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and their results of
operations are translated by using average exchange rates for the year. Certain
transactions of the Company and its subsidiaries are made in currencies other
than their functional currency. Gains and losses from those transactions are
included in operating results for the year.

  Derivative Financial Instruments

     The Company makes limited use of derivative financial instruments to manage
interest rate, foreign exchange, and forward contract exposure. The Company does
not hold or trade in derivatives for speculative purposes. Interest rate swap
and cap agreements are sometimes used to manage the interest rate
characteristics of certain outstanding revolving credit loans to a more
desirable fixed or variable rate basis, or to limit the Company's exposure to
rising interest rates. These swaps and caps are matched with the underlying
fixed or variable rate debt, and any periodic cash payments are accrued on a
settlement basis and accounted for as adjustments to interest costs. No gains or
losses are recorded. There were no interest rate swap or cap agreements in place
during 2000. Foreign currency option contracts, foreign currency exchange
contracts, and foreign currency swap agreements may be entered into to mitigate
the translation exposure from investments in certain foreign subsidiaries.
Realized and unrealized gains and losses from these instruments are recognized
when the underlying hedged instrument is settled. Foreign currency forward
contracts are entered into to from time-to-time to hedge specific firm
commitments for certain export sales, thereby minimizing the Company's exposure
to foreign currency fluctuation. These contracts are entered into for periods
generally not to exceed one year. Unrealized gains and losses from these
contracts are deferred and are recognized in operations as the related sales and
purchases occur. Realized and unrealized changes in fair value of derivatives
designated with items that no longer exist, or are no longer probable of
occurring are recorded as a component of the gain or loss arising from the
disposition of the designated item. There are no carrying amounts related to the
above derivative financial instruments in the consolidated balance sheet and the
Company had no significant derivatives outstanding at December 31, 2000 and
1999.

  Intangible Assets

     The excess of cost over net assets acquired (goodwill) is being amortized
on a straight-line basis primarily over a 30 year period. The Company reviews
the carrying value of intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in
circumstances indicate that the carrying amount may not be recoverable. If such
an event occurred, the Company would prepare projections of future cash flows
for the applicable business. If such projections indicated that goodwill would
not be recoverable, the Company's carrying value of such asset would be reduced
by the estimated excess of such value over projected discounted cash flow.
Patents are being


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated useful lives of 9 to 17
years. Other acquired intangibles are being amortized on a straight-line basis
over their estimated useful lives of 5 to 30 years.

  Reclassifications

     Certain amounts appearing in the prior year's financial statements and
supporting footnote disclosures have been reclassified to conform to the current
year's presentation.

2. NONRECURRING CHARGE

     Included in the 1998 results of operations is a pretax nonrecurring charge
of $8.0 million ($4.8 million after-tax, or $0.14 per diluted share) incurred in
the fourth quarter of 1998 for costs associated with initiatives the Company
undertook to lower its cost structure. The initiatives included: the closure and
consolidation of certain of the Company's Electromechanical Group's (EMG) motor
plants in Europe ($2.7 million), the transition of some of EMG's U.S. motor
production to a lower cost facility in Reynosa, Mexico ($1.5 million), selected
workforce reductions, and other initiatives to maximize operating efficiencies,
mostly within the Electronic Instruments Group (EIG) ($3.8 million). As of
December 31, 2000, all actions under these initiatives were completed.

3. ACQUISITIONS

     In 2000, the Company made two acquisitions. In August 2000, the Company
acquired the assets of certain businesses of Prestolite Electric Incorporated.
The acquired businesses consist of Prestolite's Switch Division, its Industrial
Battery Charger business, and its Direct-Current (DC) motor business, which are
now a part of the Electromechanical Group. Additionally, in September 2000, the
Company acquired the assets of Rochester Instrument Systems, a leading supplier
for the electric power generation market, which is now a part of the Electronic
Instruments Group. The aggregate purchase price paid for the 2000 acquisitions
was $81 million in cash, subject to adjustment for finalization of the value of
the net assets acquired.

     In 1999, the Company made four acquisitions, which operate as part of the
Electronic Instruments Group. On January 4, 1999, the Company acquired all of
the outstanding shares of National Controls Corporation, a leading U.S.
manufacturer of electronic instruments and controls for food service equipment.
On April 30, 1999, the Company acquired substantially all of the assets of
Gulton-Statham Transducers, a leading manufacturer of high-accuracy electronic
pressure transmitters and transducers for the aerospace and industrial markets,
from Mark IV Industries, Inc. On July 30, 1999, the Company acquired Patriot
Sensors and Controls Corporation, a leading manufacturer of position sensors,
tank gauges and aviation transducers, from First Atlantic Capital, Ltd. These
products are used in a wide range of industrial and aerospace applications.
Finally, on December 2, 1999, the Company acquired Drexelbrook Engineering
Company (Drexelbrook). Drexelbrook designs and manufactures point level and
continuous level measurement and control devices and flow measurement
instrumentation. These instruments are used in a variety of end markets,
including chemical, petrochemical, pharmaceutical, food and beverage, pulp and
paper, water and wastewater. The aggregate purchase price paid for the 1999
acquisitions was $147.5 million.

     In January 1998, the Company acquired Rotron, Inc., a manufacturer of
electric motors, fans and motor-blowers, from EG&G Holdings, Inc. In April 1998,
the Company acquired the Western Research business unit of BOVAR, Inc. Western
Research is a manufacturer of gas analysis instrumentation for industrial
process control and air emissions monitoring. In July 1998, the Company acquired
the assets of Darmet Corporation, a manufacturer of specialty wire alloys for
electrical and electronics-related applications. The aggregate purchase price of
the 1998 acquisitions was $115.4 million in cash.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     As of the closing dates, the Company also recorded liabilities for certain
estimated future pension obligations, and for certain other personnel-related
costs associated with the relocation and consolidation of certain operations of
the acquired businesses.

     All of the above acquisitions were accounted for by the purchase method,
and accordingly, the results of their operations are included in the Company's
consolidated results from their respective dates of acquisition. The estimated
goodwill acquired with these businesses is being amortized on a straight-line
basis over thirty years.

     Had the 2000 acquisitions been made at the beginning of 1999, proforma net
sales for 2000 and 1999 would have been $1,085.4 million and $1,022.3 million.
Proforma net income and diluted earnings per share for 2000 or 1999 would not
have been materially different than those reported.

4. OTHER BALANCE SHEET INFORMATION




                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)





5. ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE SALES

     On October 1, 1999, the Company entered into an accounts receivable sale
agreement through a wholly-owned, special purpose subsidiary with a bank whereby
it can sell to a third party up to $50 million of its trade accounts receivable.
The Company's retained interest in the associated receivables, which represents
its subordinated interest in the receivables sold to the special purpose
subsidiary that have not subsequently been sold to the third party, is reflected
as a component of accounts receivable in the Company's consolidated balance
sheets. The balance of the retained interest was $29.6 million and $26.2 million
at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Proceeds from the initial sale of
accounts receivable in 1999 were used to reduce short-term borrowings
outstanding under the Company's revolving bank credit agreement. The special
purpose subsidiary uses collections on previously purchased interests to acquire
additional interests in new eligible receivables from the Company. The Company
remains responsible for servicing the underlying accounts receivable for which
it receives an adequate service fee as compensation. The Company estimates the
fair value of its retained interests by considering the present value of future
cash flows from the retained interest and expected credit losses in both the
pool of receivables making up the retained interest and the pool of receivables
sold to the third party. Due to the short period of time over which cash flows
from the retained interest are expected to be realized (based on an average
collection cycle of 60 days), the cost basis of the underlying receivables
approximates fair value, less an associated allowance for doubtful accounts. A
hypothetical 10% or greater adverse change in either the discount rate used to
calculate the present value of future cash flows or the collection cycle would
not materially affect the fair value of the retained interest. During 2000, the
Company sold to its special purpose subsidiary $541.7 million in net receivables
throughout the year and made collections on these receivables, net of a
servicing fee, of $537.3 million. Accounts receivable sold to third parties as
of December 31, 2000 and 1999 were $45 million and $44 million, respectively.
The costs associated with the sale of accounts receivable, which are included in
interest expense, were $3 million in 2000 and $1 million in 1999.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

6. LONG-TERM DEBT

     At December 31, 2000 and 1999, long-term debt consisted of the following:



     Maturities of long-term debt outstanding at December 31, 2000 are as
follows: $3.0 million in 2002; $2.2 million in 2003; $1.9 million in 2004; and
$226.5 million in 2005 and thereafter. On July 17, 1998 the Company issued,
through a private placement, $225 million principal amount of 7.20% Senior Notes
due July 15, 2008. The Senior Notes were priced at a discount to yield of 7.241%
to maturity.

     In connection with the early retirement of $136.2 million of senior notes
in 1998, an extraordinary after-tax charge of $8.7 million, or $0.26 per diluted
share, was recorded net of tax benefits totaling $5.1 million.

     At, December 31, 2000, the Company had a $195 million revolving Bank Credit
Agreement that matures in 2002. Interest rates on outstanding loans under the
Bank Credit Agreement are based on the London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR),
plus a negotiated spread over LIBOR, or at the U.S. prime rate. At December 31,
2000, the Company had $114 million in revolving credit loans outstanding at a
blended rate of 7.40%, all of which are included in short-term borrowings at
year-end.

     The Bank Credit Agreement was amended in 1999, to change restrictions on
allowable foreign debt, and the measurement of the pro forma effect of potential
acquisitions in certain debt covenant compliance calculations. The Bank Credit
Agreement places certain restrictions on cash payments, including the payment of
dividends. At December 31, 2000, retained earnings of approximately $18.2
million were not subject to the dividend limitation.

     Foreign subsidiaries of the Company had available credit facilities with
local foreign lenders of approximately $37.7 million, of which $22.2 million was
outstanding at December 31, 2000. The weighted average interest rate on total
debt outstanding at December 31, 2000 was 7.31%. The Company also had
outstanding letters of credit totaling $14.3 million at December 31, 2000.

7. STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

     In 2000, the Company repurchased 83,500 shares of its common stock, under
its current share repurchase authorization at a total cost of $1.6 million. This
compares with repurchases of 492,000 shares at a total cost of $9.3 million in
1999. At December 31, 2000, approximately $27 million of the current $50 million
authorization was unexpended.

     The Company has a Shareholder Rights Plan, under which the Company's Board
of Directors declared a dividend of one Right for each share of Company common
stock owned. The Plan provides, under certain conditions involving acquisition
of the Company's common stock, that holders of Rights, except for the acquiring
entity, would be entitled to (i) to purchase shares of preferred stock at a
specified exercise price, or (ii) to purchase shares of common stock of the
Company, or the acquiring company, having a value of twice the Rights exercise
price. The Rights under the Plan expire in 2007.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

8. STOCK OPTION AND AWARD PLANS

     In 1999, the Company adopted the 1999 Stock Incentive Plan ("the 1999
Plan"). The 1999 Plan provided for the grant of up to 2.0 million shares of
common stock to eligible employees and nonemployee directors of the Company in
the form of options, phantom stock awards, restricted stock awards and stock
rights. The Company's 1997 Stock Incentive Plan permitted the grant of up to 3.8
million shares of common stock. Stock options may be granted as non-qualified
stock options or as incentive stock options under the Internal Revenue Code of
1986.

     Restricted stock awards of the Company's common stock are made to eligible
employees and nonemployee directors at such cost to the recipient as the stock
option committee of the Board of Directors may determine. Such shares are issued
subject to certain conditions with respect to transfer and other restrictions as
prescribed by the plan. Upon issuance of restricted stock, unearned
compensation, equivalent to the excess of the market price of the shares awarded
over the price paid by the recipient at the date of grant, is charged to
stockholders' equity and is included in treasury stock. Unearned compensation is
amortized to expense over the periods until the restrictions lapse. In December
2000, the Company awarded 150,000 shares of restricted stock. The expense
related to the restricted stock award was immaterial in 2000. The Company did
not grant any restricted stock in 1999 or 1998.

     In 2000, the Company reserved 14,600 shares, net of share adjustments for
terminations, under a Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan ("SERP"), bringing
the total number of shares reserved to 94,100 shares. Charges to expense under
the SERP are considered pension expense (see Note 11), with the offsetting
credit reflected in stockholders' equity.

     At December 31, 2000, 4,259,584 (4,842,758 in 1999) shares of common stock
were reserved for issuance, (including stock options outstanding), under the
1999 and 1997 plans. The options are exercisable at prices not less than market
prices on dates of grant, and in installments over four-to-ten-year-periods from
dates of grant. The Company had no stock appreciation rights outstanding at
December 31, 2000 or 1999. Stock appreciation rights, when issued, are
exercisable for cash and/or shares of the Company's common stock when the
related option is exercised. A charge to income, not significant in amount, is
made for these rights and certain related options.

     A summary of the Company's stock option activity and related information
for the years ended December 31 follows:




                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table summarizes information pertaining to the Company's
stock options outstanding at December 31, 2000:



     The Company applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," in accounting for its stock option plans. Had
compensation expense for such plans been determined in accordance with Financial
Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation" pro forma net income and related per share amounts for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998 would have been as follows:



     The weighted average fair value of each option grant on the grant date was
$7.18 for 2000, $6.65 for 1999, and $8.41 for 1998. The fair value of each
option was estimated using the Black-Scholes option pricing model with the
following weighted-average assumptions for options granted in each of the last
three years.



9. LEASES

     Minimum aggregate rental commitments under noncancelable leases in effect
at December 31, 2000 (principally for production and administrative facilities
and equipment) amounted to $19.1 million consisting of annual payments of $4.7
million in 2001, $3.2 million in 2002, $2.5 million in 2003, $2.0 million in
2004, $1.4 million in 2005 and $5.3 million in 2006 and thereafter. Rental
expense was $8.1 million in 2000, $6.9 million in 1999 and $6.7 million in 1998.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10. INCOME TAXES

     The components of income before income taxes and the details of the
provision for income taxes are as follows:



     Significant components of the Company's deferred tax (asset) liability as
of December 31 are as follows:




                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The effective rate of the provision for income taxes reconciles to the
statutory rate as follows:



- ---------------
(a) Years 2000 and 1999 include the reversal of certain prior years' excess
    state income tax accruals.

(b) Years 1998 includes favorable foreign tax adjustments relating to prior
    years.

     At December 31, 2000, the Company had available net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $8.1 million to offset future taxable income. The
carryforwards, from a subsidiary acquired in 1999, will expire in 2005 through
2019.

     Undistributed earnings of the Company's foreign subsidiaries amounted to
approximately $50.8 million at December 31, 2000. Those earnings are considered
to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no provision for U.S. deferred
taxes has been made. Upon distribution of those earnings to the United States,
the Company would be subject to U.S. income taxes (subject to a reduction for
foreign tax credits) and withholding taxes payable to the various foreign
countries. Determination of the amount of unrecognized deferred income tax
liability is not practicable.

11. RETIREMENT AND PENSION PLANS

     The Company maintains noncontributory defined benefit pension plans.
Benefits for eligible U.S. salaried and hourly employees are funded through
trusts established in conjunction with the plans. The Company's funding policy
with respect to its defined benefit plans is to contribute amounts that provide
for benefits in accordance with the funding requirements of federal law and
regulations. Assets of these plans are invested in a variety of equity and debt
instruments and in pooled temporary funds, as well as the Company's common
stock, the investment in which is not material to total plan assets.

     The Company's retirement and savings plan has a defined contribution
retirement feature principally to cover U.S. salaried employees joining the
Company after December 31, 1996. Under this retirement feature, the Company
makes contributions for eligible employees based on a pre-established percentage
of the covered employee's salary. Employees of certain of the Company's foreign
operations participate in various local plans that in the aggregate are not
significant.

     Effective May 1, 1999, the Company adopted a savings plan for its acquired
businesses for the benefit of eligible employees. Company contributions are made
for each participant up to a specified percentage, not to exceed 6% of the
participant's base compensation.

     The Company has nonqualified unfunded retirement plans for its Directors
and certain retired employees. It also provides supplemental retirement
benefits, through contractual arrangements and/or a SERP covering certain
current and former employees of the Company. These supplemental benefits are
designed to compensate the employee for retirement benefits the executive would
have been provided under the Company's primary retirement plan, except for
statutory limitations on compensation that may be taken into account under those
plans. The projected benefit obligations of the SERP and the contracts will
primarily be


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

funded by a grant of shares of the Company's common stock upon retirement or
termination of the employee. The Company is providing for these obligations by
charges to earnings over the applicable periods.

     The following table provides a reconciliation of the changes in benefit
obligations and fair value of plan assets for the defined benefit plans for 2000
and 1999:



     The following table provides aggregate information for pension plans with
accumulated benefits in excess of plan assets:




                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table provides the amounts recognized in the consolidated
balance sheets at December 31, 2000 and 1999:



     The following table provides the components of net periodic benefit cost
charged to income for the three years ended December 31, 2000:



     Assumptions used in accounting for the defined benefit plans as of December
31 of each year (based on a measurement date of October 1) were:



     Effective October 1, 1999, the Company adopted a deferred compensation
plan, which allows employees whose compensation exceeds the statutory IRS limit
for retirement benefits to defer a portion of earned bonus


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

compensation. The plan permits deferred amounts to be deemed invested in either,
or a combination of, (a) an interest bearing fund, benefits from which are
payable out of the general assets of the Company, or (b) a fund which invest in
shares of the Company's common stock on behalf of the employee. The amount
deferred under the plan at December 31, 2000 is not significant. Initial
employee deferrals began January 1, 2000. Administrative expense for the plan is
borne by the Company and is not significant.

     The Company provides limited postretirement benefits other than pensions
for certain retirees and a small number of employees. Benefits under these
arrangements are not significant. The Company also provides limited
postemployment benefits for certain former or inactive employees after
employment but before retirement. Those benefits, which are not significant in
amount, are accounted for on the accrual basis of accounting.

12. FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     The Company makes limited use of derivative financial instruments, and does
not use them for trading purposes. Such instruments are generally used to manage
well-defined interest rate risks and to hedge firm commitments related to
certain export sales denominated in a foreign currency.

     Interest rate swap and cap agreements are used to reduce the potential
impact of increases in interest rates on the Company's borrowings. Accordingly,
the Company may enter into these agreements to effectively convert floating-rate
loans to fixed-rate loans and to cap certain interest rates that are indexed to
LIBOR rates to reduce the risk from rising interest rates. In 2000, the Company
did not enter into any such agreements and none are outstanding at December 31,
2000.

     Cross currency and interest rate agreements may be used to hedge a portion
of the Company's net investment in certain foreign subsidiaries. At December 31,
2000 and 1999, the Company was party to one such agreement, whereby the Company
agreed to swap British pounds for an equivalent amount of U.S. dollars totaling
$3.8 million. The agreement provides for the Company to make a fixed interest
rate payment while receiving interest at floating rates. The currency swap
agreement was renewed on its August 1999 termination date and now terminates in
August 2001. The fair value of this agreement at December 31, 2000 and 1999 was
not significant.

     Forward currency contracts may be entered into from time-to-time to hedge
certain firm export sales commitments denominated in foreign currencies. The
purpose of such hedging activities is to protect the Company from the risk that
the eventual net cash dollar inflows and outflows resulting from the sale of
products to foreign customers will be adversely affected by changes in exchange
rates. At December 31, 2000 and 1999, the Company was not party to any forward
currency contracts. The terms of the currency contracts are linked to the firm
commitment and generally do not exceed one year. Deferred gains and losses on
such contracts, which are not significant, are recognized in operations as the
related sales and purchases occurred.

     The estimated fair values of the Company's other financial instruments are
compared below to the recorded amounts at December 31, 2000 and 1999. Cash, cash
equivalents, and marketable securities are recorded at fair value at December
31, 2000 and 1999 in the accompanying balance sheet.




                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The fair values of fixed income investments are based on quoted market
prices. The fair value of equity investments are based on amounts reported by
the investee. The fair value of short-term borrowings is based on the carrying
value at year-end. The fair value of the Company's long-term debt, which
consists primarily of publicly traded notes, is based on the quoted market price
for such notes and borrowing rates currently available to the Company for loans
with similar terms and maturities. The fair value of the currency swap
agreement, which is not reflected in the financial statements, is based on
quoted market prices for comparable instruments and is not significant.

13. ADDITIONAL INCOME STATEMENT AND CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     Included in other income is interest and other investment income of $1.5
million, $2.6 million, and $4.6 million for 2000, 1999, and 1998, respectively.
Income taxes paid in 2000, 1999, and 1998 were $33.6 million, $29.0 million, and
$25.6 million, respectively. Cash paid for interest was $30.2 million and $24.3
million in 2000 and 1999, respectively. Cash paid for interest in 1998 was $26.3
million, and included $6.6 million for unamortized debt issuance costs related
to the Company's 7.20% Senior Notes due 2008. These unamortized costs are
included as other assets and are being amortized to interest expense over the
life of the 7.20% Senior Notes.

14. BUSINESS SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC INFORMATION

  Descriptive Information About Reportable Segments

     The Company has two reportable segments, the Electronic Instruments Group
and the Electromechanical Group. The Company organizes its businesses primarily
on the basis of product type, production processes, distribution methods, and
management organizations.

     The Electronic Instruments Group produces instrumentation for various
electronic applications that service certain types of transportation industries,
including aircraft cockpit instruments and displays, airborne electronics
systems that monitor and record flight and engine data, and
pressure-temperature-flow and liquid-level sensors for commercial airlines and
aircraft and jet engine manufacturers. The Group also produces instruments and
complete instrument panels for heavy truck manufacturers and heavy construction
and agricultural vehicles, as well as instruments for foodservice equipment, and
measurement and monitoring instrumentation for various process industries. To a
lesser degree, the Group also manufactures high-temperature-resistant and
corrosion-resistant materials, as well as thermoplastic compounds for
automotive, appliance, and telecommunications applications.

     The Electromechanical Group produces air-moving electric motors and
motor-blower systems for manufacturers of floor-care appliances and outdoor
power equipment, fractional horsepower and brushless air-moving motors for
aerospace, mass transit, medical equipment, computer and business machine
applications. The Group also produces high-purity metal powders and alloys in
powder, strip, and wire form for electronic components, aircraft and automotive
products. Sales of electric motors, blowers, and fans represented 42.2% in 2000,
43.8% in 1999, and 47.8% in 1998 of the Company's consolidated net sales.

  Measurement of Segment Results

     Segment operating income represents sales, less all direct costs and
expenses (including certain administrative and other expenses) applicable to
each segment, but does not include an allocation of interest expense. Net sales
by segment are reported after elimination of intra- and inter-segment sales,
which are insignificant in amount. Such sales are generally based on prevailing
market prices. Reported segment assets include allocations directly related to
the segment's operations. Corporate assets consist primarily of investments,
insurance deposits, and deferred taxes.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

REPORTABLE SEGMENT FINANCIAL INFORMATION



- ---------------
(1) Amounts in 1998 include a non-recurring charge for cost reduction
    initiatives totaling $8.0 million pretax, consisting of $2.3 million in the
    Electronic Instruments segment, $5.2 million in the Electromechanical
    segment, and $0.5 million in Corporate.

(2) Includes $4.2 million in 2000, $18.9 million in 1999, and $5.6 million in
    1998 from acquired businesses.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  Geographic Areas

     Information about the Company's operations in different geographic areas
for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998 is shown below. Net sales
were attributed to geographic areas based on the location of the customer,
accordingly, U.S. export sales are reported in international sales.



- ---------------
(a) Includes U.S. export sales of $179.1 million in 2000, $158.5 million in
    1999, and $162.6 million in 1998.

(b) Represents long-lived assets of foreign-based operations only.

15. QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)




                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



- ---------------
 (a) The sum of quarterly earnings per share may not equal total year earnings
     per share due to the effect of the Company's purchasing shares of its
     outstanding common stock.

(b) Trading ranges are based on the New York Stock Exchange composite tape.

16. NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In the fourth quarter of 2000, the Company adopted the Securities and
Exchange Commission's Staff Accounting Bulletin (SAB) No. 101, "Revenue
Recognition in Financial Statements". The SAB summarizes certain of the staff's
views in applying generally accepted accounting principles to revenue
recognition in the financial statements. The adoption of the Bulletin did not
have a significant effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations,
financial position, or cash flows.

     In September, 2000, the FASB issued Statement No. 140, "Accounting for
Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and Extinguishments of
Liabilities -- A Replacement of FASB Statement 125". The Statement requires
extensive disclosures about securitizations entered into during the period and
retained interests in securitized financial assets at the balance sheet date,
accounting policies, sensitivity information relating to retained interests, and
cash flows distributed to the transferor. The accounting requirements of
Statement 140 are effective for transfers occurring after March 31, 2001.
However, the expanded disclosures about securitizations and collateral are
effective for fiscal years ending after December 15, 2000. The Company is
continuing to study the future impact of adopting the accounting changes of this
Statement. The Company adopted the disclosure requirement by the Statement, for
fiscal year 2000, which are included in footnote 5 of the financial statements.

     On July 1, 2000, the Company adopted FASB Interpretation No. 44,
"Accounting for Certain Transactions Involving Stock Compensation". The
Interpretation provides guidance on the application of APB Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees". The adoption of this Interpretation
did not have a material effect on the Company's consolidated results of
operations, financial position, or cash flows.

     In June 1998, the FASB issued Statement No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities". The Statement requires recognition of all
derivative instruments measured at fair value in the statement of financial
position. Gains or losses resulting from changes in the value of derivatives
would be accounted for depending on the intended use of the derivative and
whether it qualifies for hedge accounting. In June 1999, the FASB approved a
one-year delay in the effective date of this Statement until January 2001.


                                  AMETEK, INC.

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In June 2000, the FASB issued Statement No. 138, "Accounting for Certain
Derivative Instruments and Certain Hedging Activities". This Statement amends
Statement No. 133 for certain impractical aspects of the original Statement
which were incompatible with many common current hedging approaches. Statement
No. 138 is effective simultaneously with Statement No. 133.

     The provisions of SFAS 133 and related amendments and interpretations
became effective for the Company beginning January 1, 2001, including the
interim periods of that year. Based on the Company's limited use of derivative
financial instruments, adoption of these Statements did not have a significant
effect on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial position,
or cash flows.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Information with respect to Directors and Executive Officers of the
Company, and information with respect to compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, is incorporated herein by reference to the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission (the "Commission") not later than 120 days after the close
of the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000, under the captions "Election of
Directors," "Executive Officers," and "Compliance with Section 16(a) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934."

ITEMS 11, 12, AND 13

     The information required by Item 11, Executive Compensation, by Item 12,
Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management, and by Item 13,
Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, is incorporated herein by
reference to the Company's definitive Proxy Statement to be filed with the
Commission not later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended
December 31, 2000, under the headings "Executive Compensation," "Stock
Ownership," and "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation."

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     (a) Financial Statements, Financial Statement Schedules and Exhibits filed.

          1. and 2.

          Financial statements and schedules are shown in the index on page 22
     of this report.

          3. Exhibits

          Exhibits are shown in the index on pages 48-53 of this report.

     (b) Reports on Form 8-K

          No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the quarter ended December
     31, 2000.



                                   SIGNATURES

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED ON
ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED.

                                          AMETEK, INC.

                                          By /s/ FRANK S. HERMANCE
                                            ------------------------------------
                                            FRANK S. HERMANCE, CHAIRMAN OF THE
                                             BOARD,
                                            CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND DIRECTOR

Dated: March 14, 2001

     PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.





                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS

                                 ITEM 14(a)(3)























- ---------------
* Management contract or compensatory plan required to be filed pursuant to Item
  601 of Regulation S-K.


