
10-K






=============================================================================

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
                                  FORM 10-K

           (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                      OR
         ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        Commission File Number 1-9804
                               ----------------
                              PULTE CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           MICHIGAN                                           38-2766606
(State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                            Identification No.)

                    33 Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 200
                       Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 48304
             (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (810) 647-2750
         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of each class             Name of each exchange on which registered
    -------------------             -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value $.01                  New York Stock Exchange 


         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                     NONE
                               (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES __ X __   NO _______

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K [X].

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of January 31, 1997: $589,575,313

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 1997:
23,271,655

                     Documents Incorporated by Reference

Applicable portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form.
=============================================================================









                                    PART I


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Pulte Corporation

Pulte Corporation (the Company) is the publicly held parent corporation of
the Pulte Home Corporation (Pulte) group of companies. The Company is a
holding company and its assets consist principally of the capital stock of
its subsidiaries, cash and investments. Its income primarily consists of
dividends from its subsidiaries and interest on investments. The Company's
direct subsidiaries consist of Pulte Financial Companies, Inc. (PFCI) and
Pulte Diversified Companies, Inc. (PDCI). PDCI's direct subsidiaries are
Pulte and First Heights Bank, a federal savings bank (First Heights). ICM
Mortgage Corporation (ICM) is a direct subsidiary of Pulte.

The Company conducts operations in two primary business segments:
homebuilding, through Pulte and its homebuilding subsidiaries, and financial
services, principally through the Company's mortgage banking subsidiary
(ICM). The operations of PFCI's limited purpose subsidiaries are expected to
cease during the first half of 1997 (See Other Financial Subsidiaries in the
following discussion of the Company's business). The Company's thrift
subsidiary, First Heights, has been classified as discontinued operations.
(See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

During 1996, the Company celebrated the 40th anniversary of its incorporation
and its 40th consecutive year of operating profitability.

Homebuilding Operations

Pulte builds a wide variety of homes, including detached units, townhouses,
condominium apartments and duplexes, with varying prices, models, options and
lot sizes, all sold for use as principal residences. Nearly tripling both its
housing sales (settlements) and net new orders since 1990, Pulte earned the
distinction as the nation's largest homebuilder with 1996 sales of over
14,600 homes and nearly 175,000 homes since its inception. Additionally,
during 1996, Pulte was recognized as "America's Best Builder" by the National
Association of Home Builders, the industry's trade association, and by
Builder Magazine, one of the industry's leading trade publications.

The Company believes that its customer-focused approach has allowed it to
quickly identify and target emerging niches, including the mature buyer (home
buyers age 50 and over) and affordable housing segments. Initiatives focusing
on affordable housing, most notably the Canterbury Community concept
(affordable site-built homes), are currently offered or under way in eight
markets nationwide. In addition, 24 new communities targeted at the
affordable housing and mature buyer housing segments were opened during 1996
and over 75% of Pulte's planned new community openings in 1997 are targeted
at these two segments.

As of December 31, 1996, Pulte offered homes for sale in 395 communities at
sales prices ranging from $45,000 to over $600,000. Sales prices of homes
currently offered for sale in 75% of Pulte's communities fall within the
range of $75,000 to $225,000 with a 1996 average unit selling price of
$159,000. Sales of single-family detached homes, as a percentage of total
unit sales, were 77%, 73% and 75% in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. As of
December 31, 1996, Pulte operated in 41 markets within the following
geographic areas:

     Pulte Home North - Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia

     Pulte Home South - Georgia, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina,
Puerto Rico

     Pulte Home Central - Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
Missouri, Ohio, Texas, Wisconsin

     Pulte Home West - Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Utah





The following table sets forth for-sale housing unit sales (settlements),
average sales prices, net new orders and backlog of orders (any of which may
be canceled):


Unit sales (settlements) and net new orders in any year are strongly
influenced by local, regional and national market economic conditions.

Land Acquisition and Development

Locations for development are selected after completing extensive market
research, enabling Pulte to match the location and product offering with its
targeted consumer group. Factors considered include proximity to developed
areas, population growth patterns and, if applicable, estimated development
costs. Pulte has historically managed the risk of controlling its land
positions through use of option contracts and outright acquisition. Due to
the competitive market conditions of recent years, obtaining satisfactory
option terms to allow Pulte to control what it believes are prime development
locations in each of its respective markets has become increasingly more
difficult. As a result, Pulte has utilized outright acquisition more
frequently. Pulte typically controls land with the intent to complete sales
of housing units within 24 months from the date of opening a community,
except in the case of certain mature buyer developments for which the
completion of housing unit sales may require 60 months from the date of
opening a community. As a result, land is generally controlled after it is
properly zoned and developed or is ready for development. In addition, Pulte
occasionally disposes of land owned not required in its business. Where Pulte
develops land, it engages directly in many phases of the development process,
including land and site planning, obtaining environmental and other
regulatory approvals, and constructing roads, sewers, water and drainage
facilities, and other amenities. Pulte uses its staff and the services of
independent engineers and consultants in its land development activities.
Land development 




work is performed primarily by subcontractors and local government
authorities which construct sewer and water systems in some areas. At
December 31, 1996, Pulte owned approximately 29,100 lots in communities in
which homes are being constructed. In addition, Pulte had approximately
15,600 lots under option.

Sales and Marketing

Pulte dedicates itself to improving the quality and value of its homes
through what it believes are innovative architectural and community designs
and state-of-the-art marketing techniques. Analyzing various qualitative and
quantitative data obtained through extensive market research, Pulte segments
its potential customers into well-defined buyer profiles. Once the demands of
potential buyers are understood, Pulte links its home design and community
development efforts to the specific lifestyle of each targeted consumer
group.

To meet the demands of its various customer segments, Pulte has established a
solid design expertise for a wide array of product lines. Pulte believes that
it is an innovator in the design of its homes, and it views its design
capacity as an integral aspect of its marketing strategy. Pulte's in-house
architectural services teams and management, supplemented by outside
consultants, have been successful in creating distinctive design features,
both in exterior facades, and interior options and features. One of Pulte's
strategies in certain markets has been to offer "the complete house" in which
all features shown in the home are included in the sales price. Standard
features typically offered include vaulted ceilings, flooring, carpet and
appliances, with the buyer having selection options as to the type of
flooring and carpet.

Typically, Pulte's own sales team, together with outside sales brokers, are
responsible for the sales of its homes. Fully furnished and landscaped model
homes are used to showcase Pulte's homes and their distinctive design
features. Pulte has great success with the first-time buyer in the low to
moderate price range; in such cases, financing under United States
Government-insured and guaranteed programs is often used and is facilitated
through ICM. Pulte also enjoys strong sales to the move-up buyer and, in
certain markets, offers semi-custom homes in higher price ranges. Pulte
introduces its homes to prospective buyers through a variety of media
advertising, illustrated brochures and other advertising displays. Customers
also are obtained through referrals from other Pulte customers. Also, Pulte
recently added market and specific community information to its internet home
page which can be reached at http://www.pulte.com.

Construction

Pulte normally designs the homes it sells and builds such homes under the
supervision of its on-site construction superintendents. The construction
work is usually performed by subcontractors under contracts which, in many
instances, cover both labor and materials on a fixed-price basis. Pulte
believes that Pulte Preferred Partnerships (P3), an extension of its quality
control program, is establishing new standards for contractor relations.
Using a selective process, Pulte has teamed up with what it believes are
premier contractors and suppliers to improve all aspects of the development
and construction process.

Pulte attempts to maintain efficient operations by using standard materials
and components from a variety of sources and, when feasible, by building on
contiguous lots. To minimize the effects of changes in construction costs,
the subcontracting and purchasing of building supplies, materials and major
appliances are generally negotiated at or near the time when related sales
contracts are signed. Pulte cannot determine the extent to which necessary
building materials will be available at reasonable prices in the future and
has, on occasion, experienced shortages of skilled labor in certain trades
and of building materials in some markets.

A Pulte subsidiary operates facilities in the greater metropolitan
Washington, D.C., area, Charlotte, Raleigh, Atlanta, Orlando and North East,
Maryland, which provide building materials to certain Pulte operating
divisions as well as unaffiliated customers.





Competition and Other Factors

Pulte employs a consumer-products orientation based upon customer care and
brand recognition it believes is unique in the home building industry and a
significant factor in its long-term competitive advantage. However, the
housing industry in the United States is highly competitive. In each of
Pulte's market areas, there are numerous homebuilders with which it competes.
Any provider of housing units, for-sale or to rent, including apartment
builders, may be considered a competitor of Pulte. Conversion of apartments
to condominiums further provides certain segments of the population an
alternative to traditional housing. Pulte competes primarily on the basis of
reputation, price, location, design and quality of its homes. The housing
industry is cyclical and is affected by a number of economic and other
factors including: (1) significant national and world events which impact
consumer confidence; (2) changes in interest rates; (3) changes in other
costs associated with home ownership, such as property taxes and energy
costs; (4) various demographic factors; (5) changes in federal income tax
laws; and (6) changes in government mortgage financing programs. In addition
to these factors, Pulte's business and operations could be affected by
unanticipated shifts in demand for new homes.

Pulte's operations are subject to building, environmental and other
regulations of various state and local authorities. For its homes to qualify
for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or Veterans Administration (VA)
mortgages, Pulte must satisfy valuation standards and site, material and
construction requirements of those agencies. Compliance by Pulte with
federal, state and local laws relating to protection of the environment has
had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings or the
competitive position of Pulte. More stringent requirements could be imposed
in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of
compliance.

Financial Services Operations

The Company's financial services operations are conducted by its mortgage
banking and other financial subsidiaries.

Mortgage Banking

ICM is a mortgage banker which arranges financing through the origination of
mortgage loans primarily for the benefit of buyers of Pulte's homes, but also
to the general public, and engages in the sale of such loans and the related
servicing rights. ICM is a lender approved by the FHA and VA and is a
seller/servicer approved by Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA),
Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation (FHLMC) and other investors. In its conventional mortgage lending
activities, ICM generally follows underwriting guidelines established by FNMA
and FHLMC.

During 1996, ICM reorganized its operations by centralizing its mortgage
underwriting, processing and closing functions in Denver, Colorado, through
the implementation of a mortgage operations center (MOC) concept. ICM
believes the MOC will improve the speed and efficiency of its mortgage
operations, thus improving profitability and allowing its field personnel to
focus on creating mortgage opportunities with Pulte customers.

In originating mortgage loans, ICM initially uses its own funds and
borrowings made available to it pursuant to various credit arrangements.
Subsequently, ICM sells such mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities to
outside investors. During each of the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and
1994, ICM originated mortgage loans for 49% of the homes sold by Pulte. Such
originations represented 72%, 62% and 41%, respectively, of ICM funded
originations. Approximately 38%, 50% and 49% of the total loans originated by
ICM during the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively,
were insured by the FHA or partially guaranteed by the VA.

Prior to 1994, ICM had retained most of the servicing rights related to
mortgage loans it had originated and, thus, accepted the risks inherent in
servicing. Beginning in 1994, ICM changed its strategy to sell originated
mortgage servicing on a flow basis. In addition, during the second half of
1994 and first half of 1995, ICM sold a significant portion of its core
mortgage servicing portfolio. At December 31, 1996, the outstanding balance
of ICM's owned servicing portfolio was $394,000,000 (3,744 loans) as compared
with $368,000,000 (3,852 loans) and $1,143,000,000 (12,557 loans) at December
31, 1995 and 1994, respectively. At December 31, 1996, approximately 32% of
such servicing portfolio was insured by the FHA or partially guaranteed by
the VA, compared to 41% at December 31, 1995. 




The mortgage industry in the United States is highly competitive. ICM
competes with other mortgage companies and financial institutions to provide
attractive mortgage financing to both Pulte customers and the general public.
ICM, in originating and servicing mortgage loans, is subject to rules and
regulations of the FHA, VA, GNMA, FNMA, and FHLMC.

Other Financial Subsidiaries

Other financing activities are conducted by the limited purpose subsidiaries
of PFCI. Such subsidiaries have engaged in the acquisition of mortgage
loans and mortgage-backed securities from ICM and unrelated parties financed
principally through long-term bonds which are secured only by such mortgage
loans and mortgage-backed securities. At December 31, 1996, one bond series
with a principal amount of $45,304,000 was outstanding. It is anticipated
that this bond series and the related collateral will be sold by the middle of
1997. Such bonds are the obligations of the applicable PFCI issuer subsidiary;
they are neither obligations of, nor guaranteed by, the Company, PDCI, Pulte, 
ICM or PFCI. (See Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations - Other Financial Subsidiaries and Note 6 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Discontinued Operations

During 1994, the Company announced its strategy to exit the thrift industry
and increase its focus on homebuilding and related mortgage banking. First
Heights sold substantially all of its bank branches and related liabilities
(primarily deposits), plus certain other assets. The sale was completed
during the fourth quarter of 1994. Accordingly, such operations have been
presented as discontinued. Included in the sale were assets, primarily
consumer and commercial loans, of $116,886,000 and liabilities, primarily
deposits, of $1,205,047,000. To provide liquidity for the sale, First Heights
liquidated its investment portfolios and its single-family residential loan
portfolio and borrowed $127,000,000 from the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporaiton (FDIC). One remaining retail branch office continues to operate
in Houston. First Heights is subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift
Supervision (OTS) and the FDIC. Specific regulations include, among others,
capital maintenance requirements, liquidity maintenance requirements,
limitations on the growth of total liabilities, limitations on the type and
amount of its investments, restrictions on transactions with affiliates, and
limitations on dividends paid to PDCI. (See Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Discontinued
Operations, and Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The
Company is engaged in litigation with the FDIC in connection with its thrift
activities. (See Item 3 Legal Proceedings).

Corporate

Corporate is a nonoperating segment that is comprised of the Company and
PDCI, both of which are holding companies. Its primary purpose is to support
the operations of the Company's subsidiaries as the internal source of
financing and by implementing and nurturing to maturity strategic initiatives
centered around new business development and improving operating
efficiencies. Examples of past and present strategic initiatives include:

o   international expansion into Mexico and pursuit of additional
    international opportunities;

o   affordable housing opportunities, through both the Canterbury Communities
    concept and use of manufactured and/or modular housing products;

o   mature buyer/active adult housing opportunities;

o   Pulte's materials supply chain management in order to gain efficiencies
    in its materials procurement process; and

o   non-traditional building components.

Corporate assets include equity investments in its subsidiaries, short-term
financial instruments and affiliate advances. Its liabilities include senior
and subordinated debt and income taxes. Corporate revenues consist primarily
of investment earnings of excess funds, while its expenses include costs
associated with supporting its subsidiaries' operations and investigating
strategic initiatives.





Organization/Employees

All subsidiaries and operating divisions operate in an autonomous fashion
with respect to day-to-day operations. All homebuilding real estate purchases
and other significant homebuilding, mortgage banking, financing activities
and similar operating decisions must be approved by operating company and/or
senior corporate management.

At December 31, 1996, the Company employed approximately 4,400 persons.
Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are not represented by any
union. Subcontracted work, however, may be performed by union subcontractors.
Homebuilding division, mortgage banking and financing management personnel
are paid performance bonuses based on individual performance and incentive
compensation based on the performance of the applicable division or
subsidiary. The Company's corporate management personnel are paid incentive
compensation based on overall performance of the Company (see Note 7 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements). Each subsidiary is given autonomy
regarding employment of personnel, although the Company's senior corporate
management acts in an advisory capacity in the employment of subsidiary
officers. The Company considers its employee and subcontractor relations to
be satisfactory.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

The Company's and Pulte's corporate offices are located at 33 Bloomfield
Hills Parkway, Suite 200, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, 48304, where 34,559
square feet of office space is leased. ICM's and PFCI's corporate offices are
located at 6061 South Willow Drive, Greenwood Village, Colorado, 80111. At
this location, 47,400 square feet of office space is leased. Pulte building
divisions and ICM branch operations generally lease office space for their
day-to-day operations. Pulte's subsidiary which provides building materials
owns three warehouses totaling 196,000 square feet and leases 77,000 square
feet of warehouse space in metropolitan Washington, D.C., leases a 91,000
square foot warehouse facility in Charlotte, owns a 112,000 square foot
warehouse facility in Atlanta, leases a 56,000 square foot warehouse facility
in Raleigh, owns a 47,000 square foot warehouse facility in Orlando and
leases 109,000 square feet of warehouse space in North East, Maryland.

Because of the nature of Pulte's homebuilding operations, significant amounts
of property are held as inventory in the ordinary course of its homebuilding
business. Such properties are not included in response to this Item.

First Heights' administrative offices and it remaining retail branch office
are located in leased space at 2727 North Loop West, Suite 150, Houston,
Texas 77008.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is involved in various litigation incidental to its business. In
the opinion of management, none of this litigation will have a material
adverse financial impact on the Company.

Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

The Company is a party to two lawsuits relating to First Heights' 1988
acquisition from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC),
and First Heights' ownership of, five failed Texas thrifts. The first lawsuit
(the "District Court Case") was filed on July 7, 1995 in the United States
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) against the Company, PDCI and First Heights
(collectively, the "Pulte Defendants"). The second lawsuit (the "Court of
Claims Case") was filed on December 26, 1996 in the United States Court of
Federal Claims (Washington, D.C.) by the Pulte Defendants against the United
States. In the District Court Case, the FDIC seeks a declaration of rights
and other relief related to the assistance agreement entered into between
First Heights and the FSLIC. The FDIC is the successor to FSLIC. The FDIC and
the Company disagree about the proper interpretation of provisions in the
assistance agreement which provide for sharing of certain tax benefits
achieved in connection with First Heights' 1988 acquisition and ownership of
the five failed Texas thrifts. The District Court Case also includes certain
other claims relating to the foregoing, including claims resulting from the
Company's and First Heights' amendment of a tax sharing and allocation
agreement between the Company and First Heights. The Company disputes the
FDIC's claims and believes that a proper interpretation of the assistance
agreement limits the 




FDIC's participation in the tax benefits to amounts established on First
Heights' books. The Company had filed an answer and a counterclaim, seeking,
among other things, a declaration that the FDIC has breached the assistance
agreement in numerous respects and an injunction against the FDIC. On
December 24, 1996, the Pulte Defendants voluntarily obtained a dismissal
without prejudice of certain of their claims in the District Court Case and
on December 26, 1996, initiated the Court of Claims Case. The Court of Claims
Case contains essentially the same claims as were voluntarily dismissed from
the District Court Case.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

This Item is not applicable.

ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Set forth below is certain information with respect to all officers
(including executive officers) of the Company as of December 31, 1996.



The following is a brief account of the business experience during the past
five years through December 31, 1996 of each officer:

Mr. Pulte was appointed Chairman of the Board in January 1991 and Co-Chairman
of the Executive Committee in April 1990. Previously, Mr. Pulte was Chairman
of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Pulte served as
Chief Executive Officer from January 1991 through December 1992. He has been
a Director of the Company since 1956.

Mr. Burgess has been President since October 1985. In addition, Mr. Burgess
was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 1993. He has been a Director
of the Company since 1985.

Mr. Hollerbach has been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
since June 1993, and was previously Senior Vice President since July 1989.
Prior to that date, Mr. Hollerbach served in various capacities with Company
subsidiaries which included Chief Executive Officer of PFCI and Chief
Financial Officer of ICM. He has been a Director of the Company since January
1993.

Mr. Anderson was appointed Senior Vice President in December 1994. Prior to
that date, Mr. Anderson served in various capacities with Company
subsidiaries which included President of Pulte's Maryland Division.

Mr. Crombie has been Senior Vice President since June 1993. From November
1989 to June 1993, he was Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial
Officer.




Mr. O'Brien became Senior Vice President in December 1994. From December 1993
to November 1994, he was Vice President. From 1989 to November 1993, Mr.
O'Brien served as Vice President-Human Resources of Pepsi-Cola, Inc.

Mr. Brennan became Vice President in September 1995. From August 1992 through
August 1995 Mr. Brennan was Vice President - International for the G.
Heileman Brewing Company. From January 1980 through July 1992 Mr. Brennan
held various positions with the Coca-Cola Company, the latest of which was
President and CEO of a joint venture in Taiwan.

Mr. Ebling has been Vice President since January 1983. He was previously
Controller from 1981 to 1987 and from May 1994 to April 1995.

Mr. Frees became Vice President and Controller in May 1995. Prior to joining
the Company in April 1995, Mr. Frees served in various key financial
capacities with American Cyanamid Company since 1982.

Mr. Nelson has been Vice President since August 1993. From 1988 to August
1993, he was Director of Taxes. He has also been a Vice President of Pulte
since 1988. Mr. Nelson joined the Company in January 1982.

Mr. Stoller joined the Company in August 1990. In October 1990, he was
appointed Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Stoller served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of
BetaWest Properties, Inc., a commercial real estate development subsidiary of
US WEST, Inc. Effective January 1, 1994, Mr. Stoller became Secretary of the
Company.

Mr. Weissenborn has been Vice President and Treasurer since August 1993. From
March 1989 to August 1993, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of First Heights. Mr. Weissenborn has served in various
capacities at the Company since March 1987.

There is no family relationship between any of the officers. Each officer
serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.


                                   PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
         RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol:
PHM). The table below sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the
range of high and low sales prices and cash dividends declared per share.



At December 31, 1996, there were 813 shareholders of record.





ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Set forth below is selected consolidated financial data for each of the past
five fiscal years. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction
with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations and the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
thereto included elsewhere in this report.








ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (continued)









               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                   ($000's omitted, except per share data)

A summary of the Company's operating results by business segment for the
years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 is as follows:


A comparison of pre-tax income for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995
and 1994 is as follows:

o   Pre-tax income of the Company's homebuilding operations increased by
    $28,784 over 1995. This increase is primarily the result of the increased
    volume of unit settlements during 1996, coupled with an improved gross
    profit margin, partially offset by a leveraged increase in selling,
    general and administrative expenses. Pre-tax income had decreased in 1995
    from the level achieved during 1994 primarily as a result of lower gross
    profit margins and increased selling, general and administrative
    expenses.

o   Pre-tax income of the Company's mortgage banking operations decreased
    $10,570 from 1995. This is principally related to $10,148 of gains from
    the sale of core servicing rights during 1995. No such sales occurred
    during 1996. Pre-tax income decreased in 1995 from 1994 primarily due to
    reduced gains from the sales of non-core mortgage servicing rights
    resulting from decreased mortgage origination volume.

o   Pre-tax income from the Company's financing activities increased $6,824
    from 1995 primarily due to gains from the sales of collateral during
    1996. The increase in pre-tax income in 1995 over 1994 related primarily
    to lower net bond discount amortization expense resulting from
    adjustments made in 1994 for bonds which were repaid sooner than
    anticipated, partly offset by lower collateral sale gains and decreased
    net interest income.

o   Pre-tax loss from corporate operations increased $4,599 over 1995 as a
    result of higher net interest expense and administrative expenses related
    to the Company's strategic operating initiatives. The increase in pre-tax
    loss in 1995 as compared to 1994 was primarily the result of increased
    losses relating to the Company's Mexico operations.

o   Income from discontinued operations increased during 1996 as a result of
    recognizing $110,000 of tax benefits associated with net operating
    losses. During 1994, $72,000 of similar tax benefits were recognized.





               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Homebuilding Operations:

The following table presents selected data for Pulte for the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994:




     The following is a summary of the number of communities active as of
each respective date:



Note (A):  The Company capitalizes interest cost into homebuilding
           inventories and charges the interest to homebuilding interest
           expense when the related inventories are closed.






               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

As of December 31, 1996, Pulte conducted its domestic homebuilding operations
through 41 markets in 25 states and Puerto Rico, which were organized into
four operating companies -- Pulte Home North (PHN), Pulte Home South (PHS),
Pulte Home Central (PHC) and Pulte Home West (PHW). No one individual market
within the 41 markets represented more than 10% of total Pulte net new
orders, unit settlements or revenues during 1996.

Net new orders for 1996 increased for the seventh consecutive year to a
record 14,443 units, a 4% increase over 1995's unit orders which, in turn,
had increased 31% over 1994's unit orders. The strong net new order pace
experienced during the last nine months of 1995 carried over into the first
four months of 1996. However, the final eight months of 1996 saw a declining
net new orders trend. This was due initially to the effect of a rising
interest rate environment during the first half of 1996 and a subsequent
build-up of inventory levels within the industry due to the increased level
of development nationally, which heightened competition. PHS contributed a
25% increase in 1996 net new orders on the strength of its Florida and
Carolinas markets, particularly the contributions of the new markets entered
in the past three years. PHW contributed a similar 13% increase primarily as
a result of its Active Adult (mature buyer) and Canterbury Community product
offerings. Net new orders for PHC fell 13% due to delays in opening new
communities caused by slackening of the local economy in certain of its
markets. This decrease comes on the heels of a 45% increase in net new orders
during 1995 over 1994. Despite the overall increase in net new orders, fourth
quarter backlog declined 6% to 3,469 units ($598,000) at December 31, 1996,
from 3,699 units ($606,000) a year earlier. This compares with 2,287 units
($387,000) at December 31, 1994.

Unit settlements increased 18% to 14,673 units during 1996. This follows a
12% increase in units settled during 1995 over 1994. All operating companies
posted increases in unit settlements over 1995. During 1996, unit settlements
were supported by the brisk net new order pace established at the end of the
first quarter of 1995 which carried through the first four months of 1996.
Revenues also increased during 1996 to $2,326,462, a 20% increase over 1995
revenues which, in turn, had increased 18% over 1994 revenues. The average
home sales price increased from $147 in 1994 to $155 in 1995 and $159 in the
current year. During 1995, settlement activity was slow during the first
quarter as a result of the low December 31, 1994 backlog, which translated
into a reduced number of units available for settlement. However, once net
new order pace improved, Pulte was able to achieve the 12% increase in
settled units over 1994.

Gross profit margins improved to 14.8% in 1996 from 14.5% in 1995. In 1994,
gross profit margins were 15.4%. During 1995, gross profit margins were
impacted by competitive market conditions and excess industry inventory
levels. The level of demand for new housing experienced during the latter
half of 1995 and the first four months of 1996, especially in certain PHS and
PHC markets, resulted in improved gross profit margins for units settled
during 1996 as compared to 1995. In addition, the improvement in gross profit
margins for 1996 is due in part to Pulte's ongoing process improvement
initiatives focused on lowering house costs through improved operational
efficiencies. The continued slowdown in net new order activity, together with
competitive conditions in many of Pulte's markets, will challenge Pulte's
ability to achieve sequential or year-over-year improvements in gross profit
margins during 1997.

Selling, general and administrative expenses were $216,629 for the year ended
December 31, 1996, an 18% increase from the 1995 level. This increase was
leveraged over a 14% increase in the average number of active communities
during 1996 over 1995 and expenses associated with two acquisitions completed
during the second half of 1996, North Florida Classic Homes of Jacksonville,
Florida, effective July 1, 1996, and LeBlanc Homes of Rhode Island, effective
September 1, 1996. As a percentage of revenue, selling, general and
administrative expense was 9.3% in 1996, 9.5% in 1995 and 9.3% in 1994.






               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

Other income (expense), net, includes gains on land sales, the pre-tax
results of Builders' Supply & Lumber Co., Inc. (BSL) and other
homebuilding-related expenses. For 1995, this item also includes the
settlement of certain litigation for amounts in excess of the receivable
amounts previously included in the financial statements of the Company. Such
gain was not material to the financial condition or results of operations of
the Company.

Information related to interest in inventory is as follows:




Financial Services Operations:
Mortgage Banking Operations:

The Company's mortgage banking operations are conducted by ICM Mortgage
Corporation (ICM). The following table presents selected production data for
ICM:



Funded mortgage origination volume for 1996 increased 8% over 1995. This
follows a 20% decrease in similar originations during 1995 from 1994 levels.
However, ICM's continued emphasis on expanding in Pulte's existing and new
markets has resulted in a 22% increase in mortgage origination volume during
1996 for Pulte customers and an overall 43% increase in similar origination
volume since 1994. Pulte customers now represent over 72% of all funded
mortgages originated by ICM. This compares with 62% and 41% for 1995 and
1994, respectively.

On July 1, 1995, ICM adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
(SFAS) No. 122, Accounting for Mortgage Servicing Rights. SFAS No. 122
requires a mortgage banking enterprise to recognize as separate assets the
servicing rights for mortgage loans regardless of the manner in which those
servicing rights are acquired. A mortgage banking enterprise that acquired
mortgage servicing rights through either the purchase or origination of
mortgage loans and sells or securitizes those loans with servicing rights
retained, must allocate the total cost of the mortgage loans to the mortgage
servicing rights and the loans (without the mortgage servicing rights) based
on their relative fair values. The effect of this allocation results in a
lower cost basis for the mortgage loan resulting in a larger gain when the
loan is sold.





               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Financial Services Operations (continued):
Mortgage Banking Operations (continued):

During 1996, pricing and marketing gains increased $9,269 compared with 1995,
while 1995 saw an increase of $8,302 over 1994. The increase was due in part
to higher volume of servicing retained originations during 1996 as compared
with 1995, and higher market value of originated servicing rights, while the
1995 increase resulted from the adoption of SFAS No. 122 as discussed above.
During 1995 (prior to the adoption of SFAS No. 122) and 1994, ICM recorded
pre-tax gains on sales of its core mortgage servicing portfolio of $10,148
and $11,222, respectively. In addition, as part of its normal operations, ICM
recorded gains on sales of non-core mortgage servicing rights of $9,566 and
$21,271 for 1995 and 1994, respectively. The sale of the core mortgage
servicing portfolio and the ongoing sale of servicing rights on a flow basis
are the result of repositioning ICM to concentrate on its primary business of
providing mortgage financing for Pulte's homebuyers. ICM expects to continue
to sell mortgage servicing rights as part of its normal operations on a three
to five month lag from the time of origination.

Servicing fee income for 1996 decreased to $926 from $1,431 in 1995 due to
the sale of the core mortgage servicing portfolio discussed above. Servicing
fee income decreased $5,024 during 1995 from 1994 primarily as a result of
the sales of core and non-core mortgage servicing rights discussed above.
Mortgage origination fees also decreased $1,092 or 24% during 1996 and $762
or 14% during 1995 due to a decrease in the amount of non-funded originations
compared with the previous years.

Net interest income decreased $816 during 1996 as compared with 1995, and by
$3,336 in 1995 as compared to 1994. These declines are primarily due to
dividends paid by ICM to its parent, Pulte, throughout 1996 and in the first
quarter of 1995.

At December 31, 1996, loan application backlog was $246,000 compared with
$334,000 at December 31, 1995 and $277,000 at December 31, 1994.

Other Financial Subsidiaries

PFCI's pre-tax operating income increased $6,824 during 1996 over the prior
year. This increase was primarily the result of gains on sales of collateral
which aggregated $10,309 during 1996 as compared to $4,003 in 1995. Pre-tax
operating income for 1995 increased $1,850 from 1994. This increase was due
primarily to lower net bond discount amortization expense in 1995 as a result
of adjustments during 1994 for bonds which were paid down faster than
anticipated, partially offset by lower gains on sales of collateral and
decreased net interest income. 

Discontinued Operations:

Income from the Company's discontinued thrift operations for the years ended
December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 is summarized as follows:








               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Discontinued Operations (continued):

During 1996, the Company recognized, as part of discontinued thrift
operations, after-tax income of approximately $110,000. Such income relates
to tax benefits associated with net operating losses. Certainty of
realization of this amount is not anticipated in the near term, is dependent
upon various factors, and the actual amount realized might be more or less
than the amount recorded. However, management believes that it is more likely
than not that these benefits will be realized. During 1994, the Company
recognized a similar $72,000 tax benefit.

For the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, discontinued thrift
operations resulted in income of $6,432 (including income tax benefit of
$1,076) and $9,507 (net of income taxes of $157), respectively. Additional
pre-tax gains amounting to $4,000 at December 31, 1996, are being amortized
into income over the life of the related FSLIC Resolution Fund (FRF) note.
Income from discontinued operations in 1994 included operating results only
through March 31, 1994. Also during 1994, the Company recorded a gain on sale
of $26,293 (including income tax benefit of $50,365). Such gain included
results of thrift operations for the period from April 1, 1994, to December
31, 1994, which was a loss of $12,784 (including income tax benefit of
$18,353).

Corporate:

The following table presents corporate results of operations for the years
ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994:



The increased loss for 1996 as compared with 1995 is due to increased net
interest expense as a result of the issuance of $125,000 of 7.3% unsecured
Senior Notes in the fourth quarter of 1995 and additional administrative
expenses related to the Company's strategic operating initiatives, partially
offset by a decrease in the loss recognized from the Company's Mexico
operations primarily as a result of the stabilization of the Mexican Peso.
During 1996, the Company recorded a loss of $1,700 related to its Mexico
operations, as compared with losses of $5,800 and $2,000 in 1995 and 1994,
respectively. Included in such results is the Company's share of joint
venture foreign currency losses which amounted to $100, $2,300 and $2,000 for
the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

Pulte conducts its Mexico homebuilding operations in the cities of Monterrey,
Juarez, Chihuahua, Nuevo Laredo, Reynosa, Matamoros and Mexico City through
three joint venture investments owned by a foreign subsidiary. In January
1996, the Company's Monterrey joint venture partner assigned its interest in
the joint venture to the Company. The Company's Monterrey venture closed 255
units during 1996. This compares with 651 units in 1995 and 313 units in
1994. The Company's net investment in the Monterrey venture approximated
$3,600 as of December 31, 1996. The Company intends to liquidate the
Monterrey assets in the normal course of business. During the fourth quarter
of 1996, the Company's Juarez joint venture closed 137 of its 160 units for
the year. During 1996, the Company announced that its Juarez joint venture
had entered into two separate agreements to construct homes in Mexico; one
with Delphi Automotive Systems, a division of General Motors Corporation (GM)
and one with Sony Magneticos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., an affiliate of Sony
Electronics, Inc. (Sony). The GM agreement provides for the construction of
approximately 6,000 homes for GM's employees over a three-year period with
its first unit settlements






               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Corporate (continued):

expected to commence in the fourth quarter of 1997. The Sony agreement
provides for the construction of approximately 500 homes for Sony's employees
over a two-year period beginning in 1998. The Company's net investment in the
Juarez joint venture approximated $8,800 as of December 31, 1996. During the
second half of 1996, the Company's Mexico City joint venture initiated its
first project of 20 middle income housing units for which closings are
expected to commence in the second quarter of 1997. The Company's net
investment in the Mexico City joint venture approximated $700 as of December
31, 1996.

Effective for periods ended after October 1, 1996, the Company has remeasured
the financial statements of its foreign subsidiary and joint venture
investments from the original functional currency (Peso) to the Company's
reporting currency (U.S. Dollar) due to Mexico's highly inflationary economy.

Liquidity And Capital Resources:

Continuing Operations:

The Company's net cash used in operating activities increased from $55,754 in
1995 to $64,225 in 1996. This is principally due to an approximately $50,000
increase in inventory expenditures associated with the growth in the number
of active communities and an approximately $19,000 increase in other assets
associated with increases in inventories and accounts receivable of BSL,
offset by an approximately $14,000 increase in income from continuing
operations and an approximately $49,000 decrease in the amount of residential
mortgage loans owned by ICM. Net cash provided by investing activities
increased from $113,097 in 1995 to $207,582 in 1996 primarily as a result of
increased net proceeds from the sale of mortgage-backed and other
available-for-sale securities of PFCI. The Company's net cash from financing 
activities decreased from a source of cash of $75,292 in 1995 to a use of cash 
of $245,959 in 1996. This resulted from an approximately $74,000 increase in the
amount of PFCI's mortgage-backed bonds redeemed during 1996, reduced new 
borrowings during 1996 primarily due to the issuance of $125,000 of unsecured 
Senior Notes in the fourth quarter of 1995, and an approximately $88,000 
increase in funds used for the repurchase of the Company's stock.

At December 31, 1996, the Company had cash and equivalents of $189,625 and
total indebtedness of $735,658. The Company's total indebtedness includes
$339,365 of unsecured senior notes, $22,405 of unsecured senior subordinated
debentures, other Pulte non-recourse and recourse debt of $29,405 and
$21,438, respectively, $123,605 of First Heights' deposits and advances,
$45,304 of mortgage-backed bonds payable for PFCI and $154,136 of notes and
drafts payable for ICM.

The Company believes it has adequate financial resources and sufficient
credit facilities to meet its current working capital needs. Sources of the
Company's working capital include its cash and equivalents, its $250,000
committed unsecured revolving credit facility, and other committed and
uncommitted credit lines, which at December 31, 1996, consisted of $10,000
and $250,000 related to Pulte and ICM operations, respectively. During 1997,
management anticipates that homebuilding and corporate working capital
requirements will be funded with internally generated funds and the
previously mentioned credit facilities. Additionally, the Company has on file
with the Securities and Exchange Commission a universal shelf registration
which provides for up to an additional $125,000 of debt or equity securities.





               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Liquidity And Capital Resources (continued):

Continuing Operations (continued):

The Company finances its land acquisitions, development and construction
activities from internally generated funds and existing credit agreements.
There were no borrowings under the Company's $250,000 unsecured revolving
credit facility during 1996. The Company's mortgage banking subsidiary (ICM)
provides mortgage financing for many of its home sales. ICM uses its own
funds and borrowings made available pursuant to various committed and
uncommitted credit arrangements which, at December 31, 1996 amounted to
$250,000, an amount deemed adequate to cover foreseeable needs. There were
approximately $96,034 of borrowings outstanding under ICM's $250,000
arrangement at December 31, 1996. Mortgage loans originated by ICM are
subsequently sold, principally to outside investors. The Company anticipates
that there will be adequate mortgage financing available for purchasers of
its homes.

In the fourth quarter of 1994, the Company initiated a share repurchase
program with the intention of enhancing shareholder value by utilizing excess
corporate capital to acquire its shares at favorable prices and increasing
leverage. During 1996, the Company accelerated its repurchase program due to
the favorable market conditions. The following table summarizes the Company's
share repurchase initiative through December 31, 1996:



Share repurchases during 1996 occurred at prices which on average represented
73% of the December 31, 1996, book value per share of the Company's common
stock. Additionally, share repurchases during 1996 had the effect of
increasing per share net income from continuing operations by $ .14 after
taking into consideration the effect of lost investment earnings on cash and
equivalents used to facilitate the share repurchases.

Discontinued Operations:

Since its acquisition of First Heights, the Company's income taxes have been
significantly impacted by its thrift operations, principally because payments
received from the FRF are exempt from federal income taxes. The Company's
thrift assets are subject to regulatory restrictions and are not available
for general corporate purposes. The final liquidation and wind-down of the
Company's thrift operations is dependent on the final resolution of
outstanding matters with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC),
manager of FRF. The Company is currently negotiating with the FDIC and is
involved in litigation with the FDIC. Although there is no certainty as to
the time of resolution of these matters, the Company believes that they might
be resolved within the next twelve months. At December 31, 1996, the Company
had a remaining investment in First Heights of approximately $29,800.





ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA




                           See accompanying notes.







                           See accompanying notes.









                           See accompanying notes.








                           See accompanying notes.








                           See accompanying notes.







                              PULTE CORPORATION
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               ($000's omitted)

1. Basis of presentation and segment information

   Basis of presentation

   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Pulte
   Corporation (the Company), and all of its significant subsidiaries. The
   Company's continuing operations include its homebuilding (Pulte Home
   Corporation) and financial services subsidiaries, which include ICM
   Mortgage Corporation (ICM) and Pulte Financial Companies, Inc. (PFCI). The
   Company's thrift subsidiary, First Heights Bank, fsb (First Heights), has
   been classified as discontinued operations (see Note 3). The Company's
   direct subsidiaries consist of PFCI and Pulte Diversified Companies, Inc.
   (PDCI). PDCI's direct subsidiaries are Pulte Home Corporation (Pulte) and
   First Heights. ICM is a direct subsidiary of Pulte.

   The Company's financial reporting segments consist of Homebuilding
   (Pulte), Financial Services (Mortgage Banking and Financing Operations)
   and Corporate. The Company's homebuilding operations comprise the most
   substantial part of its business, with over 90% of consolidated revenues
   contributed by Pulte's homebuilding divisions and subsidiaries. ICM's
   principal function is providing mortgage financing services for both Pulte
   customers and the general public. PFCI, through its subsidiaries,
   previously engaged in the acquisition of mortgages and mortgage-backed
   securities financed by the issuance of long-term bonds which are secured
   by such mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. Corporate is
   comprised of the Company and PDCI, both of which are holding companies.
   Its primary purpose is to support the operations of the Company's
   subsidiaries as the internal source of financing and by implementing and
   nurturing to maturity strategic initiatives centered around new business
   development and improving operating efficiencies.

   Certain 1995 and 1994 classifications have been changed to conform with
   the 1996 presentation.










                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)


   Segment information

   Homebuilding:

   Homebuilding operations include the homebuilding divisions and
   subsidiaries of Pulte. These operations consist principally of the
   construction and sale of detached and attached single-family residential
   homes in 41 markets within the following geographic areas:

     Pulte Home North    - Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, New Jersey,
                           Pennsylvania, Rhode Island, Virginia

     Pulte Home South    - Georgia, Florida, North Carolina, South Carolina,
                           Puerto Rico

     Pulte Home Central  - Illinois, Indiana, Kansas, Michigan, Minnesota,
                           Missouri, Ohio, Texas, Wisconsin

     Pulte Home West     - Arizona, California, Colorado, Nevada, Utah









                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)








                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)


   Mortgage Banking:

   ICM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pulte, is a mortgage banker which
   arranges financing through the origination of mortgages to both Pulte
   homebuyers and the general public. It operates generally in the same
   markets and geographic areas in which Pulte's homebuilding divisions are
   located. ICM's servicing portfolio aggregated $394,000 and $368,000 at
   December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.












                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)








                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   Financing:

   The Company's financing operations are conducted by limited purpose
   subsidiaries of PFCI. PFCI's subsidiaries have engaged in the
   acquisition of mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities financed
   principally through the issuance of long-term bonds secured by such
   mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. At December 31, 1996,
   one bond series with a principal amount of $45,304 was outstanding.
   It is anticipated that this bond series and the related collateral
   will be sold by the middle of 1997.








                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)




2.   Significant accounting policies

     Use of estimates

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
     accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
     assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements
     and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
     estimates.

     Cash and equivalents

     For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, commercial paper and time
     deposits with a maturity of three months or less when acquired are
     classified as cash equivalents.

     Stock based compensation

     The Company grants stock options to key employees for a fixed number of
     shares with an exercise price not less than the fair value of the shares
     at the date of grant. The Company accounts for the stock option grants
     in accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
     Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. No compensation expense is
     recognized because all stock options granted have exercise prices equal
     to the market value of the Company's stock on the date of the grant. The
     pro forma disclosures required by Statement of Financial Accounting
     Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, are
     included in Note 7.





                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   Foreign investment

   The Company has several equity investments in Mexico. The Company accounts
   for such investments using the equity method. Effective for periods ended
   after October 1, 1996, the Company has remeasured the financial statements
   of its foreign equity investments from the original functional currency
   (Peso) to the Company's reporting currency (U.S. Dollar) due to Mexico's
   highly inflationary economy. Accordingly, the Company translates the
   assets, liabilities and equity of its foreign equity investments at the
   rates of exchange in effect at each reporting period. Revenues and
   expenses are translated using monthly average exchange rates. Gains and
   losses from (1) translation of the financial statements of the Company's
   foreign equity investments and (2) foreign currency transactions are
   included in expense in the accompanying statements of operations. Foreign
   currency translation and transaction losses aggregated $100, $2,300 and
   $2,000 for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
   During 1996, the Company recorded a loss of $1,700 related to its Mexico
   operations, as compared with losses of $5,800 and $2,000 in 1995 and 1994,
   respectively. The Company's aggregate net investment in Mexico is
   approximately $13,100 as of December 31, 1996.

   Income per share

   Income per share has been computed using the weighted average number of
   common and common equivalent shares outstanding. Common equivalent shares
   are determined using the treasury stock method. Fully-diluted earnings per
   share is not presented as it does not result in 3% dilution of primary
   earnings per share.

   Fair values of financial instruments

   The estimated fair values of financial instruments were determined by
   management using available market information and appropriate valuation
   methodologies. Considerable judgment is necessary to interpret market data
   and develop estimated fair value. Accordingly, the estimates presented are
   not necessarily indicative of the amounts the Company could realize on
   disposition of the financial instruments. The use of different market
   assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material effect on
   the estimated fair value amounts.

   The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate their fair
   values due to their short-term nature. The carrying amounts of
   mortgage-backed bonds approximate their fair values since it is anticipated
   that the bonds will be redeemed during the middle of 1997.

   The fair value of investment, mortgage-backed and related securities are
   based on quoted market prices, when available. If quoted market prices are
   not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of comparable
   instruments and other valuation techniques.

   The fair values of subordinated debentures and senior notes are based on
   quoted market prices, when available. If quoted market prices are not
   available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of similar
   issues.

   Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments are based on
   pertinent information available to management as of December 31, 1996.
   Although management is not aware of any factors that would significantly
   affect the reasonableness of the fair value amounts, such amounts have not
   been comprehensively revalued for purposes of these financial statements
   since that date and current estimates of fair value may differ
   significantly from the amounts presented herein.

   Advertising Cost

   The Company expenses advertising costs as they are incurred. For the years
   ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, the Company incurred advertising
   costs of approximately $21,900, $18,900 and $15,900, respectively.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   Employee benefits

   The Company maintains the Pulte Corporation Savings and Retirement Plan
   401(k) (the "Plan") which covers substantially all of the Company's
   employees. Company contributions to the Plan are expensed as paid and are
   based on the employees' years of service. The total Company contributions
   pursuant to the Plan were approximately $2,300, $2,100 and $1,400 for the
   years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

   Long-lived assets

   In March 1995, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued SFAS
   No. 121, Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
   Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed Of, which requires impairment losses to
   be recorded on long-lived assets used in operations when indicators of
   impairment are present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be
   generated by those assets are less than the assets' carrying amount. SFAS
   No. 121 also addresses the accounting for long-lived assets that are
   expected to be disposed of. Adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 121
   during the first quarter of 1996 did not have a material effect on the
   Company's financial position or results of operations for the year ended
   December 31, 1996.

   Homebuilding:

   Allowance for warranties

   Home purchasers are provided with warranties against certain building
   defects. Estimated warranty cost is provided in the period in which the
   sale is recorded.

   Start-up costs

   Costs and expenses associated with entry into new homebuilding markets and
   opening new subdivisions in existing markets are expensed when incurred.

   Revenues

   Homebuilding revenues are recorded when the sales of homes are completed
   and ownership has transferred to the customer. Unfunded settlements are
   deposits in transit on homes for which the sale has been completed.

   Inventories

   Finished inventories are stated at the lower of accumulated cost or fair
   value less costs to sell. Inventories under development or held for
   development are stated at accumulated cost, unless such cost would not be
   recovered from the cash flows generated by future disposition. In this
   instance, such inventories are measured at fair value.

   Sold units are expensed on a specific identification basis as cost of
   sales. Included in inventories is related interest and property taxes. The
   Company capitalized interest in the amount of $17,801, $17,314 and $10,361
   and expensed to homebuilding interest expense $17,216, $13,106 and $7,854
   in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   Mortgage Banking:

   Mortgage servicing rights

   In May 1995, the FASB issued SFAS No. 122, Accounting for Mortgage
   Servicing Rights. Effective July 1, 1995, the Company adopted SFAS No. 122
   with, as required, prospective application thereof. SFAS No. 122 amended
   SFAS No. 65, Accounting for Certain Mortgage Banking Activities, to
   require that a portion of the costs of originating a mortgage loan be
   allocated to the mortgage servicing rights based on its fair value
   relative to the mortgage loan, as a whole. Accordingly, under SFAS No.
   122, the capitalized origination costs of the loan are reduced by the
   amount allocated to the mortgage servicing rights.

   The Company conducts its mortgage banking activities through ICM, whose
   primary business consists of providing residential mortgage loan
   originations and related services. Under SFAS No. 65, the costs associated
   with originating mortgage servicing rights were not recognized as an
   asset. These costs were allocated to the related mortgage loan. As a
   result, the gain on sale of originated mortgage servicing rights
   approximated the net sales price. The impact of adopting SFAS No. 122 was
   an increase in pre-tax income of $2,363 for the year ended December 31,
   1995. Since SFAS No. 122 prohibits retroactive application, historical
   accounting results have not been restated and, accordingly, the accounting
   results are not comparable to respective prior periods.

   The consolidated balance sheets include the following amounts of
   capitalized mortgage servicing rights from originated mortgage loans as of
   December 31, 1996 and 1995:




   Mortgage loans

   Residential mortgage loans available-for-sale are stated at the lower of
   cost or aggregate market value. Unamortized net mortgage discounts totaled
   $1,614 and $1,501 at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. Gains and
   losses from the sale of mortgage loans are recognized when the loans are
   sold. ICM hedges its residential mortgage loans available-for-sale by
   commitments in the cash forward market (see Note 11). Gains and losses
   from closed commitments and futures contracts are matched against the
   related gains and losses on the sale of mortgage loans.

   Revenues

   Mortgage servicing fees represent fees earned for servicing loans for
   various investors, including affiliates. Servicing fees are based on a
   contractual percentage of the outstanding principal balance and are
   credited to income when the related mortgage payments are received. Loan
   origination fees, commitment fees and certain direct loan origination
   costs are deferred as an adjustment to the cost of the related mortgage
   loan until such loan is sold.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   Financing:

   Mortgage-backed securities

   PFCI adopted SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
   Equity Securities, on January 1, 1994. Based on prepayment experience of
   certain subsidiaries since that time, PFCI elected to classify its
   portfolio of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) securities as
   available-for-sale beginning September 30, 1995. As available-for-sale,
   such securities are reported at fair value with unrealized gains and
   losses excluded from earnings and reported in a separate component of
   shareholders' equity, net of income taxes.

   The rates used to amortize net mortgage discounts, debt discounts and debt
   issue costs into operations are based on management's estimates of the
   remaining lives of the mortgage-backed securities, mortgage loans and
   indebtedness. These estimates are periodically reviewed and the rates
   adjusted, as necessary. During the fourth quarter of 1994, PFCI wrote off
   all remaining mortgage and debt discounts and issue costs (amounting to
   $5,483) due to changes in estimates of amortization speeds as a result of
   mortgage prepayments.

3. Discontinued operations

   In September 1988, substantially all of the assets, business operations
   and certain liabilities of five Texas-based insolvent thrifts were
   acquired by First Heights. Assistance in connection with each acquisition
   was provided by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC)
   pursuant to an Assistance Agreement.

   FSLIC issued promissory notes representing the estimated negative net
   worth of the acquired associations at the date of acquisition, the
   balances of which, including accrued interest, were $131,579 and $160,127
   at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The notes had a weighted
   average interest rate of 5.8% and 6.0% at December 31, 1996 and 1995,
   respectively. The notes are due in September 1998, and bear interest at
   rates indexed to the Texas Cost of Funds plus a spread. The notes are
   subject to annual prepayments, which are limited to 10% of the total
   original note balances. The FSLIC Resolution Fund (FRF) exercised its right
   to prepay the notes by $31,560 in each year since 1992. The FRF is entitled
   to payments of up to 25% of certain tax benefits which may be derived as a
   result of the assistance transactions.

   During 1994, the Company announced its strategy to exit the thrift
   industry and increase its focus on housing and related mortgage banking.
   First Heights sold substantially all of its bank branches and related
   liabilities (primarily deposits), plus certain other assets. One remaining
   retail branch office continues to operate in Houston. The sale was
   completed during the fourth quarter of 1994. Accordingly, such operations
   are being presented as discontinued. Included in the sale were assets,
   primarily consumer and commercial loans, of $116,886 and liabilities,
   primarily deposits, of $1,205,047. To provide liquidity for the sale,
   First Heights liquidated its investment portfolios and its single-family
   residential loan portfolio and, as provided in the Assistance Agreement,
   entered into a Liquidity Assistance Note (LAN) with the Federal Deposit
   Insurance Corporation (FDIC) acting in its capacity as manager of FRF. The
   LAN is collateralized by the FRF notes and bears interest at a rate
   indexed to the Texas Cost of Funds plus a spread. The LAN matures in
   September 1998. As discussed in Note 10, the Company is involved in
   litigation with the FDIC and as part of this litigation, the parties have
   asserted various claims with respect to obligations under promissory notes
   issued by each of the parties in connection with the thrift acquisition
   and activities.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   Income from the Company's discontinued thrift operations for the years
   ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 is summarized as follows:



   Revenues of discontinued operations were $12,164, $20,919 and $92,776 for
   the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

   During 1996, the Company recognized, as part of discontinued thrift
   operations, after-tax income of approximately $110,000. Such income
   relates to tax benefits associated with net operating losses. Certainty of
   realization of this amount is not anticipated in the near term, is
   dependent upon various factors, and the actual amount realized might be
   more or less than the amount recorded. However, management believes that
   it is more likely than not that these benefits will be realized. During
   1994, the Company recognized a similar $72,000 tax benefit.

   For the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, discontinued thrift
   operations resulted in income of $6,432 (including income tax benefit of
   $1,076) and $9,507 (net of income taxes of $157), respectively. Additional
   pre-tax gains amounting to $4,000 at December 31, 1996, are being
   amortized into income over the life of the related FRF note. Income from
   discontinued operations in 1994 included operating results only through
   March 31, 1994. Also during 1994, the Company recorded a gain on sale of
   $26,293 (including income tax benefit of $50,365). Such gain included
   results of thrift operations for the period from April 1, 1994, to
   December 31, 1994, which was a loss of $12,784 (including income tax
   benefit of $18,353).

   Assets and liabilities of discontinued operations were as follows:



   The fair value of financial instruments approximates carrying value at
   December 31, 1996 and 1995.




                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

4. Mortgage-backed and related securities

   The carrying values and estimated fair values of mortgage-backed and
   related securities are summarized as follows:




5. Short-term credit arrangements

   Short-term financing for the Company on an operating segment basis is as
   follows:

   Corporate/Homebuilding

   At December 31, 1996, the Company, PDCI and Pulte jointly have a $250,000
   unsecured revolving bank credit arrangement under which a variety of
   interest rates are available to the Company. The credit arrangement
   expires January 5, 2000. The credit arrangement contains customary
   covenants, none of which significantly restrict the operations of the
   Company. The Company also has a $10,000 uncommitted bank credit
   arrangement. The Company did not borrow under its credit arrangements in
   1996 or 1994. During 1995, the maximum amount outstanding at the end of
   any month was $10,000 and the average monthly indebtedness was $1,177.
   Additionally, during 1995, interest rates ranged from 6.26% to 9%, with a
   weighted-average daily interest rate of 6.68%.

   Mortgage Banking

   Notes and drafts payable to banks (collateralized short-term debt) are
   secured by residential mortgage loans available-for-sale. The carrying
   amounts of such borrowings approximate fair values.

   At December 31, 1996, ICM had committed bank credit lines of $150,000 and
   discretionary credit lines of $100,000. The bank credit agreements require
   ICM to pay a fee for the committed credit lines. During 1996, 1995 and
   1994, ICM provided compensating balances, in the form of custodial funds,
   in order to further reduce interest rates. The bank credit agreements each
   contain certain restrictions, including the maintenance of levels of
   equity. Under the most restrictive of the agreements, ICM is required to
   maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $15,000.

   The following aggregate borrowing information includes advances from
   affiliates:







                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

6. Long-term debt

   Long-term debt is summarized as follows:


   In August 1994, Pulte purchased in open market transactions $26,845 of its
   10.125% unsecured senior subordinated debentures which resulted in a
   $1,263 after tax extraordinary loss from early extinguishment.

   Total Corporate and Homebuilding long-term debt maturities and mandatory
   annual sinking fund payments during the five years subsequent to 1996 are
   as follows: 1997 - $7,161; 1998 - $6,932; 1999 - $27,625; 2000 - $4,293;
   2001 - $2,900 and thereafter $342,264.

   Financing

   Bonds payable at December 31, 1996 consist of one bond issue with a stated
   interest rate of 9%. The bond series is secured by separate pools of
   mortgage-backed securities. Timing of bond retirements is dependent upon
   mortgage payments and reinvestment rates. Bonds payable at December 31,
   1995, consisted of six bond issues with a weighted-average stated interest
   rate of 9.09% and stated interest rates ranging from 8.45% to 11%.

   Under provisions of the bond indentures, funds held by the trustees are
   restricted so as to assure the payment of principal and interest on the
   bonds to the extent of such funds. Such long-term borrowings are the
   obligations of the applicable PFCI issuer subsidiary and are neither the
   obligations of, nor guaranteed by, the Company, PDCI, Pulte, ICM or PFCI.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                    (000's omitted, except per share data)

7.  Stock compensation plans and management incentive compensation

    The Company has three fixed stock option plans. All three plans provide
    for the grant of options (both non-qualified options and incentive stock
    options as defined in each respective plan), stock appreciation rights
    and restricted stock to key employees of the Company or its subsidiaries
    (as determined by the Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors)
    for periods not exceeding 10 years. The following is a brief description
    of each plan.

     o  The Pulte Corporation 1995 Stock Incentive Plan for Key Employees
        (1995 Plan) authorized the issuance of up to 2,000 shares of common
        stock. On March 6, 1995, grants of 1,658 variable stock options
        principally priced at $26 to $42 per share were awarded and
        subsequently cancelled. On December 13, 1995, grants of 1,687 fixed
        stock options were awarded at prices not less than the fair market
        value at the time of the grant. The first 50% of these stock options
        vest on January 1, 1998, with 25% of the stock options vesting on
        each of January 1, 1999 and January 1, 2000. As of December 31, 1996,
        313 stock options remain available for grant.

     o  The Pulte Corporation 1994 Stock Incentive Plan for Key Employees
        (1994 Plan) authorized the issuance of up to 1,000 shares of common
        stock. On May 10, 1996, grants of 30 stock options with an exercise
        price of $28 per share were awarded. These options vest annually in
        25% increments beginning May 10, 1998. On January 17, 1995, grants of
        250 stock options with an exercise price of $27 per share were
        awarded. These stock options also vest annually in 25% increments
        beginning January 17, 1997. As of December 31, 1996, 589 stock
        options remain available for grant.

     o  The Pulte Corporation 1990 Stock Incentive Plan for Key Employees
        (1990 Plan) authorized the issuance of up to 800 shares of common
        stock. On January 16, 1996, grants of 47 stock options with an
        exercise price of $31 per share were awarded. These stock options
        vest annually in 25% increments beginning January 16, 1998.
        Additionally, on January 17, 1995, grants of 21 stock options with an
        exercise price of $27 per share were awarded. These stock options
        also vest annually in 25% increments beginning January 17, 1997. As
        of December 31, 1996, 3 stock options remain available for grant.

    A summary of the status of the Company's three fixed stock option plans as
    of December 31, 1996 and 1995 and changes during the years ending on those
    dates is presented below:








                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                    (000's omitted, except per share data)

    The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options
    outstanding at December 31, 1996:


    The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations in
    accounting for its three fixed stock option plans. No compensation
    expense is recognized because all stock options granted have exercise
    prices equal to the market value of the Company's stock on the date of
    the grant. Under SFAS No. 123, compensation cost for the Company's three
    stock-based compensation plans would be determined based on the fair
    value at the grant dates for awards under those plans. Accordingly, for
    the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company's income from
    continuing operations, net income and earnings per share would have been
    reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:


    The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
    using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
    assumptions used for grants in 1996 and 1995, respectively:
    weighted-average dividend yields of .80% and .77%, expected volatility of
    29.85% and 32.14%, weighted-average risk-free interest rates of 5.87% and
    5.92%, and weighted-average expected lives of 6.5 years and 6.9 years.
    Pro forma income from continuing operations, net income and earnings per
    share were significantly affected by the large option grant on December
    13, 1995, which is not expected to be indicative of the size of annual
    awards, and by the manner in which compensation expense associated with
    stock options is recognized over the vesting periods of each award. Based
    upon stock options outstanding at December 31, 1996, the estimated
    compensation expense to be recognized in pro forma income from continuing
    operations and net income for the years ending December 31, 1997, 1998
    and 1999 is $5,186, $2,135 and $950, respectively.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                   ($000's omitted, except per share data)

   Homebuilding operating management personnel are paid current cash
   incentive compensation based on operating performance. Mortgage banking,
   financing and thrift management personnel are paid current cash incentive
   compensation substantially based on the performance of the applicable
   subsidiary. The Company's corporate management personnel are paid current
   cash incentive compensation based on overall performance of the Company.
   For the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, the Company's total
   current cash incentive compensation was $21,200, $15,900 and $19,600,
   respectively. In addition, commencing January 1, 1996, the Company adopted
   a long-term cash incentive plan as a means of compensating key operating
   employees for long-term performance and contributions to the growth of the
   Company. Amounts accrued over the period from January 1, 1996, through
   December 31, 1999, are payable subsequent to December 31, 1999. For the
   year ended December 31, 1996, the Company has accrued $3,500 relating to
   this plan.

8. Income taxes

   The Company's net deferred tax asset (liability) is as follows:



   Net operating loss carryforwards expire in 2006. The acquired tax loss
   carryforwards expire in the years 1999 through 2002.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   Components of current and deferred income tax expense (benefit) of
   continuing operations are as follows:



   The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to
   the effective income tax rate for continuing operations:


9. Leases

   The Company leases certain property and equipment under noncancelable
   leases. The office and equipment leases are generally for terms of three
   to five years and generally provide renewal options for terms of up to an
   additional three years. Model home leases are generally for shorter terms
   approximating one year with renewal options on a month-to-month basis. In
   most cases, management expects that in the normal course of business,
   leases that expire will be renewed or replaced by other leases. The future
   minimum lease payments required under operating leases that have initial
   or remaining noncancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows:



   Net rental expense for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
   was $18,588, $14,931 and $11,538, respectively. Certain leases contain
   purchase options and generally provide that the Company shall pay for
   insurance, taxes and maintenance.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               (000's omitted)

10. Commitments and contingencies

    In the normal course of business, Pulte acquires rights under options or
    option-type agreements to purchase land to be used in homebuilding
    operations at future dates. The total purchase price applicable to land
    under option at December 31, 1996 approximated $429,000 ($419,000 at
    December 31, 1995).

    At December 31, 1996, Pulte, in the normal course of business, had
    outstanding letters of credit and performance bonds of $136,441 and
    $100,567, respectively. In addition, ICM and PFCI had outstanding letters
    of credit on Pulte's behalf aggregating $5,464.

    The Company is involved in various litigation incidental to its business.
    Management believes that none of this litigation will have a material
    adverse impact on the results of operations or financial position of the
    Company.

    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

    The Company is a party to two lawsuits relating to First Heights' 1988
    acquisition from the FSLIC, and First Heights' ownership of, five failed
    Texas thrifts. The first lawsuit (the "District Court Case") was filed on
    July 7, 1995 in the United States District Court, Eastern District of
    Michigan, by the FDIC against the Company, PDCI and First Heights
    (collectively, the "Pulte Defendants"). The second lawsuit (the "Court of
    Claims Case") was filed on December 26, 1996 in the United States Court of
    Federal Claims (Washington, D.C.) by the Pulte Defendants against the
    United States. In the District Court Case, the FDIC seeks a declaration of
    rights and other relief related to the assistance agreement entered into
    between First Heights and the FSLIC. The FDIC is the successor to FSLIC.
    The FDIC and the Company disagree about the proper interpretation of
    provisions in the assistance agreement which provide for sharing of
    certain tax benefits achieved in connection with First Heights' 1988
    acquisition and ownership of the five failed Texas thrifts. The District
    Court Case also includes certain other claims relating to the foregoing, 
    including claims resulting from the Company's and First Heights' amendment
    of a tax sharing and allocation agreement between the Company and First
    Heights. The Company disputes the FDIC's claims and believes that a proper
    interpretation of the assistance agreement limits the FDIC's participation
    in the tax benefits to amounts established on First Heights' books. The 
    Company had filed an answer and a counterclaim, seeking, among other 
    things, a declaration that the FDIC has breached the assistance agreement
    in numerous respects and an injunction against the FDIC. On December 24, 
    1996, the Pulte Defendants voluntarily obtained a dismissal without 
    prejudice of certain of their claims in the District Court Case and on
    December 26, 1996, initiated the Court of Claims Case. The Court of Claims
    Case contains essentially the same claims as were voluntarily dismissed 
    from the District Court Case.

11. Financial instruments, including those with off-balance sheet risk

    ICM, in the normal course of business to meet the financing needs of its
    customers and reduce its own exposure to fluctuations in interest rates,
    uses derivative financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk. These
    financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts,
    mortgage-backed security forward contracts, options on treasury future
    contracts, and options on mortgage-backed security forwards. ICM does not
    use any derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   Mortgage-backed security forwards are commitments to either purchase or
   sell a financial instrument at a specific future date for a specified
   price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the financial
   instrument. Option contracts are contracts that grant the purchaser, for a
   premium payment, the right to either purchase or sell a financial
   instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time or on a
   specified date from or to the writer of the option. Forward and futures
   contracts are used to modify the repricing characteristics of
   interest-earning assets and loan commitments, while options are used to
   limit the temporary impact of interest rate fluctuations in the value of
   loans held for sale and loan commitments. Mandatory and optional forward
   commitments are used by ICM to hedge its interest rate exposure during the
   period from when ICM extends an interest rate lock to a loan applicant
   until the time the loan is sold to an investor.

   Since ICM can terminate a loan commitment if the borrower does not comply
   with the terms of the contract, and some loan commitments may expire
   without being drawn upon, these commitments do not necessarily represent
   future cash requirements of ICM. ICM evaluates the creditworthiness of
   these transactions through its normal credit policies.

   The following are ICM's loan commitments:


   ICM has credit risk to the extent that the counterparties to the
   instruments do not perform their obligation under the agreements. If one
   of the counterparties does not perform, ICM would not receive the cash to
   which it would otherwise be entitled under the conditions of the
   agreement. ICM manages credit risk by entering into agreements with only
   large national investment bankers with primary dealer status and with
   permanent investors, all of whom meet or exceed minimum rating standards.
   Management does not anticipate any material losses as a result of its
   agreements and does not consider them to represent an undue level of
   credit, interest or liquidity risk for ICM.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

   The table below summarizes, by class, the contractual amounts of ICM's
   derivative financial instruments.



   Realized gains or losses on derivative financial instruments are
   recognized in net gain from sale of mortgages in the period settlement
   occurs. The aggregate of unrealized gains or losses is reserved and netted
   against residential mortgage loans available-for-sale. There are no
   material deferred gains or losses from derivative financial instruments or
   mortgage loans available-for-sale at December 31, 1996 and 1995.

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information

    The Company has filed a universal shelf registration of up to $250,000 of
    debt or equity securities (of which $125,000 of 7.3% unsecured Senior
    Notes were issued in October 1995), and has previously issued $100,000,
    7%, and $115,000, 8.375%, unsecured Senior Notes. Such obligations to pay
    principal, premium, if any, and interest are guaranteed jointly and
    severally on a senior basis by Pulte, all of Pulte's wholly-owned
    homebuilding subsidiaries and Builders' Supply & Lumber Co., Inc. which
    is a Pulte wholly-owned subsidiary (collectively, the Guarantors). Such
    guarantees are full and unconditional.

    The principal non-Guarantors include PDCI, the parent company of Pulte,
    ICM, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pulte, First Heights, and PFCI. See
    Note 1 for additional information on the Company's Guarantor and
    non-Guarantor subsidiaries.

    Supplemental combining financial information of the Company, specifically
    including such information for the Guarantors, is presented below.
    Investments in subsidiaries are presented using the equity method of
    accounting. Separate financial statements of the Guarantors are not
    provided because management has concluded that the segment information
    provides sufficient detail to allow investors to determine the nature of
    the assets held by and the operations of the combined groups.







                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)







                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)








                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.         Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

                      COMBINING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                     For the year ended December 31, 1996






                              PULTE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.         Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)






                               PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)






                                REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pulte Corporation


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pulte
Corporation as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1996. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14. These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Pulte Corporation at December 31, 1996 and 1995 and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1996, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein.

As discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in 1995 the
Company changed its method of accounting for mortgage servicing.





                                                      ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Detroit, Michigan
January 21, 1997














                                   PART III

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

This Item is not applicable.

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
Information required by this Item with respect to executive officers of the
Company is set forth in Item 4A. Information required by this Item with
respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Company is contained in
the Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (1997 Proxy
Statement) under the caption "Election of Directors," incorporated herein by
this reference.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
Information required by this Item is contained in the 1997 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Remuneration of Directors and Executive Officers" and
under the caption "Stock Options Granted to Officers by the Company,"
incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
Information required by this Item is contained in the 1997 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Election of Directors," incorporated herein by this
reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
Information required by this Item is contained in the 1997 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Remuneration of Directors and Executive Officers,"
incorporated herein by this reference.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K The
following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


    (2) Financial Statement Schedules
        III  - Condensed Financial Information of Registrant..............  70

All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present, is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule or because the required information is included in the financial
statements or notes thereto.







(3) Exhibits Index




Reports on Form 8-K Filed During the Fourth Quarter of 1996:

There have been no reports filed on Form 8-K by the registrant during the
fourth quarter of 1996.



                              PULTE CORPORATION

      EXHIBIT 11 - STATEMENT REGARDING COMPUTATION OF PER SHARE EARNINGS
                    (000's omitted, except per share date)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
                 EXHIBIT 21 - SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT

Pulte Corporation (the Company) owns 100% of the capital stock of Pulte
Diversified Companies, Inc. (PDCI), Pulte Financial Companies, Inc. (PFCI)
and Oakton Building Corporation, all Michigan corporations, and 100% of the
capital stock of North American Builders Indemnity Company, a Colorado
corporation.

PDCI owns 100% of the capital stock of Pulte Home Corporation (Pulte), a
Michigan corporation, and 100% of the capital stock of First Heights Bank, a
federal savings bank (First Heights).

First Heights owns 100% of the capital stock of First Heights Investment
Corporation, a Texas corporation.

Pulte owns 100% of the capital stock of the following subsidiaries:





                              PULTE CORPORATION
           EXHIBIT 21 - SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT (continued)

Pulte is a member of the following partnerships:


Pulte owns 1% of the capital stock of Controladora PHC, S.A. De C.V., a
Mexican corporation.

    1)  ICM Mortgage Corporation  owns 22.5% of the capital stock of
        Hipotecaria Su Casita, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation.

    2)  Pulte Homes of Michigan Corporation owns 100% of the capital stock 
        of Gulf Partners, Inc., Sean/Christopher Homes, Inc., and
        Pulte-IN Corporation, all Michigan corporations, 100% of the
        capital stock of Pulte Homes of Ohio Corporation, an Ohio
        corporation, 50% of the capital stock of Sean/Christopher Homes,
        LLC, an Indiana limited liability company and 1% of the capital
        stock of Haggerty Hills Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited
        partnership. Sean/Christopher Homes, Inc. owns 50% of the capital
        stock of Sean/Christopher Homes, LLC, an Indiana limited
        liability corporation. Gulf Partners, Inc. owns 99% of the capital
        stock of Haggerty Hills Limited Partnership, a Michigan limited 
        partnership.

    3)  Dean Realty Company owns 100% of the capital stock of Pulte Real
        Estate Company, a Florida corporation.

    4)  Pulte Home Corporation of Texas owns 100% of the capital stock of 
        James T. Lynch, Inc., a Texas corporation and Pulte Homes of Greater
        Kansas City, Inc., a Michigan corporation.

    5)  Preserve I, Inc. owns 99% and Preserve II, Inc. owns 1% of The
        Preserve Limited Partnership, a Maryland limited partnership.

    6)  Canterbury Communities, Inc. owns 100% of the capital stock
        of Canterbury Diversified Building Corporation and Canterbury Finance
        Corporation, both Michigan corporations.

    7)  Pulte Homes of South Carolina Inc. owns 100% of the capital stock
        of Great American Homes, Inc. and SC Warranty Corporation, both
        Michigan corporations.

    8)  TVM Corporation owns 63% of the capital stock of PHM Title Agency
        L.L.C., a Delaware limited liability company.

    9)  Willow Brook Associates Limited Partnership, a Massachusetts Limited
        Partnership, is 99% owned Pulte Home Corporation of Massachusetts.

    PFCI owns 100% of the capital stock of Pulte Financial Holding Corp.,
    Guaranteed Mortgage Corporation II and Guaranteed Mortgage Corporation
    III, all Michigan corporations.

    Oakton Building Corporation owns 99% of Controladora PHC, S.A. De C.V.
    (Controladora), a Mexican corporation, and 23.33% of Nantar, S. De R.L.
    De C.V., a Mexican LLC. Controladora owns 76.67% of Nantar, S. De R.L. De
    C.V., a Mexican LLC, and 50% of Condak-Pulte S. De R.L. De C.V., a
    Mexican joint venture.



                              PULTE CORPORATION
                 EXHIBIT 23 - CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


    We consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
    Statements (Form S-8 No. 33-20052, Form S-8 No. 2-59802, Form S-8 No.
    33-40102, Form S-8 No. 33-98944, Form S-8 No. 33-99218 and Form S-3 No.
    33-93870) and the related Prospectuses of Pulte Corporation for the
    registration of its debt securities and shares of its common stock of our
    report dated January 21, 1997 with respect to the consolidated financial
    statements and schedule of Pulte Corporation included in this Annual
    Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996 filed with the
    Securities and Exchange Commission.


                                                      ERNST & YOUNG LLP

    Detroit, Michigan
    February 28, 1997



                              PULTE CORPORATION
         SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

Pulte Corporation (the Registrant) is a holding company. The accompanying
financial statements are not the primary consolidated financial statements
since these financial statements present only the accounts of Pulte
Corporation which include its investment in subsidiaries on the equity
method. The primary financial statements of the Company are its consolidated
financial statements.

The net assets of Pulte Home Corporation, ICM Mortgage Corporation and First
Heights Bank, a federal savings bank, indirectly wholly-owned subsidiaries of
Pulte Corporation are subject to certain restrictions (see Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements).


                              Pulte Corporation
                                Balance Sheets
                          December 31, 1996 and 1995
                               ($000's omitted)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
  SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT - (continued)

                              Pulte Corporation
                             Statements of Income
             For the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                               ($000's omitted)




                              PULTE CORPORATION
  SCHEDULE III - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT - (continued)

                              Pulte Corporation
                           Statements of Cash Flows
             For the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                               ($000's omitted)




                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                              PULTE CORPORATION
                                 (Registrant)


March 4, 1997    /s/ Michael D. Hollerbach         /s/ Vincent J. Frees
               -----------------------------  ------------------------------
                   Michael D. Hollerbach             Vincent J. Frees
                 Executive Vice President      Vice President and Controller
                and Chief Financial Officer   (Principal Accounting Officer)
               (Principal Financial Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capabilities and on the dates indicated:

           Signature                             Title                     Date

/s/ William J. Pulte          Chairman of the Board of Directors  March 4, 1997
- --------------------------    and Member of Board of Directors
    William J. Pulte


/s/ Robert K. Burgess         President, Chief Executive Officer  March 4, 1997
- --------------------------    and Member of Board of Directors
    Robert K. Burgess


/s/ Michael D. Hollerbach     Executive Vice President,           March 4, 1997
- --------------------------    Chief Financial Officer and
    Michael D. Hollerbach     Member of Board of Directors


                              Member of Board of Directors        March 4, 1997
- --------------------------
    Howard P. Berkowitz


                              Member of Board of Directors        March 4, 1997
- --------------------------
    James Grosfeld


/s/ Francis J. Sehn           Member of Board of Directors        March 4, 1997
- --------------------------
    Francis J. Sehn


/s/ Ralph L. Schlosstein      Member of Board of Directors        March 4, 1997
- --------------------------
    Ralph L. Schlosstein


/s/ Alan E. Schwartz          Member of Board of Directors        March 4, 1997
- --------------------------
    Alan E. Schwartz


/s/ John J. Shea              Member of Board of Directors        March 4, 1997
- --------------------------
    John J. Shea



                             SECOND AMENDMENT TO
                               CREDIT AGREEMENT

        This Second Amendment to Credit Agreement (this "Second Amendment"),
dated as of December 31, 1996, is entered into by and among PULTE CORPORATION
(the "Borrower"), the lenders identified as such on the signature pages
attached hereto (the "Lenders"), the guarantors identified as such on the
signature pages attached hereto (the "Guarantors"), NATIONSBANK, N.A. f/k/a
NATIONSBANK, N.A. (Carolinas) as agent for the Lenders (in such capacity, the
"Agent") and Comerica Bank and The First National Bank of Chicago as
Co-Agents (the "Co-Agents"). All capitalized terms used herein and not
otherwise defined shall have the meanings ascribed to such terms in the
Credit Agreement (as defined below).

                                   RECITALS

        A. The Borrower, the Lenders, the Agent and the Co-Agents entered
into that certain Credit Agreement dated as of January 5, 1995 (as amended by
that certain First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of January 4, 1996,
the "Credit Agreement").

        B. The Guarantors (other than Pulte Lifestyle Communities, Inc.)
guaranteed all of the Borrower Obligations pursuant to those certain Guaranty
Agreements dated as of January 5, 1995, and Pulte Lifestyle Communities, Inc.
guaranteed all of the Borrower Obligations pursuant to that certain Guaranty
Agreement dated as of May 10, 1995 (collectively, the "Guaranty Agreements").

        C. The Borrower has requested that the Credit Agreement be amended to
extend the Revolving-A Loans Maturity Date, the Revolving-B Loans Maturity
Date and the Revolving-C Loans Maturity Date, to modify the facility fee
structure under the Loan Documents and to amend the Loan Documents to permit
Obligors, subject to the terms of the Credit Agreement, to consolidate or
merge into or sell, assign, transfer or lease or otherwise dispose of all or
substantially all of their respective assets to Persons who are limited
liability companies or limited partnerships.

        D. The Lenders have agreed to such modifications pursuant to the
terms set forth below.

                                  AGREEMENT

        NOW, THEREFORE, for good and valuable consideration, the receipt and
sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto agree as
follows:


1.      Extension of Maturity Date.

               (a) The following definition in Section 1.01 of the Credit
        Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:


               "Revolving-A Loans Maturity Date" means January 5, 2002.

               (b) The following definition in Section 1.01 of the Credit
        Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

               "Revolving-B Loans Maturity Date" means December 30, 1997;
        provided that the Revolving-B Loans Maturity Date may be extended as
        provided in Section 2.01B(b).

               (c) The following definition in Section 1.01 of the Credit
        Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

               "Revolving-C Loans Maturity Date" means January 5, 2002.

2.      Amendment to Section  3.03(a).  Section 3.03(a) of the Credit
        Agreement is amended in its entirety to read as follows:

        3.03   Fees.

               (a) Facility Fees. In consideration of the Revolving Loan
        Commitments being made available by the Lenders hereunder, the
        Borrower agrees to pay to the Agent, for the pro rata benefit of each
        Lender, a fee equal to: (a) the Revolving-A Facility Fee Percentage
        on (i) the Revolving-A Loan Commitment and (ii) that portion of the
        Revolving-C Loan Commitment which is Active, (b) the Revolving-B
        Facility Fee Percentage on the Revolving-B Loan Commitment, and (c)
        the Revolving-C Facility Fee Percentage on that portion of the
        Revolving-C Loan Commitment which is Inactive (each calculated on the
        basis of the actual number of days elapsed in a 365 or 366 day year
        as the case may be) (the "Facility Fees"). The Revolving-A Facility
        Fee Percentage, the Revolving-B Facility Fee Percentage and the
        Revolving-C Facility Fee Percentage mean the percentages
        corresponding to the ratios and/or long term debt ratings described
        below in effect as of the end of the fiscal quarter prior to when the
        Facility Fees are due (as described below).






        In the event the Pricing Debt to Capitalization Ratio and the long
        term debt rating of the Borrower are not at the same level, the
        applicable percentage shall be the lowest percentage corresponding to
        the applicable levels (i.e. the lowest pricing for the Borrower);
        provided, however, that if the Pricing Debt to Capitalization Ratio
        corresponds to a level more than one level lower than the long term
        debt rating of the Borrower, then the applicable percentage shall be
        one level lower than the applicable percentage determined by the long
        term debt rating of the Borrower.

        The accrued Facility Fees shall be due and payable quarterly in
        arrears on the last day of each fiscal quarter based on the Pricing
        Debt to Capitalization Ratio or the long term debt rating determined
        as of the end of the previous fiscal quarter (and shall also be due
        and payable on the Revolving-A Loans Maturity Date, the Revolving-B
        Loans Maturity Date, the Revolving-C Loans Maturity Date and on any
        date that a Revolving Loan Commitment is reduced) for the immediately
        preceding fiscal quarter (or portion thereof), beginning with the
        first of such dates to occur after the Closing Date.

3.      Amendment to Section 6.01.  Section 6.01 of the Credit Agreement is
        amended in its entirety to read as follows:

               6.01 Organization and Good Standing. Each Obligor domiciled in
        the United States and PFCI is (a) duly organized, validly existing
        and in good standing under the laws of the State of its organization,
        (b) duly qualified and in good standing as a foreign organization
        authorized to do business in every jurisdiction where the failure to
        so qualify would have a material adverse effect on the financial or
        business condition of the Consolidated Pulte Group taken as a whole
        and (c) has the requisite power and authority to own its properties
        and to carry on its business as now conducted and as proposed to be
        conducted.

4.      Amendment to Section 6.02. Section 6.02 of the Credit Agreement is
        amended in its entirety to read as follows:

               6.02 Due Authorization. Each Obligor and PFCI (a) has the
        requisite power and authority to execute, deliver and perform such of
        the Loan Documents to which it is a party and to incur the
        obligations herein and therein provided for, and (b) is duly
        authorized to, and has been authorized by all necessary action, to
        execute, deliver and perform such of the Loan Documents to which it
        is a party.

5.      Amendment to Section 8.04. Section 8.04 of the Credit Agreement is
        amended in its entirety to read as follows:

               8.04 Mergers, Consolidations and Transfers of Assets. None of
        the Obligors will consolidate or merge into or sell, assign, transfer
        or lease or otherwise dispose of all or




        substantially all of its assets to another Person unless (a) the
        Person is a corporation, limited liability company, limited
        partnership or similar entity organized and existing under the laws
        of the United States of America or any state thereof or the District
        of Columbia, and, immediately after the transaction, such Person is a
        member of the Consolidated Pulte Group, (b) the Person assumes all
        the obligations of the Obligor relating to the Loan Documents and (c)
        immediately after the transaction no Default or Event of Default
        exists; provided that this clause (c) shall not restrict or be
        applicable to a merger into, consolidation or liquidation, sale,
        assignment, conveyance, transfer or lease or other disposition of all
        or substantially all of the assets of an Obligor with or into the
        Borrower or a Material Subsidiary or a wholly-owned Subsidiary that
        is or concurrent with such transaction becomes an Obligor. Upon any
        such consolidation, merger, sale, disposition, assignment or
        transfer, the successor entity will be substituted for the Obligor
        (including any merger or consolidation described in the proviso at
        the end of the immediately preceding sentence) as applicable under
        the Loan Documents. The successor entity may then exercise every
        power and right of the Obligor under the Loan Documents, and such
        Obligor will be released from all of its liabilities and obligations
        in respect of the Loan Documents. In the event an Obligor leases all
        or substantially all of its assets, the lessee entity will be the
        successor to such Obligor and may exercise every power and right of
        such Obligor under the Loan Documents, but such Obligor will not be
        released from its obligations under the Loan Documents.

6.      Representations and Warranties. The Borrower hereby represents and
        warrants to the Lenders, the Agent and the Co-Agents that, as of the
        date hereof, (a) the representations and warranties set forth in
        Sections 6.01, 6.02, 6.03, 6.04, 6.05, 6.14, 6.16 and 6.17 are true
        and correct (other than with respect to PFCI), (b) since the audited
        financial statements of the Consolidated Pulte Group dated as of
        December 31, 1995 and the unaudited financial statements of the
        Consolidated Pulte Group dated as of September 30, 1996 all of which
        have been previously delivered to the Lenders, there have occurred no
        changes or circumstances which have had or are likely to have a
        material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
        Consolidated Pulte Group taken as a whole, (c) except as previously
        disclosed in its annual and quarterly filings with the Securities and
        Exchange Commission (none of which disclosed matters the Borrower
        deems to be material), there are no actions, suits or legal,
        equitable, arbitration or administrative proceedings pending or, to
        the knowledge of the Borrower, threatened against any member of the
        Consolidated Pulte Group which, if adversely determined, would likely
        have a material adverse effect on the financial or business condition
        of the Consolidated Pulte Group taken as a whole and (d) no Default
        or Event of Default exists and is continuing.

7.      Conditions Precedent. The effectiveness of this Second Amendment is
        subject to the satisfaction of each of the following conditions:




               (a) The Agent shall have received copies of this Second
        Amendment duly executed by the Obligors.

               (b) The Agent shall have received an opinion from counsel to
        the Obligors, in form and substance satisfactory to the Agent,
        addressed to the Agent on behalf of the Lenders and dated as of the
        date hereof.

8.      Acknowledgment of Guarantors. The Guarantors acknowledge and consent
        to all of the terms and conditions of this Second Amendment and agree
        that this Second Amendment and all documents executed in connection
        herewith do not operate to reduce or discharge the Guarantors'
        obligations under the Guaranty Agreements or the other Loan
        Documents.

9.      No Other Changes. Except as expressly modified and amended in this
        Second Amendment, all of the terms, provisions and conditions of the
        Loan Documents shall remain unchanged.

10.     Counterparts. This Second Amendment may be executed in any number of
        counterparts and by the parties hereto in separate counterparts, each
        of which when so executed and delivered shall be deemed to be an
        original and all of which taken together shall constitute one and the
        same instrument.

11.     ENTIRETY. THIS SECOND AMENDMENT AND THE OTHER LOAN DOCUMENTS EMBODY
        THE ENTIRE AGREEMENT BETWEEN THE PARTIES AND SUPERSEDE ALL PRIOR
        AGREEMENTS AND UNDERSTANDINGS, ORAL OR WRITTEN, IF ANY, RELATING TO
        THE SUBJECT MATTER HEREOF.




                 [REMAINDER OF PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]




        This Second Amendment is executed as of the day and year first
written above.

                                            BORROWER

                                            PULTE CORPORATION


                                            By:_____________________________
                                            Name:___________________________
                                            Title:__________________________


                                            GUARANTORS

                                            BUILDER'S SUPPLY & LUMBER CO., INC.


                                            By:_____________________________
                                            Name:___________________________
                                            Title:__________________________


                                            FAIRMONT BUILDING CORPORATION


                                            By:_____________________________
                                            Name:___________________________
                                            Title:__________________________


                                            PULTE DIVERSIFIED COMPANIES, INC.


                                            By:_____________________________
                                            Name:___________________________
                                            Title:__________________________


                                            PULTE FINANCIAL COMPANIES, INC.


                                            By:_____________________________
                                            Name:___________________________
                                            Title:__________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                      PULTE HOME CORPORATION


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                                      PULTE DEVELOPMENT CORPORATION


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                                      PULTE HOMES, INC.


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                                      PULTE HOMES OF GREATER KANSAS CITY, INC.


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                                      PULTE HOME CORPORATION OF MASSACHUSETTS


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                      PULTE HOMES OF MICHIGAN CORPORATION


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                                      PULTE HOMES OF MINNESOTA CORPORATION


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                                      PULTE HOMES OF OHIO CORPORATION


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                                      PULTE HOME CORPORATION OF TEXAS


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                                      SEAN/CHRISTOPHER HOMES, INC.


                                      By:_____________________________
                                      Name:___________________________
                                      Title:__________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                            PULTE LIFESTYLE COMMUNITIES, INC.


                                            By:_____________________________
                                            Name:___________________________
                                            Title:__________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                             LENDERS


                             NATIONSBANK, N.A., in its capacity as Agent and
                             as a Lender

                             By:_____________________________
                             Name:___________________________
                             Title:__________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                            COMERICA BANK, in its capacity
                                            as Co-Agent and as a Lender


                                            By:____________________________
                                            Name:__________________________
                                            Title:_________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                       THE FIRST NATIONAL BANK OF CHICAGO,
                                       in its capacity as Co-Agent and
                                       as a Lender


                                       By:____________________________
                                       Name:  ________________________
                                       Title: ________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                            THE BANK OF NEW YORK


                                            By:____________________________
                                            Name:__________________________
                                            Title:_________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                SUNTRUST BANK


                                            By:____________________________
                                            Name:__________________________
                                            Title:_________________________


                                            By:____________________________
                                            Name:__________________________
                                            Title:_________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                       CREDIT LYONNAIS CHICAGO BRANCH


                                       By:____________________________
                                       Name:__________________________
                                       Title:_________________________



                                       CREDIT LYONNAIS CAYMAN ISLAND


                                       By:____________________________
                                       Name:__________________________
                                       Title:_________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                            UNITED STATES NATIONAL BANK
                                            OF OREGON, N.A.


                                            By:____________________________
                                            Name:__________________________
                                            Title:_________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                         THE BANK OF TOKYO-MITSUBISHI LTD.,
                                         CHICAGO BRANCH (f/k/a Bank of Tokyo,
                                         Ltd. Chicago Branch)


                                         By:____________________________
                                         Name:__________________________
                                         Title:_________________________


                            [signatures continued]


                                            MICHIGAN NATIONAL BANK


                                            By:____________________________
                                            Name:__________________________
                                            Title:_________________________


                            [signatures continued]


