
10-K



=============================================================================

                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                  FORM 10-K

           (X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                 For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                      OR
         ( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
                       SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                        Commission File Number 1-9804
                               ----------------
                              PULTE CORPORATION
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           MICHIGAN                                            38-2766606
(State or other jurisdiction of                             (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                            Identification No.)

                    33 Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 200
                       Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 48304
             (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

      Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (248) 647-2750
         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

     Title of each class             Name of each exchange on which registered
     -------------------             -----------------------------------------
Common Stock, par value $.01                  New York Stock Exchange

         Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                     NONE
                               (Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES __X__ NO ____

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K [ ].

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant as of January 31, 1998: $676,209,187 

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of January 31, 1998:
21,295,505

                     Documents Incorporated by Reference
Applicable portions of the Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form.


=============================================================================



                              PULTE CORPORATION
                              

Item                                                                     Page
 No.                                                                      No.
- ----                                                                     ----
    Part I
1   Business...........................................................    3
2   Properties.........................................................    8
3   Legal Proceedings..................................................    8
4   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders................    9
4A  Executive Officers of the Registrant...............................    9
    Part II
5   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
       Stockholder Matters.............................................   11
6   Selected Financial Data............................................   11
7   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
       Condition and Results of Operations.............................   14
8   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data........................   24
9   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
       Financial Disclosure............................................   64
    Part III
10  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.................   64
11  Executive Compensation.............................................   64
12  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management.....   64
13  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.....................   64
    Part IV
14  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on
       Form 8-K........................................................   64
Signatures.............................................................   72







                                    PART I
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

Pulte Corporation

Pulte Corporation (the Company) is the publicly held parent corporation of
the Pulte Home Corporation (Pulte) group of companies. The Company is a
holding company and its assets consist principally of the capital stock of
its subsidiaries, cash and investments. Its income primarily consists of
dividends from its subsidiaries and interest on investments. The Company's
direct subsidiaries consist of Pulte Financial Companies, Inc. (PFCI) and
Pulte Diversified Companies, Inc. (PDCI). PDCI's direct subsidiaries are
Pulte and First Heights Bank, a federal savings bank (First Heights). Pulte
Mortgage Corporation (Pulte Mortgage) is a direct subsidiary of Pulte.

The Company conducts operations in two primary business segments:
homebuilding, through Pulte and its homebuilding subsidiaries, and financial
services, principally through the Company's mortgage banking subsidiary
(Pulte Mortgage) and to a limited extent by its financing subsidiary (PFCI).
The Company's thrift subsidiary, First Heights, has been classified as
discontinued operations. (See Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.)

Homebuilding Operations

Pulte builds a wide variety of homes, including detached units, townhouses,
condominium apartments and duplexes, with varying prices, models, options and
lot sizes, all sold for use as principal residences. Nearly tripling both its
housing sales (settlements) and net new orders since 1990, Pulte continued
the distinction it earned in 1996 as the nation's largest homebuilder with
1997 sales of over 15,300 homes and nearly 190,000 homes since its inception.
Additionally, during 1996, Pulte was recognized as "America's Best Builder"
by the National Association of Home Builders, the industry's trade
association, and by Builder Magazine, one of the industry's leading trade
publications.

The Company believes that its customer-focused approach has allowed it to
quickly identify and target emerging niches, including the mature buyer (home
buyers age 50 and over) and affordable housing segments. Initiatives focusing
on affordable housing, most notably the Canterbury Community concept
(affordable site-built homes), are currently offered or under way in 30
communities within ten markets nationwide.

As of December 31, 1997, Pulte offered homes for sale in 396 communities at
sales prices ranging from $45,000 to over $600,000. Sales prices of homes
currently offered for sale in 77% of Pulte's communities fall within the
range of $75,000 to $225,000 with a 1997 average unit selling price of
$162,000. Sales of single-family detached homes, as a percentage of total
unit sales, were 78%, 77% and 73% in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. As of
December 31, 1997, Pulte operated in 41 markets within the following
geographic areas and Puerto Rico:

      Pulte Home East:
         Mid-Atlantic Region       Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts,
                                   New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island,
                                   Virginia
         Southeast Region          Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina
         Florida Region            Florida

      Pulte Home Central:
         Great Lakes Region        Indiana, Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Kansas
         Midwest Region            Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin
         Texas Region              Texas

      Pulte Home West:
         Southwest Region          Arizona, Nevada
         Rocky Mountain Region     Colorado, Utah
         California Region         California





The following table sets forth for-sale housing unit sales (settlements),
average sales prices, net new orders and backlog of orders (any of which may
be canceled):


Unit sales (settlements) and net new orders in any year are strongly
influenced by local, regional and national market economic conditions.

Land Acquisition and Development

Locations for development are selected after completing extensive market
research, enabling Pulte to match the location and product offering with its
targeted consumer group. Factors considered include proximity to developed
areas, population growth patterns and, if applicable, estimated development
costs. Pulte has historically managed the risk of controlling its land
positions through use of option contracts and outright acquisition. Due to
the competitive market conditions of recent years, obtaining satisfactory
option terms to allow Pulte to control what it believes are prime development
locations in each of its respective markets has become increasingly more
difficult. As a result, Pulte has utilized outright acquisition more
frequently. Pulte typically controls land with the intent to complete sales
of housing units within 24 months from the date of opening a community,
except in the case of certain mature buyer developments for which the
completion of housing unit sales may require 60 months from the date of
opening a community. As a result, land is generally controlled after it is
properly zoned and developed or is ready for development. In addition, Pulte
disposes of land owned not required in its business. Where Pulte develops
land, it engages directly in many phases of the development process,
including land and site planning, obtaining environmental and other
regulatory approvals, and constructing roads, sewers, water and drainage
facilities, and other amenities. Pulte uses its staff and the services of
independent engineers and consultants in its land development activities.
Land development work is performed primarily by subcontractors and local
government authorities which construct sewer and water systems in some areas.
At December 31, 1997, Pulte owned approximately 28,700 lots in communities in
which homes are being constructed. In addition, Pulte had approximately
20,200 lots under option.





Sales and Marketing

Pulte is dedicated to improving the quality and value of its homes through
proprietary innovative architectural and community designs and
state-of-the-art customer marketing techniques. Analyzing various qualitative
and quantitative data obtained through extensive market research, Pulte
segments its potential customers into well-defined buyer profiles. Once the
demands of potential buyers are understood, Pulte links its home design and
community development efforts to the specific lifestyle of each targeted
consumer group.

To meet the demands of its various customer segments, Pulte has established a
solid design expertise for a wide array of product lines. Pulte believes that
it is an innovator in the design of its homes, and it views its design
capacity as an integral aspect of its marketing strategy. Pulte's in-house
architectural services teams and management, supplemented by outside
consultants, have been successful in creating distinctive design features,
both in exterior facades, and interior options and features. One of Pulte's
strategies in certain markets has been to offer "the complete house" in which
all features shown in the home are included in the sales price. Standard
features typically offered include vaulted ceilings, flooring, carpet and
appliances, with the buyer having selection options as to the type of
flooring and carpet.

Typically, Pulte's own sales team, together with outside sales brokers, are
responsible for managing the customer through the sales process. Fully
furnished and landscaped model homes are used to showcase Pulte's homes and
their distinctive design features. Pulte has great success with the
first-time buyer in the low to moderate price range; in such cases, financing
under United States Government-insured and guaranteed programs is often used
and is facilitated through Pulte Mortgage. Pulte also enjoys strong sales to
the move-up buyer and, in certain markets, offers semi-custom homes in higher
price ranges. Pulte introduces its homes to prospective buyers through a
variety of media advertising, illustrated brochures and other advertising
displays. Customers also are obtained through referrals from other Pulte
customers. Also, Pulte maintains market and specific community information in
its internet home page which can be reached at http://www.pulte.com.

Construction

Pulte normally designs the homes it sells and builds such homes under the
supervision of its on-site construction superintendents. The construction
work is usually performed by subcontractors under contracts which, in many
instances, cover both labor and materials on a fixed-price basis. Pulte
believes that Pulte Preferred Partnerships (P3), an extension of its quality
assurance program, is establishing new standards for contractor relations.
Using a selective process, Pulte has teamed up with what it believes are
premier contractors and suppliers to improve all aspects of the land
development and house construction processes.

Pulte attempts to maintain efficient operations by using standard materials
and components from a variety of sources and, when feasible, by building on
contiguous lots. To minimize the effects of changes in construction costs,
the subcontracting and purchasing of building supplies and materials are
generally negotiated at or near the time when related sales contracts are
signed. In addition, Pulte utilizes the leverage its size affords by actively
negotiating its materials needs on a national or regional basis to minimize
component production cost. Pulte cannot determine the extent to which
necessary building materials will be available at reasonable prices in the
future and has, on occasion, experienced shortages of skilled labor in
certain trades and of building materials in some markets.

A Pulte subsidiary, Builders' Supply and Lumber Co., Inc. (BSL), operates
facilities in the greater metropolitan Washington, D.C., area, Charlotte,
Raleigh, Atlanta, Orlando and North East, Maryland, which provide building
materials to certain Pulte operating divisions as well as unaffiliated
customers. On February 13, 1998, the Company announced that it had entered
into an agreement to sell BSL. This sale is subject to financing and other
customary conditions and is expected to close during the first quarter of
1998.


Competition and Other Factors

Pulte employs a consumer-products orientation based upon customer
satisfaction and value-based brand recognition it believes is unique in the
home building industry and a significant factor in its long-term competitive
advantage. However, the housing industry in the United States is highly
competitive. In each of Pulte's market areas, there are 




numerous homebuilders with which it competes. Any provider of housing units,
for-sale or to rent, including apartment builders, may be considered a
competitor of Pulte. Conversion of apartments to condominiums further
provides certain segments of the population an alternative to traditional
housing, as well as the emergence and acceptance of manufactured housing.
Pulte competes primarily on the basis of reputation, price, location, design
and quality of its homes. The housing industry is cyclical and is affected by
a number of economic and other factors including: (1) significant national
and world events which impact consumer confidence; (2) changes in interest
rates; (3) changes in other costs associated with home ownership, such as
property taxes and energy costs; (4) various demographic factors; (5) changes
in federal income tax laws; and (6) changes in government mortgage financing
programs. In addition to these factors, Pulte's business and operations could
be affected by unanticipated shifts in demand for new homes.

Pulte's operations are subject to building, environmental and other
regulations of various state and local authorities. For its homes to qualify
for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or Veterans Administration (VA)
mortgages, Pulte must satisfy valuation standards and site, material and
construction requirements of those agencies. Compliance by Pulte with
federal, state and local laws relating to protection of the environment has
had, to date, no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings or the
competitive position of Pulte. More stringent requirements could be imposed
in the future on homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of
compliance.

Financial Services Operations

The Company's financial services operations are conducted by its mortgage
banking and other financial subsidiaries.

Mortgage Banking

Pulte Mortgage is a mortgage bank which arranges financing through the
origination of mortgage loans primarily for the benefit of buyers of Pulte's
homes, but also to the general public, and engages in the sale of such loans
and the related servicing rights. Pulte Mortgage is a lender approved by the
FHA and VA and is a seller/servicer approved by Government National Mortgage
Association (GNMA), Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal
Home Loan Mortgage Corporation (FHLMC) and other investors. In its
conventional mortgage lending activities, Pulte Mortgage generally follows
underwriting guidelines established by FNMA and FHLMC.

During 1996, Pulte Mortgage reorganized its operations by centralizing its
mortgage underwriting, processing and closing functions in Denver, Colorado,
through the implementation of a mortgage operations center (MOC) concept.
Additionally, during 1997, Pulte Mortgage began a centralized telephone loan
officer concept which moved the loan officers from field branches to a
mortgage application center (MAC) located in Denver. Thus the principal field
contacts for the mortgage customers are Pulte's sales representatives who
forward the loan application to the MAC. The MAC loan officer calls the
customer to complete the loan application and then forwards it to the MOC for
processing. Pulte Mortgage believes both the MOC and the MAC will improve the
speed and efficiency of its mortgage operations, thus improving profitability
and allowing it to focus on creating mortgage opportunities with Pulte
customers.

In originating mortgage loans, Pulte Mortgage initially uses its own funds
and borrowings made available to it pursuant to various credit arrangements.
Subsequently, Pulte Mortgage sells such mortgage loans and mortgage-backed
securities to outside investors. During the years ended December 31, 1997,
1996 and 1995, Pulte Mortgage originated mortgage loans for 50%, 49% and 49%,
respectively, of the homes sold by Pulte. Such originations represented 81%,
72% and 62%, respectively, of Pulte Mortgage funded originations.
Approximately 34%, 38% and 50% of the total loans originated by Pulte
Mortgage during the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
respectively, were insured by the FHA or partially guaranteed by the VA.

Prior to 1994, Pulte Mortgage had retained most of the servicing rights
related to mortgage loans it had originated and, thus, accepted the risks
inherent in servicing. Beginning in 1994, Pulte Mortgage changed its strategy
to sell originated mortgage servicing on a flow basis. In addition, during
the second half of 1994 and first half of 1995, Pulte Mortgage sold a
significant portion of its core mortgage servicing portfolio. At December 31,
1997, the outstanding balance of Pulte Mortgage's owned servicing portfolio
was $305,000,000 (2,786 loans) as compared with $394,000,000 (3,744 loans)
and $368,000,000 (3,852 loans) at December 31, 1996 and 1995, respectively.
At December 31, 1997, approximately 38% of such servicing portfolio was
insured by the FHA or partially guaranteed by the VA, compared to 32% at
December 31, 1996. 




The mortgage industry in the United States is highly competitive. Pulte
Mortgage competes with other mortgage companies and financial institutions to
provide attractive mortgage financing to both Pulte customers and the general
public. Pulte Mortgage, in originating and servicing mortgage loans, is
subject to rules and regulations of the FHA, VA, GNMA, FNMA, and FHLMC.

Other Financial Subsidiaries

Other financing activities are conducted by the limited purpose subsidiaries
of PFCI. Such subsidiaries previously engaged in the acquisition of mortgage
loans and mortgage-backed securities from Pulte Mortgage and unrelated
parties financed principally through long-term bonds which are secured only
by such mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. At December 31, 1997,
one bond series with a principal amount of $37,413,000 remained outstanding.
Such bonds are the obligations of the applicable PFCI issuer subsidiary; they
are neither obligations of, nor guaranteed by, the Company, PDCI, Pulte,
Pulte Mortgage or PFCI. (See Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Other Financial Subsidiaries
and Note 5 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)

Discontinued Operations

During 1994, the Company announced its strategy to exit the thrift industry
and increase its focus on homebuilding and related mortgage banking. First
Heights sold substantially all of its bank branches and related liabilities
(primarily deposits), plus certain other assets. The sale was completed
during the fourth quarter of 1994. Accordingly, such operations have been
presented as discontinued. Included in the sale were assets, primarily
consumer and commercial loans, of $116,886,000 and liabilities, primarily
deposits, of $1,205,047,000. To provide liquidity for the sale, First Heights
liquidated its investment portfolios and its single-family residential loan
portfolio and borrowed $127,000,000 from the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporaiton (FDIC). One remaining retail branch office continues to operate
in Houston. First Heights is subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift
Supervision (OTS) and the FDIC. Specific regulations include, among others,
capital maintenance requirements, liquidity maintenance requirements,
limitations on the growth of total liabilities, limitations on the type and
amount of its investments, restrictions on transactions with affiliates, and
limitations on dividends paid to PDCI. (See Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Discontinued
Operations, and Note 3 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.) The
Company is engaged in litigation with the FDIC and the United States in
connection with its thrift activities. (See Item 3 - Legal Proceedings).

Corporate

Corporate is a nonoperating segment that is comprised of the Company and
PDCI, both of which are holding companies. Its primary purpose is to support
the operations of the Company's subsidiaries as the internal source of
financing and by implementing and nurturing to maturity strategic initiatives
centered around new business development and improving operating
efficiencies. Examples of past and present strategic initiatives include:

o     international expansion into Mexico and pursuit of additional
      international opportunities; 

o     affordable housing opportunities, through the use of manufactured 
      and/or modular housing products and development of communities for 
      such products; and

o     non-traditional building components and business initiatives.

Corporate assets include equity investments in its subsidiaries, short-term
financial instruments and affiliate advances. Its liabilities include senior
and subordinated debt and income taxes. Corporate revenues consist primarily
of investment earnings of excess funds, while its expenses include costs
associated with supporting its subsidiaries' operations and investigating
strategic initiatives.





Organization/Employees

All subsidiaries and operating units operate in an autonomous fashion with
respect to day-to-day operations. All homebuilding real estate purchases and
other significant homebuilding, mortgage banking, financing activities and
similar operating decisions must be approved by business unit and/or senior
corporate management.

At December 31, 1997, the Company employed approximately 4,300 persons.
Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are not represented by any
union. Subcontracted work, however, may be performed by union subcontractors.
Homebuilding, mortgage banking and financing management personnel are paid
performance bonuses based on individual performance and incentive
compensation based on the performance of the applicable division or
subsidiary. The Company's corporate management personnel are paid incentive
compensation based on overall performance of the Company (see Note 6 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements). Each subsidiary is given autonomy
regarding employment of personnel, although the Company's senior corporate
management acts in an advisory capacity in the employment of subsidiary
officers. The Company considers its employee and subcontractor relations to
be satisfactory.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

The Company's and Pulte's corporate offices are located at 33 Bloomfield
Hills Parkway, Suite 200, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan, 48304, where 37,529
square feet of office space is leased. Pulte Mortgage's and PFCI's corporate
offices are located at 6061 South Willow Drive, Greenwood Village, Colorado,
80111. At this location, 47,400 square feet of office space is leased. Pulte
homebuilding markets and Pulte Mortgage branch operations generally lease
office space for their day-to-day operations. Pulte's subsidiary which
provides building materials owns three warehouses totaling 196,000 square
feet and leases 77,000 square feet of warehouse space in metropolitan
Washington, D.C., leases a 91,000 square foot warehouse facility in
Charlotte, owns a 112,000 square foot warehouse facility in Atlanta, leases a
100,000 square foot warehouse facility in Raleigh, owns a 47,000 square foot
warehouse facility in Orlando and leases 109,000 square feet of warehouse
space in North East, Maryland.

Because of the nature of Pulte's homebuilding operations, significant amounts
of property are held as inventory in the ordinary course of its homebuilding
business. Such properties are not included in response to this Item.

First Heights' administrative offices and it remaining retail branch office
are located in leased space at 2050 North Loop West, Suite 201, Houston,
Texas 77018.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is involved in various litigation incidental to its business. In
the opinion of management, none of this litigation will have a material
adverse financial impact on the Company.

First Heights-Related Litigation

The Company is a party to two lawsuits relating to First Heights' 1988
acquisition from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC),
and First Heights' ownership of, five failed Texas thrifts. The first lawsuit
(the "District Court Case") was filed on July 7, 1995 in the United States
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, by the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) against the Company, PDCI and First Heights
(collectively, the "Pulte Parties"). The second lawsuit (the "Court of
Federal Claims Case") was filed on December 26, 1996 in the United States
Court of Federal Claims (Washington, D.C.) by the Pulte Parties against the
United States. In the District Court Case, the FDIC seeks a declaration of
rights and other relief related to the assistance agreement entered into
between First Heights and the FSLIC. The FDIC is the successor to FSLIC. The
FDIC and the Pulte Parties disagree about the proper interpretation of
provisions in the assistance agreement which provide for sharing of certain
tax benefits achieved in connection with First Heights' 1988 acquisition and
ownership of the five failed Texas thrifts. The District Court Case also
includes certain other claims relating to the foregoing, including claims
resulting from the Company's and First Heights' amendment of a tax sharing
and allocation agreement between the Company and First Heights. The Pulte
Parties dispute the FDIC's claims and believe that a proper interpretation of
the assistance agreement limits the FDIC's participation in the tax benefits.
The Pulte Parties have filed an answer and a counterclaim, seeking, among
other things, 



a declaration that the FDIC has breached the assistance agreement in numerous
respects. On December 24, 1996, the Pulte Parties voluntarily dismissed
without prejudice certain of their claims in the District Court Case and on
December 26, 1996, initiated the Court of Federal Claims Case.

The Court of Federal Claims Case contains similar claims as those that were
voluntarily dismissed from the District Court Case. In their complaint, the
Pulte Parties assert breaches of contract on the part of the United States in
connection with the enactment of section 13224 of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993. That provision repealed portions of the tax
benefits that the Pulte Parties claim they were entitled to under the
contract to acquire the failed Texas thrifts. The Pulte Parties also assert
certain other claims concerning the contract, including claims that the
United States (through the FDIC as receiver) has improperly attempted to
amend the failed thrifts' pre-acquisition tax returns and that this attempt
was made in an effort to deprive the Pulte Parties of tax benefits they had
contracted for, and that the enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform,
Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 breached the Government's obligation
not to require contributions of capital greater than those required by the
contract.

On March 5, 1998, the Company reported that an opinion and order had been
issued by the United States District Court (the "Court") which resolved by
summary judgment four of the interpretational issues which had been raised in
the District Court Case. On three issues, the Court ruled in favor of the
FDIC, and on one issue, the Court ruled in favor of the Company. The Company
vigorously disagrees with the Court's ruling in favor of the FDIC and intends
to appeal if these rulings become part of any final judgment. If the Company
were unsuccessful on appeal and if all other issues in such litigation were
resolved in favor of the FDIC, the Company would, at such time, take an
after-tax charge against discontinued operations in an amount which would
range from a nominal amount to as much as $40,000,000. The Company does not
believe that the claims in the Court of Federal Claims Case are affected by
the rulings in the District Court Case.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

This Item is not applicable.


ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Set forth below is certain information with respect to all officers
(including executive officers) of the Company as of December 31, 1997.






The following is a brief account of the business experience during the past
five years through December 31, 1997 of each officer:

Mr. Pulte was appointed Chairman of the Board in January 1991 and Co-Chairman
of the Executive Committee in April 1990. Previously, Mr. Pulte was Chairman
of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors. Mr. Pulte served as
Chief Executive Officer from January 1991 through December 1992. He has been
a Director of the Company since 1956.

Mr. Burgess has been President since October 1985. In addition, Mr. Burgess
was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 1993. He has been a Director
of the Company since 1985.

Mr. Mark O'Brien was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
Officer in August 1997. Prior to that date, Mr. O'Brien served in various
capacities with Company subsidiaries, most recently as President of Pulte
Home East, an operating unit of Pulte.

Mr. Cregg was appointed Senior Vice President in December 1997 and named
Chief Financial Officer effective January 31, 1998. Prior to joining the
Company, Mr. Cregg was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of Zenith Electronics Corporation since 1996, and Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Sweetheart Cup Company from 1990 to 1996.

Mr. Hollerbach had been Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
from June 1993 through January 1998, at which time Mr. Hollerbach left the
Company. He was previously Senior Vice President since July 1989. He had been
a Director of the Company from January 1993 through January 1998.

Mr. Crombie has been Senior Vice President since June 1993. From November
1989 to June 1993, he was Senior Vice President-Finance and Chief Financial
Officer.

Mr. Michael O'Brien became Senior Vice President in December 1994. From
December 1993 to November 1994, he was Vice President. From 1989 to November
1993, Mr. O'Brien served as Vice President-Human Resources of Pepsi-Cola,
Inc.

Mr. Frees became Vice President and Controller in May 1995. Prior to joining
the Company in April 1995, Mr. Frees served in various key financial
capacities with American Cyanamid Company since 1982.

Mr. Nelson has been Vice President since August 1993. From 1988 to August
1993, he was Director of Taxes. He has also been a Vice President of Pulte
since 1988. Mr. Nelson joined the Company in January 1982.

Mr. Stoller joined the Company in August 1990. In October 1990, he was
appointed Vice President and General Counsel. Prior to joining the Company,
Mr. Stoller served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary of
BetaWest Properties, Inc., a commercial real estate development subsidiary of
US WEST, Inc. Effective January 1, 1994, Mr. Stoller became Secretary of the
Company.

Mr. Weissenborn had been Vice President and Treasurer from August 1993
through January 1998, at which time Mr. Weissenborn left the Company. From
March 1989 to August 1993, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of First Heights.

There is no family relationship between any of the officers. Each officer
serves at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.





                                   PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol:
PHM). The table below sets forth, for the quarterly periods indicated, the
range of high and low sales prices and cash dividends declared per share.



At December 31, 1997, there were 704 shareholders of record.

ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Set forth below is selected consolidated financial data for each of the past
five fiscal years. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction
with Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations and the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes
thereto included elsewhere in this report.







ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (continued)








ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (continued)









               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
                FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
                   ($000's omitted, except per share data)

A summary of the Company's operating results by business segment for the
years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 is as follows:


A comparison of pre-tax income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 1997,
1996 and 1995 is as follows:

o   Pre-tax income, before restructuring costs, of the Company's 1997
    homebuilding operations increased $14,340, or 13%, over 1996 which had
    reflected an increase in pre-tax income of $29,599, or 35%, from 1995
    levels. These increases were primarily the result of greater volume of
    unit settlements over each previous year, coupled with improvements in
    gross profit margin, partially offset by leveraged increases in selling,
    general and administrative expenses.

o   Pre-tax income, before restructuring costs, of the Company's mortgage
    banking operations increased $4,206, or 125%, during 1997. This is due to
    lower operating expenses resulting from the conversion to centralized
    loan processing during 1996. Results for 1995 include $10,148 of gains
    from sale of core servicing rights; no sales occurred during 1996.

o   Pre-tax income, before restructuring costs, of the Company's financing
    activities decreased $11,446 during 1997. This is due to gains from the
    sale of collateral during 1996. No such sales occurred in 1997. The
    $6,824 increase in pre-tax income in 1996 over 1995 relates to the amount
    of gains recognized from the sales of collateral.

o   Pre-tax loss, before restructuring costs, from corporate operations for
    1997 increased $8,588 over 1996 principally as a result of higher net
    interest expense. In 1996, pre-tax loss from corporate operations
    increased $5,414 due to higher interest expense and increased expenses
    associated with the Company's strategic operating initiatives.

o   During 1997, the Company recorded a one-time restructuring charge of
    $20,000 associated with its corporate reorganization. This charge was to
    cover costs associated with severance, asset impairment and other
    charges.

o   Income from discontinued operations increased during 1996 as a result of
    recognizing $110,000 of tax benefits associated with net operating
    losses.





               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Restructuring:

Since 1994, the Company's domestic homebuilding operations had been organized
as four operating companies, Pulte Home North, South, Central and West. This
organization enabled the Company to pursue its desired level of geographic
growth and market penetration. It also allowed the Company to facilitate
corporate direction, capital allocation, and risk management policies, while
allowing it to remain close to its customers. During early 1997, the Company
combined Pulte Home North and South, creating Pulte Home East, to provide
additional overhead leverage.

During August 1997, the Company announced that it was reorganizing its
corporate operations to enable the Company to take better advantage of its
size, talent base and competitive strengths. The reorganization was designed
to accomplish the following:

o   Strengthen management focus on key customer groups and generate increased
    operating efficiencies. 

o   Create a new position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating 
    Officer with responsibility for all of the Company's homebuilding 
    operations.

o   Replace the Company's existing homebuilding structure comprised of three
    geographically-based operating companies with a structure focused more
    closely on specific customer segments: domestic homebuilding, Active
    Adult (mature buyer), and international.

o   Evaluate and strategically deploy capital investment in homebuilding
    operations.

o   Structure the Company's mortgage banking operations to better support
    homebuilding operations and improve operating performance.

o   Right-size the workforce on a company-wide basis.

In conjunction with this reorganization, a pre-tax charge of $20,000 was
recorded during the fourth quarter. This charge included $11,787 of
separation and other costs for approximately 150 employees, $7,000 of asset
impairments and $1,213 of other costs, principally for office leases. The
after-tax effect of this charge was $12,300 or $.56 per diluted share.

The following table displays the status of the liabilities accrued for the
corporate restructuring as of December 31, 1997.



It is anticipated that a substantial portion of the remaining accrual for
restructuring costs will be utilized during 1998. The Company believes that,
beginning in 1998, it will realize annual savings of approximately $10,000 as
a result of the implementation of the restructuring plan.





               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Homebuilding Operations:

The following table presents selected data for Pulte for the years ended
December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995:



      The following is a summary of the number of communities active as of
each respective date:








               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

Pulte conducts its domestic homebuilding operations through 40 markets
located throughout 25 states, as well as Puerto Rico, which are organized
into nine geographic regions. No one individual market operation represented
more than 10% of total Pulte net new orders, unit settlements or revenues
during 1997.

Net new orders for 1997 increased for the eighth consecutive year to a
Company-record 15,488 units, an 8% increase over 1996's 14,399 unit orders.
Strong contributions to net new order growth were noted during 1997 from
Pulte markets in its Southeast, Texas, Southwest and California regions,
partially offset by declines in its Mid-Atlantic and Florida regions.
Approximately one-half of this increase in net new orders is attributable to
Pulte's Canterbury Communities in the Southeast and Southwest. Canterbury
Communities is Pulte's site-built, affordable housing product offering. Net
new orders for 1996 increased 4% (to 14,399 units) over 1995's level which,
in turn, had increased 31% over the previous year's net new orders. This
result is attributable to increased net new orders for Pulte markets located
in its Florida (up 29%), Southeast (up 51%) and Southwest (up 24%) regions,
offset by a 38% decline in net new orders in markets in its Midwest region.
Units in backlog at December 31, 1997, increased 5% to 3,614 units from 3,448
units at December 31, 1996, while sales value in backlog ($644,000) increased
8% over the year earlier period ($596,000). This compares with 3,662 units
($602,000) at December 31, 1995.

Unit settlements increased 5% to 15,322 units during 1997. This follows a 17%
increase in units settled during 1996 over 1995. Pulte regions contributing
significantly to 1997's increased unit settlements were Southeast, Southwest,
California and Great Lakes. Contributions from these regions were muted
somewhat by the performance of Pulte's Mid-Atlantic, Midwest and Florida
regions. Approximately one-half of this increase in unit settlements is
attributable to Pulte's Canterbury Communities in the Southeast and
Southwest. During 1996, strong contributions in unit settlement growth were
noted in Pulte's Florida, Southeast, Southwest, Texas, California and Great
Lakes regions, as well as from its Active Adult product offerings. During
1996, unit settlements were supported by the brisk net new order pace
established in the latter half of 1995 which carried through the first four
months of 1996. Revenues also increased during 1997 to $2,479,171, a 7%
increase over 1996 revenues which, in turn, had increased 20% over 1995
revenues. The average home sales price increased from $155 in 1995 to $159 in
1996 and $162 in the current year.

Gross margins improved to 14.9% in 1997 from 14.8% in 1996 and 14.5% in 1995.
The improvement in gross margins from 1996 to 1997 and 1995 to 1996 is due in
part to Pulte's ongoing process improvement initiatives focused on lowering
house costs through improved operational efficiencies. Additionally, during
1995, gross margins were negatively impacted by competitive market conditions
and excess industry inventory levels. The level of demand for new housing
experienced during the latter half of 1995 and the first four months of 1996
resulted in improved gross margins for units settled during 1996 as compared
to 1995. Pulte anticipates that it will continue to realize gross margin
improvement as the benefits of its efforts in materials supply chain
management and in streamlining of operational processes begin to have a more
pronounced effect on each of its market operations.

Selling, general and administrative expenses increased from $215,300 for the
year ended December 31, 1996, to $227,480 for the year ended December 31,
1997. This represents an increase of 6% on an absolute dollar basis. However,
as a percentage of sales, 1997 overhead decreased to 9.2%, a 10 basis point
improvement over 1996 and a 30 basis point improvement over 1995. Pulte
anticipates that it will continue to improve overhead leverage as a result of
the reorganization of its homebuilding operations during 1997.

Other income, net, includes gains on land sales, the pre-tax results of
Builders' Supply & Lumber Co., Inc. (BSL) and other homebuilding-related
expenses. For 1997, the increase in other income, net, from 1996 was
principally the result of a $4,200 improvement in the operating results of
BSL, approximately $2,900 of proceeds from the settlement of certain
litigation, and a $1,700 net increase in profits from land sales reduced by
nearly $6,700 relating to asset impairment adjustments taken on
under-performing projects. The increase in other income, net, for 1996 over
1995 resulted from increased profits on land sales during the year.



               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

In addition, as previously discussed, during the fourth quarter of 1997 the
Company incurred a one-time restructuring charge associated with reorganizing
its business operations. Restructuring costs of $14,800 charged to
homebuilding operations includes $6,900 of employee separation and other
costs, $7,000 of asset impairment adjustments and pre-acquisition cost and
land option deposit write-offs for active or proposed communities which are
to be exited and $900 of other costs, principally associated with office
lease cancellations.

Information related to interest in inventory is as follows:


On February 13, 1998, the Company announced that it had entered into an
agreement to sell BSL. No significant gain or loss is expected from the sale.
This all-cash sale is subject to financing and other customary conditions and
is expected to close during the first quarter of 1998.

Financial Services Operations:

Mortgage Banking Operations:

During the first quarter of 1997, the Company changed the name of its
mortgage banking operation from ICM Mortgage Corporation to Pulte Mortgage
Corporation (Pulte Mortgage). The following table presents selected
production data for Pulte Mortgage:



Mortgage origination volume for 1997 decreased 2% from the previous year.
This follows a relatively flat performance during 1996 from 1995 levels.
However, Pulte Mortgage's continued emphasis on capturing a higher percentage
of Pulte unit settlements in their common markets has resulted in a 7%
increase in mortgage origination volume for Pulte customers during 1997 and a
31% increase in similar origination volume since 1995. Pulte customers
represented over 81% of all funded mortgages originated by Pulte Mortgage
during 1997. This compares with 72% and 62% for 1996 and 1995, respectively.

On July 1, 1995, Pulte Mortgage adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards (SFAS) No. 122, Accounting for Mortgage Servicing Rights, which
requires a mortgage banking enterprise to recognize as separate assets the
servicing rights for mortgage loans regardless of the manner in which those
servicing rights are acquired. A mortgage banking enterprise that acquired
mortgage servicing rights through either the purchase or origination of
mortgage loans and sells or securitizes those loans with servicing rights
retained, must allocate the total cost of the mortgage loans to the mortgage
servicing rights and the loans (without the mortgage servicing rights) based
on their relative fair values.






               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Financial Services Operations (continued):

Mortgage Banking Operations (continued):

The effect of this allocation results in a lower cost basis for the mortgage
loan resulting in a larger gain when the loan is sold. Effective January 1,
1997, SFAS No. 125, Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial
Assets and Extinguishments of Liabilities, superseded SFAS No. 122 with no
material impact on the financial statements.

During 1997, pricing and marketing gains decreased $107 compared to 1996,
while 1996 saw an increase of $9,269 over 1995. The decrease in 1997 was due
to lower volume of servicing retained originations as compared with 1996
while the increase in 1996 was due to higher volume of servicing retained
originations as compared with 1995. During 1995, prior to the adoption of
SFAS No. 122, Pulte Mortgage recorded pre-tax gains on sales of its core
mortgage servicing portfolio of $10,148. In addition, as part of its normal
operations, Pulte Mortgage recorded gains on sales of non-core mortgage
servicing rights of $9,566 during 1995. The sale of the core mortgage
servicing portfolio and the ongoing sale of servicing rights on a flow basis
are the result of repositioning Pulte Mortgage to concentrate on its primary
business of providing mortgage financing for Pulte's homebuyers. Pulte
Mortgage expects to continue to sell mortgage servicing rights as part of its
normal operations on a three to five month lag from the time of origination.

Servicing fee income for 1997 decreased to $750 from $926 in 1996 due to the
lower volume of servicing retained originations in 1997. Servicing fee income
decreased $505 during 1996 from 1995 primarily as a result of the sales of
core mortgage servicing portfolio discussed above. Mortgage origination fees
increased $235 or 7% during 1997 as a result of increases in miscellaneous
fees charged for originated loans. Mortgage origination fees decreased $1,092
or 24% during 1996 due to a decrease in the amount of non-funded originations
compared with the previous year.

Net interest income decreased $1,274 during 1997 as compared with 1996, and
by $816 in 1996 as compared to 1995. These declines are primarily due to
dividends in excess of current earnings paid by Pulte Mortgage to its parent,
Pulte, throughout 1997, 1996 and 1995, and a flattening of the yield curve
during 1997.

During 1997, Pulte Mortgage's operating expenses, excluding $2,100 of
restructuring costs (primarily employee separation and other costs),
decreased $5,290, or 23%, from 1996. These reductions of expenses are the
result of Pulte Mortgage's centralization of its mortgage underwriting,
processing and closing functions in Denver, Colorado, through implementation
of a mortgage operations center (MOC) during 1996. Additionally, during 1997,
Pulte Mortgage began a centralized telephone loan officer concept which moved
the loan officers from field branches to a mortgage applications center (MAC)
located in Denver. Thus, the principal field contacts for the mortgage
customers are Pulte's sales representatives who forward the loan application
to the MAC. The MAC loan officer calls the customer to complete the loan
application and then forwards it to the MOC for processing. Pulte Mortgage
believes that this new process will speed up the loan approval process while
lowering its total cost from application to closing. During 1997, three
markets were transferred to the MAC.

In 1995, Pulte Mortgage acquired a minority ownership interest in a Mexican
mortgage banking company, Su Casita. Su Casita is a limited purpose financial
institution under Mexican law, licensed to originate and service home
mortgage loans. Pulte Mortgage's investment was made to facilitate the
Company's homebuilding joint ventures in Mexico. For 1997, Pulte Mortgage's
equity in the earnings of Su Casita was $557, of which $503 represented
operating earnings and $54 represented its share of foreign currency gains.
During 1996, Pulte Mortgage's equity in the earnings of Su Casita was $225.
At December 31, 1997, Pulte Mortgage's investment in Su Casita approximated
$1,500.

At December 31, 1997, loan application backlog was $294,000 compared with
$246,000 at December 31, 1996 and $334,000 at December 31, 1995.






               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Financial Services Operations (continued):

Other Financial Subsidiaries

PFCI's pre-tax operating income decreased $11,446 during 1997 over the prior
year. This decrease was primarily the result of the 1996 recognition of gains
on sales of collateral aggregating $11,069; no such sales occurred during
1997. In addition, 1996's pre-tax income benefited from the reversal of a
provision for foreclosure-related losses of $1,078. Pre-tax operating income
for 1996 increased $6,824 from 1995. This increase was primarily the result
of gains on sales of collateral which aggregated $11,069 during 1996 as
compared to $4,003 in 1995.

Corporate:

Corporate is a non-operating business segment whose primary purpose is to
support the operations of the Company's subsidiaries as the internal source
of financing and by implementing and maturing strategic initiatives centered
on new business development and improving operating efficiencies. The Company
views this corporate function as a form of research and development, a
prelude to adding these initiatives to existing business segments or
necessitating the creation of new business segments. As a result, the
corporate segment's operating results will vary from quarter to quarter as
these strategic initiatives evolve.

The following table presents corporate results of operations for the years
ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995:



The increased loss for 1997 as compared with 1996 is due primarily to
increased net interest expense as a result of the utilization of
approximately $174,000 of available funds and, to a lesser extent, draws on
the Company's unsecured revolving credit arrangement to reacquire nearly 6.2
million shares of the Company's common stock during 1996 and the first four
months of 1997. In addition, as discussed above, during the fourth quarter of
1997 the Company incurred a one-time charge associated with restructuring its
business operations. The restructuring charge of $3,100 included in the
Corporate business segment primarily relates to cost of employee severance.
The increased loss for 1996 as compared with 1995 is due to greater net
interest expense as a result of the issuance of $125,000 of 7.3% unsecured
Senior Notes in the fourth quarter of 1995 and additional administrative
expenses related to the Company's strategic operating initiatives, partially
offset by a decrease in the loss recognized from the Company's Mexico
operations primarily as a result of the stabilization of the Mexican Peso.

On October 8, 1997, the Company and Fleetwood Enterprises, Inc. (Fleetwood)
announced that they would jointly form a new corporation, Expression Homes,
that would own and operate manufactured housing retail centers. However,
dramatic changes occurred in the manufactured housing industry associated
with the rapid consolidation of retail distribution. The rapid pace with
which retailers were being acquired, and the resulting increase in the cost
of these businesses, made it more difficult for Expression Homes to meet the
Company's objectives with regards to market penetration and financial
returns. Accordingly, on February 17, 1998, Fleetwood agreed to acquire the
Company's 51% ownership interest in Expression Homes and the Company's retail
manufactured housing sales center in Raleigh, North Carolina. The sale is
anticipated to close during the first quarter of 1998. The Company currently
anticipates recognizing a pre-tax gain from this sale in the range of
approximately $4,000 to $6,000.





               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Corporate (continued):

Pulte conducts its Mexico homebuilding operations through three joint venture
investments owned by a foreign subsidiary. In January 1996, the Company's
Monterrey joint venture partner assigned its interest in the joint venture to
the Company. The Company's net investment in the Monterrey venture
approximated $2,000 as of December 31, 1997. The Company intends to liquidate
the Monterrey assets in the normal course of business. The Company's Juarez
joint venture is currently developing communities in the cities of Juarez,
Chihuahua, Nuevo Laredo, Reynosa and Matamoros. Additionally, during 1996,
the Company announced that its Juarez joint venture had entered into two
separate agreements to construct homes in Mexico; one with Delphi Automotive
Systems, a division of General Motors Corporation (GM) and one with Sony
Magneticos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., an affiliate of Sony Electronics, Inc.
(Sony). The Company's Juarez joint venture realized its first unit
settlements under the GM contract during the fourth quarter of 1997. The
Company's net investment in the Juarez joint venture approximated $25,000 as
of December 31, 1997. Also during 1996, the Company entered into a joint
venture to build 20 middle income housing units in Mexico City, all of which
are sold, but 17 units remain to close during the first quarter of 1998. The
Company's net investment in this joint venture approximated $600 as of
December 31, 1997.

During 1997, the Company recorded a loss of $1,700 related to its Mexico
operations, as compared with losses of $1,700 and $5,800 in 1996 and 1995,
respectively. Included in such results is the Company's share of joint
venture foreign currency losses which amounted to $600, $100 and $2,300 for
the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. The $1,100
operating loss sustained in 1997 was principally the result of increased
overhead levels necessitated by the increase in development activity
associated with performance under the housing agreements with GM and Sony.

In November 1997, the Company entered into a fixed-price agreement with
Minera Escondida Limitada, a Broken Hill Proprietary Company subsidiary, to
manage the construction of approximately 800 employee residential units in
two phases in Antofagasta, Chile. This project represents the Company's entry
into the Chilean market, and allows it to participate with another large,
international company. The Company accounts for the operating results of this
project using percentage of completion. The Company's net investment in this
project, maintained within a wholly-owned foreign subsidiary, approximated
$900 at December 31, 1997.

Discontinued Operations:

For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, discontinued thrift
operations resulted in income of $2,961 (including income tax benefit of
$2,356), $6,432 (including income tax benefit of $1,076) and $9,507 (net of
income taxes of $157), respectively. Additionally, during 1996, the Company
recognized, as part of discontinued thrift operations, after-tax income of
approximately $110,000. Such income relates to tax benefits associated with
net operating losses. Certainty of realization of this amount is not
anticipated in the near term, is dependent upon various factors, and the
actual amount realized might be more or less than the amount recorded.

Liquidity And Capital Resources:

Continuing Operations:

The Company's net cash used in operating activities decreased from $64,225 in
1996 to $35,174 in 1997. This is principally due to a decrease in the level
of net cash investment in inventories as compared to 1996. Net cash provided
by investing activities decreased from $207,582 in 1996 to $7,969 in 1997
primarily as a result of reduced net proceeds from the sale of
mortgage-backed securities of PFCI. The Company's net cash from financing
activities increased from a use of cash of $245,959 in 1996 to a source of
cash of $82,736 in 1997. This resulted from an approximately $173,000
decrease in the amount of PFCI's mortgage-backed bonds redeemed during 1997
and an increase in new borrowings during 1997, primarily due to the issuance
of $150,000 of unsecured Senior Notes in the fourth quarter of 1997.





               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Liquidity And Capital Resources:

Continuing Operations:

At December 31, 1997, the Company had cash and equivalents of $245,156 and
total long-term indebtedness of $650,169. The Company's total indebtedness
includes $487,303 of unsecured senior notes, $22,405 of unsecured senior
subordinated debentures, other Pulte non-recourse and recourse debt of
$37,192 and $30,427, respectively, $35,420 of First Heights' advances,
$37,413 of mortgage-backed bonds payable for PFCI and $9 of capital lease
obligations for Pulte Mortgage. In October 1997, pursuant to the universal
shelf registrations filed in September 1995 and October 1997, the Company
issued $150,000, 7.625% unsecured Senior Notes, due 2017, which are
guaranteed by Pulte and certain wholly-owned subsidiaries of Pulte. The
Company used a portion of the net proceeds of the sale of the Senior Notes to
repay the outstanding borrowings under its unsecured revolving credit
facility which bore a variety of floating interest rates. The remaining net
proceeds from the sale of the Senior Notes were added to the Company's
general funds to be used for general corporate purposes which may include,
but are not limited to, capital contributions to the Company's subsidiaries
to strengthen such subsidiaries' continuing operations and to fund
acquisitions.

The Company believes it has adequate financial resources and sufficient
credit facilities to meet its current working capital needs. Sources of the
Company's working capital include its cash and equivalents, its $240,000
committed unsecured revolving credit facility, and other committed and
uncommitted credit lines, which at December 31, 1997, consisted of $20,000
and $250,000 related to Pulte and Pulte Mortgage operations, respectively.
Over the next twelve months, management anticipates that homebuilding and
corporate working capital requirements, as well as cash payments associated
with the Company's restructuring, will be principally funded with internally
generated funds and the previously mentioned credit facilities. The Company
routinely monitors current operational requirements and financial market
conditions to evaluate the utilization of available financing sources,
including securities offerings.

The Company finances its land acquisitions, development and construction
activities from internally generated funds and existing credit agreements.
The Company had a maximum borrowing of $126,000 under its $240,000 unsecured
revolving credit facility during 1997. There was no outstanding balance at
December 31, 1997. Pulte Mortgage provides mortgage financing for many of
Pulte's home sales and uses its own funds and borrowings made available
pursuant to various committed and uncommitted credit arrangements which, at
December 31, 1997, amounted to $250,000, an amount deemed adequate to cover
foreseeable needs. There were approximately $128,170 of borrowings
outstanding under the $250,000 (Pulte Mortgage) arrangement at December 31,
1997. Mortgage loans originated by Pulte Mortgage are subsequently sold,
principally to outside investors. The Company anticipates that there will be
adequate mortgage financing available for purchasers of its homes.

In the fourth quarter of 1994, the Company initiated a share repurchase
program with the intention of enhancing shareholder value by utilizing excess
corporate capital to acquire its shares at favorable prices and increasing
leverage. As of the date of the most recent share reacquisition, April 16,
1997, the Company had utilized in excess of $188,000 of available cash and,
to a lesser extent, funds drawn on its unsecured revolving credit facility to
reacquire 6,847,800 shares, or nearly 25% of the common stock outstanding
prior to the inception of this program. Management does not anticipate making
additional share repurchases in the foreseeable future.

Discontinued Operations:

Since its acquisition of First Heights, the Company's income taxes have been
significantly impacted by its thrift operations, principally because payments
received from the FRF are exempt from federal income taxes. The Company's
thrift assets are subject to regulatory restrictions and are not available
for general corporate purposes. The final liquidation and wind-down of the
Company's thrift operations is dependent on the final resolution of
outstanding matters with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC),
manager of FRF. The Company is currently negotiating with the FDIC and is
involved in litigation with the FDIC. Although there is no certainty as to
the time of resolution of these matters, the Company believes that they might
be resolved within the next twelve months. At December 31, 1997, the Company
had a remaining investment in First Heights of approximately $26,100.





               ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
          FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

Information Technology and Year 2000 Compliance

An integral part of our operating strategy is to provide Pulte management and
employees the information systems needed to support the Company's current
operations and future growth. Investments totaling $4,600 and $3,200 in 1997
and 1996, respectively, have resulted in substantial progress toward the goal
of developing an integrated set of systems to support marketing, land and
product development, home sales, construction, service, and comprehensive
financial management. The Company anticipates that it will invest
approximately an additional $7,000 in the development and implementation of
its management information systems in 1998.

A critical component of this integrated systems effort involves replacement
of the Company's existing accounting system, which will substantially resolve
its Year 2000 exposure as well as significantly enhance the financial
management capabilities of its operational managers. Investment in
this financial component includes Year 2000 compliant accounting software
package selection and licensing amortization. The Company expects to complete
system development and pilot implementation, with enterprise-wide roll out
scheduled for completion in early 1999. The Company has evaluated all
essential homebuilding supplier/contractor relationships and has concluded
that there are no significant risks associated with Year 2000 issues
impacting operations. The Company's mortgage banking operation has also
completed a comprehensive Year 2000 risk assessment for both internal
information systems and external relationships. Plans are being implemented
to bring all critical information systems into compliance. The Company does
not expect the cost for such compliance to have a material impact on
operating results or financial condition. In 1997, the Company also completed
implementation of a company-wide telecommunications network to enhance
sharing of timely business information across all markets and provide the
pathway for future operational support of the integrated systems strategy.
All components of this new information technology environment are fully
compliant with Year 2000 processing requirements. Taken together, the Company
believes that its substantial past and current investments in these
information technology initiatives will provide the foundation necessary to
support and enhance operations in the years to come.

In October 1997, the Accounting Standards Executive Committee (AcSEC) of the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants (AICPA) approved Statement
of Position 98-1 (SOP 98-1), "Accounting for the Costs of Software Developed
or Obtained for Internal Use". This SOP would require internal costs (i.e.,
salaries and related benefits and interest cost) to be capitalized during the
application development stage for internal-use software. In its effort to
develop the systems discussed above, the Company has expensed similar costs
to operations as they have been incurred. In December 1997, AcSEC received
clearance from the Financial Accounting Standards Board to issue SOP 98-1
subject to certain proposed changes. AcSEC expects to issue the final SOP
during March 1998 with adoption allowed on a prospective basis, applicable to
costs incurred after January 1, 1998. The Company has not yet determined what
impact this SOP might have upon its adoption. However, the Company does not
expect that adoption of this SOP will have a material effect on the financial
position or results of operations of the Company.

Special Notes Concerning Forward-looking Statements:

Item 7, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations, "Restructuring", contains certain forward-looking
statements relating to the possible impact of a one-time restructuring
charge. These forward-looking statements are based on current expectations
and include various assumptions. Such assumptions principally relate to
achieving estimated cost reductions as a result of realigning senior
operating and corporate staff roles and responsibilities while maintaining
work flow in the areas affected. The failure of such assumptions to be
realized may cause the actual restructuring charge and annual cost savings to
differ materially from the estimates set forth herein.

As an additional cautionary note, except for the historical information
contained herein, certain matters discussed in Item 7, Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, are
"forward-looking" statements within the meaning of the Private Securities
Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such matters involve risks and uncertainties,
including changes in economic conditions and interest rates, increases in raw
material and labor costs, weather conditions, and general competitive
factors, that may cause actual results to differ materially.





             ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                              PULTE CORPORATION
                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                          December 31, 1997 and 1996
                     ($000's omitted, except share data)







                              PULTE CORPORATION
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
             For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                   ($000's omitted, except per share data)







                              PULTE CORPORATION
               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
             For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                               ($000's omitted)







                              PULTE CORPORATION
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
             For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                               ($000's omitted)








                              PULTE CORPORATION
                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS (continued)
                    For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                               ($000's omitted)







                              PULTE CORPORATION
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                               ($000's omitted)

1.  Basis of presentation and segment information

    Basis of presentation

    The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Pulte
    Corporation (the "Company"), and all of its significant subsidiaries. The
    Company's direct subsidiaries consist of Pulte Financial Companies, Inc.
    (PFCI) and Pulte Diversified Companies, Inc. (PDCI). PDCI's direct
    subsidiaries are Pulte Home Corporation (Pulte) and First Heights Bank,
    fsb (First Heights). Pulte Mortgage Corporation (Pulte Mortgage),
    formerly known as ICM Mortgage Corporation, is a direct subsidiary of
    Pulte. The Company's continuing operations include its homebuilding
    (Pulte) and financial services subsidiaries, which include Pulte Mortgage
    (mortgage banking) and PFCI (financing). The Company's thrift subsidiary,
    First Heights, has been classified as discontinued operations (see Note
    3).

    The Company's financial reporting segments consist of Homebuilding
    (Pulte), Financial Services (Mortgage Banking and Financing operations)
    and Corporate. The Company's homebuilding operations comprise the most
    substantial part of its business, with over 90% of consolidated revenues
    contributed by Pulte's homebuilding divisions and subsidiaries. Pulte
    Mortgage's principal function is providing mortgage financing services
    for Pulte customers. PFCI, through its subsidiaries, previously engaged
    in the acquisition of mortgages and mortgage-backed securities financed
    by the issuance of long-term bonds which are secured by such mortgage
    loans and mortgage-backed securities. Corporate is comprised of the
    Company and PDCI, both of which are holding companies. Its primary
    purpose is to support the operations of the Company's subsidiaries as the
    internal source of financing and to implement and nurture to maturity
    strategic initiatives centered around new business development and
    improving operating efficiencies.

    Certain 1996 and 1995 classifications have been changed to conform with
    the 1997 presentation.


    Segment information

    New Segment Reporting Standard

    In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement
    of Financial Accounting Standards No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of
    an Enterprise and Related Information (Statement 131), which is effective
    for years beginning after December 15, 1997. Statement 131 establishes
    standards for the way that public business enterprises report information
    about operating segments in annual financial statements and requires that
    those enterprises report selected information about operating segments in
    interim financial reports. It also establishes standards for related
    disclosures about products and services, geographic areas, and major
    customers. Statement 131 is effective for financial statements for fiscal
    years beginning after December 15, 1997, and therefore the Company will
    adopt the new requirements retroactively in 1998. Management has not
    completed its review of Statement 131, but does not anticipate that the
    adoption of this statement will have a significant effect on the
    Company's reported segments.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)


    Segment information (continued)

    Homebuilding:

    Homebuilding operations include the homebuilding divisions and
    subsidiaries of Pulte. These operations consist principally of the
    construction and sale of detached and attached single-family residential
    homes in 41 markets within the following geographic areas and Puerto
    Rico:

      Pulte Home East:
         Mid-Atlantic Region      Delaware, Maryland, Massachusetts, 
                                  New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Rhode Island,
                                  Virginia
         Southeast Region         Georgia, North Carolina, South Carolina
         Florida Region           Florida

      Pulte Home Central:
         Great Lakes Region       Indiana,  Michigan, Missouri, Ohio, Kansas
         Midwest Region           Illinois, Minnesota, Wisconsin
         Texas Region             Texas

      Pulte Home West:
         Southwest Region         Arizona, Nevada
         Rocky Mountain Region    Colorado, Utah
         California Region        California

                            PULTE HOME CORPORATION
                           STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
             For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)








                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)


    Mortgage Banking:

    Pulte Mortgage, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Pulte, is a mortgage bank
    which arranges financing through the origination of mortgages to both
    Pulte homebuyers and the general public. It operates generally in the
    same markets and geographic areas in which Pulte's homebuilding divisions
    are located. Pulte Mortgage's servicing portfolio aggregated $305,000 and
    $394,000 at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.











                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)








                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    Financing:

    The Company's financing operations are conducted by limited purpose
    subsidiaries of PFCI. Prior to 1989, PFCI subsidiaries engaged in the
    acquisition of mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities financed
    principally through the issuance of long-term bonds secured by such
    mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities. Since 1989, the PFCI
    subsidiaries have been liquidating their collateral portfolios and
    related bonds outstanding. At December 31, 1997, one bond series with a
    principal amount of $37,413 remained outstanding. These bonds are
    expected to be redeemed, and the related collateral sold, by the end of
    1998.







                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

2.  Significant accounting policies

    Use of estimates

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
    accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements
    and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

    Cash and  equivalents

    For purposes of the Statements of Cash Flows, commercial paper and time
    deposits with a maturity of three months or less when acquired are
    classified as cash equivalents.

    Stock based compensation

    The Company grants stock options to key employees for a fixed number of
    shares with an exercise price not less than the fair value of the shares
    at the date of grant. The Company accounts for the stock option grants in
    accordance with Accounting Principles Board (APB) Opinion No. 25,
    Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees. No compensation expense is
    recognized because all stock options granted have exercise prices equal
    to the market value of the Company's stock on the date of the grant. The
    pro forma disclosures required by Statement of Financial Accounting
    Standards (SFAS) No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation, are
    included in Note 6.

    Foreign investments

    The Company has investments in Mexico which are accounted for using the
    equity method. Effective for periods ended after October 1, 1996, the
    Company has remeasured the financial statements of its foreign equity
    investments from the original functional currency (Peso) to the Company's
    reporting currency (U.S. Dollar) due to Mexico's highly inflationary
    economy. Accordingly, the Company translates the assets, liabilities and
    equity of its foreign equity investments at the rates of exchange in
    effect at each reporting period. Revenues and expenses are translated
    using monthly average exchange rates. Gains and losses from (1)
    translation of the financial statements of the Company's foreign equity
    investments and (2) foreign currency transactions are included in expense
    in the accompanying statements of operations. Foreign currency
    translation and transaction losses aggregated $600, $100 and $2,300 for
    the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. During
    1997, the Company recorded a loss of $1,700 related to its Mexico
    operations, as compared with losses of $1,700 and $5,800 in 1996 and
    1995, respectively. The Company's aggregate net investment in Mexico is
    approximately $27,600 as of December 31, 1997.

    The Company maintains a foreign subsidiary which is performing under a
    fixed-price agreement entered into during 1997 with a large,
    international company to manage the construction of approximately 800
    residential units in two phases in Antofagasta, Chile. The Company
    accounts for the operating results of this project using percentage of
    completion. The Company's net investment in this foreign subsidiary
    approximated $900 at December 31, 1997.

    Pulte Mortgage maintains a minority ownership interest in a Mexican
    mortgage banking company which is accounted for using the equity method
    of accounting. Pulte Mortgage has also remeasured the financial
    statements of its foreign equity investment from the original functional
    currency (Peso) to Pulte Mortgage's reporting currency (U.S. Dollar) due
    to Mexico's highly inflationary economy. For 1997, Pulte Mortgage's
    equity in the earnings of its investment was $557, of which $503
    represented operating earnings and $54 represented its share of foreign
    currency gains. During 1996, Pulte Mortgage's equity in the earnings of
    its investment was $225. At December 31, 1997, Pulte Mortgage's
    investment approximated $1,500.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    Income per share

    In 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement No.
    128, Earnings Per Share. Statement 128 replaced the calculation of
    primary and fully-diluted earnings per share with basic and diluted
    earnings per share. Unlike primary earnings per share, basic earnings per
    share excludes any dilutive effects of options, warrants and convertible
    securities. Diluted earnings per share is very similar to the previously
    reported fully diluted earnings per share. Earnings per share amounts,
    both basic and diluted, are disclosed for all periods presented and,
    where appropriate, have been restated to conform to the Statement 128
    requirements.

    Fair values of financial instruments

    The estimated fair values of financial instruments were determined by
    management using available market information and appropriate valuation
    methodologies. Considerable judgment is necessary to interpret market
    data and develop estimated fair value. Accordingly, the estimates
    presented are not necessarily indicative of the amounts the Company could
    realize on disposition of the financial instruments. The use of different
    market assumptions and/or estimation methodologies may have a material
    effect on the estimated fair value amounts.

    The carrying amounts of cash and cash equivalents approximate their fair
    values due to their short-term nature. The carrying amounts of
    mortgage-backed bonds approximate their fair values. The bonds are
    expected to be redeemed during 1998.

    The fair value of investment, mortgage-backed and related securities are
    based on quoted market prices, when available. If quoted market prices
    are not available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of
    comparable instruments and other valuation techniques.

    The fair values of subordinated debentures and senior notes are based on
    quoted market prices, when available. If quoted market prices are not
    available, fair values are based on quoted market prices of similar
    issues.

    Disclosures about fair value of financial instruments are based on
    pertinent information available to management as of December 31, 1997.
    Although management is not aware of any factors that would significantly
    affect the reasonableness of the fair value amounts, such amounts have
    not been comprehensively revalued for purposes of these financial
    statements since that date and current estimates of fair value may differ
    significantly from the amounts presented herein.

    Advertising Cost

    The Company expenses advertising costs as they are incurred. For the
    years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company incurred
    advertising costs of approximately $24,700, $21,900 and $18,900,
    respectively.

    Employee benefits

    The Company maintains the Pulte Corporation Savings and Retirement Plan
    401(k) (the "Plan") which covers substantially all of the Company's
    employees. Company contributions to the Plan are expensed as paid and are
    based on the employees' years of service. The total Company contributions
    pursuant to the Plan were approximately $2,200, $2,300 and $2,100 for the
    years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    Long-lived assets

    During the first quarter of 1996, the Company adopted SFAS No. 121,
    Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived
    Assets to be Disposed Of, which requires impairment losses to be recorded
    on long-lived assets used in operations when indicators of impairment are
    present and the undiscounted cash flows estimated to be generated by
    those assets are less than the assets' carrying amount. SFAS No. 121 also
    addresses the accounting for long-lived assets that are expected to be
    disposed of. The adoption of the provisions of SFAS No. 121 did not have
    a material effect on the Company's financial position or results of
    operations for the year ended December 31, 1996.

    Homebuilding:

    Allowance for warranties

    Home purchasers are provided with warranties against certain building
    defects. Estimated warranty cost is provided in the period in which the
    sale is recorded.

    Start-up costs

    Costs and expenses associated with entry into new homebuilding markets
    and opening new communities in existing markets are expensed when
    incurred.

    Revenues

    Homebuilding revenues are recorded when the sales of homes are completed
    and ownership has transferred to the customer. Unfunded settlements are
    deposits in transit on homes for which the sale has been completed.

    Inventories

    Finished inventories are stated at the lower of accumulated cost or fair
    value less costs to sell. Inventories under development or held for
    development are stated at accumulated cost, unless such cost would not be
    recovered from the cash flows generated by future disposition. In this
    instance, such inventories are measured at fair value.

    Sold units are expensed on a specific identification basis as cost of
    sales. Included in inventories is related interest and property taxes.
    The Company capitalized interest in the amount of $20,376, $17,801 and
    $17,314 and expensed to homebuilding interest expense $18,503, $17,216
    and $13,106 in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively.

    Mortgage Banking:

    Mortgage servicing rights

    The Company conducts its mortgage banking activities through Pulte
    Mortgage, whose primary business consists of providing residential
    mortgage loan originations and related services to Pulte customers. In
    May 1995, the FASB issued SFAS No. 122, Accounting for Mortgage Servicing
    Rights (Statement 122). Under Statement 122, the costs associated with
    originating a mortgage loan are to be allocated to the mortgage servicing
    rights based on its fair value relative to the mortgage loan, as a whole.
    Accordingly, under SFAS No. 122, the capitalized origination costs of the
    loan are reduced by the amount allocated to the mortgage servicing
    rights. Effective January 1, 1997, the Company adopted SFAS No. 125,
    Accounting for Transfers and Servicing of Financial Assets and
    Extinguishments of Liabilities, which superseded SFAS No. 122. There was
    no material impact on the financial statements as a result of this
    adoption.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    Mortgage servicing rights (continued)

    The consolidated balance sheets include the following amounts of
    capitalized mortgage servicing rights from originated mortgage loans as
    of December 31, 1997 and 1996:


    Mortgage loans

    Residential mortgage loans available-for-sale are stated at the lower of
    cost or aggregate market value. Unamortized net mortgage discounts
    totaled $1,382 and $1,614 at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
    Gains and losses from the sale of mortgage loans are recognized when the
    loans are sold. Pulte Mortgage hedges its residential mortgage loans
    available-for-sale by commitments in the cash forward market (see Note
    11). Gains and losses from closed commitments and futures contracts are
    matched against the related gains and losses on the sale of mortgage
    loans.

    Revenues

    Mortgage servicing fees represent fees earned for servicing loans for
    various investors, including affiliates. Servicing fees are based on a
    contractual percentage of the outstanding principal balance and are
    credited to income when the related mortgage payments are received. Loan
    origination fees, commitment fees and certain direct loan origination
    costs are deferred as an adjustment to the cost of the related mortgage
    loan until such loan is sold.

    Financing:

    Mortgage-backed securities

    PFCI adopted SFAS No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
    Equity Securities, on January 1, 1994. Based on prepayment experience of
    certain subsidiaries since that time, PFCI elected to classify its
    portfolio of Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA) securities
    as available-for-sale beginning September 30, 1995. As
    available-for-sale, such securities are reported at fair value with
    unrealized gains and losses excluded from earnings and reported in a
    separate component of shareholders' equity, net of income taxes.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

3.  Discontinued operations

    In September 1988, substantially all of the assets, business operations
    and certain liabilities of five Texas-based insolvent thrifts were
    acquired by First Heights. Assistance in connection with each acquisition
    was provided by the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
    (FSLIC) pursuant to an Assistance Agreement.

    FSLIC issued promissory notes representing the estimated negative net
    worth of the acquired associations at the date of acquisition, the
    balances of which, including accrued interest, were $103,010 and $131,579
    at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. The notes had a weighted
    average interest rate of 5.4% and 5.8% at December 31, 1997 and 1996,
    respectively. The notes are due in September 1998, and bear interest at
    rates indexed to the Texas Cost of Funds plus a spread. The notes are
    subject to annual prepayments, which are limited to 10% of the total
    original note balances. The FSLIC Resolution Fund (FRF) exercised its
    right to prepay the notes by $31,560 in each year since 1992. The FRF is
    entitled to payments of up to 25% of certain tax benefits which may be
    derived as a result of the assistance transactions.

    During 1994, the Company announced its strategy to exit the thrift
    industry and increase its focus on housing and related mortgage banking.
    First Heights sold substantially all of its bank branches and related
    liabilities (primarily deposits), plus certain other assets. One
    remaining retail branch office continues to operate in Houston. The sale
    was completed during the fourth quarter of 1994. Accordingly, such
    operations are being presented as discontinued. To provide liquidity for
    the sale, First Heights liquidated its investment portfolios and its
    single-family residential loan portfolio and, as provided in the
    Assistance Agreement, entered into a Liquidity Assistance Note (LAN) with
    the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) acting in its capacity
    as manager of FRF. The LAN is collateralized by the FRF notes and bears
    interest at a rate indexed to the Texas Cost of Funds plus a spread. The
    LAN matures in September 1998. As discussed in Note 10, the Company is
    involved in litigation with the FDIC and as part of this litigation, the
    parties have asserted various claims with respect to obligations under
    promissory notes issued by each of the parties in connection with the
    thrift acquisition and activities.

    Income from the Company's discontinued thrift operations for the years
    ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995 is summarized as follows:



    Revenues of discontinued operations were $5,077, $12,164 and $20,919 for
    the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively. For the
    years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, discontinued thrift
    operations resulted in income of $2,961 (including income tax benefit of
    $2,356), $6,432 (including income tax benefit of $1,076) and $9,507 (net
    of income taxes of $157), respectively.

    During 1996, the Company recognized, as part of discontinued thrift
    operations, after-tax income of approximately $110,000. Such income
    relates to tax benefits associated with net operating losses. Certainty
    of realization of this amount is not anticipated in the near term, is
    dependent upon various factors, and the actual amount realized might be
    more or less than the amount recorded.





                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    Assets and liabilities of discontinued operations were as follows:



    The fair value of financial instruments approximates carrying value at
    December 31, 1997 and 1996.

4.  Short-term credit arrangements

    Short-term financing for the Company on an operating segment basis is as 
    follows:

    Corporate/Homebuilding

    At December 31, 1997, the Company, PDCI and Pulte jointly have a $240,000
    unsecured revolving bank credit arrangement under which a variety of
    interest rates are available to the Company. The credit arrangement
    expires January 5, 2000. The credit arrangement contains customary
    covenants, none of which significantly restrict the operations of the
    Company. The Company also has two $10,000 uncommitted bank credit
    arrangements. The Company did not borrow under its credit arrangements in
    1996.

    The following is aggregate borrowing information:







                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    Mortgage Banking

    Notes and drafts payable to banks (collateralized short-term debt) are
    secured by residential mortgage loans available-for-sale. The carrying
    amounts of such borrowings approximate fair values.

    At December 31, 1997, Pulte Mortgage had committed bank credit lines of
    $150,000 and discretionary credit lines of $100,000. The bank credit
    agreements require Pulte Mortgage to pay a fee for the committed credit
    lines. During 1997, 1996 and 1995, Pulte Mortgage provided compensating
    balances, in the form of custodial funds, in order to further reduce
    interest rates. The bank credit agreements each contain certain
    restrictions, including the maintenance of levels of equity. Under the
    most restrictive of the agreements, Pulte Mortgage is required to
    maintain a minimum tangible net worth of $10,000.

    The following is aggregate borrowing information:


5.  Long-term debt

    Long-term debt is summarized as follows:



    The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options
    outstanding at December 31, 1997:



    The Company applies APB Opinion No. 25 and related Interpretations in
    accounting for its three fixed stock option plans. No compensation
    expense is recognized because all stock options granted have exercise
    prices equal to the market value of the Company's stock on the date of
    the grant. Under SFAS No. 123, compensation cost for the Company's three
    stock-based compensation plans would be determined based on the fair
    value at the grant dates for awards under those plans. Accordingly, for
    the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company's income
    from continuing operations, net income and earnings per share would have
    been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:





                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                   ($000's omitted, except per share data)



    The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
    using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following
    assumptions used for grants in 1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively:
    weighted-average dividend yields of .46%, .80% and .77%, expected
    volatility of 29.44%, 29.85% and 32.14%, weighted-average risk-free
    interest rates of 5.88%, 5.87% and 5.92%, and weighted-average expected
    lives of 6.5 years, 6.5 years and 6.9 years. Pro forma income from
    continuing operations, net income and earnings per share were
    significantly affected by the large option grant on December 13, 1995,
    which is not expected to be indicative of the size of annual awards, and
    by the manner in which compensation expense associated with stock options
    is recognized over the vesting periods of each award. Based upon stock
    options outstanding at December 31, 1997, the estimated compensation
    expense, after income taxes, to be recognized in pro forma income from
    continuing operations and net income for the years ending December 31,
    1998, 1999 and 2000 is $2,442, $1,309 and $316, respectively.

    Homebuilding operating management personnel are paid current cash
    incentive compensation based on operating performance. Mortgage banking,
    financing and thrift management personnel are paid current cash incentive
    compensation substantially based on the performance of the applicable
    subsidiary. The Company's corporate management personnel are paid current
    cash incentive compensation based on overall performance of the Company.
    For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company's total
    current cash incentive compensation was $17,500, $17,900 and $15,900,
    respectively. In addition, commencing January 1, 1996, the Company
    adopted a long-term cash incentive plan as a means of compensating key
    operating employees for long-term performance and contributions to the
    growth of the Company. Amounts accrued over the period from January 1,
    1996, through December 31, 1999, are payable subsequent to December 31,
    1999. For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996, the Company accrued
    $3,900 and $3,300, respectively, relating to this plan.




                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                   ($000's omitted, except per share data)

7.  Income taxes

    The Company's net deferred tax asset (liability) is as follows:



    Net operating loss carryforwards expire in 2006. The acquired tax loss
    carryforwards expire in the years 1999 through 2002.

    Components of current and deferred income tax expense (benefit) of
    continuing operations are as follows:



    The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to
    the effective income tax rate for continuing operations:






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

8.  Leases

    The Company leases certain property and equipment under non-cancelable
    leases. The office and equipment leases are generally for terms of three
    to five years and generally provide renewal options for terms of up to an
    additional three years. Model home leases are generally for shorter terms
    approximating one year with renewal options on a month-to-month basis. In
    most cases, management expects that in the normal course of business,
    leases that expire will be renewed or replaced by other leases. The
    future minimum lease payments required under operating leases that have
    initial or remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as
    follows:



    Net rental expense for the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995,
    was $17,617, $16,539 and $13,064, respectively. Certain leases contain
    purchase options and generally provide that the Company shall pay for
    insurance, taxes and maintenance.

9.  Restructuring

    Since 1994, the Company's domestic homebuilding operations had been
    organized as four operating companies, Pulte Home North, South, Central
    and West. This organization enabled the Company to pursue its desired
    level of geographic growth and market penetration. It also allowed the
    Company to facilitate corporate direction, capital allocation, and risk
    management policies, while allowing it to remain close to its customers.
    During early 1997, the Company combined Pulte Home North and South,
    creating Pulte Home East, to provide additional overhead leverage.

    During August 1997, the Company announced that it was reorganizing its
    corporate operations to enable the Company to take better advantage of
    its size, talent base and competitive strengths. The reorganization was
    designed to accomplish the following:

    o   Strengthen management focus on key customer groups and generate
        increased operating efficiencies.

    o   Create a new position of Executive Vice President and Chief Operating
        Officer with responsibility for all of the Company's homebuilding
        operations.

    o   Replace the Company's existing homebuilding structure comprised of
        three geographically-based operating companies with a structure
        focused more closely on specific customer segments: domestic
        homebuilding, Active Adult (mature buyer), and international.

    o   Evaluate and strategically deploy capital investment in homebuilding
        operations.

    o   Structure the Company's mortgage banking operations to better support
        homebuilding operations and improve operating performance.

    o   Right-size the workforce on a company-wide basis.

    In conjunction with this reorganization, a pre-tax charge of $20,000 was
    recorded during the fourth quarter. This charge included $11,787 of
    separation and other costs for approximately 150 employees, $7,000 of
    asset impairments and $1,213 of other costs, principally for office
    leases. The after-tax effect of this charge was $12,300 or $.56 per
    diluted share.





                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    The following table displays the status of the liabilities accrued for
    the corporate restructuring as of December 31, 1997.



    It is anticipated that a substantial portion of the remaining accrual for
    restructuring costs will be utilized during 1998.

10. Commitments and contingencies

    In the normal course of business, Pulte acquires rights under options or
    option-type agreements to purchase land to be used in homebuilding
    operations at future dates. The total purchase price applicable to land
    under option at December 31, 1997 approximated $562,000 ($429,000 at
    December 31, 1996).

    At December 31, 1997, Pulte, in the normal course of business, had
    outstanding letters of credit and performance bonds of $134,148 and
    $114,685, respectively. In addition, Pulte Mortgage and PFCI had
    outstanding letters of credit on Pulte's behalf aggregating $2,178.

    The Company is involved in various litigation incidental to its business.
    Management believes that none of this litigation will have a material
    adverse impact on the results of operations or financial position of the
    Company.

    First Heights-Related Litigation

    The Company is a party to two lawsuits relating to First Heights' 1988
    acquisition from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation
    (FSLIC), and First Heights' ownership of, five failed Texas thrifts. The
    first lawsuit (the "District Court Case") was filed on July 7, 1995 in
    the United States District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, by the
    Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) against the Company, PDCI
    and First Heights (collectively, the "Pulte Parties"). The second lawsuit
    (the "Court of Federal Claims Case") was filed on December 26, 1996 in
    the United States Court of Federal Claims (Washington, D.C.) by the Pulte
    Parties against the United States. In the District Court Case, the FDIC
    seeks a declaration of rights and other relief related to the assistance
    agreement entered into between First Heights and the FSLIC. The FDIC is
    the successor to FSLIC. The FDIC and the Pulte Parties disagree about the
    proper interpretation of provisions in the assistance agreement which
    provide for sharing of certain tax benefits achieved in connection with
    First Heights' 1988 acquisition and ownership of the five









                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    failed Texas thrifts. The District Court Case also includes certain other
    claims relating to the foregoing, including claims resulting from the
    Company's and First Heights' amendment of a tax sharing and allocation
    agreement between the Company and First Heights. The Pulte Parties
    dispute the FDIC's claims and believe that a proper interpretation of the
    assistance agreement limits the FDIC's participation in the tax benefits.
    The Pulte Parties have filed an answer and a counterclaim, seeking, among
    other things, a declaration that the FDIC has breached the assistance
    agreement in numerous respects. On December 24, 1996, the Pulte Parties
    voluntarily dismissed without prejudice certain of their claims in the
    District Court Case and on December 26, 1996, initiated the Court of
    Federal Claims Case.

    The Court of Federal Claims Case contains similar claims as those that
    were voluntarily dismissed from the District Court Case. In their
    complaint, the Pulte Parties assert breaches of contract on the part of
    the United States in connection with the enactment of section 13224 of
    the Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1993. That provision repealed
    portions of the tax benefits that the Pulte Parties claim they were
    entitled to under the contract to acquire the failed Texas thrifts. The
    Pulte Parties also assert certain other claims concerning the contract,
    including claims that the United States (through the FDIC as receiver)
    has improperly attempted to amend the failed thrifts pre-acquisition tax
    returns and that this attempt was made in an effort to deprive the Pulte
    Parties of tax benefits they had contracted for, and that the enactment
    of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of
    1989 breached the Government's obligation not to require contributions of
    capital greater than those required by the contract.

    Management believes that the First Heights related litigation will not
    have a material adverse impact on the results of operations or financial
    position of the Company.

    On March 5, 1998, the Company reported that an opinion and order had been
    issued by the United States District Court (the "Court") which resolved
    by summary judgment four of the interpretational issues which had been
    raised in the District Court Case. On three issues, the Court ruled in
    favor of the FDIC, and on one issue, the Court ruled in favor of the
    Company. The Company vigorously disagrees with the Court's ruling in
    favor of the FDIC and intends to appeal if these rulings become part of
    any final judgment. If the Company were unsuccessful on appeal and if all
    other issues in such litigation were resolved in favor of the FDIC, the
    Company would, at such time, take an after-tax charge against
    discontinued operations in an amount which would range from a nominal
    amount to as much as $40,000. The Company does not believe that the
    claims in the Court of Federal Claims Case are affected by the rulings in
    the District Court Case.

11. Financial instruments, including those with off-balance sheet risk

    Pulte Mortgage, in the normal course of business to meet the financing
    needs of its customers and reduce its own exposure to fluctuations in
    interest rates, uses derivative financial instruments with off-balance
    sheet risk. These financial instruments include cash forward placement
    contracts, mortgage-backed security forward contracts, options on
    treasury future contracts, and options on mortgage-backed security
    forwards. Pulte Mortgage does not use any derivative financial
    instruments for trading purposes.

    Mortgage-backed security forwards are commitments to either purchase or
    sell a financial instrument at a specific future date for a specified
    price and may be settled in cash or through delivery of the financial
    instrument. Option contracts are contracts that grant the purchaser, for
    a premium payment, the right to either purchase or sell a financial
    instrument at a specified price within a specified period of time or on a
    specified date from or to the writer of the option. Forward and futures
    contracts are used to modify the repricing characteristics of
    interest-earning assets and loan commitments, while options are used to
    limit the temporary impact of interest rate fluctuations in the value of
    loans held for sale and loan commitments. Mandatory and optional forward
    commitments are used by Pulte Mortgage to hedge its interest rate
    exposure during the period from when Pulte Mortgage extends an interest
    rate lock to a loan applicant until the time the loan is sold to an
    investor.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

    Since Pulte Mortgage can terminate a loan commitment if the borrower does
    not comply with the terms of the contract, and some loan commitments may
    expire without being drawn upon, these commitments do not necessarily
    represent future cash requirements of Pulte Mortgage. Pulte Mortgage
    evaluates the creditworthiness of these transactions through its normal
    credit policies.

    The following are Pulte Mortgage's loan commitments:



    Pulte Mortgage has credit risk to the extent that the counterparties to
    the derivative financial instruments do not perform their obligation
    under the agreements. If one of the counterparties does not perform,
    Pulte Mortgage would not receive the cash to which it would otherwise be
    entitled under the conditions of the agreement. Pulte Mortgage manages
    credit risk by entering into agreements with only large national
    investment bankers with primary dealer status and with permanent
    investors, all of whom meet Pulte Mortgage's established credit
    underwriting standards. Management does not anticipate any material
    losses as a result of its agreements and does not consider them to
    represent an undue level of credit, interest or liquidity risk for Pulte
    Mortgage.

    The table below summarizes, by class, the contractual amounts of Pulte
    Mortgage's derivative financial instruments.



    Realized gains or losses on derivative financial instruments are
    recognized in net gain from sale of mortgages in the period settlement
    occurs.

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information

    In September 1995, the Company filed a universal shelf registration of up
    to $250,000 of debt or equity securities, of which $125,000 of 7.3%
    unsecured Senior Notes were issued in October 1995. In addition, the
    Company previously issued $100,000, 7%, and $115,000, 8.375%, unsecured
    Senior Notes under a previous shelf registration. In October 1997, the
    Company registered an additional $25,000 of debt securities for an
    offering pursuant to Rule 462(b) of the Securities Act of 1933, as
    amended, and issued $150,000 of 7.625% unsecured Senior Notes, due 2017,
    pursuant to the September 1995 and October 1997 universal shelf
    registrations. Such obligations to pay principal, premium, if any, and
    interest are guaranteed jointly and severally on a senior basis by Pulte,
    all of Pulte's wholly-owned homebuilding subsidiaries and Builders'
    Supply & Lumber Co., Inc., which is a Pulte wholly-owned subsidiary
    (collectively, the Guarantors). Such guarantees are full and
    unconditional. The principal non-Guarantors include PDCI, Pulte Mortgage,
    First Heights, and PFCI. See Note 1 for additional information on the
    Company's Guarantor and non-Guarantor subsidiaries.






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

    Supplemental consolidating financial information of the Company,
    specifically including such information for the Guarantors, is presented
    below. Investments in subsidiaries are presented using the equity method
    of accounting. Separate financial statements of the Guarantors are not
    provided because management has concluded that the segment information
    provides sufficient detail to allow investors to determine the nature of
    the assets held by and the operations of the combined groups.


                         CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                              DECEMBER 31, 1997






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)


                         CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET
                              DECEMBER 31, 1996






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

                    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                     For the year ended December 31, 1997






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

                    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                     For the year ended December 31, 1996






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

                    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                     For the year ended December 31, 1995






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

                    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                     For the year ended December 31, 1997






                              PULTE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

              CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (continued)
                     For the year ended December 31, 1997






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

                    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                     For the year ended December 31, 1996






                              PULTE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12.  Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

              CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (continued)
                     For the year ended December 31, 1996






                              PULTE CORPORATION
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

                    CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                     For the year ended December 31, 1995






                              PULTE CORPORATION
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)
                               ($000's omitted)

12. Supplemental Guarantor Information (continued)

              CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (continued)
                     For the year ended December 31, 1995






                        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS



The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Pulte Corporation


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pulte
Corporation as of December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 1997. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14. These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position
of Pulte Corporation at December 31, 1997 and 1996 and the consolidated
results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in
the period ended December 31, 1997, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set
forth therein.

As discussed in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, in 1995 the
Company changed its method of accounting for mortgage servicing.





                                                ERNST & YOUNG LLP


Detroit, Michigan 
January 21, 1998, except for the
last paragraph of Note 10 as to 
which the date is March 5, 1998.





                              PULTE CORPORATION
                       UNAUDITED QUARTERLY INFORMATION
                   ($000's omitted, except per share data)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
                       UNAUDITED QUARTERLY INFORMATION
                   ($000's omitted, except per share data)






PART III

ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
           FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

This Item is not applicable.

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information required by this Item with respect to executive officers of the
Company is set forth in Item 4A. Information required by this Item with
respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Company is contained in
the Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (1998 Proxy
Statement) under the caption "Election of Directors," incorporated herein by
this reference. Additionally, information required by this Item with respect
to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is
contained in the 1998 Proxy Statement under the caption "Beneficial Ownership
Reporting Compliance".

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required by this Item is contained in the 1998 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Remuneration of Directors and Executive Officers" and
under the caption "Stock Options Granted to Officers by the Company,"
incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information required by this Item is contained in the 1998 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Election of Directors," incorporated herein by this
reference.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information required by this Item is contained in the 1998 Proxy Statement
under the caption "Remuneration of Directors and Executive Officers,"
incorporated herein by this reference.

                                   PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K The
following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


All other schedules have been omitted since the required information is not
present, is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the
schedule or because the required information is included in the financial
statements or notes thereto.






















Reports on Form 8-K Filed During the Fourth Quarter of 1997:

Form 8-K dated October 6, 1997

      Item 5.  Other Events

      Disclosed that indenture supplements were entered into with (1) The
      Bank of New York concerning $100,000,000 aggregated principal amount of
      7% senior notes of the Company due 2003, and $115,000,000 aggregated
      principal amount of 8-3/8% senior notes of the Company due 2004 and (2)
      The First National Bank of Chicago concerning $125,000,000 aggregated
      principal amount of 7.3% senior notes of the Company due 2005.

Form 8-K dated October 15, 1997

      Item 5.  Other Events

      Disclosed that, on October 9, 1997, the Company began circulating a
      prospectus supplement (to prospectus dated September 29, 1995)
      concerning $150,000,000 aggregate principal amount of 7 5/8% senior
      notes of the Company due October 15, 2017.





                              PULTE CORPORATION
          SCHEDULE I- CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT




Pulte Corporation (the Registrant) is a holding company. The accompanying
financial statements are not the primary consolidated financial statements
since these financial statements present only the accounts of Pulte
Corporation which include its investment in subsidiaries on the equity
method. The primary financial statements of the Company are its consolidated
financial statements.

The net assets of Pulte Home Corporation, Pulte Mortgage Corporation and
First Heights Bank, a federal savings bank, indirectly wholly-owned
subsidiaries of Pulte Corporation are subject to certain restrictions (see
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements).


                              Pulte Corporation
                                Balance Sheets
                          December 31, 1997 and 1996
                               ($000's omitted)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
   SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT - (continued)

                              Pulte Corporation
                             Statements of Income
             For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                               ($000's omitted)






                              PULTE CORPORATION
   SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT - (continued)

                              Pulte Corporation
                           Statements of Cash Flows
             For the years ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995
                               ($000's omitted)







                                  SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                                 PULTE CORPORATION
                                                   (Registrant)


March 12, 1998        /s/ Roger A. Cregg             /s/ Vincent J. Frees
                      ------------------             --------------------
                        Roger A. Cregg                 Vincent J. Frees
                     Senior Vice President       Vice President and Controller
                  and Chief Financial Officer   (Principal Accounting Officer)
                 (Principal Financial Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capabilities and on the dates indicated:




