10-K405


k60699e10-k405.htm

FORM 10-K

e10-k405


SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

(

X) ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2000

OR

( ) TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

Commission File Number 1-9804

PULTE CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

MICHIGAN

38-2766606

(State or other jurisdiction of

(I.R.S. Employer

incorporation or organization)

Identification No.)

33 Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 200

Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 48304

(Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

Registrant’s telephone number, including area code:(248) 647-2750

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

Title of each class

Name of each exchange on which registered

Common Stock, par value $.01

New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g)of the Act:

NONE

(Title of class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. YES

NO

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant’s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K

.

Aggregate market value of voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the registrant as of February 28, 2001:
$1,075,620,546

Number of shares of common stock outstanding as of February 28, 2001: 41,889,620

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Applicable portions of the Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form.



PULTE CORPORATION




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

Pulte Corporation

Pulte Corporation (the “Company” or “Pulte”) is a publicly held holding company
whose subsidiaries engage in the homebuilding and financial services businesses.
Its assets consist principally of the capital stock of its subsidiaries, cash
and investments. Its income primarily consists of dividends from its
subsidiaries and interest on investments. The Company’s significant subsidiaries
include Pulte Diversified Companies, Inc. (PDCI) and other subsidiaries which
are engaged in the homebuilding business. PDCI’s operating subsidiaries include
Pulte Home Corporation (PHC), Pulte International Corporation (International)
and other subsidiaries which are engaged in the homebuilding business. PDCI’s
non-operating thrift subsidiary, First Heights Bank, fsb (First Heights), is
classified as a discontinued operation (See Note 4 of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements). The Company also has a mortgage banking company, Pulte
Mortgage Corporation (PMC), which is a subsidiary of PHC.

The Company has three reportable business segments: Homebuilding, Financial Services and Corporate. The Company’s
Homebuilding segment consists of the following two business units:

•

Domestic Homebuilding, the Company’s core business, is engaged in the
acquisition and development of land primarily for residential purposes
within the continental United States and the construction of housing on
such land targeted for the first-time, first and second move-up, and active
adult home buyers.

•

International Homebuilding is primarily engaged in the acquisition and
development of land primarily for residential purposes, and the
construction of housing on such land in Mexico, Puerto Rico and Argentina.

The Company’s Financial Services segment consists principally of mortgage
banking operations conducted through PMC and its subsidiaries.

Corporate is a non-operating business segment whose primary purpose is to
support the operations of the Company’s subsidiaries as the internal source of
financing, to develop and implement strategic initiatives centered on new
business development and operating efficiencies, and to provide the necessary
administrative functions to support the Company as a publicly traded entity.

Financial information, including revenue, pre-tax income and identifiable assets
of each of the Company’s business segments is included in Note 2 of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.



Homebuilding Operations

Unit sales (settlements) and net new orders in any year are strongly influenced
by local, regional and national market economic conditions.

Domestic Homebuilding

Pulte builds a wide variety of homes, including detached units, townhouses,
condominium apartments and duplexes, with varying prices, models, options and
lot sizes, all sold for use as principal residences. Since 1990, Pulte has more
than tripled its annual unit closings, unit orders and unit backlog levels.
Including 2000 sales of nearly 20,000 homes, the Company has closed over 275,000
homes since its inception.

During 1998, the Company acquired two homebuilders: Tennessee-based Radnor Homes
and Florida-based DiVosta & Company. From March 25, 1998, through July 1, 1999,
the Company conducted a joint venture for the building of active adult-style
communities with Blackstone Real Estate Advisors (BRE), an affiliate of the
Blackstone Group. Effective July 1, 1999, the Company purchased BRE’s interest
in the net assets of the joint venture. In accordance with its operational
strategy, the Company will continue to evaluate available strategic acquisition
opportunities which coincide with its long-range goals.

As of December 31, 2000, Pulte’s Domestic Homebuilding operations offered homes
for sale in 396 communities at sales prices ranging from $70,000 to over
$1,200,000. Sales prices of homes currently offered for sale in 75% of Pulte’s
communities fall within the range of $100,000 to $300,000 with a 2000 average
unit selling price of $206,000. Sales of single-family detached homes, as a
percentage of total unit sales, were 82%, 79% and 76% in 2000, 1999 and 1998,
respectively. Pulte’s Domestic Homebuilding operations are geographically
diverse to better insulate the Company from demand changes in individual
markets. As of December 31, 2000, Pulte’s Domestic Homebuilding business
operated in 41 markets spanning 25 states.

International Homebuilding

International Homebuilding operations are primarily conducted through
subsidiaries of Pulte International Corporation in Puerto Rico and Mexico.
During the fourth quarter of 2000, these operations expanded into Argentina;
initial closings are expected during 2001. International Homebuilding product
offerings focus on the demand of first-time buyers and social interest housing
in Mexico and Puerto Rico, and also offer product for middle-to-upper income
consumers in Puerto Rico and Argentina.



Homebuilding Operations (continued)

International Homebuilding (continued)

In Mexico, the Company conducts business through five joint ventures. The largest of these ventures, Condak-Pulte
S. de R.L. de C.V., is located in the city of Juarez. This Juarez-based venture is currently developing
communities in several northern Mexican cities including Juarez, Chihuahua, Nuevo Laredo, Reynosa, Matamoros,
Saltillo and Monterrey, under agreements with Delphi Automotive Systems, Sony Magneticos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V.,
an affiliate of Sony Electronics, and Centros Comerciales Soriana, S.A. de C. V. It also constructs housing for
the general public.

Desarrollos Residenciales Turisticos, S.A. de C.V. another of the Company’s
joint ventures in Mexico, is constructing primarily social interest housing in
Central Mexico. The Queretaro-based venture is developing housing projects in
the Bajio region surrounding Mexico City, including the cities of Puebla,
Queretaro, San Jose Iturbide, San Juan del Rio and Zamora.

In Puerto Rico, homebuilding operations are principally conducted in the greater
metropolitan San Juan submarkets and certain communities located in Caguas,
Gurabo and Ponce. In September 1999, the Company entered into a joint venture
agreement with Desarrolladores Urbanos (Canovanas), S. E., an established Puerto
Rican special partnership created for the acquisition and development of 121
acres located in the municipality of Canovanas, Puerto Rico.

Land Acquisition and Development

Locations for development of homebuilding communities are selected after
completing extensive market research, enabling Pulte to match the location and
product offering with its targeted consumer group. Factors considered include
proximity to developed areas, population and job growth patterns and, if
applicable, estimated development costs. Pulte has historically managed the risk
of controlling its land positions through use of option contracts and outright
acquisition. Pulte typically controls land with the intent to complete sales of
housing units within 24 months from the date of opening a community, except in
the case of certain active-adult developments for which the completion of
housing unit sales may require as much as 60 months from the date of opening a
community. As a result, land is generally controlled after it is properly zoned
and developed or is ready for development. In addition, Pulte disposes of owned
land not required in its business. Where Pulte develops land, it engages
directly in many phases of the development process, including land and site
planning, obtaining environmental and other regulatory approvals, as well as
constructing roads, sewers, water and drainage facilities, and other amenities.
Pulte uses its staff and the services of independent engineers and consultants
in its land development activities. Land development work is performed primarily
by subcontractors and local government authorities which construct sewer and
water systems in some areas. At December 31, 2000, Pulte’s Domestic and Puerto
Rican Homebuilding operations owned approximately 40,000 lots in active
communities and had approximately 34,100 lots under option.

Sales and Marketing

Pulte is dedicated to improving the quality and value of its Domestic homes
through innovative proprietary architectural and community designs and
state-of-the-art customer marketing techniques. Analyzing various qualitative
and quantitative data obtained through extensive market research, Pulte segments
its potential customers into well-defined buyer profiles. Once the demands of
potential buyers are understood, Pulte links its home design and community
development efforts to the specific lifestyle of each targeted consumer group.

In 2000, J.D. Power and Associates recognized Pulte’s Las Vegas and Chicago
markets for ranking the highest in these respective markets in customer
satisfaction in the J.D. Power and Associates 2000 New Home Builder Customer
Satisfaction Study. The survey of six U.S. markets noted quality of
workmanship/materials and the effectiveness of customer service representatives
as the two factors that most heavily influenced the customer’s overall level of
satisfaction. Building on the quality foundation is the Company’s recently
launched brand development program with its “Three I’s on Quality” platform. In
creating the homebuilding industry’s first national brand, the campaign supports
the Company’s strategic direction and strengthens market visibility. The
principles of Quality, Involvement, Integrity and Innovation establish the
foundation for all customer contact, provide a focus for the Company’s
activities and help create a consistency in all communications. A strong
national brand will help Pulte further distinguish itself from the competition.
Brand development projects have included a national home sweepstakes and
sponsorship of a parade float at Macy’s Thanksgiving Day
Parade

™

.



Homebuilding Operations (continued)

Sales and Marketing (continued)

To meet the demands of its various domestic customers, Pulte has established a
solid design expertise for a wide array of product lines. Pulte believes that it
is an innovator in the design of its homes, and it views its design capacity as
an integral aspect of its marketing strategy. Pulte’s in-house architectural
services teams and management, supplemented by outside consultants, are
successful in creating distinctive design features, both in exterior facades,
and interior options and features. One of Pulte’s strategies in certain markets
is to offer “the complete house” in which all features shown in the home are
included in the sales price. Standard features typically offered include vaulted
ceilings, appliances, and a selection of flooring and carpet, which is chosen by
the buyer.

The Company’s commitment to quality construction and resource efficiency is
evident in all of its everyday business practices. The Company’s Tucson division
was recently awarded the Energy Value Award from the National Association of
Home Builders Research Center. In Tucson, the homes are “system engineered” to
provide guaranteed heating and cooling costs. The homes feature optimum value
engineering; R-20 walls; minimized ductwork runs, all kept within conditioned
space; drought-resistant landscaping; and special windows to prevent solar heat
gain.

Typically, Pulte’s own domestic sales team, together with outside sales brokers,
are responsible for managing the customer through the sales process. Pulte has
been committed to industry-leading customer service through a variety of quality
initiatives, including the customer care program, which ensures that homeowners
are comfortable at every stage of the building process. Using a seven-step,
interactive process, homeowners are kept informed during their homebuilding and
home owning experience. The steps include 1) a pre-construction meeting with the
superintendent; 2) pre-dry wall frame walk; 3) quality assurance inspection; 4)
first homeowner orientation; 5) 30-day follow-up after the close of the home; 6)
three-month follow-up; and 7) an 11-month quality list after the close of the
home. Fully furnished and landscaped model homes are used to showcase Pulte’s
homes and their distinctive design features. Pulte has great success with the
first-time buyer in the low to moderate price range; in such cases, financing
under United States Government-insured and guaranteed programs is often used and
is facilitated through PMC. Pulte also enjoys strong sales to the move-up buyer
and, in certain markets, offers semi-custom homes in higher price ranges.

In addition, Pulte’s Homeowner for Life

™

strategy and philosophy has
increased its business from those who have previously owned a Pulte home or been
referred by a Pulte homeowner. In 2000, Pulte saw an increase to 31 percent of
these repeat/referral buyers. That represents approximately $1 billion in
revenues in 2000. Pulte introduces its homes to prospective buyers through a
variety of media advertising, illustrated brochures and other advertising
displays. Customers are also obtained through referrals from other Pulte
customers. In addition, Pulte’s website, www.pulte.com, enables users to search
for their home, obtain details regarding the local schools, services and other
features, examine mortgage options using an online calculator, learn more about
Pulte and communicate directly with the organization. Already, 2.5 million users
have visited www.pulte.com in 2000.

Pulte’s international sales and marketing efforts focus on the identification of
regions throughout Mexico, Puerto Rico and Argentina which are experiencing
population and industrial growth. In Mexico and Puerto Rico, the demand for
affordable and social interest housing is strong. In Mexico, the Juarez-based
joint venture has entered into three separate agreements to construct affordable
social interest housing with Delphi Automotive Systems, Sony Magneticos de
Mexico, S. A. de C.V., an affiliate of Sony Electronics, Inc., and Centrol
Comerciales Soriana, S. A. de C.V. In Puerto Rico, the strongest customer demand
is for single-family detached homes, but affordable alternative product
offerings include two story attached units (townhomes) and three-story
condominium units with exterior stairs (walk-ups). The Argentine market offers a
stable, growing economy, the highest per capita GDP in Latin America, low levels
of competition and a very large residential market in Buenos Aires with
available land and mortgage financing.

Construction

The construction process for Pulte’s domestic homes begins with the in-house
design of the homes it sells. The building phase is conducted under the
supervision of its on-site construction superintendents. The construction work
is usually performed by subcontractors under contracts which, in many instances,
cover both labor and materials on a fixed-price basis. Pulte believes that Pulte
Preferred Partnerships (P

³

), an extension of its quality assurance program,
continues to establish new standards for contractor relations. Using a selective
process, Pulte has teamed up with what it believes are premier contractors and
suppliers to improve all aspects of the land development and house construction
processes.



Homebuilding Operations (continued)

Construction (continued)

Pulte maintains efficient construction operations by using standard materials
and components from a variety of sources and, when possible, by building on
contiguous lots. To minimize the effects of changes in construction costs, the
subcontracting and purchasing of building supplies and materials are generally
negotiated at or near the time when related sales contracts are signed. In
addition, Pulte utilizes the leverage its size affords by actively negotiating
its materials needs on a national or regional basis to minimize component
production cost. The Company is also working to establish a more integrated
system that can effectively link suppliers, contractors and the production
schedule through various strategic business partnerships.

International housing consists primarily of reinforced poured concrete, concrete
and ceramic block and/or brick construction with flat roofs and public water,
electric and sanitary system connections. Building materials, supplies and
components are sourced locally and the construction work is performed by general
contractors and/or subcontractors under contracts, which in many cases, include
both labor and materials.

Pulte cannot determine the extent to which necessary building materials will be
available at reasonable prices in the future and has, on occasion, experienced
shortages of skilled labor in certain trades and of building materials in some
markets.

Competition and Other Factors

Pulte’s dedication to customer satisfaction is evidenced by its consumer and
value-based brand approach to product development, and is something that the
Company believes enables it to distinguish itself in the homebuilding industry
and contributes to its long-term competitive advantage. The housing industry in
the United States, however, is highly competitive. In each of Pulte’s market
areas, there are numerous homebuilders with which it competes. Any provider of
housing units, for-sale or to rent, including apartment builders, may be
considered a competitor of the Company. Conversion of apartments to condominiums
further provides certain segments of the population an alternative to
traditional housing, as does the emergence and acceptance of manufactured
housing. Pulte competes primarily on the basis of price, reputation, design,
quality of its homes and location. The housing industry is cyclical and is
affected by a number of economic and other factors including: (1) significant
national and world events, which impact consumer confidence; (2) changes in
interest rates; (3) changes in other costs associated with home ownership, such
as property taxes and energy costs; (4) various demographic factors; (5) changes
in federal income tax laws; and (6) changes in government mortgage financing
programs. In addition to these factors, Pulte’s business and operations could be
affected by unanticipated shifts in demand for new homes.

Pulte’s operations are subject to building, environmental and other regulations
of various state, local and foreign governing authorities. For its homes to
qualify for Federal Housing Administration (FHA) or Veterans Administration (VA)
mortgages, Pulte must satisfy valuation standards and site, material and
construction requirements of those agencies. Compliance by Pulte with federal,
state and local laws relating to protection of the environment has had, to date,
no material effect upon capital expenditures, earnings or the competitive
position of Pulte. More stringent requirements could be imposed in the future on
homebuilders and developers, thereby increasing the cost of compliance.

Financial Services Operations

The Company’s financial services operations are conducted by its mortgage
banking and other financial subsidiaries.

Mortgage Banking

PMC is a mortgage bank which arranges financing through the origination of
mortgage loans primarily for the benefit of Pulte’s domestic home buyers, but
also to the general public. PMC also engages in the sale of such loans and the
related servicing rights. PMC is a lender approved by the FHA and VA and is a
seller/servicer approved by Government National Mortgage Association (GNMA),
Federal National Mortgage Association (FNMA), Federal Home Loan Mortgage
Corporation (FHLMC) and other investors. In its conventional mortgage lending
activities, PMC generally follows underwriting guidelines established by FNMA
and FHLMC.



Financial Services Operations (continued)

Mortgage Banking (continued)

PMC’s mortgage underwriting, processing and closing functions are centralized in
Denver, Colorado using a mortgage operations center (MOC) concept. PMC also uses
a centralized telephone loan officer concept where the loan officers are
centrally located at a mortgage application center (MAC) in Denver. Pulte sales
representatives, who are the mortgage customers’ main contact, forward the loan
applications to a MAC loan officer who calls the customer to complete the loan
application and then forwards it to the MOC for processing. PMC believes both
the MOC and the MAC improve the speed and efficiency of its mortgage operations,
thereby improving profitability and allowing PMC to focus on creating mortgage
opportunities with Pulte customers.

In originating mortgage loans, PMC initially uses its own funds and borrowings
made available to it pursuant to various credit arrangements. Subsequently, PMC
sells such mortgage loans and mortgage-backed securities to outside investors.

During the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, PMC originated mortgage
loans for 56%, 55% and 56%, respectively, of the homes sold by Pulte. Such
originations represented 83%, 79% and 73%, respectively, of PMC originations.

PMC sells its servicing rights on a flow basis through fixed price servicing
sales contracts to reduce the risks inherent in servicing loans. This strategy
results in PMC owning the servicing rights for only a short period of time,
usually two to three months after the loan is originated, which substantially
reduces impairment issues with respect to the fair value of these reported
assets.

The mortgage industry in the United States is highly competitive. PMC competes
with other mortgage companies and financial institutions to provide attractive
mortgage financing to both Pulte customers and the general public. PMC, in
originating and servicing mortgage loans, is subject to rules and regulations of
the FHA, VA, GNMA, FNMA and FHLMC. The Internet is also becoming an increasingly
important resource for homebuyers in obtaining financing as a number of
companies now provide online approval for their customers. These Internet-based
mortgage companies may also be considered competitors of PMC.

Discontinued Operations

During the first quarter of 1994, the Company adopted a plan of disposal for
First Heights and announced its strategy to exit the thrift industry and
increase its focus on housing and related mortgage banking. First Heights sold
all but one of its 32 bank branches and related deposits to two unrelated
purchasers. The sale was substantially completed during the fourth quarter of
1994. Although the Company in 1994, expected to complete the plan of disposal
within a reasonable period of time, contractual disputes with the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) prevented the prepayment of the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation Resolution Fund (FRF) notes, thereby
precluding the Company from completing the disposal in accordance with its
original plan. To provide liquidity for the sale, First Heights liquidated its
investment portfolios and its single-family residential loan portfolio and, as
provided in the Assistance Agreement, entered into a Liquidity Assistance Note
(LAN) with the FDIC acting in its capacity as manager of the FRF notes. The LAN
is collateralized by the FRF notes and bears interest at a rate indexed to the
Texas Cost of Funds plus a spread. The LAN matured in September 1998; however,
payment of this liability is temporarily withheld by First Heights pending
resolution of all open matters with the FDIC. As discussed in Note 10 of Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company is involved in litigation with
the FDIC and as part of this litigation, the parties have asserted various
claims with respect to obligations under promissory notes issued by each of the
parties in connection with the thrift acquisition and activities.

Since December 31, 1998, First Heights has no longer held any deposits, nor
maintained an investment portfolio. First Heights’ day-to-day activities are
principally devoted to supporting residual regulatory compliance matters and the
litigation with the FDIC, and are not reflective of the active operations of the
former thrift, such as maintaining traditional transaction accounts, (e.g.,
checking and savings accounts) or making loans. Accordingly, such operations are
being presented as discontinued.



Corporate

Corporate is a non-operating segment that is comprised of the Company and PDCI,
both of which are holding companies. The primary purpose of Corporate is to
support the operations of the Company’s subsidiaries as the internal source of
financing, and to develop and implement strategic initiatives centered around
new business development and operating efficiencies. Business development
activities include the pursuit of additional domestic and international
opportunities as well as the development of innovative building components and
processes. Corporate also includes the activities associated with supporting a
publicly traded company listed on the New York Stock Exchange.

Corporate assets include equity investments in its subsidiaries, short-term
financial instruments and affiliate advances. Liabilities include senior and
subordinated debt and income taxes. Corporate revenues consist primarily of
investment earnings of excess funds, while its expenses include costs associated
with supporting a publicly traded company and its subsidiaries’ operations, and
investigating strategic initiatives.

Organization/Employees

All subsidiaries and operating units operate independently with respect to daily
operations. Homebuilding real estate purchases and other significant
homebuilding, mortgage banking, financing activities and similar operating
decisions must be approved by the business unit and/or corporate senior
management.

At December 31, 2000, the Company employed approximately 5,200 persons.
Employees of the Company and its subsidiaries are not represented by any union.
Subcontracted work, however, may be performed by union subcontractors.
Homebuilding and mortgage banking management personnel are paid performance
bonuses and incentive compensation. Performance bonuses are based on individual
performance while incentive compensation is based on the performance of the
applicable division or subsidiary. The Company’s corporate management personnel
are paid incentive compensation based on overall performance of the Company (see
Note 7 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). Each subsidiary is given
autonomy regarding employment of personnel, although the Company’s senior
corporate management acts in an advisory capacity in the employment of
subsidiary officers. The Company considers its employee and subcontractor
relations to be satisfactory.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

The Company’s homebuilding and corporate headquarters are located at 33
Bloomfield Hills Parkway, Suite 200, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan 48304, where
34,559 square feet of office space is leased. The Company also leases 21,612
square feet of office space at 165 Kirts Boulevard, Troy, Michigan 48084 for
certain centralized business support services. PMC’s corporate offices are
located at 7475 South Joliet Street, Englewood, Colorado 80112. At this
location, 51,000 square feet of office space is leased. Pulte homebuilding
markets and PMC branch operations generally lease office space for their
day-to-day operations. First Heights’ administrative office is located in 918
square feet of leased space at 2010 North Loop West, Suite 220, Houston, Texas
77018.

Because of the nature of Pulte’s homebuilding operations, significant amounts of
property are held as inventory in the ordinary course of its homebuilding
business. Such properties are not included in response to this Item.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The Company is involved in various litigation incidental to its continuing
business operations. Management believes that none of this litigation will have
a material adverse impact on the results of operations or the financial position
of the Company.

First Heights-related litigation

The Company is a party to three lawsuits relating to First Heights’ 1988
acquisition from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) and
First Heights’ ownership of five failed Texas thrifts. The first lawsuit (the
“District Court Case”) was filed on July 7, 1995, in the United States District
Court, Eastern District of Michigan, by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (FDIC) against the Company, PDCI and First Heights (collectively,
the “Pulte Parties”). The second lawsuit (the “Court of Federal Claims Case”)
was filed on December 26, 1996, in the United States Court of Federal Claims
(Washington, D.C.) by the Pulte Parties against the United States. The third
lawsuit was filed by First Heights on January 10, 2000, in the United States
District Court, Eastern District of Michigan against the FDIC regarding the
amounts, including interest, the FDIC is obligated to pay First Heights on two
promissory notes which had been executed by the FDIC’s predecessor, the FSLIC. The
FDIC filed a motion to dismiss the case and on April 12, 2000, the District
Court dismissed First Heights’ complaint. First Heights has appealed the Court’s
ruling to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals and that appeal remains pending.

In the District Court Case, the FDIC seeks a declaration of rights and other
relief related to the Assistance Agreement entered into between First Heights
and the FSLIC. The FDIC is the successor to the FSLIC. The FDIC and the Pulte
Parties disagree about the proper interpretation of provisions in the Assistance
Agreement which provide for sharing of certain tax benefits achieved in
connection with First Heights’ 1988 acquisition and ownership of the five failed
Texas thrifts. The District Court Case also includes certain other claims
relating to the foregoing, including claims resulting from the Company’s and
First Heights’ amendment of a tax sharing and allocation agreement between the
Company and First Heights. The Pulte Parties dispute the FDIC’s claims and
believe that a proper interpretation of the Assistance Agreement limits the
FDIC’s participation in the tax benefits. The Pulte Parties filed an answer and
a counterclaim, seeking, among other things, a declaration that the FDIC has
breached the Assistance Agreement in numerous respects. On December 24, 1996,
the Pulte Parties voluntarily dismissed without prejudice certain of their
claims in the District Court Case and on December 26, 1996, initiated the Court
of Federal Claims Case.

On March 5, 1999, the United States District Court (the Court), entered a “Final
Judgment” against First Heights and PDCI (the Court had previously ruled that
Pulte Corporation was not liable for monetary damages to the FDIC) resolving by
summary judgment in favor of the FDIC most of the FDIC’s claims against the
Pulte Parties. The Final Judgment requires PDCI and First Heights to pay the
FDIC monetary damages totaling approximately $221.3 million, including interest
but excluding costs (such as attorneys fees) to be determined in the future by
the District Court and post-judgment interest. However, the FDIC acknowledged
that it has already paid itself or withheld from assistance its obligation to
pay to First Heights approximately $105 million, excluding interest thereon. The
Company believes that it is entitled to a credit or actual payment of such
amount plus interest. The Final Judgment does not address this issue. The
Company disagreed with the District Court’s rulings and appealed the decision to
the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Company had previously disclosed that if
the District Court’s final judgment were upheld in its entirety on appeal, the
potential after-tax charge against Discontinued Operations, after giving effect
to interest owed by the FDIC to First Heights, would approximate $88 million
plus post judgment interest.

On October 12, 2000, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals rendered its opinion in
which it affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded the case to the
District Court for further proceedings. The Sixth Circuit affirmed most of the
District Court’s adverse liability rulings, including as to the sharing of
certain tax benefits achieved in connection with First Heights’ 1988 acquisition
and ownership of the five failed Texas thrifts and regarding the Company’s and
First Heights’ amendment of a tax sharing and allocation agreement and
rescission of a warrant assumption agreement between PDCI and First Heights. The
Sixth Circuit, however, vacated the District Court’s damage calculations as to a
number of issues, vacated the District Court’s pre-judgment interest award, and
remanded to the District Court for a proper recalculation of all such amounts.
The Sixth Circuit denied both the Company’s and the FDIC’s petition for
rehearing. Since the Sixth Circuit opinion leaves certain significant issues to
be resolved through further Court proceedings the Company is currently unable to
precisely calculate the final amount it may owe. Based upon its reading of the
Sixth Circuit opinion, however, the Company determined that an after-tax charge
of $30 million to Discontinued Operations was appropriate in the third quarter.
The final settlement with the FDIC may be more or less than amounts provided
because the outcome of the remaining litigation issues is uncertain.



ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS (continued)

First Heights-related litigation (continued)

The Company does not believe that the claims in the Court of Federal Claims Case
are in any way prejudiced by the rulings in the District Court Case. The Company
is considering seeking relief in the Court of Federal Claims Case that would, if
granted, recoup portions of the damages awarded in the District Court Case
should they be upheld.

The Court of Federal Claims Case contains similar claims as those that were
voluntarily dismissed from the District Court Case. In their complaint, the
Pulte Parties assert breaches of contract on the part of the United States in
connection with the enactment of section 13224 of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993. That provision repealed portions of the tax benefits
that the Pulte Parties claim they were entitled to under the contract to acquire
the failed Texas thrifts. The Pulte Parties also assert certain other claims
concerning the contract, including claims that the United States (through the
FDIC as receiver) has improperly attempted to amend the failed thrifts’
pre-acquisition tax returns and that this attempt was made in an effort to
deprive the Pulte Parties of tax benefits they had contracted for, and that the
enactment of the Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of
1989 breached the Government’s obligation not to require contributions of
capital greater than those required by the contract.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

This Item is not applicable.



ITEM 4A. EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Set forth below is certain information with respect to all officers (including
executive officers) of the Company as of December 31, 2000.

Year Became

Name

Age

Position

An Officer

William J. Pulte

Robert K. Burgess

Mark J. O’Brien

Roger A. Cregg

Michael A. O’Brien

John R. Stoller

Vincent J. Frees

Gregory M. Nelson

Bruce E. Robinson










Chairman of the Executive Committee of the
Board of Directors

Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer

President and Chief Operating Officer

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer

Senior Vice President — Corporate Development

Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary

Vice President and Controller

Vice President and Assistant Secretary

Vice President and Treasurer

1984
1997
1990
1993

The following is a brief account of the business experience during the past five
years through December 31, 2000, of each officer:

Mr. Pulte was appointed Chairman of the Executive Committee of the Board of Directors in December 1998.
Previously, Mr. Pulte served as Chairman of the Board since 1991.

Mr. Burgess was appointed Chairman of the Board in December 1998. Previously, Mr. Burgess served as President
since October 1985, and was appointed Chief Executive Officer in January 1993.

Mr. Mark O’Brien was appointed President in December 1998. Prior to that date,
he served as Executive Vice President and Chief Operating Officer since August
1997 and had served in various capacities with Company subsidiaries, most
notably as President of Pulte Home East, an operating unit of Pulte.

Mr. Cregg was appointed Senior Vice President in December 1997 and was named
Chief Financial Officer effective January 31, 1998. Before joining the Company,
Mr. Cregg was Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Zenith
Electronics Corporation since 1996, and Vice President and Chief Financial
Officer of Sweetheart Cup Company from 1990 to 1996.

Mr. Michael O’Brien became Senior Vice President in December 1994.

Mr. Stoller was appointed Senior Vice President in September 1999. Prior to that date, he served as Vice
President and General Counsel since October 1990.

Mr. Frees has been Vice President and Controller since May 1995.

Mr. Nelson has been Vice President since August 1993.

Mr. Robinson was appointed Treasurer in July 1998 and was named Vice President and Treasurer effective January 20,
1999. Mr. Robinson has served in various capacities with the Company since 1988, most recently as Director of
Research and Analysis.

There is no family relationship between any of the officers. Each officer serves
at the pleasure of the Board of Directors.



PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT’S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The Company’s common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange (Symbol: PHM). The table below sets forth,
for the quarterly periods indicated, the range of high and low closing prices and cash dividends declared per
share.



Declared

Declared

High

Low

Dividends

High

Low

Dividends

1st Quarter

$

21.13

$

15.69

$

.04

$

31.25

$

20.25

$

.04

2nd Quarter

23.38

20.44

.04

25.63

19.81

.04

3rd Quarter

34.25

20.31

.04

24.13

20.38

.04

4th Quarter

43.75

28.06

.04

23.00

17.00

.04

At December 31, 2000, there were 641 shareholders of record.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Set forth below is selected consolidated financial data for each of the past
five fiscal years. The selected financial data should be read in conjunction
with Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations and the Company’s Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes thereto
included elsewhere in this report.

(a)

Includes one-time restructuring charge of $14,800.

(b)

Includes one-time restructuring charge of $2,100.

(c)

Includes one-time restructuring charge of $3,100.

(d)

Includes one-time restructuring charge of $20,000.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA (continued)

(a)

Earnings per share amounts include $ .28 per share attributable to one-time
restructuring charge, net of income taxes.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

($000’s omitted, except per share data)

Overview:

A summary of the Company’s operating results by business segment for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 is as follows:

A comparison of pre-tax income (loss), for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998 is as follows:

•

Pre-tax income of the Company’s homebuilding business segment increased 24%
in 2000 and 83% in 1999. Compared to 1999, 2000 results primarily reflect a
10% increase in domestic average selling price to $206, and a 100 basis
point improvement in gross margins. 1999 results, as compared with 1998,
primarily reflect a 22% increase in Domestic Homebuilding unit sales volume
and a 170 basis point improvement in gross margins.

•

Pre-tax income of the Company’s financial services business segment
decreased 9% in 2000 to $19,009. Pre-tax income for 2000 was impacted by
competitive market conditions due to higher interest rates early in the
year which reduced profitability. Results for 1999 also reflect a net gain
of approximately $1,700 in connection with the sale of the mortgage-backed
securities by Pulte Financial Companies, Inc. (PFCI), a subsidiary of the
Company. The increase in pre-tax income in 1999, as compared with 1998, is
attributable to the Company’s mortgage banking operations which in 1999
benefited from substantial increases in mortgage origination volume,
origination fees and pricing and marketing gains.

•

Pre-tax loss of the Company’s corporate business segment increased $5,312
in 2000 and $28,258 in 1999. The increase in 2000 primarily reflects an
increase in net interest expense. The increase in pre-tax loss in 1999
resulted from higher net interest expense, higher costs associated with
compensation, insurance, business development costs, and the write-down of
a commercial land position. In addition, during 1998, the Company realized
a one-time gain of $5,000 on the sale of its interest in a manufactured
housing venture.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted, except per share data)

Homebuilding Operations:

The Company has organized its homebuilding operations into two distinct business units: Domestic and International.

•

Domestic Homebuilding operations are conducted in 41 markets, located
throughout 25 states. Domestic Homebuilding offers a broad product line to
meet the needs of the first-time, first and second move-up, and active
adult homebuyers. During 1998, the Company acquired two homebuilders,
Tennessee-based Radnor Homes and Florida-based DiVosta & Company. From
March 25, 1998, through July 1, 1999, the Company conducted a joint venture
for the building of Active Adult style communities with Blackstone Real
Estate Advisors (BRE), an affiliate of the Blackstone Group. Effective July
1, 1999, the Company purchased BRE’s interest in the net assets of the
Active Adult joint venture.

•

International Homebuilding operations are conducted through subsidiaries of
Pulte International Corporation in Mexico, Puerto Rico and Argentina.
International Homebuilding product offerings focus on the demand of
first-time buyers, and social interest housing in Mexico and Puerto Rico.
Housing for middle-to-upper income consumer groups is also available in
Puerto Rico and Argentina. The Company has agreements in place with
multi-national corporations to provide social interest housing in Mexico.

Certain operating data relating to the Company’s homebuilding operations and
joint ventures are as follows:



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

Domestic Homebuilding:

The Domestic Homebuilding business unit represents the Company’s core business.
Operations are conducted in 41 markets, located throughout 25 states, and are
organized into five groups as follows:

The Metropolitan Atlanta market accounted for 10% of the total unit settlements
in 2000. No other individual market within the 41 markets represented more than
10% of total Domestic Homebuilding net new orders, unit settlements or revenues
during the three years ended December 31, 2000.

The following table presents selected unit information for Pulte’s Domestic
Homebuilding operations:



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

Domestic Homebuilding (continued):

Net new orders increased for the twelfth consecutive year to an all-time Company
record of 19,844 units in 2000, a 2% increase over 1999 order levels.
Contributing to this strong performance were markets in the Central and West
groups offset by softer performance in the Northeast and Midwest groups. Order
growth in the Northeast, Southeast and Midwest groups, tempered by lower net new
orders in the Central and West groups, contributed to a 6% increase in 1999
orders as compared with 1998. 1999 results also reflect an entire year’s results
for Radnor Homes and DiVosta & Company, (the “acquired operations”) which were
acquired in mid-1998 and contributed net new orders of 1,564 in 1999, compared
with 1,182 in 1998.

Unit settlements in 2000 also hit a record-setting high, to 19,799 units. These
results reflect strong performance in the Southeast, Central and West groups
offset by a decline in the Northeast. Unit settlement activity in 1999 increased
22% over 1998 levels due to increases across all groups. In addition, the
acquired operations contributed 1,456 unit settlements in 1999, compared with
683 in 1998. The average home sales price increased from $174 in 1998 to $187 in
1999 and to $206 in the current year. Changes in average selling price reflect a
number of factors, including price increases, the mix of product closed during a
period and the number of options purchased by customers. Overall, strong demand,
supported by favorable economic conditions continued to drive increased order
activity and record levels of backlog. These factors contributed to the solid
settlement activity during 2000 and 1999.

The Company’s ending backlog was up slightly to 5,477 homes, while the dollar
value was up 11% to $1.3 billion. Unit backlog at December 31, 1999, was
slightly higher than that noted at the end of 1998 while the dollar value was up
18%.

The following table presents a summary of pre-tax income for Pulte’s Domestic
Homebuilding operations:

†

The Company capitalizes interest cost into homebuilding inventories and
charges the interest to homebuilding interest expense when the related
inventories are closed.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

Domestic Homebuilding (continued):

Gross profit margins in 2000 increased to 18.8%, up 100 basis points over 1999.
Gross profit margins in 1999 increased to 17.8%, up 170 basis points over 1998.
Factors which continue to contribute to this favorable trend include strong
customer demand, positive home pricing, the benefits of leverage-buy purchasing
activities and effective production and inventory management.

For the year ended December 31, 2000, selling, general and administrative
expenses (SG&A), as a percentage of sales, increased to 9.0% after decreasing 30
basis points to 8.6% in 1999. The increase reflects higher sales and marketing
expenses, and startup costs associated with the opening of new communities.

Other income (expense) net, includes net land activity and other
homebuilding-related expenses. The increase in other income in 2000 was mainly a
result of increased net land activity. Net land activity amounted to $18,000 in
2000 compared to $2,000 in 1999. Net land activity relates to gains/losses on
the sale of land, the impact of decisions not to pursue land acquisitions and
options, the write-off of related pre-acquisition costs and land inventory
valuation reserves on land held for sale. The increase in net land activity
represents the Company’s efforts to rationalize certain existing land positions
to ensure the most effective use of invested capital. The decrease in other
expense for the year ended December 31, 1999 compared to 1998, is due to the
wind down of operations and transaction costs related to the sale of Builders
Supply and Lumber which are included in 1998.

Pulte’s Domestic Homebuilding operations controlled approximately 76,000 and
70,200 lots, of which approximately 42,600 and 43,000 lots were owned, and
approximately 34,100 and 27,200 lots were controlled through option agreements
at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. Domestic Homebuilding inventory at
December 31, 2000, was approximately $1,828,100 of which $1,293,800 is related
to land and land development. At December 31, 1999, inventory was approximately
$1,743,400 of which $1,244,200 was related to land and land development.
Included in other assets is approximately $88,300 in land held for disposition
as of December 31, 2000, as compared to $10,100 in the prior year.

As a component of the Company’s business strategies, the Company acquired all of
the outstanding stock of Tennessee-based Radnor Homes and the net assets of an
affiliated company on May 27, 1998, for an aggregate purchase price of
approximately $58,000. Consideration for this acquisition included approximately
$51,000 of cash paid, approximately $3,000 of assumed liabilities and the
issuance of 153,570 shares of the Company’s common stock. This transaction was
accounted for as a purchase and, as such, the operating results of Radnor Homes
since the acquisition date are included in the Company’s results of operations.

On July 1, 1998, the Company acquired the outstanding stock and membership
interests in certain closely-held businesses of Florida-based DiVosta & Company
for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $155,000. Consideration for
this acquisition, which was recorded using the purchase method of accounting,
included approximately $109,000 of cash paid, approximately $25,000 of
liabilities assumed and $21,000 in the form of a seller-financed note. The
purchase price was allocated to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed
based on relative fair value estimates. Goodwill of approximately $47,000
represents the excess of the purchase price over these fair value estimates and
is amortized using the straight-line method over a seven-year period. The
Company has included the operating results of DiVosta & Company since the
acquisition date in its consolidated results of operations. Goodwill
amortization was $6,600, $6,600 and $3,400 for the years ended December 31,
2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

From March 25, 1998, through July 1, 1999, the Company conducted a joint venture
for the building of active adult-style communities with Blackstone Real Estate
Advisors (BRE), an affiliate of the Blackstone Group. Effective July 1, 1999,
the Company purchased BRE’s interest in the net assets of the joint venture for
an aggregate cash purchase price of $26 million. The purchase price was
allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed using the purchase method
of accounting. As a result of this purchase, Pulte owns 100% of the operations,
and effective July 1, 1999, the operations are fully consolidated with the
operating results of Pulte’s other homebuilding operations. Prior to this
purchase, and since March 25, 1998, Pulte’s 50% interest in this joint venture
was accounted for as an equity investment. The impact of acquiring the
additional 50% interest was immaterial to the Company’s 1999 consolidated
revenues, pre-tax income from operations, net income and earnings per share
(both basic and diluted).



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

International Homebuilding:

International Homebuilding operations are primarily conducted through
subsidiaries of Pulte International Corporation in Mexico, Puerto Rico and
Argentina.

The Company’s aggregate net investment in its five homebuilding joint ventures located throughout Mexico
approximated $35,600 at December 31, 2000. The largest of these ventures, Condak-Pulte S. de R.L. de C.V.,
(Condak) is located in the city of Juarez. The Juarez-based venture is currently developing communities in cities
including Juarez, Chihuahua, Nuevo Laredo, Monterrey, Reynosa and Matamoros, under agreements with Delphi
Automotive Systems, Sony Magneticos de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., an affiliate of Sony Electronics, Inc., and Centro
Comerciales Soriana, S.A. de C.V. As of December 31, 2000, the Company’s net investment in Condak approximated
$26,900.

Desarrollos Residenciales Turisticos, S.A. de C.V., another of the Company’s
joint ventures in Mexico, is constructing primarily social interest housing in
Central Mexico. Current development plans for this venture include housing
projects in the Bajio region surrounding Mexico City, targeting the cities of
Puebla, Queretaro, San Jose du Iturbide, San Juan del Rio and Zamora. At
December 31, 2000, the Company’s net investment in this joint venture
approximated $7,100.

Desarrolladores Urbanos (Canovanas), S.E., the Company’s Puerto Rican joint
venture is developing 121 acres located in Metropolitan San Juan. At December
31, 2000, the Company’s net investment in this joint venture approximated
$3,900.

In December 2000, the Company announced its expansion into Argentina through
Pulte SRL, its 100%-owned Argentine subsidiary. Its first project is in Pilar, a
northern suburb of Buenos Aires. Closings in this new project are not expected
to occur until the third quarter of 2001.

The following table presents selected financial data for Pulte’s International
Homebuilding operations for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

Puerto Rico closed 264 homes in 2000, almost identical to the 262 closings
recorded during the prior year. However, average sales prices and average gross
margin increased by 23% and 58% respectively, reflecting a change in strategy to
convert from a builder of primarily social interest housing to one serving
middle-to-upper income consumer groups.

Eliminating the impact of a $2,400 land sale gain recorded in the fourth quarter
of 1999, Puerto Rico’s operating results improved in 2000 over the prior year.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

Homebuilding Operations (continued):

International Homebuilding (continued):

The Company’s Mexican joint venture operations recorded 7,718 closings,
representing an 19% increase over comparable 1999 results. The Company’s share
of pre-tax income of $5,455 for the year for the Mexican joint ventures is
slightly lower than the $6,000 recorded in 1999, however, the prior year’s
earnings included currency gains of $1,702 versus currency losses of $78 for the
current year. Eliminating the impact of the currency gains and losses, operating
income for our Mexican operations increased by approximately 29% in 2000.

Financial Services Operations:

The Company conducts its financial services operations principally through Pulte
Mortgage Corporation (PMC), the Company’s mortgage banking subsidiary and,
during 1999 and prior years, through Pulte Financial Companies, Inc. (PFCI).
Pre-tax income (loss) of the Company’s financial services operations is as
follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Pre-tax income (loss):

Mortgage banking

$

19,009

$

19,017

$

15,268

Financing activities

—

1,811

(74

)

Pre-tax income

$

19,009

$

20,828

$

15,194

Mortgage Banking:

Years Ended December 31,




Total originations:

Loans

13,415

13,728

12,772

Principal

$

1,957,300

$

1,908,200

$

1,687,000

Originations for Pulte customers:

Loans

11,109

10,858

9,295

Principal

$

1,697,600

$

1,558,400

$

1,265,000

PMC sells its servicing rights on a flow basis through fixed price servicing
sales contracts. Due to the short period of time the servicing rights are held,
usually two to three months, the Company does not amortize the servicing asset.
Since the servicing rights are recorded at the value in the servicing sales
contracts, there are no impairment issues related to these assets. PMC also
originates mortgage loans using its own funds or borrowings made available to it
pursuant to various credit arrangements, and then sells such mortgage loans to
outside investors.

Mortgage origination principal volume for the year ended December 31, 2000,
increased 3% over 1999, which increased 13% over 1998, due to increases in
year-to-date unit sales and higher average selling prices realized in Pulte’s
Domestic Homebuilding operations. However, the number of loans for 2000 was down
2% from 1999 levels due to competitive market conditions and rising mortgage
interest rates during the last six months of 1999 and first three quarters of
2000. Pulte customers continue to account for the majority of total loan
production, representing 83% of total unit production for 2000, compared with
79% in 1999 and 73% in 1998. Refinancings represented less than 2% of total loan
production in 2000, compared with 4% in 1999 and almost 10% during 1998. At
December 31, 2000, loan application backlog increased 7% to $536,000 as compared
to $499,000 and $460,000 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

Financial Services Operations (continued):

Mortgage Banking (continued):

Pre-tax income for the year ended December 31, 2000, was unchanged from 1999, as
increases in origination fees and other income were offset by decreases in
pricing and marketing gains and net interest income. During 2000, origination
fees increased $1,605, or 23%, over the prior year due primarily to an increase
in brokered loans. Pricing and marketing gains decreased $3,559, or 13%, from
the same period in 1999, primarily due to competitive market conditions for much
of 2000. As compared with 1999, net interest income decreased 17% to $1,815
during 2000 as a result of a drop in funded production and a higher cost of
funds due to a new warehouse line that became effective March 31, 2000. During
2000, PMC recognized increased equity income from its minority interest in a
Mexican mortgage banking company, and also recognized income from mortgage
reinsurance operations.

For the year ended December 31, 1999, pre-tax income increased 25% over 1998.
Mortgage origination fees increased by $2,029, or 41% due to increases in
non-funded loans and higher revenues per loan. Pricing and marketing gains
increased $2,289, or 9%, from the same period in 1998, due primarily to an 11%
increase in funded mortgage originations. Net interest income in 1999 increased
59% from 1998 to $2,186. This increase was due to higher funded production, a
widening of the yield curve and slightly higher average shareholder’s equity.
During 1999, PMC recognized increased equity income from its Mexican mortgage
banking operations, and also recorded income from the final settlement of a
private mortgage insurance bankruptcy. These increases in income were partially
offset by general and administrative expenses, which increased $2,946, or 16%,
from 1998 due primarily to higher loan production and Year 2000-related
expenditures.

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, “Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities,” as amended by SFAS Nos. 137 and 138, which
is required to be adopted for years beginning after June 15, 2000. This
Statement requires the Company to recognize all derivatives on the balance sheet
at fair value. Derivatives that are not hedges must be adjusted to fair value
through income. To the extent the derivative is effectively hedged, changes in
the fair value of the derivative will be recognized in other comprehensive
income until the hedged item is recognized in earnings. The ineffective portion
of a derivative’s change in fair value will be immediately recognized in
earnings. PMC, in the normal course of business, uses derivative financial
instruments to meet the financing needs of its customers and reduce its own
exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. The Company will adopt this
Statement effective January 1, 2001. Based on the Company’s derivative positions
as of December 31, 2000, the Company believes that any effects of SFAS No. 133
will not be material to its earnings or financial position.

Financing Activities:

The Company’s secured financing operations, which were conducted by a
limited-purpose subsidiary of PFCI, ceased operations during 1999. During the
first quarter of 1999, PFCI recognized a net gain of approximately $1,700 in
connection with the sale of its remaining mortgage-backed securities portfolio.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

Corporate:

Corporate is a non-operating business segment whose primary purpose is to
support the operations of the Company’s subsidiaries as the internal source of
financing, to develop and implement strategic initiatives centered on new
business development and operating efficiencies, and to provide the
administrative support associated with being a publicly traded entity. As a
result, the corporate segment’s operating results will vary from year to year as
these strategic initiatives evolve.

The following table presents this segment’s results of operations:

Years Ended December 31,




Net interest expense

$

28,987

$

22,824

$

14,269

Other corporate expenses, net

27,309

28,160

8,457

Loss before income taxes

$

56,296

$

50,984

$

22,726

The increase in 2000 of the pre-tax loss to $56,296 was primarily a result of an
increase in net interest expense. Increases in net interest expense are
attributed to higher average use of the Company’s unsecured revolving credit
facility in addition to the April 2000 issuance of $175,000 Senior Notes,
primarily related to increased working capital requirements of the Homebuilding
Operations. Interest incurred for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and
1998, excluding interest incurred by the Company’s financial services
operations, was approximately $62,800, $49,500 and $41,400, respectively. The
increase in pre-tax loss of $28,258 in 1999, as compared with 1998 resulted from
higher net interest expense due to increased short-term borrowings to fund
working capital needs; higher costs associated with compensation due to
increased profitability, insurance settlements, business development costs; and
the write-down of a commercial land position.

Corporate net interest expense is net of amounts capitalized into homebuilding
inventories. Amounts capitalized are charged to homebuilding interest expense
when the related inventories are closed. Information related to Corporate
interest capitalized into inventory is as follows:

Years Ended December 31,




Interest in inventory at beginning of year

$

19,092

$

16,356

$

14,719

Interest capitalized

33,129

27,923

21,801

Interest expensed

(28,019

)

(25,187

)

(20,164

)

Interest in inventory at end of year

$

24,202

$

19,092

$

16,356

Liquidity and Capital Resources :

Continuing Operations:

The Company’s net cash provided by operating activities for the year ended
December 31, 2000 amounted to $23,322, compared with $15,113 for the prior year.
Increases in inventory, other assets, accounts payable and accrued liabilities
during 2000 were less than during 1999, and were offset by a larger increase in
residential mortgage loans available-for-sale. Net cash used in investing
activities was $5,185 for 2000. 1999 included the effects of PFCI’s sale of the
underlying collateral of its mortgage-backed securities portfolio and the
purchase of BRE’s interest in the net assets of the Company’s Active Adult joint
venture. Net cash provided by financing activities for the year ended December
31, 2000, was $114,051 in 2000, as compared to a use of cash of $87,642 in 1999.
These increased cash flows primarily reflect the Company’s issuance of $175,000
Senior Notes in April 2000 and issuance of common stock pursuant to the
Company’s employee stock option plans, offset by stock repurchases.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted, except per share data)

Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued):

Continuing Operations(continued):

The Company finances homebuilding land acquisition, development and construction
activities from internally generated funds and existing credit agreements. The
Company had no borrowings under its $415,000 unsecured revolving credit
facilities at December 31, 2000. PMC provides mortgage financing for many of its
home sales and uses its own funds and borrowings made available pursuant to
various committed and uncommitted credit arrangements which, at December 31,
2000, amounted to $325,000, an amount deemed adequate to cover foreseeable
needs. There were approximately $234,000 of borrowings outstanding under the
$325,000 PMC arrangement at December 31, 2000. Mortgage loans originated by PMC
are subsequently sold, principally to outside investors. The Company anticipates
that there will be adequate mortgage financing available for purchasers of its
homes.

The Company’s income tax liabilities are affected by a number of factors. In
2000, the Company’s effective tax rate was 38.5% compared to 37.75% in 1999 and
39% in 1998. The Company’s lower effective income tax rate in 1999 resulted from
a lower effective state tax rate and the favorable resolution of various state
income tax matters. Management anticipates that the Company’s effective tax rate
for 2001 will range between 38% and 39%.

At December 31, 2000, the Company had cash and equivalents of $183,985 and total
long-term indebtedness of $677,602. The Company’s total long-term indebtedness
includes $659,296 of unsecured Senior Notes, a $7,000 unsecured promissory note
and other Pulte limited recourse debt of $11,306. The Company also has other
non-recourse short-term notes payable of $42,885 and First Heights advances of
$760.

In March 2000, the Company entered into a $25,000 uncommitted revolving credit
facility which expires February 28, 2001. In April 2000 the Company sold, in a
private placement, 9 1/2%, $175,000 Senior Notes due 2003 and subsequently filed
an S-4 Registration Statement with the Securities and Exchange Commission in May
2000. The net proceeds from the sale of the Senior Notes were used to repay
short-term borrowings under the Company’s revolving bank credit arrangements and
for general corporate purposes. In August 2000, the Company canceled two
revolving credit facilities totaling $375,000 and replaced them with one
$375,000 committed five-year revolving credit facility. This facility was
subsequently increased to $390,000. As of December 31, 2000, the Company’s
unsecured credit facilities totaled $415,000.

In the normal course of business, Pulte acquires rights under options or
option-type agreements to purchase land to be used in homebuilding operations at
future dates. The total purchase price applicable to land under option at
December 31, 2000, approximated $1,100,900.

At December 31, 2000, the Company also had outstanding letters of credit and
performance bonds of $154,100 and $471,000 respectively.

In January 2000, the Company’s Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase
plan of up to $100,000. Shares will be purchased from time-to-time in the open
market, depending upon market conditions. As of December 31, 2000, the Company
had purchased 3,331,600 shares at an average price of $19.90. The Company
anticipates that it would fund any repurchases under the plan through cash flows
from operations.

Sources of the Company’s working capital at December 31, 2000, include its cash
and equivalents, and its $415,000 committed unsecured revolving credit
facilities. The Company routinely monitors current operational requirements and
financial market conditions to evaluate the use of available financial sources,
including securities offerings.

Subsequent to December 31, 2000, the Company sold 8 1/8%, $200,000 Senior Notes
due 2011. The net proceeds from the sale of the Senior Notes were used to repay
short-term borrowings under the Company’s revolving bank credit arrangements and
for general corporate purposes.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF

FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

Liquidity and Capital Resources (continued):

Discontinued Operations:

The Company’s remaining investment in First Heights at December 31, 2000,
approximated $31,400. The Company’s thrift assets are subject to regulatory
restrictions and a court order and thus are not available for general corporate
purposes. The final liquidation of the Company’s thrift operations is dependent
on the final resolution of outstanding matters with the Federal Deposit
Insurance Corporation (FDIC), manager of the FSLIC Resolution Fund. As discussed
in Note 10 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, the Company vigorously
disagrees with the final judgment entered by the United States District Court
and has appealed to the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Company has posted
bonds in the amount of $117,000. Based upon the Company’s assessment of its
legal position in the District Court litigation with the FDIC, as well as the
expected duration of the legal process in this case, the Company does not
currently believe that the judgment ordered by the District Court against Pulte
Diversified Companies, Inc. and First Heights will have a material impact on the
Company’s liquidity.

Inflation:

The Company, and the homebuilding industry in general, may be adversely affected
during periods of high inflation because of higher land and construction costs.
Inflation also increases the Company’s financing, labor and material costs. In
addition, higher mortgage interest rates significantly affect the affordability
of permanent mortgage financing to prospective homebuyers. The Company attempts
to pass through to its customers any increases in its costs through increased
sales prices and, to date, inflation has not had a material adverse effect on
the Company’s results of operations. However, there is no assurance that
inflation will not have a material adverse impact on the Company’s future
results of operations.



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is subject to interest rate risk on its long term debt to the extent
long-term rates decline. The following tables set forth, as of December 31, 2000
and 1999, the Company’s long term debt obligations, principal cash flows by
scheduled maturity, weighted-average interest rates and estimated fair market
value.



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK (continued)

PMC, operating as a mortgage banker, is also subject to interest rate risk.
Interest rate risk begins when PMC commits to lend money to a customer at agreed
upon terms (i.e., commits to lend at a certain interest rate for a certain
period of time). The interest rate risk continues through the loan closing and
until the loan is sold to an investor. During 1999 and 2000, this period of
interest rate exposure averaged approximately 60 days. In periods of rising
interest rates, the length of exsposure will generally increase due to customers
locking in an interest rate sooner as opposed to letting the interest rate
float.

PMC minimizes interest rate risk by (i) financing the loans via a variable rate
borrowing agreement tied to the Federal Funds rate and (ii) hedging its loan
commitments and closed loans through derivative financial instruments with
off-balance sheet risk. These financial instruments include cash forward
placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor
commitments, options on treasury future contracts and options on cash forward
placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities. PMC does not use any
derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.

Hypothetical changes in the fair values of PMC’s financial instruments arising
from immediate parallel shifts in long-term mortgage rates of plus 50, 100 and
150 basis points would not be material to the Company’s financial results.

The Company’s aggregate net equity investment in Mexico approximated $42,600 at
December 31, 2000. This investment, which is exposed to foreign currency
exchange risk, could devalue by as much as $5,100 in 2001, assuming a
hypothetical 18% annualized devaluation of the Mexican peso against the U.S.
dollar during 2001. During the second quarter of 1998, the three-year cumulative
rate of inflation in Mexico fell below 100%. As a result, the Mexican economy
ceased to be considered hyperinflationary effective January 1, 1999. Based on
this change in economic status and under current accounting rules, a majority of
the Company’s translation adjustments in 2000 and 1999 were not included in the
determination of net income for the Company’s international operations, but
rather were reported separately and accumulated in a separate component of
equity and included in the determination of other comprehensive income.

SPECIAL NOTES CONCERNING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

As a cautionary note, except for the historical information contained herein,
certain matters discussed in Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations” and Item 7A, “Quantitative &
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk,” are “forward-looking” statements
within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such
matters involve risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to: the
Company’s exposure to certain market risks, changes in economic conditions, tax
and interest rates, increases in raw material and labor costs, issues and timing
surrounding land entitlement and development, weather conditions, and general
competitive factors that may cause actual results to differ materially and its
ability to resolve all outstanding matters related to First Heights (including
the outcome of the Company’s appeal in the District Court litigation with the
FDIC).



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

PULTE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

December 31, 2000 and 1999

($000's omitted, except share data)

ASSETS

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PULTE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

(000’s omitted, except per share data)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PULTE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS’ EQUITY

For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

($000’s omitted, except per share data)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PULTE CORPORATION

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

($000’s omitted)

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

($000’s omitted)

1. Basis of presentation and significant accounting policies

Basis of presentation

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Pulte
Corporation (the “Company” or “Pulte”), and all of its significant
subsidiaries. The Company’s direct subsidiaries include Pulte Diversified
Companies, Inc. (PDCI) and other subsidiaries which are engaged in the
homebuilding business. PDCI’s operating subsidiaries include Pulte Home
Corporation (PHC), Pulte International Corporation (International) and other
subsidiaries which are engaged in the homebuilding business. PDCI’s
non-operating thrift subsidiary, First Heights Bank, fsb (First Heights), is
classified as a discontinued operation (See Note 4). The Company also has a
mortgage banking company, Pulte Mortgage Company (PMC), which is a
subsidiary of PHC.

Certain amounts related to discontinued operations previously reported in
the 1999 financial statements and notes thereto were reclassified to conform
to the 2000 presentation.

Significant accounting policies



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

1. Basis of presentation and significant accounting policies (continued)



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

1. Basis of presentation and significant accounting policies (continued)

Homebuilding



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

1. Basis of presentation and significant accounting policies (continued)

Financial Services

2. Segment information

The Company’s operations are classified into three reportable segments: Homebuilding, Financial Services and
Corporate.

The Company’s Homebuilding segment consists of the following two business
units:

•

Domestic Homebuilding, the Company’s core business, is engaged in the
acquisition and development of land primarily for residential purposes
within the continental United States and the construction of housing on
such land targeted for the first-time, first and second move-up, and
active adult home buyers.

•

International Homebuilding is primarily engaged in the acquisition and
development of land principally for residential purposes, and the
construction of housing on such land in Mexico, Puerto Rico and
Argentina.

The Company’s Financial Services segment consists principally of mortgage
banking operations conducted through PMC and its subsidiaries.

Corporate is a non-operating business segment whose primary purpose is to
support the operations of the Company’s subsidiaries as the internal source
of financing, to develop and implement strategic initiatives centered on new
business development and operating efficiencies, and to provide the
necessary administrative functions to support the Company as a publicly
traded entity.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

2. Segment information (continued)

Operating Data by Segment



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

2. Segment information (continued)

Supplemental Operating Data by Geographic Region



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

2. Segment information (continued)



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

3. Acquisitions

Effective July 1, 1999, the Company purchased Blackstone Real Estate
Advisors’ interest in the net assets of its active adult joint venture for
an aggregate cash purchase price of $26,000. The purchase price was
allocated to assets acquired and liabilities assumed using the purchase
method of accounting. As a result of this purchase, Pulte owns 100% of the
operations, and effective July 1, 1999, the operations are fully
consolidated with the operating results of Pulte’s other homebuilding
operations. Prior to this purchase, and since March 25, 1998, Pulte’s 50%
interest in this joint venture was accounted for as an equity investment.

On July 1, 1998, the Company acquired the outstanding stock and membership
interests in certain closely-held businesses of Florida-based, DiVosta &
Company for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $155,000.
Consideration for this acquisition, which was recorded using the purchase
method of accounting, included approximately $109,000 of cash paid,
approximately $25,000 of liabilities assumed and $21,000 in the form of a
seller-financed note. The purchase price was allocated to the assets
acquired and liabilities assumed based on relative fair value estimates.
Goodwill of approximately $47,000 represents the excess of the purchase
price over these fair value estimates and is amortized using a straight-line
method over a seven-year period. The Company has included the operating
results of DiVosta & Company since the acquisition date in its consolidated
results of operations. Goodwill amortization was $6,600, $6,600 and $3,400
for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

On May 27, 1998, the Company acquired all of the outstanding stock
of Tennessee-based Radnor Homes and the net assets of an affiliate for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $58,000. Consideration for this
acquisition, which was recorded using the purchase method of accounting,
included $51,000 of cash paid, approximately $3,000 of liabilities assumed
and the issuance of 153,570 shares of the Company’s common stock. The
purchase price was allocated to the tangible assets acquired and liabilities
assumed based on relative fair value estimates. The Company has included the
operating results of Radnor Homes since the acquisition in its consolidated
results of operations.

The effect of these transactions, had they occurred at the beginning of 1999
and 1998, is not material to the operations of the Company as a whole.

4. Discontinued operations

In September 1988, substantially all of the assets, business operations and
certain liabilities of five Texas-based insolvent thrifts were acquired by
First Heights. Assistance with each acquisition was provided by the Federal
Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC) pursuant to an Assistance
Agreement.

The FSLIC issued promissory notes representing the estimated negative net
worth of the acquired associations at the date of acquisition, the balances
of which, including accrued interest, were $81,035 and $77,555 at December
31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The notes had a weighted-average interest
rate of 5.6% and 5.1% at December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively. The
notes, bearing interest at rates indexed to the Texas Cost of Funds plus a
spread, were due in September 1998; notwithstanding this maturity, the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) has chosen to temporarily
withhold payment. The notes were subject to annual prepayments, which were
limited to 10% of the total original note balances. The FSLIC Resolution
Fund (FRF) exercised its right to prepay the notes by $31,560 in each year
from 1992 through 1998. The FRF is entitled to payments of up to 25% of
certain tax benefits which may be derived as a result of the assistance
transactions.

During the first quarter of 1994, the Company adopted a plan of disposal for
First Heights and announced its strategy to exit the thrift industry and
increase its focus on housing and related mortgage banking. First Heights
sold all but one of its 32 bank branches and related deposits to two
unrelated purchasers. The sale was substantially completed during the fourth
quarter of 1994, although the Company held brokered deposits which were not
liquidated until 1998.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

4. Discontinued operations (continued)

Although the Company in 1994, expected to complete the plan of disposal
within a reasonable period of time, contractual disputes with the FDIC
prevented the prepayment of the FRF notes, thereby precluding the Company
from completing the disposal in accordance with its original plan. To
provide liquidity for the sale, First Heights liquidated its investment
portfolios and its single-family residential loan portfolio and, as provided
in the Assistance Agreement, entered into a Liquidity Assistance Note (LAN)
with the FDIC acting in its capacity as manager of the FRF notes. The LAN is
collateralized by the FRF notes and bears interest at a rate indexed to the
Texas Cost of Funds plus a spread. The LAN matured in September 1998;
however, payment of this liability is also temporarily withheld by First
Heights pending resolution of all open matters with the FDIC. As discussed
in Note 10, the Company is involved in litigation with the FDIC and as part
of this litigation, the parties asserted various claims with respect to
obligations under promissory notes issued by each of the parties in
connection with the thrift acquisition and activities.

Since December 31, 1998, First Heights has no longer held any deposits, nor
has it maintained an investment portfolio. First Heights’ day-to-day
activities are principally devoted to supporting residual regulatory
compliance matters and the litigation with the FDIC, and are not reflective
of the active operations of the former thrift, such as maintaining
traditional transaction accounts (e.g., checking and savings accounts) or
making loans. Accordingly, such operations are being presented as
discontinued.

Included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities are litigation-related
accruals recorded by the Company, offset by accounts and notes receivable
due from the FRF, of $30,250 and $3,611 as of December 31, 2000 and 1999,
respectively.

Revenues of discontinued operations were $3,685, $3,677 and $6,412 for the
years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. For the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, discontinued thrift operations
resulted in income (loss) of $(29,871) (including income tax provision of
$149), $(122) and $1,035 (including income tax benefit of $1,386),
respectively. 2000 includes a $30,000 charge for related litigation as
discussed in Note 10.

The Company has previously recognized, as part of discontinued thrift
operations, after-tax income of approximately $110,000. Such income relates
to tax benefits associated with net operating losses (NOLs). Although the
Company has computed its NOLs and reported them to the Internal Revenue
Service (the “IRS”) in a manner that it believes will comply with applicable
law and that indicates that they generally are available to offset the
Company’s taxable income, there is no assurance that the IRS will agree with
the Company’s determination of the amount of NOLs, in which case, if the IRS
were to prevail, the use of a portion or all of the Company’s NOLs could be
disallowed.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

5. Short-term credit arrangements

Short-term financing for the Company on an operating segment basis is as follows:

Corporate/Homebuilding

In March 2000, the Company entered into an uncommitted $25,000 revolving
credit facility which expires February 28, 2001.

In August 2000, the Company, PDCI and PHC entered into a $375,000 committed
unsecured revolving credit facility under which a variety of interest rates
are available to the Company. This facility, which was subsequently expanded
to $390,000 during 2000, expires August 31, 2005. This facility, which
includes an option to expand the facility size to $600,000, replaces two
revolving credit facilities of $170,000 and $205,000. The bank credit
agreements contain restrictive covenants. Under the most restrictive of the
covenants, the Company is required to maintain a minimum tangible net worth
of $800,000 plus 50% of consolidated net income earned subsequent to March
31, 2000. The following is aggregate borrowing information:

Financial Services

Notes payable to banks (collateralized short-term debt) are secured by
residential mortgage loans available-for-sale. The carrying amounts of such
borrowings approximate fair values.

At December 31, 2000, PMC had a committed bank credit line of $125,000 and a
discretionary credit line of $125,000. The bank credit agreements require
PMC to pay a fee for the committed credit lines. The committed line expires
March 31, 2003 while the discretionary line has no expiration date. PMC also
has a $75,000 annual asset-backed commercial paper program, which can be
extended to December 22, 2003, subject to approval by the administrative
agent. During 2000, 1999 and 1998, PMC provided compensating balances, in
the form of escrows and other custodial funds, in order to further reduce
interest rates. The bank credit agreements each contain certain
restrictions, including the maintenance of levels of equity. Under the most
restrictive of the agreements, PMC is required to maintain a minimum
tangible net worth of $10,000.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

6. Long-term debt

Total Corporate and Homebuilding long-term debt maturities and mandatory
annual sinking fund payments during the five years after 2000 are as
follows: 2001 — $18,306; 2002 — $0; 2003 — $274,289; 2004 — $111,880; 2005-
$124,949; and thereafter $148,178.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted, except per share data)

7. Stock compensation plans and management incentive compensation

The Company has four fixed stock option plans for employees (the “Employee
Plans”) and two stock option plans for nonemployee directors (the “Director
Plans”); information related to the Plans is as follows:

As of December 31, 2000, 2,250,000 stock options remain available for grant
under the Employee Plans and 279,000 stock options remain available for
grant under the Director Plans.

The Employee Plans provide for the grant of options (both non-qualified
options and incentive stock options as defined in each respective plan),
stock appreciation rights and restricted stock to key employees of the
Company or its subsidiaries (as determined by the Compensation Committee of
the Board of Directors) for periods not exceeding 10 years. Options granted
under the Employee Plans vest incrementally in periods ranging from six
months to five years.

Under the Director Plans, each new nonemployee director will receive 900
shares of common stock and options to purchase an additional 4,000 shares.
Nonemployee directors are also entitled to an annual distribution of 900
shares of common stock and options to purchase an additional 4,000 shares.
All options granted are non-qualified, vest immediately and are exercisable
on the date of grant. Options granted under the Director Plans are
exercisable for 10 years from the grant date.

A summary of the status of the Company’s stock option plans as of December
31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 and changes during the years ending on those dates
is presented below (000’s omitted):



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted, except per share data)

7. Stock compensation plans and management incentive compensation (continued)

The following table summarizes information about fixed stock options
outstanding at December 31, 2000 (000’s omitted):

Options Outstanding

Options Exercisable

Weighted-

Weighted-

Weighted-

Range of

Number

Average

Average

Number

Average

Per Share

Outstanding at

Remaining

Per Share

Exercisable at

Per Share

Exercise Prices

December 31

Contract Life

Exercise Price

December 31

Exercise Price

$13 to 19

2,203

5.1

$


1,240

$


$20 to 30

2,266

6.9

$



$


$31 to 42


9.9

$


—

—

Under SFAS No. 123, compensation cost for the Company’s stock-based
compensation plans is determined based on the fair value at the grant dates
for awards under those plans. Additional stock option awards are anticipated
in future years. For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, the
Company’s income from continuing operations, net income and earnings per
share would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:

The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions used
for grants in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively: weighted-average dividend
yields of .57%, .67% and .68%, expected volatility 34.5%, 30.5% and 29.8%,
weighted-average risk-free interest rates of 5.54%, 5.48% and 5.57%, and
weighted-average expected lives of 7.33 years, 7.27 years and 6.75 years.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted, except per share data)

7. Stock compensation plans and management incentive compensation (continued)

Homebuilding operating management personnel are paid current cash incentive
compensation based on operating performance. Mortgage banking management
personnel are paid current cash incentive compensation substantially based
on the performance of the applicable subsidiary. The Company’s corporate
management personnel are paid current cash incentive compensation based on
overall performance of the Company. For the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998, the Company’s total current cash incentive compensation
expense was $51,300, $45,300 and $25,500, respectively. The Company also
utilizes a long-term cash incentive plan as a means of compensating key
operating employees for long-term performance and contributions to the
growth of the Company. For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998
the Company expensed $2,300, $10,087 and $4,600, respectively, relating to
this plan.

8. Income taxes

The Company’s net deferred tax asset is as follows:

The net operating losses expire in 2006 and are generally available to
offset the Company’s taxable income in future years.

Realization of the net deferred tax asset is dependent on future reversals
of existing taxable temporary differences and adequate future taxable
income. Although realization is not assured, management believes that it is
more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be realized.

Components of current and deferred income tax expense (benefit) of
continuing operations are as follows:



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

8. Income taxes (continued)

The following table reconciles the statutory federal income tax rate to the
effective income tax rate for continuing operations:




Income taxes at federal statutory rate

35.00

%

35.00

%

35.00

%

Effect of state and local income taxes, net of federal tax

2.91

2.23

4.20

Settlement of state tax issues and other

.59

.52

(.20

)

Effective rate

38.50

%

37.75

%

39.00

%

9. Leases

The Company leases certain property and equipment under non-cancelable
leases. The office and equipment leases are generally for terms of three to
five years and generally provide renewal options for terms of up to an
additional three years. Model home leases are generally for shorter terms
approximating one year with renewal options on a month-to-month basis. In
most cases, management expects that in the normal course of business, leases
that expire will be renewed or replaced by other leases. The future minimum
lease payments required under operating leases that have initial or
remaining non-cancelable terms in excess of one year are as follows:

Net rental expense for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was
$25,513, $22,122 and $20,577, respectively. Certain leases contain purchase
options and generally provide that the Company shall pay for insurance,
taxes and maintenance.

10. Commitments and contingencies

In the normal course of business, Pulte acquires rights under options or
option-type agreements to purchase land to be used in homebuilding
operations at future dates. The total purchase price applicable to land
under option at December 31, 2000 and 1999 approximated $1,100,900 and
$835,400 respectively.

At December 31, 2000, Pulte, in the normal course of business, had
outstanding letters of credit and performance bonds of $154,100 and
$471,000, respectively.

The Company is involved in various litigation incidental to its continuing
business operations. Management does not believe that this litigation will
have a material adverse impact on the results of operations or financial
position of the Company.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

10. Commitments and contingencies (continued)

First Heights-related litigation

The Company is a party to three lawsuits relating to First Heights’ 1988
acquisition from the Federal Savings and Loan Insurance Corporation (FSLIC)
and First Heights’ ownership of five failed Texas thrifts. The first
lawsuit (the “District Court Case”) was filed on July 7, 1995, in the
United States District Court, Eastern District of Michigan, by the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) against the Company, PDCI and First
Heights (collectively, the “Pulte Parties”). The second lawsuit (the “Court
of Federal Claims Case”) was filed on December 26, 1996, in the United
States Court of Federal Claims (Washington, D.C.) by the Pulte Parties
against the United States. The third lawsuit was filed by First Heights on
January 10, 2000, in the United States District Court, Eastern District of
Michigan against the FDIC regarding the amounts, including interest, the
FDIC is obligated to pay First Heights on two promissory notes which had
been executed by the FDIC’s predecessor, the FSLIC. The FDIC filed a motion to
dismiss the case and on April 12, 2000, the District Court dismissed First
Heights’ complaint. First Heights has appealed the Court’s ruling to the
Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals and that appeal remains pending.

In the District Court Case, the FDIC seeks a declaration of rights and
other relief related to the Assistance Agreement entered into between First
Heights and the FSLIC. The FDIC is the successor to the FSLIC. The FDIC and
the Pulte Parties disagree about the proper interpretation of provisions in
the Assistance Agreement which provide for sharing of certain tax benefits
achieved in connection with First Heights’ 1988 acquisition and ownership
of the five failed Texas thrifts. The District Court Case also includes
certain other claims relating to the foregoing, including claims resulting
from the Company’s and First Heights’ amendment of a tax sharing and
allocation agreement between the Company and First Heights. The Pulte
Parties dispute the FDIC’s claims and believe that a proper interpretation
of the Assistance Agreement limits the FDIC’s participation in the tax
benefits. The Pulte Parties filed an answer and a counterclaim, seeking,
among other things, a declaration that the FDIC has breached the Assistance
Agreement in numerous respects. On December 24, 1996, the Pulte Parties
voluntarily dismissed without prejudice certain of their claims in the
District Court Case and on December 26, 1996, initiated the Court of
Federal Claims Case.

On March 5, 1999, the United States District Court (the Court), entered a
“Final Judgment” against First Heights and PDCI (the Court had previously
ruled that Pulte Corporation was not liable for monetary damages to the
FDIC) resolving by summary judgment in favor of the FDIC most of the FDIC’s
claims against the Pulte Parties. The Final Judgment requires PDCI and
First Heights to pay the FDIC monetary damages totaling approximately
$221,300, including interest but excluding costs (such as attorneys fees)
to be determined in the future by the District Court and post-judgment
interest. However, the FDIC acknowledged that it has already paid itself or
withheld from assistance its obligation to pay to First Heights
approximately $105,000, excluding interest thereon. The Company believes
that it is entitled to a credit or actual payment of such amount plus
interest. The Final Judgment does not address this issue. The Company
disagreed with the District Court’s rulings and appealed the decision to
the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Company had previously disclosed
that if the District Court’s final judgment were upheld in its entirety on
appeal, the potential after-tax charge against Discontinued Operations,
after giving effect to interest owed by the FDIC to First Heights, would
approximate $88,000 plus post judgment interest.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

10. Commitments and contingencies (continued)

First Heights-related litigation (continued)

On October 12, 2000, the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals rendered its
opinion in which it affirmed in part, reversed in part and remanded the
case to the District Court for further proceedings. The Sixth Circuit
affirmed most of the District Court’s adverse liability rulings, including
as to the sharing of certain tax benefits achieved in connection with First
Heights’ 1988 acquisition and ownership of the five failed Texas thrifts
and regarding the Company’s and First Heights’ amendment of a tax sharing
and allocation agreement and rescission of a warrant assumption agreement
between PDCI and First Heights. The Sixth Circuit, however, vacated the
District Court’s damage calculations as to a number of issues, vacated the
District Court’s pre-judgment interest award, and remanded to the District
Court for a proper recalculation of all such amounts. The Sixth Circuit
denied both the Company’s and the FDIC’s petition for rehearing. Since the
Sixth Circuit opinion leaves certain significant issues to be resolved
through further Court proceedings the Company is currently unable to
precisely calculate the final amount it may owe. Based upon its reading of
the Sixth Circuit opinion, however, the Company determined that an
after-tax charge of $30,000 to Discontinued Operations was appropriate in
the third quarter. The final settlement with the FDIC may be more or less
than amounts provided because the outcome of the remaining litigation
issues is uncertain.

The Company does not believe that the claims in the Court of Federal Claims
Case are in any way prejudiced by the rulings in the District Court Case.
The Company is considering seeking relief in the Court of Federal Claims
Case that would, if granted, recoup portions of the damages awarded in the
District Court Case should they be upheld.

The Court of Federal Claims Case contains similar claims as those that were
voluntarily dismissed from the District Court Case. In their complaint, the
Pulte Parties assert breaches of contract on the part of the United States
in connection with the enactment of section 13224 of the Omnibus Budget
Reconciliation Act of 1993. That provision repealed portions of the tax
benefits that the Pulte Parties claim they were entitled to under the
contract to acquire the failed Texas thrifts. The Pulte Parties also assert
certain other claims concerning the contract, including claims that the
United States (through the FDIC as receiver) has improperly attempted to
amend the failed thrifts’ pre-acquisition tax returns and that this attempt
was made in an effort to deprive the Pulte Parties of tax benefits they had
contracted for, and that the enactment of the Financial Institutions
Reform, Recovery, and Enforcement Act of 1989 breached the Government’s
obligation not to require contributions of capital greater than those
required by the contract.

11. Financial instruments, including those with off-balance sheet risk

Market risks arise from movements in interest rates and canceled or
modified commitments to lend. To reduce these risks, the Company uses
derivative financial instruments with off-balance sheet risk. These
financial instruments include cash forward placement contracts on
mortgage-backed securities, whole loan investor commitments, options on
treasury futures contracts and options on cash forward placement contracts
on mortgage-backed securities. The Company does not use any derivative
financial instruments for trading purposes.

Cash forward placement contracts on mortgage-backed securities are
commitments to either purchase or sell a specified financial instrument at
a specified future date for a specified price and may be settled in cash by
offsetting the position, or through the delivery of the financial
instrument. Whole loan investor commitments are obligations of the investor
to buy loans at a specified price within a specified time period. Options
on treasury future contracts and options on mortgage-backed securities
grant the purchaser, for a premium payment, the right to either purchase or
sell a specified treasury futures contract or a specified mortgage-backed
security, respectively, for a specified price within a specified period of
time or on a specified date from or to the writer of the option.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

11. Financial instruments, including those with off-balance sheet risk (continued)

Mandatory cash forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities are the
predominant derivative financial instruments used to minimize the market
risk during the period from when the Company extends an interest rate lock
to a loan applicant until the time the loan is sold to an investor. Options
on cash forward contracts on mortgage-backed securities are used in the
same manner as mandatory cash forward contracts, but provide protection
from interest rates rising, while still allowing an opportunity for profit
if interest rates fall. Options on the treasury futures contracts are used
as cross hedges on various loan product types and to protect the Company in
a volatile interest rate environment from unexpected increases,
cancellations or modifications in lending commitments.

Since PMC can terminate a loan commitment if the borrower does not comply
with the terms of the contract, and some loan commitments may expire
without being drawn upon, these commitments do not necessarily represent
future cash requirements of PMC. PMC evaluates the creditworthiness of
these transactions through its normal credit policies.

The following are PMC’s loan commitments:

PMC has credit risk to the extent that the counterparties to the
derivative financial instruments do not perform their obligation under the
agreements. If one of the counterparties does not perform, PMC would not
receive the cash to which it is entitled under the conditions of the
agreement. PMC manages credit risk by entering into agreements with large
national investment bankers or financial institutions, all of whom meet
PMC’s established credit underwriting standards. Options on futures are
traded on organized exchanges with the exchange clearinghouse serving as
the counterparty in the trade, reducing the risk of non-performance.
Management does not anticipate any material losses as a result of its
agreements and does not consider them to represent an undue level of
credit, interest or liquidity risk for PMC.

The table below summarizes, by class, the contractual amounts of PMC’s
derivative financial instruments.

Realized gains or losses on derivative financial instruments are recognized
in net gain from sale of mortgages in the period settlement occurs.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

12. Supplemental cash flow information

Years ended December 31




Cash paid during the year for:

Interest, net of amount capitalized

$

29,579

$

26,225

$

31,231

Income taxes

$

115,352

$

63,685

$

33,811

Non-cash investing and financing activities:

Issuance of common stock for business acquisition

$

—

$

—

$

4,269

13. Supplemental Guarantor information

The Company has the following outstanding Senior Note obligations: (1)
$175,000, 9.5%, due 2003, (2) $100,000, 7%, due 2003, (3) $112,000, 8.375%,
due 2004, (4) $125,000, 7.3%, due 2005, and (5) $150,000, 7.625%, due 2017.
Such obligations to pay principal, premium, if any, and interest are
guaranteed jointly and severally on a senior basis by the Company’s
wholly-owned Domestic Homebuilding subsidiaries (collectively, the
Guarantors). Such guarantees are full and unconditional. The principal
non-Guarantors include PDCI, Pulte International, PMC and First Heights.

Supplemental consolidating financial information of the Company,
specifically including such information for the Guarantors, is presented
below. Investments in subsidiaries are presented using the equity method of
accounting. Separate financial statements of the Guarantors are not
provided as the consolidating financial information contained herein
provides a more meaningful disclosure to allow investors to determine the
nature of assets held and the operations of the combined groups.



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET

DECEMBER 31, 2000



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING BALANCE SHEET

DECEMBER 31, 1999



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

For the year ended December 31, 2000



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

For the year ended December 31, 1999



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS

For the year ended December 31, 1998



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the year ended December 31, 2000



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

For the year ended December 31, 2000



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the year ended December 31, 1999



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

For the year ended December 31, 1999



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS

For the year ended December 31, 1998



PULTE CORPORATION

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (continued)

($000’s omitted)

13. Supplemental Guarantor information (continued)

CONSOLIDATING STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS (continued)

For the year ended December 31, 1998



REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

The management of Pulte Corporation is responsible for the integrity and
objectivity of the accompanying financial statements and related information.
The statements were prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally
accepted in the United States, and include amounts that are based on our best
judgments and estimates.

Management maintains a system of internal accounting controls designed to
provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded and that transactions
and events are recorded properly. While the Company is organized on the
principle of decentralized management, appropriate control measures are also
evidenced by well-defined organizational responsibilities, management
selection, development and evaluation processes, communication techniques,
financial planning and reporting systems and formalized procedures. In
addition, internal auditors monitor the operation of the internal control
system and report findings and recommendations to management and the board of
directors, and corrective actions are taken to correct deficiencies if and when
they are identified.

Ernst & Young LLP, independent auditors, is engaged to audit our financial
statements. Ernst & Young LLP maintains an understanding of our internal
controls and conducts such tests and other auditing procedures considered
necessary in the circumstances to express their opinion in the report that
follows.

The Audit Committee, composed entirely of nonemployee directors, meets
periodically with the independent auditors, management and internal auditors to
review their work and confirm they are properly performing their duties. Both
the internal and independent auditors have unrestricted access to the
Committee, without the presence of management, to discuss any appropriate
matters.

Roger A. Cregg

Senior Vice President and

Chief Financial Officer

Vincent J. Frees

Vice President and

Controller

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS

The Board of Directors and Shareholders

Pulte Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Pulte
Corporation as of December 31, 2000 and 1999 and the related consolidated
statements of operations, shareholders’ equity and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended December 31, 2000. Our audits also included
the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 14. These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements and schedule based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements
are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test
basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used
and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Pulte
Corporation at December 31, 2000 and 1999 and the consolidated results of its
operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement
schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken
as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.

ERNST & YOUNG LLP

Detroit, Michigan

January 22, 2001



PULTE CORPORATION

UNAUDITED QUARTERLY INFORMATION

(000’s omitted, except per share data)



PULTE CORPORATION

UNAUDITED QUARTERLY INFORMATION

(000’s omitted, except per share data)



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND

FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

This Item is not applicable.

PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information required by this Item with respect to executive officers of the
Company is set forth in Item 4A. Information required by this Item with
respect to members of the Board of Directors of the Company is contained in the
Proxy Statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting of Shareholders (2001 Proxy
Statement) under the caption “Election of Directors,” incorporated herein by
this reference. Additionally, information required by this Item with respect
to compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 is
contained in the 2001 Proxy Statement under the caption “Section 16(a)
Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.”

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

Information required by this Item is contained in the 2001 Proxy Statement
under the caption “Compensation of Executive Officers and Directors,”
incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

Information required by this Item is contained in the 2001 Proxy Statement
under the caption “Voting Securities and Principal Holders” and under the
caption “Election of Directors,” incorporated herein by this reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

Information required by this Item is contained in the 2001 Proxy Statement
under the caption “Compensation of Executive Officers and Directors,”
incorporated herein by this reference.

PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

(a) Financial Statements and Schedules

(1) Financial Statements

(2) Financial Statement Schedules

I — Condensed Financial Information of Registrant


All other schedules are omitted since the required information is not present,
is not present in amounts sufficient to require submission of the schedule or
because the required information is included in the financial statements or
notes thereto.



(3) EXHIBITS



(3) EXHIBITS



(3) EXHIBITS



(3) EXHIBITS



PULTE CORPORATION

SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

Pulte Corporation (the Registrant) is a holding company. The accompanying
financial statements are not the primary consolidated financial statements
since these financial statements present only the accounts of Pulte Corporation
which include its investment in subsidiaries on the equity method. The primary
financial statements of the Company are its consolidated financial statements.

The net assets of Pulte Home Corporation, Pulte Mortgage Corporation and First
Heights Bank, a federal savings bank, all of which are indirectly wholly-owned
subsidiaries of the registrant are subject to certain restrictions (see Notes
to Consolidated Financial Statements).

Pulte Corporation

Balance Sheets

December 31, 2000 and 1999

($000’s omitted)



PULTE CORPORATION

SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (continued)

Pulte Corporation

Statements of Income

For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

($000’s omitted)



PULTE CORPORATION

SCHEDULE I — CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT (continued)

Pulte Corporation

Statements of Cash Flows

For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

($000's omitted)



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

PULTE CORPORATION

(Registrant)

March 8, 2001

/s/ Roger A. Cregg

/s/ Vincent J. Frees

Roger A. Cregg

Senior Vice President

and Chief Financial Officer

(Principal Financial Officer)

Vincent J. Frees

Vice President and Controller

(Principal Accounting Officer)

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capabilities and on the dates indicated:

73