
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



=============================================================================== 

               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                        ----------------------------  

                                   FORM 10-K

          [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (FEE REQUIRED)

                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994

                                      OR

          [_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
              THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 (NO FEE REQUIRED)

              FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM ________ TO ________

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 0-5965

                          NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION

             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                 DELAWARE                                     36-2723087
     (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                       (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
     INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                       IDENTIFICATION NO.)

         50 SOUTH LA SALLE STREET
            CHICAGO, ILLINOIS                                   60675
(ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)                     (ZIP CODE)

       REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE: (312)630-6000

                        ----------------------------  

       SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT: NONE

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:

                       COMMON STOCK, $1.66 2/3 PAR VALUE

                                   -------             

                        PREFERRED STOCK PURCHASE RIGHTS

                                   -------             

     DEPOSITARY SHARES, EACH REPRESENTING ONE-TWENTIETH OF A SHARE OF THE
   6.25% CUMULATIVE CONVERTIBLE PREFERRED STOCK, SERIES E OF THE REGISTRANT

                                (TITLE OF CLASS)

  INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS 
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE 
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO SUCH 
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR THE PAST 90 DAYS.  YES [X]  NO[_]

  INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE 
BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS 
INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS
FORM 10-K.  [X]

  AT FEBRUARY 6, 1995, 54,194,369 SHARES OF COMMON STOCK, $1.66 2/3 PAR VALUE,
WERE OUTSTANDING, AND THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF THE COMMON STOCK (BASED UPON
THE LAST SALE PRICE OF THE COMMON STOCK AT FEBRUARY 6, 1995, AS REPORTED BY THE
NASDAQ STOCK MARKET) HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES WAS APPROXIMATELY $1,677,571,999.
DETERMINATION OF STOCK OWNERSHIP BY NON-AFFILIATES WAS MADE SOLELY FOR THE
PURPOSE OF RESPONDING TO THIS REQUIREMENT AND THE REGISTRANT IS NOT BOUND BY
THIS DETERMINATION FOR ANY OTHER PURPOSE.

PORTIONS OF THE FOLLOWING DOCUMENTS ARE INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
     ANNUAL REPORT TO STOCKHOLDERS FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994 -
     PART I AND PART II
     1995 NOTICE AND PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE ANNUAL MEETING OF STOCKHOLDERS TO
     BE HELD ON APRIL 18, 1995 - PART III

================================================================================



================================================================================















                     [THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]















================================================================================

 
================================================================================


                          NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION

                                  FORM 10-K 

               Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of 
                     the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

                                    INDEX 
 


================================================================================


================================================================================
 
                                    PART I 

ITEM 1-BUSINESS 

                          NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION 

  Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a bank holding company within the
meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The Corporation was
organized in Delaware in 1971 and on December 1 of that year became the owner of
all of the outstanding capital stock, except directors' qualifying shares, of
The Northern Trust Company (Bank), an Illinois banking corporation located in
the Chicago financial district. The Corporation also owns three other banks in
the Chicago metropolitan area, a bank in each of Florida, Arizona, California
and Texas, and various other nonbank subsidiaries, including a securities
brokerage firm and a futures commission merchant. The Corporation expects that
although the operations of other subsidiaries will be of increasing
significance, the Bank will in the foreseeable future continue to be the major
source of the Corporation's assets, revenues and net income. Except where the
context otherwise requires, the term "Northern Trust" refers to Northern Trust
Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

  At December 31, 1994, Northern Trust had consolidated total assets of
approximately $18.6 billion and stockholders' equity of $1.3 billion. At 
June 30, 1994 Northern Trust was the third largest bank holding company
headquartered in Illinois and the 37th largest in the United States, based on
consolidated total assets of approximately $18.4 billion on that date.

                          THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY

  The Bank was founded by Byron L. Smith in 1889 to provide banking and trust
services to the public. Currently in its one hundred and sixth year, the Bank's
growth has come from internal sources rather than through merger or acquisition.
At December 31, 1994, the Bank had consolidated assets of approximately $14.7
billion. At June 30, 1994, the Bank was the third largest bank in Illinois and
the 38th largest in the United States, based on consolidated total assets of
approximately $14.9 billion on that date.

  The Bank currently has six active wholly owned subsidiaries: The Northern
Trust International Banking Corporation, NorLease, Inc., MFC Company, Inc.,
Nortrust Nominees Ltd., The Northern Trust Company U.K. Pension Plan Limited and
The Northern Trust Company, Canada. The Northern Trust International Banking
Corporation, located in New York, was organized under the Edge Act for the
purpose of conducting international business. NorLease, Inc. was established by
the Bank to enable it to broaden its leasing and leasing-related lending
activities. MFC Company, Inc. holds properties that are received from the Bank
in connection with certain problem loans. Nortrust Nominees Ltd., located in
London, is a U.K. trust corporation organized to hold U.K. real estate for
fiduciary accounts. The Northern Trust Company U.K. Pension Plan Limited was
established in connection with the pension plan for the Bank's London branch.
The Northern Trust Company, Canada was established to offer institutional trust
products and services to Canadian entities.

  In early 1995, Northern Global Financial Services Ltd. was incorporated in 
Hong Kong and, upon receipt of regulatory approval will enhance securities 
lending and relationship servicing capabilities for large asset custody clients 
in Asia and the Pacific Rim.

                 OTHER NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES

  The Corporation has three banking subsidiaries in the Chicago metropolitan
area: Northern Trust Bank/O'Hare N.A., Northern Trust Bank/DuPage, and Northern
Trust Bank/Lake Forest N.A. At December 31, 1994, these three Illinois banking
subsidiaries had nine office locations with combined total assets of
approximately $1.5 billion. The Corporation expects to seek regulatory approval
to merge these three Illinois banking subsidiaries into the Bank during 1995.
The Corporation's Florida banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of Florida
N.A., is headquartered in Miami and at December 31, 1994, had sixteen offices
located throughout Florida, with total assets of approximately $1.4 billion. The
Corporation's Arizona banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of Arizona N.A.,
is headquartered in Phoenix and at December 31,1994 had total assets of
approximately $270 million and serviced clients from five office locations. The
Corporation has a Texas banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of Texas N.A.,
headquartered in Dallas. It had four office locations and total assets of
approximately $190 million at December 31, 1994. The Corporation's California
banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of California N.A., is headquartered in
Santa Barbara. At December 31,1994, it had six office locations and total assets
of approximately $250 million.

  The Corporation has several nonbank subsidiaries. Among them are Northern
Trust Securities, Inc. which provides full brokerage services to clients of the
Bank and the Corporation's other banking and trust subsidiaries and selectively
underwrites general obligation tax-exempt securities. Northern Futures
Corporation is a futures commission merchant. Northern Investment Corporation
holds certain investments, including a loan made to a developer of a property in
which the Bank is the principal tenant. Berry, Hartell, Evers & Osborne, Inc. is
an investment management firm in San Francisco. The Northern Trust Company of
New York provides security clearance services for all nondepository eligible
securities held by 

================================================================================

 
================================================================================
trust, agency, and fiduciary accounts administered by the Corporation's
subsidiaries. Northern Trust Cayman International, Ltd. provides fiduciary
services to clients residing outside of the U.S. Hazlehurst & Associates, Inc.
is a retirement benefit plan services company in Atlanta, Georgia. Northern
Trust Services, Inc. provides management consulting services to nonaffiliated
financial institutions.

                      CORPORATION'S INTERNAL ORGANIZATION

  Northern Trust's business is organized broadly into two principal business
units: Corporate and Institutional Services, and Personal Financial Services,
both of which report to President and Chief Operating Officer William A. Osborn.
In addition, the Worldwide Operations Unit encompasses all trust and banking
operations and systems activities, and the Risk Management Unit focuses on
financial and risk management. The following is a brief summary of each unit's
business activities.

CORPORATE AND INSTITUTIONAL SERVICES (CIS)

  During late 1994, client corporate and institutional markets were brought
together by merging Corporate Financial Services, Commercial Banking and
Treasury Management Services into a single business unit. The commercial banking
and corporate trust relationship teams were brought together under Sheila A.
Penrose, Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank. This
realignment focuses Northern Trust's knowledge of the client's needs and
provides more seamless service across product lines, thereby increasing client
satisfaction opportunities, and strengthens relationships.

  Trust activities encompass custody related services for securities in
the United States and foreign markets, as well as securities lending, asset
management, and related cash management services. Master Trust and Master
Custody are the principal products. Custody of securities traded in markets
foreign to the client, has been provided primarily through the Bank's London
Branch. Related foreign exchange services are also conducted at the London
Branch as well as in Chicago.

  As measured by number of clients, Northern Trust is a leading provider of
Master Trust and Master Custody services in various market segments. At December
31,1994, total assets under administration were $447.2 billion. The major market
segments served are corporate pension, profit sharing and savings plans; state
and municipal retirement funds; taxable asset portfolios (foundations,
endowments and insurance companies); international asset portfolios
(international assets of domestic and foreign institutions); and a correspondent
trust market segment which provides custody, systems and investment services to
smaller bank trust departments. The Northern Trust Company of New York, The
Northern Trust Company, Canada, NorLease, Inc., The Northern Trust International
Banking Corporation and Hazlehurst & Associates, Inc. are also included in CIS.

  A full range of commercial banking services through the Bank which 
places special emphasis on developing institutional relationships in three 
target markets: middle market companies in the Chicago and Midwest area, large 
domestic corporations, and financial institutions (both domestic and
international). Credit services are administered in three groups: a Large
Corporations Group, a Mid-sized Corporations Group, and a Financial     
Institutions Group. 

  Treasury Management Services serves the treasury needs of major corporations 
and financial institutions by providing products and services to accelerate 
cash collections, control disbursement outflows, and generate information to
manage their cash positions. Treasury management products and services,
including lockbox collection, controlled disbursement products and electronic
banking, are developed and marketed in this group.

PERSONAL FINANCIAL SERVICES (PFS)

  Services to individuals is another major dimension of the trust business.
Barry G. Hastings, Vice Chairman of the Corporation and the Bank, is head of
Personal Financial Services (PFS) which encompasses personal trust, investment
management services, estate administration, personal banking and mortgage
lending. A key element of the personal trust strategy combines private banking
and trust services to targeted high net worth individuals in rapidly growing
areas of wealth concentration. These services are delivered through the Bank and
a network of banking subsidiaries located in Florida, Arizona, California, Texas
and suburban Chicago. PFS is one of the largest bank managers of personal trust
assets in the United States, with total assets under administration of $51.4
billion at December 31, 1994.

  Northern Trust Securities, Inc. and Berry, Hartell, Evers & Osborne, Inc. are 
also part of PFS.

  In December 1993, Northern Trust Corporation entered into a definitive
agreement to acquire Beach One Financial Services, Inc., parent company of The
Beach Bank of Vero Beach (Florida). Beach One's assets totaled $198.6 million at
December 31, 1994 and net income totaled $2.9 million in 1994. The acquisition
agreement calls for Beach One shareholders to receive Northern Trust Corporation
Common Stock aggregating $56.2 million with the exchange ratio set on the basis
of the average last-sale prices for Northern Common Stock on the NASDAQ National
Market System over a 20-day trading period ending just prior to closing. The
maximum number of shares Northern is required to issue without further approval
of

================================================================================

 
================================================================================
directors is 1,701,515, equivalent to a formula price of $33 per share. The
minimum number of shares Beach One holders are required to accept is 1,169,791,
equivalent to a formula price of $48 per share. The acquisition was approved by
Beach One shareholders on February 23, 1995 and by the Federal Reserve Bank on
March 1, 1995, and, is expected to close on March 31, 1995. This transaction is
expected to be accounted for as a pooling-of-interests.

  In February, 1995, the Corporation entered into a definitive agreement to
acquire Tanglewood Bancshares, Inc., parent company of Tanglewood Bank N.A.
Houston for $33.0 million in cash. Tanglewood's assets totaled $229.9 million at
December 31, 1994 and net income totaled $2.6 million in 1994. The agreement is
subject to the approval of Tanglewood shareholders, to final due diligence and
to various regulatory approvals and is expected to close in the second half of
1995.

WORLDWIDE OPERATIONS UNIT

  Supporting all of Northern Trust's business activities is the Worldwide
Operations Unit. During the fourth quarter of 1994 Trust and Banking operations
and system activities were merged to insure that both day-to-day and strategic
linkage between the new operations unit and all the areas it supports are
maintained and strengthened. This combined unit will leverage experience in
quality and productivity improvements, develop a shared technology strategy, and
draw on a large pool of talent to address product and delivery complexities.

  James J. Mitchell, Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank, 
heads the Worldwide Operations Unit. This Unit focuses on supporting sales, 
relationship management and product management activities for Corporate and 
Institutional Services and Personal Financial Services. 

RISK MANAGEMENT UNIT

  The Risk Management Unit, headed by Senior Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer Perry R. Pero, includes the Credit Policy function and the 
Bank's Treasury Department. The Credit Policy function is described fully on 
page 16 of this report. The Treasury Department is responsible for managing 
the Bank's wholesale funding and interest rate risk, as well as the portfolio of
interest rate risk management instruments under the direction of the Corporate
Asset and Liability Policy Committee. It is also responsible for the investment
portfolios of the Corporation and the Bank and provides investment advice and
management services to the subsidiary banks.

  The Risk Management Unit also includes the Corporate Controller, Corporate 
Treasurer, Investor Relations and Economic Research functions.

                              GOVERNMENT POLICIES

  The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external influences, 
principally general economic conditions, both domestic and international, and 
actions that the United States and foreign governments and their central banks 
take in managing their economies. These general conditions affect all of the 
Northern Trust's businesses, as well as the quality and volume of the loan 
and investment portfolios.

  An important regulator of domestic economic conditions is the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System, which has the general objective of
promoting orderly economic growth in the United States. Implementation of this
objective is accomplished by its open market operations in United States
Government securities, the discount rate at which member banks may borrow from
Federal Reserve Banks and changes in the reserve requirements for deposits. The
policies adopted by the Federal Reserve may strongly influence interest rates
and hence what banks earn on their loans and investments and what they pay on
their savings and time deposits and other purchased funds. Fiscal policies in
the United States and abroad also affect the composition and use of the Northern
Trust's resources.

                                  COMPETITION

  Northern Trust's principal business strategy is to provide quality financial 
services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a competitive 
advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy, Northern 
Trust seeks to deliver a level of service to its clients that distinguishes 
it from its competitors. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes the development 
and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income and is one of only six 
major bank holding companies in the United States that generates more revenues 
from fee-based services than from net interest income. Northern Trust seeks 
to develop and expand its recurring fee-based revenue by identifying selected
market niches and providing a high level of individualized service to its
clients in such markets. Northern Trust also seeks to preserve its asset quality
through established credit review procedures and to maintain a conservative
balance sheet. Finally, Northern Trust seeks to maintain a strong management
team with senior officers having broad experience and long tenure.

  Active competition exists in all principal areas in which the subsidiaries 
are presently engaged. CIS and PFS compete with domestic and foreign financial 
institutions, trust companies, financial companies, personal loan companies, 
mutual funds and investment advisers. Northern Trust is a leading provider 
of Master Trust and Master Custody services and has the leading market share 
in the Chicago area personal trust market.

================================================================================

 
================================================================================
  Commercial Banking and Treasury Management Services compete with domestic and 
foreign financial institutions, finance companies and leasing companies. Its
products also face increased competition due to the general trend among
corporations and other institutions to rely more upon direct access to the
credit and capital markets (such as through the direct issuance of commercial
paper) and less upon commercial banks and other traditional financial
intermediaries.

  The chief local competitors of the Bank for trust and banking business are 
Bank of America Illinois N.A., The First National Bank of Chicago and its
affiliate American National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Harris Trust and
Savings Bank, and LaSalle National Bank. The chief national competitors of the
Bank for Master Trust/Master Custody services are Mellon Bank Corporation, State
Street Boston Corporation, Bankers Trust New York Corporation, Chase Manhattan
Corporation and Bank of New York Company, Inc.

                          REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

  The Corporation is a bank holding company subject to the Bank Holding Company 
Act of 1956, as amended (Act), and to regulation by the Board of Governors 
of the Federal Reserve System. The Act limits the activities which may be
engaged in by the Corporation and its nonbanking subsidiaries to those so
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper
incident thereto. Also, under section 106 of the 1970 amendments to the Act and
the Federal Reserve Board's regulations, a bank holding company, as well as
certain of its subsidiaries, is prohibited from engaging in certain tie-in
arrangements in connection with any extension of credit or provision of any
property or services.

  The Act also prohibits bank holding companies from acquiring substantially 
all the assets of or owning more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or 
nonbanking company which is not already majority owned without prior approval 
of the Board of Governors. No application to acquire shares or assets of a 
bank located outside the state in which the operations of a bank holding
company's banking subsidiaries are principally conducted may be approved by the
Federal Reserve Board unless such acquisition is specifically authorized by a
statute of the state in which the bank to be acquired is located.

  Illinois law permits bank holding companies located in any state of the United
States to acquire banks or bank holding companies located in Illinois subject to
regulatory determinations that the laws of the other state permit Illinois bank
holding companies to acquire banks and bank holding companies within that state
on qualifications and conditions not unduly restrictive compared to those
imposed by Illinois law. Subject to these regulatory determinations, the
Corporation may acquire banks and bank holding companies in such states, and
bank holding companies in those states may acquire banks and bank holding
companies in Illinois.

  Applicable laws also permit the Corporation to acquire banks or bank holding 
companies in Arizona, California, Texas, Florida and certain other states.

  Illinois law permits an Illinois bank holding company to acquire banks
anywhere in the state. Illinois legislation also now allows Illinois banks to
open branches anywhere within Illinois.

  Beginning September 29, 1995 the Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching 
Efficiency Act of 1994 (Interstate Act) permits an adequately capitalized and 
adequately managed bank holding company to acquire, with Federal Reserve Board 
approval, a bank located in a state other than the bank company's home state, 
without regard to whether the transaction is permitted under any state law, 
except that a host state may establish by statute the minimum age of its banks 
(up to a maximum of 5 years) subject to acquisition by out-of-state bank holding
companies. The Federal Reserve Board may not approve the acquisition if the
applicant bank holding company, upon consummation, would control more than 10%
of total U.S. insured depository institution deposits or more than 30% of the
host state's total insured depository institutions deposits. Effective as of
September 29, 1994, the Interstate Act permits a bank, with the approval of the
appropriate Federal bank regulatory agency, to establish a de novo branch in a
state, other than the bank's home state, in which the bank does not presently
maintain a branch if the host state has enacted a law that applies equally to
all banks and expressly permits all out-of-state banks to branch de novo into
the host state. Commencing June 1, 1997, banks having different home states may,
with approval of the appropriate Federal bank regulatory agency, merge across
state lines, unless the home state of a participating bank has opted-out. The
Interstate Act permits as of September 29, 1995 any bank subsidiary of a bank
holding company to receive deposits, renew time deposits, close loans, service
loans and receive payments on loans and other obligations as agent for a bank or
thrift affiliate, whether such affiliate is located in a different state or in
the same state.

  The Financial Institutions Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989
(FIRREA) amended the Act to authorize the Federal Reserve Board to allow bank
holding companies to acquire any savings association (whether healthy, failed or
failing) and removed "tandem operations" restrictions, which previously
prohibited savings associations from being operated in tandem with a bank
holding company's other subsidiaries. As a result, bank holding companies now
have expanded opportunities to acquire savings associations.

  Under FIRREA, an insured depository institution which is commonly controlled 
with another insured depository institution shall generally be liable for any 
loss incurred, or reasonably anticipated to be incurred, by the Federal Deposit 
Insurance Corporation (FDIC) in connection with the default of such commonly 
controlled institution, or for any assistance 

================================================================================

 
================================================================================
provided by the FDIC to such commonly controlled institution, which is in danger
of default. The term "default" is defined to mean the appointment of a
conservator or receiver for such institution. Thus, any of the Corporation's
banking subsidiaries could incur liability to the FDIC pursuant to this
statutory provision in the event of a loss suffered by the FDIC in connection
with any of the Corporation's other banking subsidiaries (whether due to a
default or the provision of FDIC assistance). Although neither the Corporation
nor any of its nonbanking subsidiaries may be assessed for such loss under
FIRREA, the Corporation has agreed to indemnify each of its banking
subsidiaries, other than the Bank, for any payments a banking subsidiary may be
liable to pay to the FDIC pursuant to the provisions of FIRREA.

  The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are insured 
by the FDIC and it is subject to regulation by both these entities, as well 
as by the Illinois Commissioner of Banks and Trust Companies. The Bank is also 
a member of and subject to the rules of the Chicago Clearinghouse Association, 
and is registered as a government securities dealer in accordance with the
Government Securities Act of 1986. As a government securities dealer its
activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the Department of the
Treasury. The Bank is registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve
and is therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve.

  The national bank subsidiaries are members of the Federal Reserve System and 
the FDIC and are subject to regulation by the Comptroller of the Currency. 
Northern Trust Bank/DuPage, a state chartered institution that is not a member
of the Federal Reserve System, is regulated by the FDIC and the Illinois
Commissioner of Banks and Trust Companies.

  The Corporation's nonbanking affiliates are all subject to examination by the 
Federal Reserve. In addition, The Northern Trust Company of New York is subject 
to regulation by the Banking Department of the State of New York. Northern 
Futures Corporation is registered as a futures commission merchant with the 
Commodity Futures Trading Commission, is a member of the National Futures
Association, the Chicago Board of Trade and the Board of Trade Clearing
Corporation, and is a clearing member of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange.
Northern Trust Securities, Inc. is registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission and is a member of the National Association of Securities Dealers,
Inc., and, as such, is subject to the rules and regulations of both these
bodies. Berry, Hartell, Evers & Osborne, Inc. is registered with the Securities
and Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and is subject
to that Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated
thereunder. Two families of mutual funds for which the Bank acts as investment
adviser are also subject to regulation by the Securities and Exchange Commission
under the Investment Company Act. Various other subsidiaries and branches
conduct business in other states and foreign countries and, therefore, may be
subject to their regulations and restrictions.

  The Corporation and its subsidiaries are affiliates within the meaning of the 
Federal Reserve Act so that the banking subsidiaries are subject to certain
restrictions with respect to loans to the Corporation or its nonbanking
subsidiaries and certain other transactions with them or involving their
securities.

  Information regarding dividend restrictions on banking subsidiaries is
incorporated herein by reference to Note 12 titled Restrictions on Subsidiary
Dividends and Loans or Advances on page 59 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994.

  Under the FDIC's risk-based insurance assessment system, each insured bank 
is placed in one of nine risk categories based on its level of capital and 
other relevant information. Each insured bank's insurance assessment rate is 
then determined by the risk category in which it has been classified by the
FDIC. There is an eight basis point spread between the highest and lowest
assessment rates, so that banks classified as strongest by the FDIC are subject
to a rate of .23%, and banks classified as weakest by the FDIC are subject to a
rate of .31%. The FDIC is prohibited from lowering the average assessment rate
below .23% until the Bank Insurance Fund (Fund) has reached a reserve ratio of
1.25%. The FDIC currently estimates the Fund will achieve the designated reserve
ratio in 1995 and has proposed significant reductions in assessment rates.

  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA) 
substantially revised the bank regulatory and funding provisions of the Federal
Deposit Insurance Act and made revisions to several other federal banking
statutes. In general, FDICIA subjects banks to significantly increased
regulation and supervision. Among other things, FDICIA requires federal bank
regulatory authorities to take "prompt corrective action" with respect to banks
that do not meet minimum capital requirements, and imposes certain restrictions
upon banks which meet minimum capital requirements but are not "well
capitalized" for purposes of FDICIA. FDICIA and the regulations adopted under it
establish five capital categories as follows, with the category for any
institution determined by the lowest of any of these ratios:

================================================================================


================================================================================
                                 Tier 1           Tier 1            Total
                              Leverage Ratio Risk-Based Ratio  Risk-Based Ratio
                              -------------- ----------------  ----------------
Well Capitalized                5% or above     6% or above      10% or above

Adequately Capitalized          4% or above*    4% or above      8% or above

Undercapitalized                Less than 4%    Less than 4%     Less than 8%

Significantly Undercapitalized  Less than 3%    Less than 3%     Less than 6%

Critically Undercapitalized          -                -          2% or below

*3% for banks with the highest CAMEL (supervisory) rating.

  An insured depository institution may be deemed to be in a capital
category that is lower than is indicated by the capital position reflected on
its balance sheet if it receives an unsatisfactory rating by its examiners with
respect to its assets, management, earnings or liquidity. Although a bank's
capital categorization thus depends upon factors in addition to the balance
sheet ratios in the table above, the Corporation has set capital goals for each
of its subsidiary banks that would allow each bank to meet the minimum ratios
that are one of the conditions for it to be considered to be well capitalized.
At December 31, 1994, the Bank and each of the other subsidiary banks met or
exceeded these goals. The capital ratios are disclosed and discussed on page 44
of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December
31, 1994.

  Under FDICIA, a bank that is not well capitalized is generally prohibited from
accepting or renewing brokered deposits and offering interest rates on deposits
significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area or
nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited); in addition, "pass
through" insurance coverage may not be available for certain employee benefit
accounts.

  FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital
distribution (including payment of a dividend) or paying any management fee to
its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be
undercapitalized. Undercapitalized banks are subject to limitations on growth
and are required to submit a capital restoration plan, which must be guaranteed
by the institution's parent company. Institutions that fail to submit an
acceptable plan, or that are significantly undercapitalized, are subject to a
host of more drastic regulatory restrictions and measures.

  FDICIA directs that each federal banking agency prescribe standards for
depository institutions or depository institutions' holding companies relating
to internal controls, information systems, internal audit systems, loan
documentation, credit underwriting, interest rate exposure, asset growth,
compensation, a maximum ratio of classified assets to capital, minimum earnings
sufficient to absorb losses and other standards as they deem appropriate. Many
regulations implementing these directives have been proposed and adopted by the
agencies.

  FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that may affect the
operations of a bank, including new reporting requirements, regulatory standards
for real estate lending, "truth in savings" provisions and a requirement that a
depository institution give 90 days' prior notice to customers and regulatory
authorities before closing any branch.

                                     STAFF

  Northern Trust employed 6,608 full-time equivalent officers and staff members 
as of December 31, 1994, approximately 4,800 of whom were employed by the Bank.

================================================================================

 
================================================================================

                            STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES

  The following statistical disclosures, included in the Corporation's Annual
Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994, are incorporated
herein by reference.

                                                     ANNUAL REPORT
SCHEDULE                                                   PAGE(S)
___________________________________________________  _____________
Foreign Outstandings..............................    ......... 37

Nonperforming Assets and 90 Day Past Due Loans....    ......... 37

Analysis of Reserve for Credit Losses.............    ......... 38

Average Balance Sheet.............................    ......... 72

Ratios............................................    ......... 72

Analysis of Net Interest Income...................    .... 74 & 75
___________________________________________________  _____________
  Additional statistical information on a consolidated basis is set forth below.

REMAINING MATURITY AND AVERAGE YIELD OF SECURITIES HELD TO MATURITY AND
AVAILABLE FOR SALE
(Yield on a taxable equivalent basis giving effect of the federal and state tax
rates)

 
================================================================================

*Prior to 1994, securities shown as Available for Sale were classified as Held 
 for Sale and carried at the lower of cost or fair value.

================================================================================

================================================================================
 





===============================================================================
 
AVERAGE DEPOSITS BY TYPE 

 
                                            
AVERAGE RATES PAID ON TIME DEPOSITS BY TYPE 

 
                                            
REMAINING MATURITY OF TIME DEPOSITS $100,000 AND MORE

 



================================================================================

                                                        
================================================================================






================================================================================

 
PERCENT OF INTERNATIONAL RELATED AVERAGE ASSETS AND LIABILITIES TO TOTAL 
CONSOLIDATED AVERAGE ASSETS




RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSSES RELATING TO INTERNATIONAL OPERATIONS



The Securities and Exchange Commission requires the disclosure of the reserve
for credit losses that is applicable to international operations. The above
table has been prepared in compliance with this disclosure requirement and is
used in determining international operating performance. In 1990 the remaining
$13.1 million of the reserve designated for loans to less developed countries
was transferred to the general unallocated portion of the reserve for credit
losses. The amounts shown in the table should not be construed as being the only
amounts that are available for international loan charge-offs, since the entire
reserve for credit losses is available to absorb losses on both domestic and
international loans. In addition, these amounts are not intended to be
indicative of future charge-off trends.
================================================================================


DISTRIBUTION OF INTERNATIONAL LOANS AND DEPOSITS BY TYPE



================================================================================



================================================================================

                            CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 

Overview 

        The Credit Policy function reports to the Chief Financial Officer.
Credit Policy provides a system of checks and balances for Northern Trust's
diverse credit-related activities by establishing and monitoring all credit-
related policies and practices and ensuring their uniform application. These
activities are designed to ensure that credit exposure is diversified on an
industry and client basis, thus lessening the overall credit risk.

        Individual credit authority for commercial loans and within Personal
Financial Services is limited to specified amounts and maturities. Credit
decisions involving commitment exposure in excess of the specified individual
limits are submitted to the appropriate Group Credit Approval Committee
(Committee). Each Committee is chaired by the executive in charge of the area
and has a Credit Policy officer as a voting participant. Each Committee's credit
approval authority is specified, based on commitment levels, credit ratings and
maturities. Credits involving commitment exposure in excess of these group
credit limits require, dependent upon the internal credit rating, the approval
of the Credit Policy Credit Approval Committee, the head of Credit Policy, or
the business unit head.

        Credit Policy established the Counterparty Risk Management Committee 
in order to manage counterparty risk more effectively. This committee has sole 
credit authority for exposure to all foreign banks, certain domestic banks 
which Credit Policy deems to be counterparties and which do not have commercial 
credit relationships within the Corporation, and other organizations which 
Credit Policy deems to be counterparties. 

        Under the auspices of Credit Policy, country exposure limits are
reviewed and approved on a country-by-country basis.

        As part of the Corporation's ongoing credit granting process, internal
credit ratings are assigned to each client and credit before credit is extended,
based on creditworthiness. Credit Policy performs at least annually a review of
selected significant credit exposures to identify at the earliest possible
stages clients who might be facing financial difficulties. Internal credit
ratings are also reviewed during this process. Above average risk loans, which
will vary from time to time, receive special attention by both lending officers
and Credit Policy. This approach allows management to take remedial action in an
effort to deal with potential problems.

        An integral part of the Credit Policy function is a monthly formal 
review of all past due and potential problem loans to determine which credits, 
if any, need to be placed on nonaccrual status or charged off. The provision 
is reviewed quarterly to determine the amount necessary to maintain an adequate 
reserve for credit losses.

        Management of credit risk is reviewed by various bank regulatory
agencies. Independent auditors also perform a review of credit-related
procedures, the loan portfolio and other extensions of credit, and the reserve
for credit losses as part of their audit of the consolidated financial
statements.

Allocation of the Reserve for Credit Losses 

        The reserve for credit losses is established and maintained on an
overall basis and in practice is not specifically allocated to specific loans or
segments of the portfolio. Thus, the reserve is available to absorb credit
losses from all loans, leases and credit related exposures. Bank disclosure
guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission request management
to furnish a breakdown of the reserve for credit losses by loan category and
provide the percentage of loans in each category to total loans.

        In prior years, the allocation of the reserve represented an estimate of
the amount that was necessary to provide for potential losses related to
specific nonperforming loans only. Beginning in 1994, the methodology was
revised to allocate the reserve for credit losses associated with all loans,
leases and commitments based on historical loss experience, internal credit
ratings and specific amounts designated for certain above average risk loans.
This allocation method should not be interpreted as an indication of expected
losses within the next year or any specified time period.

================================================================================


================================================================================
 
        As required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following 
tables break down the reserve for credit losses at December 31, 1990 through 
1994:


Reserve for Credit Losses




Reserve for Credit Losses



        Loan and lease categories as a percent of total loans and leases as 
of December 31, 1990 through 1994, are presented below. 


Loan and Lease Category to Total Loans and Leases



================================================================================



================================================================================

        The information presented in the "Credit Risk Management" section should
be read in conjunction with the following information that is incorporated
herein by reference to the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 1994:


                                                                   Annual Report
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                               Page(s)
----------------------------------------------------------------   -------------
 1. Accounting Policies
    D. Interest Risk Management Instruments.....................   ...........50
    E. Loans and Leases.........................................   ......50 & 51
    F. Reserve for Credit Losses................................   ...........51
    I. Other Real Estate Owned..................................   ...........51
 4. Loans and Leases............................................   ...........54
 5. Reserve for Credit Losses...................................   ...........55
15. Contingent Liabilities......................................   ...........61
17. Off-Balance Sheet Financial Instruments.....................   ........63-66
----------------------------------------------------------------  
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and 
Results of Operations
----------------------------------------------------------------  
Asset Quality and Credit Risk...................................   ........34-39
----------------------------------------------------------------   -------------

        In addition, the following schedules on page 15 of this Form 10-K should
be read in conjunction with the "Credit Risk Management" section:

        Reserve for Credit Losses Relating to International Operations 

        Distribution of International Loans and Deposits by Type 


================================================================================



================================================================================
 
                      INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 


        For the discussion of interest rate sensitivity, see the section
entitled "Asset and Liability Management" on page 41 of Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders, which is incorporated herein by
reference.

================================================================================



================================================================================
 
        The following unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated
Statement of Income for The Northern Trust Company were prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and are provided here for
informational purposes. These consolidated financial statements should be read
in conjunction with the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial
statements, included in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 1994, and incorporated herein by reference on page 24 of
this report.


The Northern Trust Company 
Consolidated Balance Sheet (unaudited)



================================================================================


 
THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF INCOME (unaudited)

 
                                                        



 
SUPPLEMENTAL ITEM--EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

DAVID W. FOX

Mr. Fox was elected Chairman of the Board of the Corporation and the Bank in 
April 1990, and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and the Bank on 
December 1989. He held the title of President of the Corporation and the Bank 
from 1987 through 1993. Mr. Fox, 63, joined the Bank in 1955.

WILLIAM A. OSBORN

Mr. Osborn was elected President and Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation 
and the Bank effective January 1994. He was a Senior Executive Vice President 
of the Corporation and the Bank from 1992 through 1993 and prior to that time 
had served as an Executive Vice President of the Bank since 1987, and of the 
Corporation since 1989. Mr. Osborn, 47, began his career with the Bank in 1970.

BARRY G. HASTINGS

Mr. Hastings was elected Vice Chairman of the Corporation and the Bank effective
January 1994, and is currently head of Personal Financial Services. He was a
Senior Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank from 1992
through 1993 and prior to that time had served as an Executive Vice President of
the Bank since 1987, and of the Corporation since 1990. Mr. Hastings, 47, began
his career with the Corporation in 1974.

J. DAVID BROCK

Mr. Brock became an Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank in
April 1990. Currently, he is responsible for Institutional Financial Services in
the Corporate and Institutional Services Business Unit. From 1990 to 1994, he
was head of Corporate Management Services and the Commercial Banking Services
Group. Mr. Brock, 50, joined the Bank in 1966.

DAVID L. EDDY

Mr. Eddy became a Senior Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank and 
Treasurer of the Corporation in 1986. Mr. Eddy, 58, joined the Bank in 1960.

JOHN V. N. McCLURE

Mr. McClure was appointed an Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the
Bank in February 1994, and is currently responsible for strategic expense
management. Previously, he was responsible for Strategic Planning and Marketing.
He served as head of the Private Banking Division of Personal Financial Services
from 1989 to 1991. He had been a Senior Vice President of the Bank since 1986
and of the Corporation since 1991. Mr. McClure, 43, joined the Bank in 1973.

JAMES J. MITCHELL

Mr. Mitchell was appointed an Executive Vice President of the Bank in December
1987 and of the Corporation in October 1994, and is currently head of the
Worldwide Operations Unit. Mr. Mitchell, 52, joined the Bank in 1964.

SHEILA A. PENROSE

Ms. Penrose is an Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank, 
and Head of the Corporate and Institutional Services Business Unit. She became 
an Executive Vice President of the Corporation in November 1994 and of the 
Bank in November 1993, and prior to that time had been Senior Vice President 
of the Bank since 1986. Ms. Penrose, 49, began her career with the Bank in 
1977.

PERRY R. PERO

Mr. Pero is Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation and the Bank and Cashier
of the Bank. Mr. Pero is also head of the Risk Management Unit and Chairman of
the Corporate Asset and Liability Policy Committee. He became a Senior Executive
Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank in 1992 after serving as an
Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank since 1987. Mr. Pero,
55, joined the Bank in 1964.

PETER L. ROSSITER

Mr. Rossiter was appointed General Counsel of the Corporation and the Bank 
in April 1993. He joined the Corporation and the Bank in 1992 as an Executive 
Vice President and Associate General Counsel. Mr. Rossiter, 46, had been a 
partner in the law firm of Schiff Hardin & Waite from 1979 to 1992.





 
HARRY W. SHORT

Mr. Short was appointed Senior Vice President and Controller of the Corporation 
and the Bank in October 1994. He joined the Corporation and the Bank in January 
1990 and served as Senior Vice President and General Auditor. Mr. Short, 46, 
had been a partner in the accounting firm of KPMG Peat Marwick from 1982 to 
1990.

WILLIAM S. TRUKENBROD

Mr. Trukenbrod was appointed an Executive Vice President of the Corporation and
the Bank in February 1994, and is currently Chairman of the Credit Policy
Committee. Previously, he served as head of the U.S. Corporate Group of
Commercial Banking from 1987 to 1992. He had been a Senior Vice President of the
Bank since 1980 and of the Corporation since 1992. Mr. Trukenbrod, 55, joined
the Bank in 1962.

There is no family relationship between any of the above executive officers 
and directors.

The positions of Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer, President
and Vice Chairman are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first
meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of
stockholders. The other officers are appointed annually by the Board. Officers
continue to hold office until their successors are duly elected or unless
removed by the Board.

Mr. Fox has announced his intention to retire on October 3, 1995. The Board of
Directors of the Corporation has approved a succession plan under which Mr.
Osborn will become Chief Executive Officer on June 30, 1995, and Mr. Hastings
will become Chief Operating Officer on that date. Mr. Fox will remain Chairman
until his retirement, whereupon Mr. Osborn will become Chairman as well as Chief
Executive Officer and Mr. Hastings will become President as well as Chief
Operating Officer.

ITEM 2--PROPERTIES

The executive offices of the Corporation and the Bank are located at 50 South
LaSalle Street in the financial district of Chicago. This Bank-owned building is
occupied by various divisions of Northern Trust's business units. Financial
services are provided by the Bank at this location. Adjacent to this building
are two office buildings in which the Bank leases approximately 316,000 square
feet of space for staff divisions of the business units. The Bank also leases
approximately 112,000 square feet of a building at 125 South Wacker Drive in
Chicago for computer facilities, banking operations and personal banking
services. Financial services are also provided by the Bank at five other Chicago
area locations, two of which are owned and three of which are leased. The Bank's
trust and banking operations are located in a 465,000 square foot facility at
801 South Canal Street in Chicago. The building is owned by a developer and
leased by the Corporation. Space for the Bank's London branch, Edge Act
subsidiary and The Northern Company, Canada are leased.

The Corporation's other subsidiaries operate from 45 locations, 10 of which are
owned and 35 of which are leased. Detailed information regarding the addresses
of all Northern Trust's locations can be found on pages 80 and 81 in the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1994, which is incorporated herein by reference.

The facilities which are owned or leased are suitable and adequate for business
needs. For additional information relating to properties and lease commitments,
refer to Note 6 titled Buildings and Equipment and Note 7 titled Lease
Commitments on pages 55 and 56 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 3--LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference 
to Note 15 titled Contingent Liabilities on page 61 of the Corporation's Annual 
Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994.

In late November, 1993, the U.S. Department of Justice informed the Corporation
that the Department is investigating the mortgage lending practices of the Bank
and the Corporation's three other Illinois banking subsidiaries, as part of its
responsibility to investigate possible discrimination on the basis of race or
national origin under the Equal Credit Opportunity Act and the Fair Housing Act.
The Corporation believes it has cooperated fully with the Department of Justice
in the investigation, which is still pending.


ITEM 4--SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None





===============================================================================
 
                                   PART II 

ITEM 5--MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 


     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the section of the Consolidated Financial Statistics titled "Common Stock
Dividend and Market Price" on pages 76 and 77 of the Corporation's Annual Report
to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994.

     Information regarding dividend restrictions of the Corporation's banking
subsidiaries is incorporated herein by reference to Note 12 titled "Restrictions
on Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or Advances" on page 59 of the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994.

ITEM 6--SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the table titled "Summary of Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 
26 of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended 
December 31, 1994.

ITEM 7--MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS 
OF OPERATIONS 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations on pages 26 through 45 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994.

ITEM 8--FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 

     The following financial statements of the Corporation and its subsidiaries
included in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1994, are incorporated herein by reference.

 
       
     The section titled "Quarterly Financial Data" on pages 76 and 77 of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1994, is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 9--CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None 


===============================================================================


===============================================================================
 
                                   PART III 

ITEM 10--DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 

     The information called for by Item 10, relating to Directors and Nominees
for election to the Board of Directors, is incorporated herein by reference to
pages 2 through 5 of the Corporation's definitive 1995 Notice and Proxy 
Statement filed in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 18, 1995. The information called for by
Item 10 relating to Executive Officers is set forth in Part I of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11--EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to pages 8 and 9 and pages 10 through 17 of the Corporation's definitive 1995 
Notice and Proxy Statement filed in connection with the solicitation of proxies
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 18, 1995.

ITEM 12--SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to pages 6 and 7 of the Corporation's definitive 1995 Notice and Proxy 
Statement filed in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 18, 1995.

ITEM 13--CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to page 9 of the Corporation's definitive 1995 Notice and Proxy Statement filed
in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 18, 1995.

===============================================================================


===============================================================================
 
                                   PART IV 


ITEM 14--EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 

ITEM 14(A)(1) AND (2)--  
NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
                     AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


     The following financial information is set forth in Item 1 for
informational purposes only:

         Financial Information of The Northern Trust Company (Bank Only):

             Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet--December 31, 1994 and 1993.

             Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Income--Years Ended December
             31, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its
subsidiaries are incorporated by reference into Item 8 from the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994:

         Consolidated Financial Statements of Northern Trust Corporation 
         and Subsidiaries: 

             Consolidated Balance Sheet--December 31, 1994 and 1993. 

             Consolidated Statement of Income--Years Ended December 31, 
             1994, 1993 and 1992. 

             Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity--Years 
             Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992. 

             Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows--Years Ended December 
             31, 1994, 1993 and 1992. 

     The following financial information is incorporated by reference into 
Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1994:

         Financial Statements of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation): 

             Condensed Balance Sheet--December 31, 1994 and 1993. 

             Condensed Statement of Income--Years Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 
             and 1992. 

             Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity--Years 
             Ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992. 

             Condensed Statement of Cash Flows--Years Ended December 31, 1994, 
             1993 and 1992. 

     The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 1994,
incorporated by reference into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1994, pertain to the Bank only
information, consolidated financial statements and Corporation only information
listed above.

     The Report of Independent Public Accountants incorporated by reference into
Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1994 pertains to the consolidated financial statements and
Corporation only information listed above.

     Financial statement schedules have been omitted for the reason that they
are not required or are not applicable.

ITEM 14(A)3--EXHIBITS 

     The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index beginning on page 28 of this Form
10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference to other
filings.

ITEM 14(B)--REPORTS ON FORM 8-K 

     No reports on Form 8-K were filed by the Corporation during the quarter
ended December 31, 1994.

===============================================================================


===============================================================================
 
                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Form 10-K
Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


Date: March 14, 1995                             Northern Trust Corporation   
                                                         (Registrant)       



                                       By:         David W. Fox
                                           ----------------------------------
                                                   David W. Fox
                                             Chairman of the Board and
                                              Chief Executive Officer


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Form 10-K Report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


===============================================================================


==============================================================================
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX 

        The following Exhibits are filed herewith or are incorporated herein 
by reference.

===============================================================================
 


==============================================================================
 
===============================================================================

============================================================================== 

* Prior Filings (File No. 0-5965, except as noted)
  -----------------------------------------------

   (1)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992

   (2)  Registration Statement on Form S-4 dated February 10, 1994 (Reg. No. 
        33-52219)

   (3)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1993

   (4)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1986

   (5)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1986

   (6)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988

   (7)  Form 8-K dated January 26, 1989

   (8)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1989

   (9)  Form 8-A dated October 30, 1989

  (10)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990

  (11)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1991

  (12)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1992

  (13)  Form 8-K dated February 20, 1991

  (14)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993

** Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement
   ---------------------------------------------------------------

        Upon written request to Peter L. Rossiter, Secretary, Northern Trust
Corporation, 50 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60675, copies of
exhibits listed above are available to Northern Trust Corporation stockholders
by specifically identifying each exhibit desired in the request.

        Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the Corporation 
hereby agrees to furnish the Commission, upon request, any instrument defining 
the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Corporation not filed as an 
exhibit herein. No such instrument authorizes long-term debt securities in 
excess of 10% of the total assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries on 
a consolidated basis. 
==============================================================================

