
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                               ----------------

                                  FORM 10-K 

[X]     ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
        THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                      OR

[_]     TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
        THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

        For the transition period from _____________ to _______________         

                         Commission File Number 0-5965

                          Northern Trust Corporation
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

                 Delaware                                  36-2723087
      (State or other jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S. Employer
       incorporation or organization)                  Identification No.)

         50 South La Salle Street
             Chicago, Illinois                               60675
  (Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code) 

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (312)630-6000

                               ----------------

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                       Common Stock, $1.66 2/3 Par Value

                               ----------------

                        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

                               ----------------

         Floating Rate Capital Securities, Series A of NTC Capital I, 
                        and Series B of NTC Capital II 
            Fully and Unconditionally Guaranteed by the Registrant

                               ----------------

                 Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures,
                    Series A and Series B of the Registrant

                               (Title of Class)

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.       YES [X]    NO [_]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.        [X]

     At February 10, 1999, 111,366,724 shares of Common Stock, $1.66-2/3 par
value, were outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the Common Stock
(based upon the last sale price of the common stock at February 10, 1999, as
reported by The Nasdaq Stock Market) held by non-affiliates was approximately
$8,315,111,639. Determination of stock ownership by non-affiliates was made
solely for the purpose of responding to this requirement and the registrant is
not bound by this determination for any other purpose.

Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference: 
     Annual Report to Stockholders for the Fiscal Year Ended 
       December 31, 1998 - Part I and Part II
     1999 Notice and Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of
       Stockholders to be held on April 20, 1999 - Part III

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



 






                      [THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]











                            Northern Trust Corporation
 
                                    FORM 10-K 

                 Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of 
                       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

                                 





 
                                    PART I 

Item 1--Business 

                          NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION 

     Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) was organized in Delaware in 1971
and that year became the owner of all of the outstanding capital stock, except
directors' qualifying shares, of The Northern Trust Company (Bank), an Illinois
banking corporation headquartered in the Chicago financial district and the
Corporation's principal subsidiary. The Corporation also owns banking
subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida and Texas, a Federal
Savings Bank in Michigan, trust companies in Connecticut and New York and
various other nonbank subsidiaries, including a securities brokerage firm, a
registered investment adviser and a retirement services company. The Corporation
expects that, although the operations of other subsidiaries will be of
increasing significance, the Bank will in the foreseeable future continue to be
the major source of the Corporation's assets, revenues and net income. Except
where the context otherwise requires, the term "Northern Trust" refers to
Northern Trust Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

     At December 31, 1998, Northern Trust had consolidated total assets of
approximately $27.9 billion and stockholders' equity of approximately $1.9
billion, and was the second largest bank holding company headquartered in
Illinois and the 32nd largest in the United States.


                          THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY

     The Bank was founded by Byron L. Smith in 1889 to provide banking and trust
services to the public. Currently in its 110th year, the Bank's growth has come
primarily from internal sources rather than through merger or acquisition. At
December 31, 1998, the Bank had consolidated assets of approximately $23.3
billion and common equity capital of approximately $1.5 billion. At September
30, 1998, the Bank was the 2nd largest bank in Illinois and the 36th largest in
the United States, based on consolidated total assets of approximately $23.9
billion on that date.

     The Bank currently has eighteen banking offices in the Chicago area and
nine active wholly owned subsidiaries. The Northern Trust International Banking
Corporation, located in New York, was organized under the Edge Act for the
purpose of conducting international business. NorLease, Inc. conducts leasing
and leasing-related lending activities. MFC Company, Inc. holds properties that
are received from the Bank in connection with certain problem loans. Nortrust
Nominees Ltd., located in London, is a U.K. trust corporation organized to hold
U.K. real estate for fiduciary accounts. The Northern Trust Company U.K. Pension
Plan Limited, located in London, was established in connection with the pension
plan for the Bank's London Branch. The Northern Trust Company, Canada, located
in Toronto, offers institutional trust products and services to Canadian
entities. Northern Global Financial Services Limited, located in Hong Kong,
provides securities lending and relationship servicing for large asset custody
clients in Asia and the Pacific Rim. Northern Trust Trade Services Limited
facilitates the issuance and processing of commercial letters of credit in Hong
Kong. Northern Trust Fund Managers (Ireland) Limited was established to
facilitate the offering of off-shore collective investment products to
institutional clients.


                 OTHER NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES

     The Corporation's Florida banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of
Florida N.A., headquartered in Miami, at December 31, 1998 had twenty-four
offices located throughout Florida and total assets of approximately $3.1
billion. The Corporation's Arizona banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of
Arizona N.A., is headquartered in Phoenix and at December 31, 1998 had total
assets of approximately $587 million and served clients from seven office
locations in Arizona. The Corporation's Texas banking subsidiary, Northern Trust
Bank of Texas N.A., headquartered in Dallas, had seven office locations and
total assets of approximately $587 million at December 31, 1998. The
Corporation's California banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of California
N.A., is headquartered in Santa Barbara. At December 31, 1998, it had nine
office locations and total assets of approximately $807 million. The
Corporation's Colorado banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of Colorado, was
acquired in 1998. Its one location is in Denver and, at December 31, 1998, it
had total assets of approximately $48 million. The Corporation's Federal Savings
Bank subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank, FSB, commenced operations in Bloomfield
Hills, Michigan in 1998. At December 31, 1998, it had total assets of
approximately $14 million.




 
     The Corporation has several nonbank subsidiaries. Among them is Northern
Trust Securities, Inc. which provides full brokerage services to clients of the
Bank and the Corporation's other banking and trust subsidiaries and selectively
underwrites general obligation tax-exempt securities. Northern Trust Retirement
Consulting, L.L.C. is a retirement benefit plan services company in Atlanta,
Georgia. Northern Trust Global Advisors, Inc. in Stamford, Connecticut is an
international provider of institutional investment management services, and the
parent of The Northern Trust Company of Connecticut, and Northern Trust
Quantitative Advisors, Inc. is a manager of index funds and quantitative
investment products. Northern Investment Corporation holds certain investments,
including a loan made to a developer of a property in which the Bank is the
principal tenant. The Northern Trust Company of New York provides security
clearance services for all nondepository eligible securities held by trust,
agency, and fiduciary accounts administered by the Corporation's subsidiaries.
Northern Trust Cayman International, Ltd. provides fiduciary services to clients
residing outside of the United States. In 1998, Northern Trust exited from the
futures brokerage business previously conducted by Northern Futures Corporation
and sold all the assets of Berry, Hartell, Evers & Osborne, Inc., its San
Francisco investment management firm.


                             INTERNAL ORGANIZATION

     Northern Trust, under Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William A.
Osborn, organizes client services around two principal business units: Corporate
and Institutional Services and Personal Financial Services. Investment products 
are provided to the clients of those business units by Northern Trust Global 
Investments. Each of these three business units has a president who reports to 
President and Chief Operating Officer Barry G. Hastings. The Worldwide
Operations and Technology business unit, which provides trust and banking
operations and systems activities, also reports to Mr. Hastings. A Risk
Management unit, which focuses on financial and risk management, reports
directly to Mr. Osborn.

     The following is a brief summary of each unit's business activities.


Corporate and Institutional Services (C&IS)

     Headed by Sheila A. Penrose, President - Corporate and Institutional
Services, C&IS provides trust, commercial banking and treasury management
services to corporate and institutional clients. Trust activities encompass
custody services for owners of securities in the United States and foreign
markets, as well as securities lending and asset management services. Services
with respect to securities traded in foreign markets are provided primarily
through the Bank's London Branch. Related foreign exchange services are rendered
at the London and Singapore Branches as well as in Chicago. As measured by
assets administered and by number of clients, Northern Trust is a leading
provider of Master Trust and Master Custody services to three defined market
segments: retirement plans, institutional clients and international clients.
Master Trust and Custody includes a full range of state-of-the-art capabilities
including: worldwide custody settlement and reporting, cash management, a wide
range of investment products, securities lending, and performance analysis
services. In addition to Master Trust and Master Custody, C&IS offers a
comprehensive array of retirement consulting and recordkeeping services through
Northern Trust Retirement Consulting, L.L.C. At December 31, 1998, total assets
under administration, excluding personal trust assets, were $1.14 trillion. The
Northern Trust Company of New York, The Northern Trust Company, Canada,
Norlease, Inc., and The Northern Trust International Banking Corporation are
also included in C&IS.

     C&IS offers a full range of commercial banking services through the Bank,
placing special emphasis on developing institutional relationships in two target
markets: large domestic corporations and financial institutions (both domestic
and international). Treasury management services are provided to corporations
and financial institutions and include a variety of other products and services
to accelerate cash collections, control disbursement outflows and generate
information to manage cash positions.


Personal Financial Services (PFS)

     Services to individuals is another major dimension of the trust business.
Headed by Mark Stevens, President - Personal Financial Services, PFS encompasses
personal trust and investment management services, estate administration,
banking and residential real estate mortgage lending. The Bank's personal
financial services strategy includes targeting high net worth individuals in the
metropolitan Chicago market and, through its Wealth Management Group,
nationally. The Bank is one of the largest bank managers of personal trust
assets in the United States, with $40.5 billion in assets under management and
$77.0 billion in assets under administration at December 31, 1998.



 
     PFS services are also delivered through a network of banking subsidiaries
located in Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida and Texas, and a Federal
Savings Bank subsidiary in Michigan. PFS is one of the largest bank managers of
personal trust assets in the United States, with $73.4 billion in assets under
management and $121.2 billion in assets under administration at December 31,
1998.

     Northern Trust Securities, Inc. is also part of PFS.


Northern Trust Global Investments (NTGI) 

     Headed by Stephen B. Timbers, President - Northern Trust Global
Investments, NTGI, through various subsidiaries of the Corporation, provides
investment products and services to clients of C&IS and PFS. NTGI activities
include equity and fixed income research and portfolio management services.
NTGI, through the Bank and Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors, Inc., provides
investment advisory and related services to two families of proprietary mutual
funds: the Northern Institutional Funds (formerly The Benchmark Funds), which
are directed at corporate and institutional investors, and the Northern Funds,
which are directed at individual and personal trust investors. Northern Trust
Global Advisors, Inc. is also included in NTGI.


Worldwide Operations and Technology

     Supporting all of Northern Trust's business activities is the Worldwide
Operations and Technology Unit. Headed by Executive Vice President James J.
Mitchell, this unit focuses on supporting sales, relationship management,
transaction processing and product management activities for C&IS and PFS. These
activities are conducted principally in the operations and technology centers in
Chicago, Illinois and the Bank's London Branch. The Northern Trust Company of
New York is also part of this unit.


Risk Management

     The Risk Management Unit, headed by Senior Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer Perry R. Pero, includes the Credit Policy and Treasury
functions. The Credit Policy function is described in the sections of this
report referenced on page 18. The Treasury Department is responsible for
managing the Bank's wholesale funding, capital position and interest rate risk,
as well as the portfolio of interest rate risk management instruments under the
direction of the Corporate Asset and Liability Policy Committee. It is also
responsible for the investment portfolios of the Corporation and the Bank and
provides investment advice and management services to the subsidiary banks.

     The Risk Management Unit also includes the Corporate Controller, Corporate
Treasurer, Investor Relations and Economic Research functions.


                              GOVERNMENT POLICIES

     The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external
influences. Chief among these are general economic conditions, both domestic and
international, and actions that the United States and foreign governments and
their central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions
affect all of the Northern Trust's businesses, as well as the quality, value and
profitability of their loan and investment portfolios.

     The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is an important
regulator of domestic economic conditions and has the general objective of
promoting orderly economic growth in the United States. Implementation of this
objective is accomplished by its open market operations in United States
Government securities, its setting of the discount rate at which member banks
may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks and its changes in the reserve
requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board may
strongly influence interest rates and hence what banks earn on their loans and
investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other
purchased funds. Fiscal policies in the United States and abroad also affect the
composition and use of Northern Trust's resources.


                                  COMPETITION

     Northern Trust's principal business strategy is to provide quality
financial services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a
competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy,
Northern Trust seeks to deliver a level of service to its clients that
distinguishes it from its competitors. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes
the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income and




 
is one of a small group of major bank holding companies in the United States
that generates more revenues from fee-based services than from net interest
income. Northern Trust seeks to develop and expand its recurring fee-based
revenue by identifying selected market niches and providing a high level of
individualized service to its clients in those markets. Northern Trust also
seeks to preserve its asset quality through established credit review procedures
and by maintaining a conservative balance sheet. Finally, Northern Trust seeks
to maintain a strong management team that includes senior officers having broad
experience and long tenure.

     Active competition exists in all principal areas in which Northern Trust
presently engages in business. C&IS and PFS compete with domestic and foreign
financial institutions, trust companies, personal loan companies, mutual funds
and investment advisers, brokerage firms and other financial services companies.
Northern Trust is a leading provider of Master Trust and Master Custody services
and has the leading market share in the Chicago area personal trust market and
the second largest market share in the Florida personal trust market.

     Commercial banking and treasury management services compete with domestic
and foreign financial institutions, finance companies and leasing companies.
These products also face increased competition due to the general trend among
corporations and other institutions to rely more upon direct access to the
credit and capital markets (such as through the direct issuance of commercial
paper) and less upon commercial banks and other traditional financial
intermediaries.

     The chief local competitors of the Bank for trust and banking business are
Bank of America, First National Bank of Chicago, Harris Trust and Savings Bank,
and LaSalle National Bank. Competitive pressures within the custody market have
resulted in consolidation in the industry, and the chief national competitors of
the Bank for Master Trust/Master Custody services are now Mellon Bank
Corporation, State Street Corporation, Bankers Trust New York Corporation, Chase
Manhattan Corporation and The Bank of New York Company, Inc.


                          REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

     The Corporation is a bank holding company subject to the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (Act), and to regulation by the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Act limits the activities which may
be engaged in by the Corporation and its nonbanking subsidiaries to those so
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as to be a proper
incident thereto. Also, under section 106 of the 1970 amendments to the Act and
subject to certain exceptions, subsidiary banks are prohibited from engaging in
certain tie-in arrangements with nonbanking affiliates in connection with any
extension of credit or provision of any property or services.

     The Act also prohibits bank holding companies from acquiring substantially
all the assets of or owning more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or
nonbanking company which is not already majority owned without prior approval of
the Board of Governors.

     The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994
(Interstate Act) permits an adequately capitalized and adequately managed bank
holding company to acquire, with Federal Reserve Board approval, a bank located
in a state other than the bank holding company's home state, without regard to
whether the transaction is permitted under any state law, except that a host
state may establish by statute the minimum age of its banks (up to a maximum of
5 years) subject to acquisition by out-of-state bank holding companies. The
Federal Reserve Board may not approve the acquisition if the applicant bank
holding company, upon consummation, would control more than 10% of total U.S.
insured depository institution deposits or more than 30% of the host state's
total insured depository institution deposits except in certain cases. The
Interstate Act also permits a bank, with the approval of the appropriate federal
bank regulatory agency, to establish a de novo branch in a state, other than the
bank's home state, in which the bank does not presently maintain a branch if the
host state has enacted a law that applies equally to all banks and expressly
permits all out-of-state banks to branch de novo into the host state. Banks
having different home states may, with approval of the appropriate federal bank
regulatory agency, merge across state lines, unless the home state of a
participating bank opted-out of the Interstate Act prior to June 1, 1997. Two
states opted out prior to that date: Montana and Texas. In addition, the
Interstate Act permits any bank subsidiary of a bank holding company to receive
deposits, renew time deposits, close loans, service loans and receive payments
on loans and other obligations as agent for a bank or certain grandfathered
thrift affiliates, whether such banks and thrifts are located in a different
state or in the same state.





     Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), an insured depository
institution which is commonly controlled with another insured depository
institution shall generally be liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably
anticipated to be incurred, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)
in connection with the default of such commonly controlled institution, or for
any assistance provided by the FDIC to such commonly controlled institution,
which is in danger of default. The term "default" is defined to mean the
appointment of a conservator or receiver for such institution. Thus, any of the
Corporation's banking subsidiaries could incur liability to the FDIC pursuant to
this statutory provision in the event of a loss suffered by the FDIC in
connection with any of the Corporation's other banking subsidiaries (whether due
to a default or the provision of FDIC assistance). Such liability is
subordinated in right of payment to deposit liabilities, secured obligations,
any other general or senior liability and any obligation subordinated to
depositors or other general creditors, other than obligations owed to any
affiliate of the depository institution (with certain exceptions) and any
obligations to shareholders in such capacity. Although neither the Corporation
nor any of its nonbanking subsidiaries may be assessed for such loss under the
FDIA, the Corporation has agreed to indemnify each of its banking subsidiaries,
other than the Bank, for any payments a banking subsidiary may be liable to pay
to the FDIC pursuant to these provisions of the FDIA.

     The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are
insured by the FDIC, and it is subject to regulation by both these entities, as
well as by the Illinois Office of Banks and Real Estate. The Bank is also a
member of and subject to the rules of the Chicago Clearinghouse Association, and
is registered as a government securities dealer in accordance with the
Government Securities Act of 1986. As a government securities dealer its
activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the Department of the
Treasury. The Bank is registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve
and is therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve in
this area. State laws governing the Corporation's banking subsidiaries generally
allow each bank to establish branches anywhere in its state.

     The national bank subsidiaries are members of the Federal Reserve System
and the FDIC and are subject to regulation by the Comptroller of the Currency.
Northern Trust Bank, FSB is a Federal Savings Bank which is not a member of the
Federal Reserve System and is subject to regulation by the Office of Thrift
Supervision and the FDIC. Northern Trust Bank of Colorado, a state chartered
institution that also is not a member of the Federal Reserve System, is
regulated by the FDIC and the Colorado Division of Banking.

     The Corporation's nonbanking affiliates are all subject to examination by
the Federal Reserve. In addition, The Northern Trust Company of New York is
subject to regulation by the Banking Department of the State of New York.
Northern Trust Securities, Inc. is registered as a broker-dealer with the
Securities and Exchange Commission and is a member of the National Association
of Securities Dealers, Inc., and, as such, is subject to the rules and
regulations of both these bodies. Northern Trust Retirement Consulting, L.L.C.,
Northern Trust Global Advisors, Inc., Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors,
Inc., and Northern Trust Bank, FSB are each registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are subject to
that Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
In addition, Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors, Inc. is subject to regulation
by the Illinois Office of Banks and Real Estate, and Northern Trust Retirement
Consulting, L.L.C. is registered as a transfer agent with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to
that Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
The Northern Trust Company of Connecticut is subject to regulation by the
Connecticut Department of Banking. Two families of mutual funds for which the
Bank acts as investment adviser are subject to regulation by the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act. The Bank also acts as
investment adviser of an investment company which is subject to regulation by
the Central Bank of Ireland under the Companies Act, 1990. Various other
subsidiaries and branches conduct business in other states and foreign countries
and are subject to their regulations and restrictions.

     The Corporation and its subsidiaries are affiliates within the meaning of
the Federal Reserve Act so that the banking subsidiaries are subject to certain
restrictions with respect to loans to the Corporation or its nonbanking
subsidiaries and certain other transactions with them or involving their
securities. Information regarding these restrictions, and dividend restrictions
on banking subsidiaries, is incorporated herein by reference to Note 15 titled
"Restrictions on Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or Advances" on page 60 of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1998.




 
     Under the FDIC's risk-based insurance assessment system, each insured bank
is placed in one of nine risk categories based on its level of capital and other
relevant information. Each insured bank's insurance assessment rate is then
determined by the risk category in which it has been classified by the FDIC.
There is currently a twenty-seven basis point spread between the highest and
lowest assessment rates, so that banks classified as strongest by the FDIC are
subject in 1999 to no insurance assessment, and banks classified as weakest by
the FDIC are subject to an assessment rate of .27%. In addition to its insurance
assessment, each insured bank is subject in 1999 to a debt service assessment of
 .0122%.

     The Federal bank regulators have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for
bank holding companies and banks. The minimum ratio of qualifying total capital
to risk-weighted assets, including certain off-balance sheet items (Total
Capital Ratio), is 8%, and the minimum ratio of that portion of total capital
that is comprised of common stock, related surplus, retained earnings,
noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, minority interests and, for bank
holding companies, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred
stock, less certain intangibles including goodwill (Tier 1 capital), to risk-
weighted assets is 4%. The balance of total capital may consist of other
preferred stock, certain other instruments, and limited amounts of subordinated
debt and the loan and lease loss allowance.

     The Federal Reserve Board risk-based capital standards contemplate that
evaluation of capital adequacy will take account of a wide range of other
factors, including overall interest rate exposure; liquidity, funding and market
risks; the quality and level of earnings; investment, loan portfolio, and other
concentrations of credit; certain risks arising from nontraditional activities;
the quality of loans and investments; the effectiveness of loan and investment
policies; and management's overall ability to monitor and control financial and
operating risks including the risks presented by concentrations of credit and
nontraditional activities.

     In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum Leverage Ratio
(Tier 1 capital to quarterly average total assets) guidelines for bank holding
companies and banks. These guidelines provide for a minimum Leverage Ratio of 3%
for bank holding companies and banks that meet certain specified criteria,
including having the highest regulatory rating. All other banking organizations
are required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 3% plus an additional
cushion of 100 to 200 basis points. The guidelines also provide that banking
organizations experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be
expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum
supervisory levels without significant reliance on intangible assets.
Furthermore, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will
continue to consider a "Tangible Tier 1 Leverage Ratio" in evaluating proposals
for expansion or new activities. The Tangible Tier 1 Leverage Ratio is the ratio
of Tier 1 capital, less intangibles not deducted from Tier 1 capital, to
quarterly average total assets. As of December 31, 1998, the Federal Reserve had
not advised the Corporation of any specific minimum Tangible Tier 1 Leverage
Ratio applicable to it. At December 31, 1998, the Corporation had a Tangible
Tier 1 Leverage Ratio of 6.9%.

     In addition to the effects of the provisions described above, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA) substantially
revised the depository institution regulatory and funding provisions of the FDI
Act and made revisions to several other federal banking statutes.

     Among other things, FDICIA requires the federal banking regulators to take
prompt corrective action in respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that
do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers:
"well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly
undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." A depository institution's
capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant
capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. Under
applicable regulations, an FDIC-insured bank is defined to be well capitalized
if it maintains a Leverage Ratio (Tier 1 capital to quarterly average total
assets) of at least 5%, a Total Capital Ratio (qualifying total capital to risk-
weighted assets, including certain off-balance sheet items) of at least 10% and
a Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets) of at least 6%
and is not otherwise in a "troubled condition" as specified by its appropriate
federal regulatory agency. A bank is generally considered to be adequately
capitalized if it is not defined to be well capitalized but meets all of its
minimum capital requirements, i.e., if it has a Leverage Ratio of 4% or greater
(or a Leverage Ratio of 3% or greater if the institution is rated composite 1 in
its most recent report of examination, subject to appropriate federal banking
agency guidelines), a Total Capital Ratio of 8% or greater and a Tier 1 Capital
Ratio of 4% or greater. A bank will be considered undercapitalized if it fails
to meet any minimum required measure, significantly undercapitalized if it is
significantly below such




 
measure and critically undercapitalized if it maintains a level of tangible
equity capital equal to or less than 2% of total assets. A bank may be
reclassified to be in a capitalization category that is next below that
indicated by its actual capital position if it receives a less than satisfactory
examination rating by its examiners with respect to its assets, management,
earnings or liquidity that has not been corrected, or it is determined that the
bank is in an unsafe or unsound condition or engaged in an unsafe or unsound
practice.

     At December 31, 1998, the Bank and each of the Corporation's other
subsidiary banks met or exceeded the minimum regulatory ratios that are one of
the conditions for them to be considered to be well capitalized. For further
discussion of regulatory capital requirements and information about the capital
position of the Corporation and the Bank, see pages 43 and 44 of "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" and
Note 29, titled "Regulatory Capital Requirements" on page 71 of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
1998.

     FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital
distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to
its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be
undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to growth
limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. If a
depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if
it is significantly undercapitalized.

     Under FDICIA, a bank that is not well capitalized is generally prohibited
from accepting or renewing brokered deposits and offering interest rates on
deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area
or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited); in addition,
"pass-through" insurance coverage may not be available for certain employee
benefit accounts.

     Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a
number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient
voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total
assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically
undercapitalized depository institutions may be restricted from making payments
of principal and interest on subordinated debt and are subject to appointment of
a receiver or conservator.

     FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that affect the
operations of a bank, including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for
real estate lending, "truth in savings" provisions and a requirement that a
depository institution give 90 days' prior notice to customers and regulatory
authorities before closing any branch.


                                     STAFF

     Northern Trust employed 8,156 full-time equivalent officers and staff
members as of December 31, 1998, approximately 6,033 of whom were employed by
the Bank.




 
                            STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES

  The following statistical disclosures, included in the Corporation's Annual
Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998, are incorporated
herein by reference.


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
     Additional statistical information on a consolidated basis is set forth 
below. 

Remaining Maturity and Average Yield of Securities Held to Maturity and
Available for Sale 
(Yield on a taxable equivalent basis giving effect of the federal and state tax
rates)


















 
Purchased Funds

        


 
Changes in Net Interest Income



Note:  Changes not due only to volume changes or rate changes are included in
       the change due to rate column. 




 
Analysis of Reserve for Credit Losses




International Operations (Based on Obligor's Domicile)

     See also Note 27 titled "Business Segments and Related Information" on 
page 70 of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1998, which is incorporated herein by reference.


Selected Average Assets and Liabilities Attributable to International Operations





 


 
                            CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 

        For the discussion of Credit Risk Management, see the following
information that is incorporated herein by reference to the Corporation's Annual
Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998:

 
                                
     In addition, the following schedules on pages 16 and 17 of this Form 
10-K should be read in conjunction with the "Credit Risk Management" section: 

     Analysis of Reserve for Credit Losses

     Reserve for Credit Losses Relating to International Operations 

     Distribution of International Loans and Deposits by Type


 
                      INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 

     For the discussion of interest rate sensitivity, see the section entitled
"Market Risk Management" on pages 40 to 43 of Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998, which is
incorporated herein by reference.


 
        The following unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated 
Statement of Income for The Northern Trust Company were prepared in accordance 
with generally accepted accounting principles and are provided here for
informational purposes. These consolidated financial statements should be read
in conjunction with the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial
statements, included in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 1998, and incorporated herein by reference on page 25 of
this Form 10-K.

The Northern Trust Company 
Consolidated Balance Sheet (unaudited)

 


The Northern Trust Company
Consolidated Statement of Income (unaudited)


 
Supplemental Item--Executive Officers of the Registrant

WILLIAM A. OSBORN

     Mr. Osborn became Chairman of the Board of the Corporation and the Bank in
October 1995, and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and the Bank in
June 1995. He held the title of President of the Corporation and the Bank from
January 1994 to October 1995 and Chief Operating Officer from January 1994
through June 1995. Mr. Osborn, 51, began his career with the Bank in 1970.

BARRY G. HASTINGS

     Mr. Hastings became President of the Corporation and the Bank in October
1995, and Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation and the Bank in June 1995.
He held the title of Vice Chairman of the Corporation and the Bank from January
1994 through June 1995. Mr. Hastings, 51, began his career with the Corporation
in 1974.

DAVID L. EDDY

     Mr. Eddy became a Senior Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank and
Treasurer of the Corporation in 1986. Mr. Eddy, 62, joined the Bank in 1960.

JAMES J. MITCHELL

     Mr. Mitchell was appointed an Executive Vice President of the Bank in
December 1987 and of the Corporation in October 1994, and is currently head of
the Worldwide Operations and Technology business unit. Mr. Mitchell, 56, joined
the Bank in 1964.

SHEILA A. PENROSE

     Ms. Penrose became President - C&IS of the Corporation and of the Bank in
January 1998, and has served as an Executive Vice President of the Bank since
November 1993 and of the Corporation since November 1994. Ms. Penrose, 53, began
her career with the Corporation in 1977.

PERRY R. PERO

     Mr. Pero is Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation and the Bank and
Cashier of the Bank. Mr. Pero is also head of the Risk Management Unit and
Chairman of the Corporate Asset and Liability Policy Committee. He became a
Senior Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank in 1992. Mr.
Pero, 59, joined the Bank in 1964.

PETER L. ROSSITER

     Mr. Rossiter has served as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of
the Corporation and the Bank since 1993. He also held the title of Secretary of
the Corporation and the Bank from April 1993 through November 1997 and has
served as an Assistant Secretary since then. Mr. Rossiter, 50, joined the
Corporation in 1992, prior to which he was a partner in the law firm of Schiff
Hardin & Waite.

HARRY W. SHORT

     Mr. Short was appointed Senior Vice President and Controller of the
Corporation and the Bank in October 1994. He joined the Corporation and the Bank
in January 1990 and served as Senior Vice President and General Auditor. Mr.
Short, 51, had been a partner in the accounting firm of KPMG Peat Marwick.

JAMES M. SNYDER

     Mr. Snyder was appointed Executive Vice President of the Corporation and
the Bank in November 1996 and is currently the Chief Investment Officer. He had
been a Senior Vice President of the Bank from 1991 to 1996. Mr. Snyder, 52,
joined the Bank in 1969.


 
MARK STEVENS

     Mr. Stevens became President - PFS of the Corporation and the Bank in
January 1998, and has served as an Executive Vice President of the Corporation
and the Bank since February 1996. He served as Chief Executive Officer of
Northern Trust Bank of Florida N.A., from 1987 to 1996. Mr. Stevens, 51, joined
the Corporation in 1979.

STEPHEN B. TIMBERS

     Mr. Timbers joined Northern Trust in February 1998, when he was named
President - NTGI and an Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the
Bank. From January 1996 to December 1997, Mr.Timbers, 54, was President, Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer of Zurich Kemper Investments,
Inc. (formerly Kemper Financial Services, Inc.), the investment adviser to the
Kemper Funds and the parent organization of Zurich Investment Management, Inc.
From January 1992 until January 1996, he served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of Kemper Corporation.

WILLIAM S. TRUKENBROD

     Mr. Trukenbrod was appointed an Executive Vice President of the Corporation
and the Bank in February 1994, and is currently Chairman of the Credit Policy
Committee. He had been a Senior Vice President of the Bank since 1980 and of the
Corporation since 1992. Mr. Trukenbrod, 59, joined the Bank in 1962.

     The positions of Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President
and Vice Chairman are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first
meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of
stockholders. The other officers are appointed annually by the Board. Officers
continue to hold office until their successors are duly elected or until their
death, resignation or removal by the Board.

Item 2--Properties

     The executive offices of the Corporation and the Bank are located at 50
South LaSalle Street in the financial district of Chicago. This Bank-owned
building is occupied by various divisions of Northern Trust's business units.
Financial services are provided by the Bank at this location. Adjacent to this
building are two office buildings in which the Bank leases approximately 370,000
square feet of space principally for staff divisions of the business units. The
Bank also leases approximately 40,000 square feet of a building at 125 South
Wacker Drive in Chicago for banking operations and personal banking services.
Financial services are also provided by the Bank at sixteen other Chicago
metropolitan area locations, five of which are owned and eleven of which are
leased. The Bank's trust and banking operations are located in a 465,000 square
foot facility at 801 South Canal Street in Chicago. The building is leased by
the Corporation under terms that qualify as a capital lease. In June 1997, the
Bank entered into an agreement to purchase a building and adjacent land located
across the street from the Chicago operations center in January 2000. The
building, which is located at 840 South Canal Street and contains approximately
340,000 square feet of office space, houses the computer data center and will be
used for future expansion. Prior to the purchase date, the Bank is leasing, in
phases that began in November 1997, approximately two floors of this six-story
building. Space for the Bank's London and Singapore Branches, Edge Act
subsidiary and The Northern Trust Company, Canada are leased.

     The Corporation's other subsidiaries operate from sixty-five locations,
fourteen of which are owned and fifty-one of which are leased. Detailed
information regarding the addresses of all Northern Trust's locations can be
found on pages 84 and 85 in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for
the year ended December 31, 1998, which is incorporated herein by reference.

     The facilities which are owned or leased are suitable and adequate for
business needs. For additional information relating to properties and lease
commitments, refer to Note 8 titled "Buildings and Equipment" and Note 9 titled
"Lease Commitments" on page 55 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.


 
Item 3--Legal Proceedings

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to Note 20 titled "Contingent Liabilities" on page 63 of the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Item 4--Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

     None.


 
                                   PART II 

Item 5--Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the section of the Consolidated Financial Statistics titled "Common Stock
Dividend and Market Price" on pages 80 and 81 of the Corporation's Annual Report
to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998.

     Information regarding dividend restrictions of the Corporation's banking
subsidiaries is incorporated herein by reference to Note 15 titled "Restrictions
on Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or Advances" on page 60 of the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Item 6--Selected Financial Data 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the table titled "Summary of Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 22
of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December
31, 1998.

Item 7--Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
        of Operations 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 22 through 45 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Item 7A--Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 40 through 43 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998.

Item 8--Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

     The following financial statements of the Corporation and its subsidiaries
included in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1998, are incorporated herein by reference.



     The section titled "Quarterly Financial Data" on pages 80 and 81 of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1998, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9--Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
Financial Disclosure

     None.


 
                                   PART III 

Item 10--Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

     The information called for by Item 10 relating to Directors and Nominees
for election to the Board of Directors is incorporated herein by reference to
pages 2 through 6 of the Corporation's definitive 1999 Notice and Proxy
Statement filed on March 15, 1999 in connection with the solicitation of proxies
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 20, 1999. The
information called for by Item 10 relating to Executive Officers is set forth in
Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information called for by Item 10
relating to Item 405 disclosure of delinquent Form 3, 4 or 5 filers is
incorporated by reference to page 9 of the Corporation's definitive 1999 Notice
and Proxy Statement filed on March 15, 1999 in connection with the solicitation
of proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 20, 1999.

Item 11--Executive Compensation 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to pages 8 and 9 and pages 12 through 23 of the Corporation's definitive 1999
Notice and Proxy Statement filed in connection with the solicitation of proxies
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 20, 1999.

Item 12--Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to pages 10 and 11 of the Corporation's definitive 1999 Notice and Proxy
Statement filed in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 20, 1999.

Item 13--Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to pages 8 and 9 of the Corporation's definitive 1999 Notice and Proxy Statement
filed in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 20, 1999.


 
                                   PART IV 

Item 14-Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K 

Item 14(a)(1) and (2)-Northern Trust Corporation and Subsidiaries List of 
  Financial Statement and Fincancial Statement Schedules

    The following financial information is set forth in Item 1 for 
informational purposes only:

   Financial Information of The Northern Trust Company (Bank Only):

     Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet-December 31, 1998 and 1997.

     Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Income-Years Ended December 31, 1998,
       1997 and 1996.

    The following consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and its 
subsidiaries are incorporated by references into Item 8 from the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998:

   Consolidated Financial Statements of Northern Trust Corporation and
Subsidiaries:
  
     Consolidated Balance Sheet-December 31, 1998 and 1997. 

     Consolidated Statement of Income-Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997
       and 1996. 

     Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity-Years Ended
       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996. 

     Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows-Years Ended December 31, 1998, 
       1997 and 1996. 

    The following financial information is incorporated by reference into 
Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended 
December 31, 1998: 

    Financial Statements of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation): 

       Condensed Balance Sheet-December 31, 1998 and 1997. 

       Condensed Statement of Income-Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 
         and 1996. 

       Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity-Years 
         Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996. 

       Condensed Statement of Cash Flows-Years Ended December 31, 1998,
         1997 and 1996. 

    The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 1998, 
incorporated by reference into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report 
to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1998, pertain to the Bank only 
information, consolidated financial statements and Corporation only information
listed above. 

    The Report of Independent Public Accountants incorporated by reference 
into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year 
ended December 31, 1998 pertains to the consolidated financial statements and 
Corporation only information listed above. 

    Financial statement schedules have been omitted for the reason that 
they are not required or are not applicable. 


 
Item 14(a)3-Exhibits 

    The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index beginning on page 30 of this Form
10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference to other
filings.

Item 14(b)-Reports on Form 8-K 

    In a report on Form 8-K dated October 20, 1998, Northern Trust incorporated
by reference in Item 5 its October 19, 1998 press release, reporting on its
earnings for the third quarter and nine months of 1998. The press release, with
summary financial information, was filed as an exhibit pursuant to Item 7 of the
Form 8-K. In a report on Form 8-K dated November 20, 1998, Northern Trust
Corporation incorporated by reference in Item 7 an amendment of its
1989 Stockholder Rights Plan and an amendment of its 1998 Stockholder Rights
Plan.


 
                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Form 
10-K Annual Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto 
duly authorized. 

Date: March 16, 1999                           Northern Trust Corporation   
                                                    (Registrant)       



                                                 BY:/s/ William A. Osborn
                                                    ----------------------
                                                    William A. Osborn
                                                    Chairman of the Board and
                                                    Chief Executive Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
as amended, this Form 10-K Annual Report has been signed below by the following 
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated. 
   
     Signature             Title 
     ---------             -----        

   /s/William A. Osborn    Chairman of the Board,
- ------------------------      
   William A. Osborn         Chief Executive Officer and Director    
        

  /s/ Perry R. Pero        Senior Executive Vice President
- ---------------------  
     Perry R. Pero           and Chief Financial Officer                       
                             
 /s/ Harry W. Short        Senior Vice President and Controller
- --------------------- 
     Harry W. Short          (Chief Accounting Officer)    
 
     Duane L. Burnham        Director    
     Dolores E. Cross        Director     
     Robert S. Hamada        Director   
     Barry G. Hastings       Director  
     Robert A. Helman        Director        BY: /s/ Peter L. Rossiter  
     Arthur L. Kelly         Director            ---------------------    
     Frederick A. Krehbiel   Director              Peter L. Rossiter
     William G. Mitchell     Director              Attorney-in-Fact
     Edward J. Mooney        Director      
     Harold B. Smith         Director     
     William D. Smithburg    Director  
     Bide L. Thomas          Director 
                                                             
            
                                                                               
                                                                                

                                                            Date: March 16, 1999

 
                                EXHIBIT INDEX 

        The following Exhibits are filed herewith or are incorporated herein 
by reference.
 

 



 



 
* Prior Filings (File No. 0-5965, except as noted)

   (1)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1995

   (2)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1986

   (3)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1988

   (4)  Form 8-K dated January 26, 1989

   (5)  Form 8-A dated October 27, 1989

   (6)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990

   (7)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1995

   (8)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996

   (9)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1996

  (10)  Form 8-K dated January 22, 1997

  (11)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996

  (12)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1997

  (13)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1997

  (14)  Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997

  (15)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998

  (16)  Form 8-K dated July 24, 1998

  (17)  Form 8-A dated July 24, 1998

  (18)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1998

  (19)  Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 1998

  (20)  Form 8-K dated November 20, 1998

  (21)  Form 8-K dated February 19, 1999

** Denotes management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement

     Upon written request to Rose A. Ellis, Secretary, Northern Trust
Corporation, 50 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60675, copies of
exhibits listed above are available to Northern Trust Corporation stockholders
by specifically identifying each exhibit desired in the request.

     Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the Corporation hereby
agrees to furnish the Commission, upon request, any instrument defining the
rights of holders of long-term debt of the Corporation not filed as an exhibit
herein. No such instrument authorizes long-term debt securities in excess of 10%
of the total assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries on a consolidated
basis.


