
10-K
FORM 10-K




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
               UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                        -------------------------------

                                  FORM 10-K 

           [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
               THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997
                                      OR

           [_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF 
               THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 

            For the transition period from___________to___________
                         Commission File Number 0-5965

                          Northern Trust Corporation
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

                     Delaware                             36-2723087
         (State or other jurisdiction of               (I.R.S. Employer
          incorporation or organization)             Identification No.)

             50 South La Salle Street
                Chicago, Illinois                              60675
     (Address of principal executive offices)                (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (312) 630-6000

                   -----------------------------------------

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: None

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                       Common Stock, $1.66 2/3 Par Value

                               ----------------

                        Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

                               ----------------

         Floating Rate Capital Securities, Series A of NTC Capital I, 
                        and Series B of NTC Capital II
            Fully and Unconditionally Guaranteed by the Registrant

                   -----------------------------------------

                 Floating Rate Junior Subordinated Debentures,
                    Series A and Series B of the Registrant

                               (Title of Class)

        Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.       YES [X]    NO

        Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to
Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained,
to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.                        [ ]

        At February 11, 1998, 111,518,024 shares of Common Stock, $1.66 2/3 par
value, were outstanding, and the aggregate market value of the Common Stock
(based upon the last sale price of the common stock at February 11, 1998, as
reported by the Nasdaq Stock Market) held by non-affiliates was approximately
$7,045,649,011. Determination of stock ownership by non-affiliates was made
solely for the purpose of responding to this requirement and the registrant is
not bound by this determination for any other purpose.

Portions of the following documents are incorporated by reference: 
        Annual Report to Stockholders for the Fiscal Year Ended December 31, 
        1997 - Part I and Part II

        1998 Notice and Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders 
        to be held on April 21, 1998 - Part III

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 
       -----------------------------------------------------------------
                     [THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK]
       -----------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                          Northern Trust Corporation

                                  FORM 10-K 

               Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of 
                     the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 

                                    INDEX 


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                    PART I 
Item 1--Business 

                          NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION

        Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation) is a bank holding company
within the meaning of the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as amended. The
Corporation was organized in Delaware in 1971 and that year became the owner of
all of the outstanding capital stock, except directors' qualifying shares, of
The Northern Trust Company (Bank), an Illinois banking corporation headquartered
in the Chicago financial district and the Corporation's principal subsidiary.
The Corporation also owns banking subsidiaries in Arizona, California, Florida
and Texas, trust companies in Connecticut and New York and various other nonbank
subsidiaries, including a securities brokerage firm, a retirement services
company and a futures commission merchant. The Corporation expects that,
although the operations of other subsidiaries will be of increasing
significance, the Bank will in the foreseeable future continue to be the major
source of the Corporation's assets, revenues and net income. Except where the
context otherwise requires, the term "Northern Trust" refers to Northern Trust
Corporation and its consolidated subsidiaries.

        At December 31, 1997, Northern Trust had consolidated total assets of
approximately $25.3 billion and stockholders' equity of approximately $1.7
billion, and was the second largest bank holding company headquartered in
Illinois and the thirty-second largest in the United States.

                          THE NORTHERN TRUST COMPANY

        The Bank was founded by Byron L. Smith in 1889 to provide banking and
trust services to the public. Currently in its 109th year, the Bank's growth has
come primarily from internal sources rather than through merger or acquisition.
At December 31, 1997, the Bank had consolidated assets of approximately $21.2
billion and common equity capital of approximately $1.3 billion. At September
30, 1997, the Bank was the third largest bank in Illinois and the thirty-third
largest in the United States, based on consolidated total assets of
approximately $23.3 billion on that date.

        The Bank currently has sixteen banking offices in the Chicago
metropolitan area and nine active wholly-owned subsidiaries: The Northern Trust
International Banking Corporation; Norlease, Inc.; MFC Company, Inc.; Nortrust
Nominees Ltd.; The Northern Trust Company U.K. Pension Plan Limited; The
Northern Trust Company, Canada; Northern Global Financial Services Limited;
Northern Trust Trade Services Limited; and Northern Trust Fund Managers
(Ireland) Limited. The Northern Trust International Banking Corporation, located
in New York, was organized under the Edge Act for the purpose of conducting
international business. Norlease, Inc. provides leasing and leasing-related
lending activities. MFC Company, Inc. holds properties that are received from
the Bank in connection with certain problem loans. Nortrust Nominees Ltd.,
located in London, is a U.K. trust corporation organized to hold U.K. real
estate for fiduciary accounts. The Northern Trust Company U.K. Pension Plan
Limited, located in London, was established in connection with the pension plan
for the Bank's London Branch. The Northern Trust Company, Canada, located in
Toronto, offers institutional trust products and services to Canadian entities.
Northern Global Financial Services Limited, located in Hong Kong, provides
securities lending and relationship servicing for large asset custody clients in
Asia and the Pacific Rim. Northern Trust Trade Services Limited facilitates the
issuance and processing of commercial letters of credit in Hong Kong. Northern
Trust Fund Managers (Ireland) Limited was established to facilitate the offering
of off-shore collective investment products to institutional clients.

                 OTHER NORTHERN TRUST CORPORATION SUBSIDIARIES

        The Corporation's Florida banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of
Florida N.A., headquartered in Miami, at December 31, 1997 had twenty-four
offices located throughout Florida, with total assets of approximately $2.6
billion. The Corporation's Arizona banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of
Arizona N.A., is headquartered in Phoenix and at December 31, 1997 had total
assets of approximately $475 million and served clients from seven office
locations in Arizona. The Corporation's Texas banking subsidiary, Northern Trust
Bank of Texas N.A., headquartered in Dallas, had seven office locations and
total assets of approximately $566 million at December 31, 1997. The
Corporation's California banking subsidiary, Northern Trust Bank of California
N.A., is headquartered in Santa Barbara. At December 31, 1997, it had eight
office locations and total assets of approximately $707 million.

        The Corporation has several nonbank subsidiaries. Among them are
Northern Trust Securities, Inc. which provides full brokerage services to
clients of the Bank and the Corporation's other banking and trust subsidiaries
and selectively underwrites general obligation tax-exempt securities. Northern
Futures Corporation is a futures commission merchant. Northern Investment
Corporation holds certain investments, including a loan made to a developer of a
property in which the Bank is the principal tenant. Berry, Hartell, Evers &
Osborne, Inc. is an investment management firm in San Francisco, California. The
Northern Trust Company of New York provides security clearance services for all
nondepository eligible

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

securities held by trust, agency, and fiduciary accounts administered by the
Corporation's subsidiaries. Northern Trust Cayman International, Ltd. provides
fiduciary services to clients residing outside of the United States. Northern
Trust Retirement Consulting, L.L.C. is a retirement benefit plan services
company in Atlanta, Georgia. Northern Trust Global Advisors, Inc. in Stamford,
Connecticut is an international provider of institutional investment management
services, and the parent of The Northern Trust Company of Connecticut, and
Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors, Inc. is a manager of index funds and
quantitative investment products.

                             INTERNAL ORGANIZATION

        Northern Trust, under Chairman and Chief Executive Officer William A.
Osborn, organizes client services around three principal businesses: Corporate
and Institutional Services, Personal Financial Services and Global Investments.
In addition, the Worldwide Operations and Technology unit encompasses trust and
banking operations and systems activities. These four business units report to
President and Chief Operating Officer Barry G. Hastings. Also, a Risk Management
unit focuses on financial and risk management.

        The following is a brief summary of each unit's business activities.

Corporate and Institutional Services 

        Headed by Sheila A. Penrose, President -- Corporate and Institutional
Services (C&IS), C&IS provides trust, commercial banking and treasury management
services to corporate and institutional clients. Trust activities encompass
custody services for owners of securities in the United States and foreign
markets, as well as securities lending and asset management services. Services
with respect to securities traded in foreign markets are provided primarily
through the Bank's London Branch. Related foreign exchange services are rendered
at the London and Singapore Branches as well as in Chicago. As measured by
assets administered and by number of clients, Northern Trust is a leading
provider of Master Trust and Master Custody services to three defined market
segments: retirement plans, institutional clients and international clients.
Master Trust and Custody includes a full range of state-of-the-art capabilities
including: worldwide custody settlement and reporting; cash management;
securities lending; and performance analysis services. In addition to Master
Trust and Master Custody, C&IS offers a comprehensive array of retirement
consulting and recordkeeping services and investment products. At December 31,
1997, total assets under administration, excluding personal trust assets, were
$974.1 billion. The Northern Trust Company of New York, The Northern Trust
Company, Canada, Norlease, Inc., The Northern Trust International Banking
Corporation, Northern Futures Corporation, and Northern Trust Retirement
Consulting, L.L.C., are also included in C&IS.

        A full range of commercial banking services is offered through the Bank,
which places special emphasis on developing institutional relationships in two
target markets: large domestic corporations and financial institutions (both
domestic and international). Treasury management services are provided to
corporations and financial institutions and include a variety of other products
and services to accelerate cash collections, control disbursement outflows and
generate information to manage cash positions.

Personal Financial Services

        Services to individuals is another major dimension of the trust
business. Headed by Mark Stevens, President -- Personal Financial Services
(PFS), PFS encompasses trust, investment management services, estate
administration, banking, and residential real estate mortgage lending. The
Bank's personal financial services strategy includes targeting high net worth
individuals in the metropolitan Chicago market and, through its Wealth
Management Group, nationally. The Bank is one of the largest bank managers of
personal trust assets in the United States, with total assets under
administration of $70.3 billion at December 31, 1997.

        PFS services are delivered through the Bank and a network of banking
subsidiaries located in Arizona, California, Florida and Texas. PFS is one of
the largest bank managers of personal trust assets in the United States, with
total assets under administration of $105.2 billion at December 31, 1997.

        Northern Trust Securities, Inc. and Berry, Hartell, Evers & Osborne,
Inc. are also part of PFS.

Global Investments 

        Global Investments, headed by Stephen B. Timbers, President -- Northern
Trust Global Investments (NTGI), NTGI provides investment products and services
to clients of C&IS and PFS. NTGI activities include equity and fixed income
research and portfolio management services. NTGI also acts as the investment
adviser to the Corporation's two families of mutual funds, the Northern Funds
and The Benchmark Funds. Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors, Inc. and Northern
Trust Global Advisors, Inc. are included in NTGI.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Worldwide Operations and Technology

     Supporting primarily all of Northern Trust's business activities is the
Worldwide Operations and Technology Unit. Headed by James J. Mitchell, Executive
Vice President of the Corporation and of the Bank, this unit focuses on
supporting sales, relationship management, transaction processing and product
management activities for C&IS and PFS.

Risk Management

     The Risk Management Unit, headed by Senior Executive Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer Perry R. Pero, includes the Credit Policy and Treasury
functions. The Credit Policy function is described fully on page 16 of this Form
10-K. The Treasury Department is responsible for managing the Bank's wholesale
funding and interest rate risk, as well as the portfolio of interest rate risk
management instruments under the direction of the Corporate Asset and Liability
Policy Committee. It is also responsible for the investment portfolios of the
Corporation and the Bank and provides investment advice and management services
to the subsidiary banks.

     The Risk Management Unit also includes Corporate Controller, Corporate
Treasurer, Investor Relations and Economic Research functions.

                              GOVERNMENT POLICIES

     The earnings of Northern Trust are affected by numerous external
influences, principally general economic conditions, both domestic and
international, and actions that the United States and foreign governments and
their central banks take in managing their economies. These general conditions
affect all of the Northern Trust's businesses, as well as the quality and volume
of their loan and investment portfolios.

     The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System is an important
regulator of domestic economic conditions and has the general objective of
promoting orderly economic growth in the United States. Implementation of this
objective is accomplished by its open market operations in United States
Government securities, its setting of the discount rate at which member banks
may borrow from Federal Reserve Banks and its changes in the reserve
requirements for deposits. The policies adopted by the Federal Reserve Board may
strongly influence interest rates and hence what banks earn on their loans and
investments and what they pay on their savings and time deposits and other
purchased funds. Fiscal policies in the United States and abroad also affect the
composition and use of Northern Trust's resources.

                                  COMPETITION

     Northern Trust's principal business strategy is to provide quality
financial services to targeted market segments in which it believes it has a
competitive advantage and favorable growth prospects. As part of this strategy,
Northern Trust seeks to deliver a level of service to its clients that
distinguishes it from its competitors. In addition, Northern Trust emphasizes
the development and growth of recurring sources of fee-based income and is one
of only a select group of major bank holding companies in the United States that
generates more revenues from fee-based services than from net interest income.
Northern Trust seeks to develop and expand its recurring fee-based revenue by
identifying selected market niches and providing a high level of individualized
service to its clients in such markets. Northern Trust also seeks to preserve
its asset quality through established credit review procedures and by
maintaining a conservative balance sheet. Finally, Northern Trust seeks to
maintain a strong management team with senior officers having broad experience
and long tenure.

     Active competition exists in all principal areas in which the subsidiaries 
are presently engaged. C&IS and PFS compete with domestic and foreign financial 
institutions, trust companies, financial companies, personal loan companies, 
mutual funds and investment advisers. Northern Trust is a leading provider 
of Master Trust and Master Custody services and has the leading market share 
in the Chicago area personal trust market.

     Commercial banking and treasury management services compete with domestic
and foreign financial institutions, finance companies and leasing companies.
These products also face increased competition due to the general trend among
corporations and other institutions to rely more upon direct access to the
credit and capital markets (such as through the direct issuance of commercial
paper) and less upon commercial banks and other traditional financial
intermediaries.
 
     The chief local competitors of the Bank for trust and banking business are 
Bank of America, First National Bank of Chicago and its affiliate American
National Bank and Trust Company of Chicago, Harris Trust and Savings Bank, and
LaSalle National Bank. Competitive pressures within the custody market have
resulted in consolidation in the industry, and the chief national competitors of
the Bank for Master Trust/Master Custody services are now Mellon Bank
Corporation, State Street Boston Corporation, Bankers Trust New York
Corporation, Chase Manhattan Corporation and Bank of New York Company, Inc.

                          REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

     The Corporation is a bank holding company subject to the Bank Holding
Company Act of 1956, as amended (Act), and to regulation by the Board of
Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The Act limits the activities which may
be engaged in by the Corporation and its nonbanking subsidiaries to those so
closely related to banking or managing or controlling banks as

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
to be a proper incident thereto. Also, under section 106 of the 1970 amendments
to the Act and subject to certain exceptions, subsidiary banks are prohibited
from engaging in certain tie-in arrangements with nonbanking affiliates in
connection with any extension of credit or provision of any property or
services.

     The Act also prohibits bank holding companies from acquiring substantially
all the assets of or owning more than 5% of the voting shares of any bank or
nonbanking company which is not already majority owned without prior approval of
the Board of Governors.

     The Riegle-Neal Interstate Banking and Branching Efficiency Act of 1994
(Interstate Act) permits an adequately capitalized and adequately managed bank
holding company to acquire, with Federal Reserve Board approval, a bank located
in a state other than the bank holding company's home state, without regard to
whether the transaction is permitted under any state law, except that a host
state may establish by statute the minimum age of its banks (up to a maximum of
5 years) subject to acquisition by out-of-state bank holding companies. The
Federal Reserve Board may not approve the acquisition if the applicant bank
holding company, upon consummation, would control more than 10% of total U.S.
insured depository institution deposits or more than 30% of the host state's
total insured depository institution deposits except in certain cases. The
Interstate Act also permits a bank, with the approval of the appropriate federal
bank regulatory agency, to establish a de novo branch in a state, other than the
bank's home state, in which the bank does not presently maintain a branch if the
host state has enacted a law that applies equally to all banks and expressly
permits all out-of-state banks to branch de novo into the host state. Banks
having different home states may, with approval of the appropriate federal bank
regulatory agency, merge across state lines, unless the home state of a
participating bank opted-out of the Interstate Act prior to June 1, 1997. In
addition, the Interstate Act permits any bank subsidiary of a bank holding
company to receive deposits, renew time deposits, close loans, service loans and
receive payments on loans and other obligations as agent for a bank or certain
grandfathered thrift affiliates, whether such banks or affiliates are located in
a different state or in the same state.

     Under the Federal Deposit Insurance Act (FDIA), an insured depository
institution which is commonly controlled with another insured depository
institution shall generally be liable for any loss incurred, or reasonably
anticipated to be incurred, by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC)
in connection with the default of such commonly controlled institution, or for
any assistance provided by the FDIC to such commonly controlled institution,
which is in danger of default. The term "default" is defined to mean the
appointment of a conservator or receiver for such institution. Thus, any of the
Corporation's banking subsidiaries could incur liability to the FDIC pursuant to
this statutory provision in the event of a loss suffered by the FDIC in
connection with any of the Corporation's other banking subsidiaries (whether due
to a default or the provision of FDIC assistance). Such liability is
subordinated in right of payment to deposit liabilities, secured obligations,
any other general or senior liability and any obligation subordinated to
depositors or other general creditors, other than obligations owed to any
affiliate of the depository institution (with certain exceptions) and any
obligations to shareholders in such capacity. Although neither the Corporation
nor any of its nonbanking subsidiaries may be assessed for such loss under the
FDIA, the Corporation has agreed to indemnify each of its banking subsidiaries,
other than the Bank, for any payments a banking subsidiary may be liable to pay
to the FDIC pursuant to these provisions of the FDIA.

     The Bank is a member of the Federal Reserve System, its deposits are
insured by the FDIC, and it is subject to regulation by both these entities, as
well as by the Illinois Office of Banks and Real Estate. The Bank is also a
member of and subject to the rules of the Chicago Clearinghouse Association, and
is registered as a government securities dealer in accordance with the
Government Securities Act of 1986. As a government securities dealer its
activities are subject to the rules and regulations of the Department of the
Treasury. The Bank is registered as a transfer agent with the Federal Reserve
and is therefore subject to the rules and regulations of the Federal Reserve in
this area. State laws governing the Corporation's banking subsidiaries allow
each bank to establish branches anywhere in its state.

     The national bank subsidiaries are members of the Federal Reserve System
and the FDIC and are subject to regulation by the Comptroller of the Currency.

     The Corporation's nonbanking affiliates are all subject to examination by
the Federal Reserve. In addition, The Northern Trust Company of New York is
subject to regulation by the Banking Department of the State of New York.
Northern Futures Corporation, which is registered as a futures commission
merchant with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, is a member of the
National Futures Association, the Chicago Board of Trade and the Board of Trade
Clearing Corporation, and is a clearing member of the Chicago Mercantile
Exchange. Northern Trust Securities, Inc. is registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission and is a member of the National Association of Securities
Dealers, Inc., and, as such, is subject to the rules and regulations of both
these bodies. Berry, Hartell, Evers & Osborne, Inc., Northern Trust Retirement
Consulting, L.L.C., Northern Trust Global Advisors, Inc. and Northern Trust
Quantitative Advisors, Inc. are each registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission under the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 and are subject to that Act
and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder. In
addition, Northern Trust Quantitative Advisors, Inc. is subject to regulation by
the Illinois Office of Banks and Real Estate, and Northern Trust Retirement
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Consulting, L.L.C. is registered as a transfer agent with the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and is subject to
that Act and the rules and regulations of the Commission promulgated thereunder.
The Northern Trust Company of Connecticut is subject to regulation by the
Connecticut Department of Banking. Two families of mutual funds for which the
Bank acts as investment adviser are subject to regulation by the Securities and
Exchange Commission under the Investment Company Act. The Bank also acts as
investment adviser of an investment company which is subject to regulation by
the Central Bank of Ireland under the Companies Act, 1990. Various other
subsidiaries and branches conduct business in other states and foreign countries
and are subject to their regulations and restrictions.

     The Corporation and its subsidiaries are affiliates within the meaning of
the Federal Reserve Act so that the banking subsidiaries are subject to certain
restrictions with respect to loans to the Corporation or its nonbanking
subsidiaries and certain other transactions with them or involving their
securities. Information regarding these restrictions, and dividend restrictions
on banking subsidiaries, is incorporated herein by reference to Note 15 titled
"Restrictions on Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or Advances" on page 56 of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1997.

     Under the FDIC's risk-based insurance assessment system, each insured bank
is placed in one of nine risk categories based on its level of capital and other
relevant information. Each insured bank's insurance assessment rate is then
determined by the risk category in which it has been classified by the FDIC.
There is currently a twenty-seven basis point spread between the highest and
lowest assessment rates, so that banks classified as strongest by the FDIC are
subject in 1998 to 0% assessment, and banks classified as weakest by the FDIC
are subject to an assessment rate of .27%. In addition to its insurance
assessment, each insured bank is subject in 1998 to a debt service assessment of
 .013%.

     The Federal bank regulators have adopted risk-based capital guidelines for
bank holding companies and banks. The minimum ratio of qualifying total capital
to risk-weighted assets (including certain off-balance sheet items) (Total
Capital Ratio) is 8%, and the minimum ratio of that portion of total capital
that is comprised of common stock, related surplus, retained earnings,
noncumulative perpetual preferred stock, minority interests and, for bank
holding companies, a limited amount of qualifying cumulative perpetual preferred
stock, less certain intangibles including goodwill (Tier 1 capital), to risk-
weighted assets is 4%. The balance of total capital may consist of other
preferred stock, certain other instruments, and limited amounts of subordinated
debt and the loan and lease loss allowance.

     The Federal Reserve Board risk-based capital standards contemplate that
evaluation of capital adequacy will take account of a wide range of other
factors, including overall interest rate exposure; liquidity, funding and market
risks; the quality and level of earnings; investment, loan portfolio, and other
concentrations of credit; certain risks arising from non traditional activities;
the quality of loans and investments; the effectiveness of loan and investment
policies; and management's overall ability to monitor and control financial and
operating risks including the risks presented by concentrations of credit and
nontraditional activities.

     In addition, the Federal Reserve has established minimum Leverage Ratio
(Tier 1 capital to quarterly average total assets) guidelines for bank holding
companies and banks. These guidelines provide for a minimum Leverage Ratio of 3%
for bank holding companies and banks that meet certain specified criteria,
including having the highest regulatory rating. All other banking organizations
are required to maintain a Leverage Ratio of at least 3% plus an additional
cushion of 100 to 200 basis points. The guidelines also provide that banking
organizations experiencing internal growth or making acquisitions will be
expected to maintain strong capital positions substantially above the minimum
supervisory level, without significant reliance on intangible assets.
Furthermore, the guidelines indicate that the Federal Reserve Board will
continue to consider a "Tangible Tier 1 Leverage Ratio" in evaluating proposals
for expansion or new activities. The Tangible Tier 1 Leverage Ratio is the ratio
of Tier 1 capital, less intangibles not deducted from Tier 1 capital, to
quarterly average total assets. As of December 31, 1997, the Federal Reserve had
not advised the Corporation of any specific minimum Tangible Tier 1 Leverage
Ratio applicable to it. At December 31, 1997, the Corporation had a Tangible
Tier 1 Leverage Ratio of 6.8%.

     In addition to the effects of the provisions described above, the Federal
Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (FDICIA) substantially
revised the depository institution regulatory and funding provisions of the FDI
Act and made revisions to several other federal banking statutes.

     Among other things, FDICIA requires the federal banking regulators to take
prompt corrective action in respect to FDIC-insured depository institutions that
do not meet minimum capital requirements. FDICIA establishes five capital tiers:
"well capitalized," "adequately capitalized," "undercapitalized," "significantly
undercapitalized" and "critically undercapitalized." A depository institution's
capital tier will depend upon how its capital levels compare to various relevant
capital measures and certain other factors, as established by regulation. Under
applicable regulations, an FDIC-insured bank is defined to be well capitalized
if it maintains a Leverage Ratio of at least 5%, a Total Capital Ratio of at
least 10% and a Tier 1 Capital Ratio (Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted assets) of
at least 6% and is not otherwise in a "troubled condition" as
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
specified by its appropriate federal regulatory agency. A bank is generally
considered to be adequately capitalized if it is not defined to be well
capitalized but meets all of its minimum capital requirements, i.e., if it has a
Leverage Ratio of 4% or greater (or a Leverage Ratio of 3% or greater if the
institution is rated composite 1 in its most recent report of examination,
subject to appropriate federal banking agency guidelines), a Total Capital Ratio
of 8% or greater and a Tier 1 Capital Ratio of 4% or greater. A bank will be
considered undercapitalized if it fails to meet any minimum required measure,
significantly undercapitalized if it is significantly below such measure and
critically undercapitalized if it maintains a level of tangible equity capital
equal to or less than 2% of total assets. A bank may be reclassified to be in a
capitalization category that is next below that indicated by its actual capital
position if it receives a less than satisfactory examination rating by its
examiners with respect to its assets, management, earnings or liquidity that has
not been corrected, or it is determined that the bank is in an unsafe or unsound
condition or engaged in an unsafe or unsound practice. At December 31, 1997, the
Bank and each of the Corporation's other subsidiary banks met or exceeded the
minimum regulatory ratios that are one of the conditions for them to be
considered to be well capitalized. For further discussion of regulatory capital
requirements for the Corporation and the Bank, see pages 38 and 39 of
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and Note 28, titled "Regulatory Capital Requirements" on page 67 of
the Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
1997.

     FDICIA generally prohibits a depository institution from making any capital
distribution (including payment of dividends) or paying any management fee to
its holding company if the depository institution would thereafter be
undercapitalized. Undercapitalized depository institutions are subject to growth
limitations and are required to submit a capital restoration plan. If a
depository institution fails to submit an acceptable plan, it is treated as if
it is significantly undercapitalized.

     Under FDICIA, a bank that is not well capitalized is generally prohibited
from accepting or renewing brokered deposits and offering interest rates on
deposits significantly higher than the prevailing rate in its normal market area
or nationally (depending upon where the deposits are solicited); in addition,
"pass-through" insurance coverage may not be available for certain employee
benefit accounts.

     Significantly undercapitalized depository institutions may be subject to a
number of requirements and restrictions, including orders to sell sufficient
voting stock to become adequately capitalized, requirements to reduce total
assets and cessation of receipt of deposits from correspondent banks. Critically
undercapitalized depository institutions may be restricted from making payments
of principal and interest on subordinated debt and are subject to appointment of
a receiver or conservator.

     FDICIA also contains a variety of other provisions that affect the
operations of a bank, including reporting requirements, regulatory standards for
real estate lending, "truth in savings" provisions and a requirement that a
depository institution give 90 days' prior notice to customers and regulatory
authorities before closing any branch.

                                     STAFF

     Northern Trust employed 7,553 full-time equivalent officers and staff
members as of December 31, 1997, approximately 5,538 of whom were employed by
the Bank.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            STATISTICAL DISCLOSURES

     The following statistical disclosures, included in the Corporation's Annual
Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997, are incorporated
herein by reference.


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

     Additional statistical information on a consolidated basis is set forth
below.

Remaining Maturity and Average Yield of Securities Held to Maturity and
Available for Sale
(Yield on a taxable equivalent basis giving effect of the federal and state
tax rates)



 
Securities Held to Maturity and Available for Sale
 
Loans and Leases by Type

Remaining Maturity of Selected Loans and Leases



 
Average Deposits by Type 
 
 
Remaining Maturity of Time Deposits $100,000 and more


 
Purchased Funds

 


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Changes in Net Interest Income

Note: Changes not due only to volume changes or rate changes are included in 
      the change due to rate column. 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


International Operations (Based on Obligor's Domicile)

        See also Note 26 titled "International Operations" on page 65 of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1997, which is incorporated herein by reference.

Selected Average Assets and Liabilities Attributable to International Operations

     



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Percent of International Related Average Assets and Liabilities to 
Total Consolidated Average Assets

 
================================================================================

Reserve for Credit Losses Relating to International Operations

 

        The Securities and Exchange Commission requires the disclosure of the
reserve for credit losses that is applicable to international operations. The
above table has been prepared in compliance with this disclosure requirement and
is used in determining international operating performance. The amounts shown in
the table should not be construed as being the only amounts that are available
for international loan charge-offs, since the entire reserve for credit losses
is available to absorb losses on both domestic and international loans. In
addition, these amounts are not intended to be indicative of future charge-off
trends.
================================================================================

Distribution of International Loans and Deposits by Type

================================================================================



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                            CREDIT RISK MANAGEMENT 

Overview 

     The Credit Policy function reports to the Corporation's Chief Financial 
Officer. Credit Policy provides a system of checks and balances for Northern 
Trust's diverse credit-related activities by establishing and monitoring all 
credit-related policies and practices and ensuring their uniform application. 
These activities are designed to ensure that credit exposure is diversified 
on an industry and client basis, thus lessening the overall credit risk. 

     Individual credit authority for commercial loans and within Personal
Financial Services is limited to specified amounts and maturities. Credit
decisions involving commitment exposure in excess of the specified individual
limits are submitted to the appropriate Credit Approval Committee (Committee).
Each Committee is chaired by the executive in charge of the area and has a
Credit Policy officer as a voting participant. Each Committee's credit approval
authority is specified, based on commitment levels, credit ratings and
maturities. Credits involving commitment exposure in excess of these group
credit limits require the approval of the Senior Credit Committee or the
business unit head.

     Credit Policy established the Counterparty Risk Management Committee in
order to manage counterparty risk more effectively. This committee has sole
credit authority for exposure to all foreign banks, certain domestic banks which
Credit Policy deems to be counterparties and which do not have commercial credit
relationships within the Corporation, and other organizations which Credit
Policy deems to be counterparties.

     Under the auspices of Credit Policy, country exposure limits are reviewed 
and approved on a country-by-country basis. 

     As part of the Northern Trust's ongoing credit granting process, internal
credit ratings are assigned to each client and credit before credit is extended,
based on creditworthiness. Credit Policy performs at least annually a review of
selected significant credit exposures to identify at the earliest possible
stages clients who might be facing financial difficulties. Internal credit
ratings are also reviewed during this process. Above average risk loans, which
will vary from time to time, receive special attention by both lending officers
and Credit Policy. This approach allows management to take remedial action in an
effort to deal with potential problems.

     An integral part of the Credit Policy function is a monthly formal review
of all past due and potential problem loans to determine which credits, if any,
need to be placed on nonaccrual status or charged off. The provision is reviewed
quarterly to determine the amount necessary to maintain an adequate reserve for
credit losses.

     Management of credit risk is reviewed by various bank regulatory agencies.
Independent auditors also perform a review of credit-related procedures, the
loan portfolio and other extensions of credit, and the reserve for credit losses
as part of their examination of the consolidated financial statements.

Allocation of the Reserve for Credit Losses 

     Bank disclosure guidelines issued by the Securities and Exchange Commission
request management to furnish a breakdown of the reserve for credit losses by
loan category and provide the percentage of loans in each category to total
loans. For this purpose, the reserve is allocated for credit losses associated
with all loans, leases and commitments based on historical loss experience, loan
volume, internal credit ratings and specific amounts designated for certain
nonperforming loans. This allocation method should not be interpreted as an
indication of expected losses within the next year or any specified time period.

     In practice, the reserve for credit losses is established and maintained on
an overall basis and is not allocated to specific categories of the portfolio.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 
        As required by the Securities and Exchange Commission, the following 
table breaks down the reserve for credit losses:

Reserve for Credit Losses

 

        At December 31, 1993, $.2 million of the reserve was allocated based
on an estimate of the amount that was necessary to provide for potential losses
related to specific nonperforming loans only, while $145.3 million remained
unallocated of the total $145.5 million reserve balance.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

        Loan and lease categories as a percent of total loans and leases as
of December 31, 1993 through 1997, are presented below.

Loan and Lease Category to Total Loans and Leases




 
        The information presented in the "Credit Risk Management" section should
be read in conjunction with the following information that is incorporated
herein by reference to the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 1997:


        In addition, the following schedules on page 15 of this Form 10-K should
be read in conjunction with the "Credit Risk Management" section:

        Reserve for Credit Losses Relating to International Operations 

        Distribution of International Loans and Deposits by Type


 
                      INTEREST RATE SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS 

        For the discussion of interest rate sensitivity, see the section
entitled "Market Risk Management" on pages 35 to 38 of Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1997, which is incorporated herein by reference.


 
        The following unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet and Consolidated
Statement of Income for The Northern Trust Company were prepared in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and are provided here for
informational purposes. These consolidated financial statements should be read
in conjunction with the footnotes accompanying the consolidated financial
statements, included in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the
year ended December 31, 1997, and incorporated herein by reference on page 24 of
this Form 10-K.

The Northern Trust Company 
Consolidated Balance Sheet (unaudited)







- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
Supplemental Item--Executive Officers of the Registrant

WILLIAM A. OSBORN

     Mr. Osborn became Chairman of the Board of the Corporation and the Bank in 
October 1995, and Chief Executive Officer of the Corporation and the Bank in 
June 1995. He held the title of President of the Corporation and the Bank from 
January 1994 to October 1995 and Chief Operating Officer from January 1994 
through June 1995. He was a Senior Executive Vice President of the Corporation 
and the Bank from November 1992 through 1993 and prior to that time had served 
as an Executive Vice President of the Bank since 1987, and of the Corporation 
since 1989. Mr. Osborn, 50, began his career with the Bank in 1970.

BARRY G. HASTINGS

     Mr. Hastings became President of the Corporation and the Bank in October
1995, and Chief Operating Officer of the Corporation and the Bank in June 1995.
He held the title of Vice Chairman of the Corporation and the Bank from January
1994 through June 1995. He was a Senior Executive Vice President of the
Corporation and the Bank from November 1992 through 1993 and prior to that time
had served as an Executive Vice President of the Bank since 1987, and of the
Corporation since 1990. Mr. Hastings, 50, began his career with the Corporation
in 1974.

DAVID L. EDDY

     Mr. Eddy became a Senior Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank and
Treasurer of the Corporation in 1986. Mr. Eddy, 61, joined the Bank in 1960.

JAMES J. MITCHELL

     Mr. Mitchell was appointed an Executive Vice President of the Bank in
December 1987 and of the Corporation in October 1994, and is currently head of
the Worldwide Operations and Technology business unit. Mr. Mitchell, 55, joined
the Bank in 1964.

SHEILA A. PENROSE

     Ms. Penrose became President - C&IS of the Corporation and of the Bank in
January 1998, and an Executive Vice President of the Bank in November 1993 and
of the Corporation in November 1994. From 1986 until 1993, she had been a Senior
Vice President of the Bank. Ms. Penrose, 52, began her career with the
Corporation in 1977.

PERRY R. PERO

     Mr. Pero is Chief Financial Officer of the Corporation and the Bank and
Cashier of the Bank. Mr. Pero is also head of the Risk Management Unit and
Chairman of the Corporate Asset and Liability Policy Committee. He became a
Senior Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank in 1992 after
serving as an Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank since
1987. Mr. Pero, 58, joined the Bank in 1964.

PETER L. ROSSITER

     Mr. Rossiter serves as Executive Vice President and General Counsel of the 
Corporation and the Bank. He joined the Corporation and the Bank in 1992 as 
an Executive Vice President and Associate General Counsel. He held the title 
of Secretary of the Corporation and the Bank from April 1993 through November 
1997 and has served as an Assistant Secretary since then. Mr. Rossiter, 49, 
had been a partner in the law firm of Schiff Hardin & Waite from 1979 to 1992.

HARRY W. SHORT

     Mr. Short was appointed Senior Vice President and Controller of the
Corporation and the Bank in October 1994. He joined the Corporation and the Bank
in January 1990 and served as Senior Vice President and General Auditor. Mr.
Short, 50, had been a partner in the accounting firm of KPMG Peat Marwick from
1982 to 1990.

JAMES M. SNYDER

     Mr. Snyder was appointed Executive Vice President of the Corporation and
the Bank in November 1996 and is currently the Chief Investment Officer. He had
been a Senior Vice President of the Bank from 1991 to 1996. Mr. Snyder, 51,
joined the Bank in 1969.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

MARK STEVENS

     Mr. Stevens became President - PFS of the Corporation and the Bank in
January 1998, and was appointed an Executive Vice President of the Corporation
and the Bank in February 1996. He served as Chief Executive Officer of Northern
Trust Bank of Florida N.A., from 1987 to 1996. Mr. Stevens, 50, joined the
Corporation in 1979.

STEPHEN B. TIMBERS

     Mr. Timbers joined Northern Trust in February 1998, when he was named
President- NTGI and an Executive Vice President of the Corporation and the Bank.
From January 1996 to December 1997, Mr.Timbers, 53, was President, Chief
Executive Officer and Chief Investment Officer of Zurich Kemper Investments,
Inc. (formerly Kemper Financial Services, Inc.), the investment advisor to the
Kemper Funds and the parent organization of Zurich Investment Management, Inc.
From January 1992 until January 1996, he served as President and Chief Operating
Officer of Kemper Corporation.

WILLIAM S. TRUKENBROD

     Mr. Trukenbrod was appointed an Executive Vice President of the Corporation
and the Bank in February 1994, and is currently Chairman of the Credit Policy
Committee. Previously, he served as head of the U.S. Corporate Group of
Commercial Banking from 1987 to 1992. He had been a Senior Vice President of the
Bank since 1980 and of the Corporation since 1992. Mr. Trukenbrod, 58, joined
the Bank in 1962.

     The positions of Chairman of the Board, Chief Executive Officer, President
and Vice Chairman are elected annually by the Board of Directors at the first
meeting of the Board of Directors held after each annual meeting of
stockholders. The other officers are appointed annually by the Board. Officers
continue to hold office until their successors are duly elected or until their
death, resignation or removal by the Board.

Item 2-Properties

     The executive offices of the Corporation and the Bank are located at 50
South LaSalle Street in the financial district of Chicago. This Bank-owned
building is occupied by various divisions of Northern Trust's business units.
Financial services are provided by the Bank at this location. Adjacent to this
building are two office buildings in which the Bank leases approximately 332,000
square feet of space principally for staff divisions of the business units. The
Bank also leases approximately 112,000 square feet of a building at 125 South
Wacker Drive in Chicago for computer facilities, banking operations and personal
banking services. Financial services are also provided by the Bank at fourteen
other Chicago metropolitan area locations, five of which are owned and nine of
which are leased. The Bank's trust and banking operations are located in a
465,000 square foot facility at 801 South Canal Street in Chicago. The building
is leased by the Corporation under terms that qualify as a capital lease. In
June 1997, the Bank entered into an agreement to purchase a building and
adjacent land located across the street from the Chicago operations center in
January 2000. The building, which is located at 840 South Canal Street and
contains approximately 340,000 square feet of office space, will be used for
future expansion and to relocate the computer data center and some personnel
currently located in leased facilities in downtown Chicago. Prior to the
purchase date, the Bank will lease, in phases beginning in November 1997,
approximately two floors of this six-story building. Space for the Bank's London
and Singapore Branches, Edge Act subsidiary and The Northern Trust Company,
Canada are leased.

     The Corporation's other subsidiaries operate from sixty-one locations,
fourteen of which are owned and forty-seven of which are leased. Detailed
information regarding the addresses of all Northern Trust's locations can be
found on pages 80 and 81 in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for
the year ended December 31, 1997, which is incorporated herein by reference.

     The facilities which are owned or leased are suitable and adequate for
business needs. For additional information relating to properties and lease
commitments, refer to Note 8 titled "Buildings and Equipment" and Note 9 titled
"Lease Commitments" on page 51 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997, which information is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 3-Legal Proceedings

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to Note 19 titled "Contingent Liabilities" on page 59 of the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997.

Item 4-Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

   None.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                    PART II

Item 5--Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the section of the Consolidated Financial Statistics titled "Common Stock
Dividend and Market Price" on pages 76 and 77 of the Corporation's Annual Report
to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997.

     Information regarding dividend restrictions of the Corporation's banking
subsidiaries is incorporated herein by reference to Note 15 titled "Restrictions
on Subsidiary Dividends and Loans or Advances" on page 56 of the Corporation's
Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997.

Item 6-Selected Financial Data 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to the table titled "Summary of Selected Consolidated Financial Data" on page 22
of the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December
31, 1997.

Item 7-Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results 
of Operations 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 22 through 41 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997.

Item 7A-Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" on pages 35 through 38 of the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997.

Item 8-Financial Statements and Supplementary Data
 
     The following financial statements of the Corporation and its subsidiaries
included in the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997, are incorporated herein by reference.
 
     The section titled "Quarterly Financial Data" on pages 76 and 77 of the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1997, is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9-Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial
Disclosure

     None.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                   
                                   PART III 

Item 10--Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant 

     The information called for by Item 10 relating to Directors and Nominees
for election to the Board of Directors is incorporated herein by reference to
pages 2 through 5 of the Corporation's definitive 1998 Notice and Proxy
Statement filed on March 16, 1998 in connection with the solicitation of proxies
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 21, 1998. The
information called for by Item 10 relating to Executive Officers is set forth in
Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. The information called for by Item 10
relating to Item 405 disclosure of delinquent Form 3, 4 or 5 filers is
incorporated by reference to page 9 of the Corporation's definitive 1998 Notice
and Proxy Statement filed on March 16, 1998 in connection with the solicitation
of proxies for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 21, 1998.

Item 11--Executive Compensation 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to pages 8 and 9 and pages 10 through 17 of the Corporation's definitive 1998
Notice and Proxy Statement filed in connection with the solicitation of proxies
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held April 21, 1998.

Item 12--Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to pages 6 and 7 of the Corporation's definitive 1998 Notice and Proxy Statement
filed in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 21, 1998.

Item 13--Certain Relationships and Related Transactions 

     The information called for by this item is incorporated herein by reference
to page 9 of the Corporation's definitive 1998 Notice and Proxy Statement filed
in connection with the solicitation of proxies for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held April 21, 1998.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 
                                   PART IV 

Item 14--Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K 

Item 14(a)(1) and (2)--Northern Trust Corporation and Subsidiaries List of
                       Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules

        The following financial information is set forth in Item 1 for
informational purposes only:
               Financial Information of The Northern Trust Company (Bank Only):

                    Unaudited Consolidated Balance Sheet-December 31, 1997 and 
                    1996. 
                    Unaudited Consolidated Statement of Income-Years Ended
                    December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

        The following consolidated financial statements of the Corporation and
its subsidiaries are incorporated by reference into Item 8 from the
Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended December 31,
1997:
               Consolidated Financial Statements of Northern Trust Corporation 
               and Subsidiaries: 

                    Consolidated Balance Sheet-December 31, 1997 and 1996. 

                    Consolidated Statement of Income-Years Ended December 31, 
                    1997, 1996 and 1995. 

                    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity-
                    Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

                    Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows-Years Ended December
                    31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

        The following financial information is incorporated by reference into
Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year ended
December 31, 1997:
               Financial Statements of Northern Trust Corporation (Corporation):

                    Condensed Balance Sheet-December 31, 1997 and 1996. 

                    Condensed Statement of Income-Years Ended December 31, 1997,
                    1996 and 1995.

                    Consolidated Statement of Changes in Stockholders' Equity-
                    Years Ended December 31, 1997, 1996 and 1995.

                    Condensed Statement of Cash Flows-Years Ended December 31, 
                    1997, 1996 and 1995. 

        The Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements as of December 31, 1997,
incorporated by reference into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to
Stockholders for the year ended December 31, 1997, pertain to the Bank only
information, consolidated financial statements and Corporation only information
listed above.

        The Report of Independent Public Accountants incorporated by reference
into Item 8 from the Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders for the year
ended December 31, 1997 pertains to the consolidated financial statements and
Corporation only information listed above.

        Financial statement schedules have been omitted for the reason that they
are not required or are not applicable.

Item 14(a)3-Exhibits 

        The exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index beginning on page 28 of this 
Form 10-K are filed herewith or are incorporated herein by reference to other 
filings. 

Item 14(b)-Reports on Form 8-K 
        In a report on Form 8-K dated October 21, 1997, Northern Trust
incorporated by reference in Item 5 its October 20, 1997 press release,
reporting on its earnings for the third quarter and nine months of 1997. The
press release, with summary financial information, was filed as an exhibit
pursuant to Item 7 of the Form 8-K.



 
                                  SIGNATURES

        Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, the Registrant has duly caused this Form 10-K
Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date:  March 17, 1998                            Northern Trust Corporation   
                                                        (Registrant)       
                                             By:     William A. Osborn
                                                --------------------------------
                                                     William A. Osborn
                                                 Chairman of the Board and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer 

        Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as
amended, this Form 10-K Report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.


 


 
                                EXHIBIT INDEX 

        The following Exhibits are filed herewith or are incorporated herein 
by reference.







 

 
        Upon written request to Rose A. Ellis, Secretary, Northern Trust
Corporation, 50 South LaSalle Street, Chicago, Illinois 60675, copies of
exhibits listed above are available to Northern Trust Corporation stockholders
by specifically identifying each exhibit desired in the request.

        Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the Corporation 
hereby agrees to furnish the Commission, upon request, any instrument defining 
the rights of holders of long-term debt of the Corporation not filed as an 
exhibit herein. No such instrument authorizes long-term debt securities in 
excess of 10% of the total assets of the Corporation and its subsidiaries on 
a consolidated basis.
        

