
10-K
FORM 10-K


                                
        UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                     Washington, D.C.  20549
                            FORM 10-K

           (Mark one)
          X ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION
           13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
           1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
           For the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994
                                
                               OR

           TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 or 15
           (d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 [NO
           FEE REQUIRED]
           For the transition period from _______ to _______

                 Commission file number  0-14678
                                
                        ROSS STORES, INC.
     (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

                               Delaware
                    (State or other jurisdiction of
                    incorporation or organization)
                                   
                              94-1390387
                 (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
                                   
                                   
                8333 Central Avenue, Newark, California
               (Address of principal executive offices)
                              94560-3433
                              (Zip Code)
                                   
                            (510) 505-4400
          Registrant's telephone number, including area code
                                   
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  None
                                   
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
                                   
                          Title of each class
                     ----------------------------
                      Common stock, par value $.01
                                   
               Name of each exchange on which registered
                           - - - - - - - - -
                              NASDAQ/NMS

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all
reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months
(or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to
file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.
Yes    X     No

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent files pursuant
to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will
not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by
reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.    X

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-
affiliates of the Registrant as of April 1, 1994 was
$329,728,439.25.

The number of shares of Common Stock, with $.01 par value,
outstanding on April 1, 1994 was 24,859,733.

Documents incorporated by reference:
     Portions of the Proxy Statement for Registrant's Annual
     Meeting of Stockholders, to be held Tuesday, June 7, 1994,
     are incorporated herein by reference into part III.
  
                                
 begin page 2
                             PART I


ITEM 1. BUSINESS

     Ross Stores, Inc. operates a chain of off-price retail
apparel stores which target value conscious men and women between
the ages of 25 and 54 and their families.  The company offers its
merchandise at low everyday prices, generally 20% to 60% below
those of most department and specialty stores.  The company
believes it derives a competitive advantage by offering a wide
assortment of quality brand-name apparel within each of its
merchandise categories (e.g., shirts, dresses, shoes) in an
attractive easy-to-shop environment.

     Ross Stores' mission is to offer competitive values to its
target customers by focusing on the following key strategic
objectives:  achieve an appropriate level of brands and labels at
strong discounts throughout the store; meet customer needs on a
more regional basis; deliver an in-store shopping experience that
reflects the expectations of the off-price customer; and manage
real estate growth to maintain dominance or achieve parity with
the competition in key markets.  Ross targets its sales to value-
conscious 25-54 year old men and women in white collar, middle-to-
upper middle income households, which the company believes to be
the largest customer segment in the retailing industry.  The
decisions of the company, from merchandising, purchasing and
pricing, to the location of its stores, are aimed at this
customer base.

     The original Ross Stores, Inc. was incorporated in
California in 1957.  In August 1982, the company was purchased by
some of its current stockholders and restaffed with a new
management team.  The six stores acquired at the time were
completely refurbished in the company's current off-price format
and stocked with new merchandise.

     At the stockholders' meeting in May 1989, the company's
stockholders approved the reincorporation of Ross Stores, Inc.,
in the state of Delaware.  The reincorporation was completed in
June 1989.

Merchandising, Purchasing and Pricing

     Ross seeks to provide its target customers with a wide
assortment of first quality, in-season, name brand apparel,
accessories and footwear for the entire family at everyday
savings of 20% to 60% from department and specialty store prices,
as well as similar savings on fragrances and gift items for the
home.  In addition, in 1994 Ross will introduce in certain stores
a new department featuring tabletop, bed and bath linens and bath
accessories.  The company reviews its merchandise mix each week,
enabling it to respond to merchandise trends and purchasing
opportunities in the market.  The company's merchandising
strategy is reflected in its television and newspaper
advertising, which emphasizes a strong value message: Ross'
customers get great prices everyday of the year.  Although not a
fashion leader, the company sells recognizable branded
merchandise that is current and fashionable in each category.

     Merchandising.  The Ross merchandising strategy incorporates
in-season apparel, shoes and accessories for the entire family,
as well as fragrances and giftware for the home.  The company's
emphasis on brand names reflects management's conviction that
brand-name apparel sold at affordable prices will continue to be
an important determinant of its success.  Ross leaves the brand-
name label on the merchandise it sells.

     The company has established a merchandise assortment which
it believes is attractive to its target customer group.  Although
Ross Stores offers fewer classifications of merchandise than most
department stores, the company generally offers a large selection
of brand names within each classification with a wide assortment
of vendors, prices, colors, styles and fabrics within each size.
During the year ended January 29, 1994, the overall merchandise
sales mix was approximately 96% first quality merchandise and 4%
irregulars.  Ross clears out all in-store seasonal inventory on a
semi-annual basis.  During the past year, the respective
departments accounted for total sales approximately as follows:
Ladies 38%, Men's 26%, Accessories, Hosiery and Lingerie 11%,
Shoes 10%, Children's 8%, and Fragrances and Home Accents 7%.

     Purchasing.  During the past three years, no single vendor
has accounted for more than 1% of the company's purchases.  The
company continues to add new vendors and believes it has adequate
sources of first quality merchandise
to meet its requirements.  The company purchases the vast
majority of its merchandise directly from manufacturers and has
not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient inventory.

 begin page 3

     The company believes that its ability to effectively execute
certain off-price buying strategies is a key factor in its
business.  Ross buyers use a number of methods that enable the
company to offer customers name brand merchandise at strong
everyday discounts relative to department and specialty stores.
By purchasing later in the merchandise buying cycle than
department and specialty stores, Ross is able to take advantage
of imbalances of manufacturer-projected supply of merchandise.
This purchasing strategy enables Ross to interpret and react
quickly to market conditions and customer demand during the
selling season.  As a result, Ross is less dependent than
department and specialty stores on anticipating such
developments.

     The company has increased its emphasis in recent years on
opportunistic purchases created by manufacturer overruns and
canceled orders during and at the end of a season.  These buys
are referred to as "closeout" or "packaway" purchases.  Closeouts
can be shipped to stores in season or stored in the company's
warehouses until the beginning of the next selling season (i.e.,
packaway).  Purchases of packaway merchandise are goods that are
not usually affected by seasonal shifts in fashion trends.

     Ross, unlike most department and specialty stores, does not
require that manufacturers provide it with promotional and
markdown allowances, return privileges and delayed deliveries.
In addition, Ross requires only one invoice for each delivery,
and deliveries are made to one of the company's two distribution
centers.  These characteristics enable the company's buyers to
obtain significant discounts on in-season purchases.

     Ross Stores' buying offices are located in New York City and
Los Angeles, the nation's two largest apparel markets.  These
strategic locations allow buyers to be in the market on a daily
basis, sourcing opportunities and negotiating purchases with
vendors and manufacturers.  These locations also enable the
company's buyers to strengthen vendor relationships, a key
determinant in the success of its off-price buying strategies.

     The company's buyers have up to 22 years of experience,
including experience with other retailers such as Bloomingdale's,
Burlington Coat Factory, Dayton Hudson, Lord & Taylor, Macy's,
Marshalls and TJ Maxx.  The company has recently increased the
size of its merchandising staff, which is comprised of divisional
merchandise managers, buyers and assistant buyers.  Management
believes that these increased resources will enable its merchants
to spend even more time in the market, which should strengthen
the company's ability to procure the most desirable brands at
competitive discounts.

     The combination of the above off-price buying strategies
enables the company to purchase merchandise at net prices which
are lower than prices paid by department and specialty stores.

     As a summary, important factors in the company's ability to
execute its purchasing strategy are the following:

     A recently enlarged merchandising staff strategically
     located in the New York and Los Angeles garment districts;

     Experienced buyers who select and price the merchandise for
     the company's stores and make markdown decisions within pre-
     arranged budgets;

     Off-price buying techniques that enable the company to offer
     strong discounts everyday on name brand merchandise;

     A fully-integrated, on-line management information system
     which provides buyers with accurate and timely information
     on a weekly basis; and

     The company's ability to pay its vendors quickly.

     Pricing.  The company's policy is to sell merchandise which
can generally be priced at 20% to 60% less than most department
and specialty store prices.  The Ross pricing policy is to affix
to all brand name merchandise a ticket displaying the company's
selling price as well as the estimated comparable selling price
of that item at department and specialty stores.

 begin page 4


     The Ross pricing strategy differs from that of a department
or specialty store.  Ross purchases its merchandise at lower
prices and marks it up less than a department or specialty store.
This strategy enables Ross to offer customers consistently low
prices.  Ticketed prices are not increased and are reviewed
weekly for possible markdowns based on the rate of sales to
promote faster turnover of inventory and accelerate the flow of
fresh merchandise.

Operating Costs

     Consistent with the other aspects of its strategy, Ross
strives to keep operating costs as low as possible.  Among the
factors which have enabled the company to operate at low costs to
date are:

     Reduced in-store labor costs resulting from a store design
which directs customers to merchandise, a self-selection retail
format and utilization of labor saving technologies;

     Economies of scale with respect to general and
administrative costs as a result of centralized merchandising,
marketing and purchasing decisions;

     Model store layout criteria which facilitate conversion of
existing buildings to the Ross format; and

     A fully-integrated, on-line management information system
which enables the company to respond quickly when making
purchasing, merchandising and pricing decisions.

The Ross Store

     As of January 29, 1994, the company operated 243 stores.
The typical new Ross store is approximately 27,200 square feet
plus a mezzanine, yielding approximately 21,000 square feet of
selling space.  All stores are leased, with the exception of one.
They are conveniently located predominantly in community and
neighborhood strip shopping centers in heavily populated urban
and suburban areas.  Where the size of the market permits, the
company clusters stores to maximize economies of scale in
advertising, distribution and management.  During the year, the
average Ross store employs approximately 33 full and part-time
people.

     The company believes a key element of its success is the
attractive, easy-to-shop environment in its stores which allows
each customer to shop at his or her own pace.  The Ross store's
sales area is based on a prototype single floor design with a
racetrack aisle layout.  A customer can locate desired
departments by signs displayed just below the ceiling of each
department.  Ross encourages its customers to select among sizes
and prices through prominent category and sizing markers,
promoting a self-service atmosphere.  Shopping carts are
available at the entrance for customer convenience.  Checkout
stations are located only at store entrances for customer ease
and efficient employee assignment.

     The Ross store is designed for customer convenience in its
merchandise presentation, dressing rooms, and checkout and
merchandise return areas.  Racks, displays and dressing rooms are
kept neat and orderly.  It is the company's policy to minimize
transaction time for the customer at the checkout counter by
opening a new register whenever a line has three or more
customers and by using electronic systems for scanning each
ticket at the point of sale and authorizing credit for personal
checks and credit cards in a matter of seconds.  Approximately
one-third of payments are made with credit cards.  Ross provides
full cash or credit card refunds on all merchandise returned with
a receipt and believes this policy appeals to its customers.

Distribution

     Each Ross store is serviced by the company's two
distribution centers, an approximately 494,000 square foot
distribution center located in Newark, California, and an
approximately 424,000 square foot center located in Carlisle,
Pennsylvania.  Having two distribution centers, one on each
coast, has resulted in faster deliveries, lower freight costs,
and decreased turn-around time in getting the merchandise from
the vendors to the stores.

     Turn-around time between receipt of goods at the
distribution centers and when they are staged and ready for
shipment to the stores is approximately five days.  Shipments are
made by contract carriers to each store at least once a week,
thereby limiting the requirement for substantial storage space at
the stores.

 begin page 5


Advertising

     During the fiscal years 1993, 1992, and 1991 advertising
costs were approximately $33.8 million, $34.1 million and $30.0
million.  The company utilizes extensive advertising which
emphasizes quality, brand-name merchandise at low everyday
prices.  For the current year, approximately 83% of its
advertising budget was devoted to television, 12% to print, and
5% for production and sales promotion expenses.  In 1992, the
company allocated approximately 82% of its advertising budget to
television.  The high percentage of television usage over the
past couple of years reflects the company's belief that this is
the best medium for presenting Ross' everyday low price message.

Control Systems

     The company's management information system fully integrates
data from significant phases of its operations, and is a key
element in the company's planning, purchasing, distribution and
pricing decisions.  The system enables Ross to respond to changes
in the retail market and to increase speed and accuracy in its
merchandise distribution.

     Data from the current and last fiscal year can be monitored
on levels ranging from merchandise classification units to
overall totals for the company.  Data important to the decision-
making process is on-line, real time data to all authorized
users.  Merchandise is tracked by the system from the creation of
its purchase order, through its receipt at the distribution
center, through the distribution planning process, and ultimately
to the point of sale.

Stores

     From August 1982 to January 29, 1994, the company expanded
from six stores in California to 243 stores in 18 states:
Arizona, California, Colorado, Florida, Georgia, Hawaii, Idaho,
Maryland, Nevada, New Jersey, New Mexico, Oklahoma, Oregon,
Pennsylvania, Texas, Utah, Virginia and Washington.

     The company's real estate strategy is to open additional
stores in existing market areas to increase its market
penetration and reduce overhead and advertising expenses as a
percentage of sales in each market.  Important considerations in
evaluating a new market are the availability of potential sites,
demographic characteristics, competition, and population density
of the market.  The company plans to open new stores primarily in
existing markets through the end of 1995.

Competition

     The national apparel retail market is highly fragmented.
Ross faces intense competition for business from its target
customer segment from department stores, specialty stores,
discount stores, other off-price retailers, and manufacturer-
owned outlet stores, many of which are units of large national or
regional chains that have substantially greater resources than
the company.  The retail apparel business may become even more
competitive in the future.  The company believes that the
principal competitive factors in the off-price retail apparel
industry are offering everyday low prices on name brand
merchandise appealing to its target customer, making buying
decisions based on regional and/or local factors, and
consistently providing a store environment that is convenient,
easy to shop, and time efficient for the customer.  The company
believes that it is well positioned to compete on the basis of
each of these factors.

Employees

     At January 29, 1994, the company had 8,949 employees which
includes an estimated 5,025 part-time employees.  Of the full-
time employees, approximately 410 are administrative employees,
340 are distribution center employees and 3,174 are store
employees.  The company's employees are non-union.  Management of
the company considers the relationship between the company and
its employees to be excellent.

 begin page 6

Seasonality

     The combined sales of the company for the third and fourth
(holiday) quarters are higher than the combined sales for the
first two quarters.  The company has realized a significant
portion of its profits in each fiscal year during the fourth
quarter.  Intensified price competition, lower-than-anticipated
consumer demand or other seasonal factors, if they were to occur
during the last six months, and in particular during the fourth
quarter, could adversely affect the company's fiscal year
results.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

     The company currently leases its Newark, California
distribution center, corporate and buying offices, store
facilities, and some of its fixtures and equipment.  The company
owns its distribution center in Carlisle, Pennsylvania, which has
an outstanding mortgage value of $10.3 million at the end of the
1993 fiscal year.  As of January 29, 1994, the company's 243
stores generally range in size from 18,000 to 40,000 gross square
feet, and have an average of 21,442 square feet of selling space.
During the fiscal year ended January 29, 1994, no one store
accounted for more than 2% of the company's sales.

     Where possible, the company has obtained sites in existing
buildings requiring minimal alterations.  This has allowed Ross
to establish stores in new locations in a relatively short period
of time at reasonable costs in a given market.

     At January 29, 1994, the majority of the company's stores
had unexpired original lease terms ranging from one to ten years
with two to three renewal options of five years each.  The
average unexpired original lease term of its leased stores is six
years, or 19 years if renewal options are included.  See Note D
of notes to consolidated financial statements.  Most of the
company's store leases contain provisions for percentage rental
payments after a specified sales level has been achieved.  To
date, the company has been able to secure leases in suitable
locations for its stores.

     The company's two distribution centers provide the company
with the potential warehouse/distribution capacity to support its
growth for several years.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     None.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     None.
 begin page 7
                                
                                
              EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT


The following list sets forth the names and ages of all executive
officers of the company indicating each person's principal occupation
or employmlent during the past five years.  The term of office is at 
the pleasure of the Board of Directors.

       Name           Age     Position

Norman A. Ferber      45      Director, Chairman of the Board
                              and Chief Executive Officer

Melvin A. Wilmore     48      Director, President and
                              Chief Operating Officer

Michael A. Balmuth    43      Executive Vice President, Merchandising

Earl T. Benson        46      Senior Vice President, Chief Financial
                              Officer and Corporate Secretary

Michael J. Bush       33      Senior Vice President,
                              Marketing and Strategic Planning

James S. Fassio       39      Senior Vice President,
                              Property Development

Barry S. Gluck        41      Senior Vice President and
                              General Merchandise Manager

Peter C.M. Hart       43      Senior Vice President, Management
                              Information Systems and Distribution

James S. Jacobs       49      Senior Vice President, Store Operations

Stephen F. Joyce      52      Senior Vice President, Human Resources

Barbara Levy          39      Senior Vice President and
                              General Merchandise Manager

John M. Vuko          43      Senior Vice President and Controller

_____________________________

     Mr. Ferber has served as Chairman of the Board of Directors
and Chief Executive Officer since March 1993.  Prior to March
1993, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer since
January 1988.  From February 1987 to January 1988, he served as
President and Chief Operating Officer.  Prior to February 1987,
Mr. Ferber was Executive Vice President, Merchandising, Marketing
and Distribution of the company.  Mr. Ferber joined the company
in October 1982.

     Mr. Wilmore has served as President, Chief Operating Officer
and a member of the Board of Directors since March 1993.  Prior
to this, he served as Executive Vice President and Chief
Operating Officer since December 1991.  From October 1989 to
December 1991, he was Chief Executive Officer of Live Specialty
Retail, a division of LIVE Entertainment, Inc.  From March 1988
to June 1989, he was President/General Partner of Albert's
Acquisition Corporation.  From March 1987 to March 1988, Mr.
Wilmore was engaged in the acquisition of Albert's Hosiery and
Bodywear by Albert's Acquisition Corporation.  From April 1984 to
March 1987, he was the President and Chief Operating Officer of
Zale Jewelry Stores, a division of Zale Corporation.

     Mr. Balmuth became Executive Vice President, Merchandising
in July 1993.  Prior to this he served as Senior Vice President
and General Merchandise Manager since November 1989.  Before
joining Ross, he was Senior Vice President and General
Merchandise Manager at Bon Marche in Seattle from September 1988
through November 1989.  From April 1986 to September 1988, he
served as Executive Vice President and General Merchandise
Manager for Karen Austin Petites.
 begin page 8


     Mr. Benson has served as Senior Vice President, Chief
Financial Officer, and Corporate Secretary since May 1988.  He
joined the company in June 1984 as Controller, Treasurer and
Assistant Secretary and became a Vice President in October 1987.

     Mr. Bush has served as Senior Vice President, Marketing and
Strategic Planning since March 1993.  He joined the company in
April 1991 as Vice President, Strategic Planning.  Prior to
joining Ross, Mr. Bush was affiliated with the consulting firm,
Bain & Company, Inc.

     Mr. Fassio has served as Senior Vice President, Property
Development since March 1991.  He joined the company in June 1988
as Vice President of Real Estate.  Prior to joining Ross, Mr.
Fassio was Vice President, Real Estate and Construction at
Craftmart and Property Director of Safeway Stores, Inc.

     Mr. Gluck became Senior Vice President and General
Merchandise Manager in August 1993.  From February 1989 to August
1993, he served as Vice President and Divisional Merchandise
Manager.  Prior to joining Ross, Mr. Gluck served as General
Merchandise Manager, Vice President and Member of Executive
Committee for Today's Man from May 1987 to February 1989.

     Mr. Hart has served as Senior Vice President, Management
Information Systems (MIS) and Distribution since November 1988.
From January 1987 to November 1988, he served as Senior Vice
President of MIS.

     Mr. Jacobs has served as Senior Vice President, Store
Operations since November 1988.  From November 1986 to October
1988, he served as Regional Vice President, Director of Stores
for the J.W. Robinson's division of May Department Stores.

     Mr. Joyce has served as Senior Vice President, Human
Resources since July 1988.  Before joining Ross, he was Vice
President, Human Resources at Denny's, Inc. since February 1983.

     Ms. Levy became Senior Vice President and General
Merchandise Manager in May 1993.  Prior to joining Ross, Ms. Levy
was with R. H. Macy & Co., Inc. most recently as Senior Vice
President and General Merchandise Manager from January 1992 to
April 1993 and before that as their Regional Director - Stores
from May 1989 to January 1992 and from August 1985 to May 1989
she was their Divisional Merchandise Manager - Better Sportswear.

Mr. Vuko has served as Senior Vice President and Controller since
June 1992.  He joined the company in October 1989 as Vice President, 
Treasurer and Controller.  Before joining Ross, he was an executive
with The Cooper Companies from May 1988 to January 1989.  
He was Vice President, Treasurer and Controller of Cooper 
Lasersonics, Inc., from December 1986 to May 1988.  In 1989,
prior to his employment with Ross, the SEC alleged that Mr. Vuko
traded on inside information involving a company that then
employed Mr. Vuko's wife and that he realized profits of $9,990.
Mr. Vuko informed the company of these allegations prior to
joining the company.  In order to avoid costly and prolonged
legal action by the SEC, without admitting or denying the
allegations, Mr. Vuko consented to the entry on March 27, 1990 of
an order against him in the U.S. District Court for the Northern
District of California permanently enjoining him from violations
of federal securities laws.


 begin page 9
                                
                                
                             PART II
                                

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED
         STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     See information set forth under the caption "Quarterly
Financial Data (Unaudited)" under Note I of notes to consolidated
financial statements in Item 8 of this document which is
incorporated herein by reference.  The company's stock is traded
on the NASDAQ national market system under the symbol ROST.  The
number of stockholders of record as of April 18, 1994 was 1,252.
On January 27, 1994, the company's Board of Directors declared an
initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per share of common
stock.  The first record date was set at March 11, 1994.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA





 begin page 10
                                




 begin page 11


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
         CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

For the fiscal years ended January 29, 1994, January 30, 1993 and
February 1, 1992 (referred to as 1993, 1992 and 1991).

Results of Operations

     Stores.  Total stores open at the end of 1993, 1992 and 1991
were 243, 223 and 203.  During 1993, the company opened 22 stores
and closed 2 stores.  During 1992, the company opened 23 stores
and closed 3 stores.  In 1991, the company opened 20 stores and
closed 2 stores.

     Sales.  Sales were $1.122 billion, $1.043 billion and $.926
billion in 1993, 1992 and 1991, with each year consisting of 52
weeks.  Comparable store sales decreased 1% for 1993, increased
3% for 1992 and increased 2% for 1991.  Thus, in 1993 the
increase in sales was due to a greater number of stores in
operation.  The increases in sales for 1992 and 1991 were due to
an increase in comparable store sales and a greater number of
stores in operation.  The company believes that both the 1992 and
1991 comparable store sales increases resulted from the emphasis
on quality brand name merchandise at low everyday prices.  During
1993, the company continued to increase the percentage of quality
brand name merchandise in its stores.  The company believes the
decline in comparable store sales from 1992 was due to an
increasingly competitive environment for apparel retailers in
1993, which narrowed the value differential the company normally
offers compared to department and specialty stores.  In 1994, the
company plans to offer larger discounts on key name brand items
throughout the store to improve productivity as defined by sales
per square foot.  Therefore, the company is not relying on
increasing gross margins in 1994; rather, the company intends to
generate earnings growth primarily through sales increases and
leveraging down expenses as a percentage of sales.

     Cost of Goods Sold and Occupancy.  Cost of goods sold and
occupancy as a percentage of sales increased to 73% in 1993 from
71% for 1992 and 1991.  This change was primarily due to
increased pressures on price points and markdown levels,
resulting from the more competitive retail climate in 1993.

     General, Selling and Administrative Expenses.  General,
selling and administrative expenses for 1993, 1992 and 1991 were
21%, 21% and 22% of sales.  In 1993, management focused store
growth primarily in existing markets and also maintained strong
expense controls.  These actions offset the unfavorable
percentage increase normally associated with a same store sales
decline.  The percentage decrease in general, selling and
administrative expenses between 1992 and 1991 was due to
increased efficiencies at the store and corporate levels.

     The largest component of general, selling and administrative
expenses is payroll.  The total number of employees, including
both full and part-time, at year-end 1993, 1992 and 1991 was
approximately 8,900, 8,200 and 7,400.

     Depreciation and Amortization.  Depreciation and
amortization as a percentage of sales has remained relatively
constant over the last three years, due primarily to the
consistent level of assets in each store.

     Interest.  The decrease in interest expense in 1993 from
1992 was due to lower interest rates from the prior year
partially offset by increased borrowings due primarily to the
company's repurchases of its common stock.  The decrease in
interest expense in 1992 from 1991 was due to lower average
borrowings and a decline in interest rates from the prior year.

     Taxes on Earnings.  The company's effective rate for 1993,
1992 and 1991 was 40%, 40% and 39%, which represents the
applicable statutory rates reduced by the federal benefit
received for state taxes and targeted jobs tax credits.  In 1992,
the company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes.  The adoption of this
standard did not have an effect on the company's earnings or
financial position.  See Notes A and E of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

     In August 1993, the federal government enacted a new income
tax law which raised the 34% corporate income tax rate to 35%.
The change in both the mix of state income taxes and available
tax credits allowed the company to maintain its 40% effective tax
rate.

 begin page 12

Financial Condition

     Liquidity and Capital Resources.  During 1993, 1992 and
1991, liquidity and capital requirements were provided by cash
flows from operations, bank borrowings and trade credit.  The
company's store sites, central office, and California
distribution center, as well as the buying offices, are leased
and, except for certain leasehold improvements and equipment, do
not represent fixed capital investments.  Commitments related to
operating leases are described in Note D of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.  The company's east coast distribution
center is owned by the company and was financed by a ten-year
mortgage (see Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements).  Short-term trade credit represents a significant
source of financing for investments in merchandise inventories.
Trade credit arises from customary trade practices with the
company's vendors.  Management regularly reviews the adequacy of
credit available to the company from all sources and has been
able to maintain adequate lines to meet the capital and liquidity
requirements of the company.

     During 1993, the primary uses of cash, other than current
operating expenditures, were for merchandise inventory and
property and equipment to open 22 stores, timing of accounts
payable payments, and repurchases in the open market of 1.2
million shares of the company's common stock.  The primary uses
of cash in 1992, other than operating expenditures, were for
merchandise inventory and property and equipment to open 23
stores, prepaying $7 million of senior debt, and making
opportunistic inventory purchases, thereby increasing the level
of packaway inventory.  In 1991, the primary uses of cash, other
than operating expenditures, were for merchandise inventory and
property and equipment to open 20 stores, constructing the east
coast distribution center, repaying borrowings under the
company's long-term debt agreements, and higher levels of
opportunistic inventory purchases, thereby increasing the level
of packaway inventory.  In 1993, 1992 and 1991, the company spent
approximately $35 million, $22 million and $32 million for
capital expenditures, net of leased equipment, that included
fixtures and leasehold improvements to open 22, 23 and 20 stores,
construction costs for the east coast distribution center and
modifications to our New York buying office, purchase of
previously leased equipment and various expenditures for existing
stores and the central office.

     The company currently intends to open about 20 to 25 stores
annually through 1995.  The company anticipates that this growth
will be financed primarily from cash flows from operating
activities and available credit facilities.

     On January 27, 1994, the company's Board of Directors
declared an initial quarterly cash dividend of $0.05 per common
share payable on or about April 1, 1994 to stockholders of record
as of the close of business on March 11, 1994.  The company
intends to use cash flows from operations and available cash
resources to provide for the dividends.

     The company has available under its principal bank credit
agreement a $110 million revolving credit facility, which expires
in July 1996.  At the company's option, the bank credit agreement
can be extended in two one-year increments, or until July 1998.
In March 1992, the company obtained two short-term revolving
credit facilities of $10 million and $15 million each.  A third
short-term credit facility of $15 million was added in November
1992.  These facilities are available until canceled by either
party.  At year-end 1993, 1992 and 1991, there were no
outstanding balances under any revolving credit facility.  In
addition, at year-end 1993, 1992 and 1991, the company had
outstanding a term loan of $23 million, which will mature in
November 1994.  The company has the ability and intention to
refinance this facility with a long-term financing arrangement.
During 1991, the company issued a ten-year mortgage note in the
amount of $10.8 million on the east coast distribution center.
For additional information relating to these obligations, refer
to Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Working capital was approximately $125 million at the end of
1993 compared to $121 million at the end of 1992 and $77 million
at the end of 1991.  At year-end 1993, 1992 and 1991, the
company's current ratios were 1.8:1, 1.8:1 and l.6:1.  The
percentage of long-term debt to total capitalization at year-end
1993, 1992 and 1991 was 13%, 14% and 20%.

     The company's primary source of liquidity is the sale of its
merchandise inventories.  Management regularly reviews the age
and condition of the merchandise and is able to maintain current
inventory in its stores through the replenishment processes and
liquidation of non-current merchandise through markdowns and
clearances.

     In March 1994, a section of the roof at the company's
distribution center in Carlisle, Pennsylvania collapsed due to
unusually heavy snow accumulation.  The distribution center in
Newark, California has been utilized to support

 begin page 13

the flow of goods to the stores.  The  company expects the east
coast distribution center to be operating at normal capacity by
June 1994.  The company believes that it is fully insured for
costs related to this situation.

     The company believes that cash flows from operations, bank
credit lines and trade credit are adequate to meet operating cash
needs as well as to complete the two million share repurchase
plan authorized by the Board of Directors and to provide for
dividend payments and planned capital additions during the
upcoming year.




 begin page 14


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA


                   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                                
                                                             
($000, except per share data)                 January 29,     January 30,      
                                                     1994            1993
                                                             
ASSETS                                                       
                                                             
CURRENT ASSETS                                               
 Cash and cash equivalents                      $  32,307      $   40,457
 Accounts receivable                                4,016           5,848
 Merchandise inventory                            228,929         221,048
 Prepaid expenses and other                        15,224          10,323
    Total Current Assets                          280,476         277,676
                                                                         
PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT                                                   
 Land and buildings                                22,502          20,004
 Fixtures and equipment                           120,493         101,751
 Leasehold improvements                            89,588          82,506
 Construction-in-progress                          10,739           4,319
                                                  243,322         208,580
 Less accumulated depreciation and amortization    99,170          80,510
                                                  144,152         128,070
 Lease rights                                       1,804           2,185
 Other assets                                       7,039           7,890
 Excess of cost over net assets of acquired         3,900           4,049
  subsidiary
                                                $ 437,371       $ 419,870
                                                                         
                                                                         
LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                                     
                                                                         
CURRENT LIABILITIES                                                      
 Accounts payable                              $   89,561      $   95,731
 Accrued expenses                                  43,262          30,339
 Accrued payroll and benefits                      16,202          19,350
 Income taxes payable                               6,404          11,244
    Total Current Liabilities                     155,429         156,664
 Long-term debt                                    33,308          33,525
 Deferred income taxes and other                   20,412          20,086
  liabilities
STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY                                                     
 Common stock, par value $.01 per share                                  
    Authorized 100,000,000 shares                                        
    Issued and outstanding 24,695,000 and             247             255
       25,461,000 shares
 Additional paid-in capital                       122,073         119,743
 Retained earnings                                105,902          89,597
                                                  228,222         209,595
                                                $ 437,371       $ 419,870
                                                                         
                                                                         
See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                
 begin page 15


               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
                                

- --------

See notes to consolidated financial statements.

 begin page 16


         CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


_____
See notes to consolidated financial statements.






 begin page 17


              CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS









 begin page 24







INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT



Board of Directors and Stockholders
Ross Stores, Inc.
Newark, California



We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of
Ross Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries as of January 29, 1994 and
January 30, 1993, and the related consolidated statements of
earnings, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended January 29, 1994.  These
financial statements are the responsibility of the companies'
management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted
auditing standards.  Those standards require that we plan and
perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether
the financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An
audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating
the overall financial statement presentation.  We believe that
our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the
companies as of January 29, 1994 and January 30, 1993, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended January 29, 1994 in conformity
with generally accepted accounting principles.



DELOITTE & TOUCHE
San Francisco, California

March 11, 1994



 begin page 25


ITEM  9.    CHANGES  IN  AND DISAGREEMENTS  WITH  ACCOUNTANTS  ON
ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     None.


                            PART III
                                

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     For information with respect to the executive officers of
the Registrant, see "Executive Officers of the Registrant" at the
end of Part I of this report.  Information with respect to the
Directors of the Registrant is incorporated herein by reference
to the section entitled "Information Regarding Nominees and
Incumbent Directors" of the Ross Stores, Inc., Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on Tuesday,
June 7, 1994 (the "Proxy Statement").

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Incorporated herein by reference to the sections of the
Proxy Statement entitled (i) "Compensation Committee Interlocks
and Insider Participation"; (ii) "Compensation of Directors";
(iii) "Employment Contracts, Termination of Employment and Change-
in-Control Arrangements"; and (iv) the following tables, and
their footnotes, Summary Compensation, Option Grants in Last
Fiscal Year and Aggregrated Option Exercises and Year-End Value.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
         MANAGEMENT

     Incorporated herein by reference to the section of the Proxy
Statement entitled "Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
and Management".

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Incorporated herein by reference to the sections of the
Proxy Statement entitled (i) "Compensation of Directors" and (ii)
"Certain Transactions".
 begin page 26
                                
                                
                             PART IV


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON
         FORM 8-K

   (a) The following financial statements, schedules and exhibits
       are filed as part of this report or are incorporated
       herein as indicated:

       1.    List of Financial Statements.

           (i)  The following consolidated financial statements
                included herein as Item 8:

                    Consolidated Balance Sheets at January 29,
                        1994 and January 30, 1993.
                    Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the
                        years ended January 29, 1994, January 30,
                        1993 and February 1, 1992.
                    Consolidated Statements of Stockholders'
                        Equity for the years ended January 29,
                        1994, January 30, 1993 and February 1,
                        1992.
                    Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
                        years ended January 29, 1994, January 30,
                        1993 and February 1, 1992.
                    Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.           
                    Independent Auditors' Report.

       2.    List of Financial Statement Schedules.

          Independent Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedules.

          Schedule II   - Amounts Receivable from Related Parties and
                           Underwriters, Promoters, and Employees Other
                           Than Related Parties, page 30.
                  
          Schedule V    - Property,   Plant   and
                           Equipment, page 31.
                  
          Schedule VI   - Accumulated Depreciation and Amortization of
                           Property, Plant and Equipment, page 32.
                  
          Schedule VIII - Valuation  and Qualifying Accounts and Reserves,
                          page 33.
                  
          Schedule X    - Supplementary   Income  Statement   Information,
                           page 33.

           Schedules other than those listed are omitted for the
           reason that they are not required or are not
           applicable, or the required information is shown in
           the financial statements or notes thereto, contained
           in, or incorporated by reference into, this Report.

       3.     List  of Exhibits (in accordance with Item  601  of
              Regulation S-K)

        3.1    Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Registration
               Statement on Form 8-B (the "Form 8-B") filed
               September 1, 1989 by Ross Stores, Inc, a Delaware
               corporation ("Ross Stores").

        3.2    Amended By-laws, dated August 29, 1991, incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the 1991 Form 10-K
               filed by Ross Stores for its year ended February
               1, 1992 ("1991 Form 10-K").

       10.1    Agreement of Lease, dated November 24, 1986, for Ross
               Stores' corporate headquarters and distribution
               center in Newark, CA, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.5 on Form 8-B.

 begin page 27

       10.2    Credit Agreement, dated March 2, 1992, among Ross
               Stores, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
               Bank of America, National Trust and Savings
               Association, and Security Pacific National Bank;
               and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as
               agent for Banks, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.8 to the 1991 Form 10-K.

       10.3    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated November
               23, 1992, among Ross Stores, Wells Fargo Bank,
               National Association, Bank of America, N.T. &
               S.A., Nationsbank of Texas, N.A., and Banque
               Nationale de Paris; and Wells Fargo Bank, National
               Association, as agent for Banks, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the 1992 Form 10-K
               filed by Ross Stores for its year ended January
               30, 1993 ("1992 Form 10-K").

       10.4    First Amendment to Amended and Restated Credit
               Agreement, entered into as of February 5, 1993, by
               and among Ross Stores, Wells Fargo Bank, National
               Association, Bank of America, N.T. & S.A.,
               Nationsbank of Texas, N.A., and Banque Nationale
               de Paris ("Banks"); and Wells Fargo Bank, National
               Association, as agent for Banks, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the 1992 Form 10-K.

       10.5    Revolving Credit Agreement, dated July 31, 1993, among
               Ross Stores, Wells Fargo Bank, National
               Association, Bank of America, N.T. & S.A.,
               Nationsbank of Texas, N.A., and Banque Nationale
               de Paris ("Banks"), and Wells Fargo Bank, National
               Association, as agent for Banks, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.17 on the Form 10-Q filed
               by Ross Stores for its quarter ended July 31,
               1993.

       10.6    Term Credit Agreement, dated September 16, 1991,
               between Ross Stores and the Industrial Bank of
               Japan, Limited, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores
               for its quarter ended August 3, 1991.

       10.7    Amendment to Term Credit Agreement, dated February 19,
               1993, between Ross Stores and the Industrial Bank
               of Japan, Limited, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 10.12 to the 1992 Form 10-K.

      10.8     Second Amendment to Term Credit Agreement,
               dated as of October 29, 1993, between Ross Stores
               and the Industrial Bank of Japan, Limited,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the
               Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores for its quarter
               ended October 30, 1993.

               Management  Contracts and  Compensatory Plans

       10.9    Ross Stores, 1992 Stock Option Plan, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 19.1 on Form 10-Q filed by
               Ross Stores for its quarter ended August 1, 1992.

      10.10    Third Amended and Restated Ross Stores Employee Stock
               Purchase Plan, incorporated by reference to
               Exhibit 19.2 on Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores for
               its quarter ended August 1, 1992.

      10.11    Third Amended and Restated Ross Stores 1988 Restricted
               Stock Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit
               19.3 on Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, for its
               quarter ended August 1, 1992.

      10.12    1991 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, incorporated
               by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the 1991 Form 10-K.
               

      10.13    Ross Stores Executive Medical Plan.

      10.14    Third Amended and Restated Ross Stores Executive
               Supplemental Retirement Plan.

      10.15    Ross Stores Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan.

      10.16    Ross Stores Incentive Compensation Plan.

 begin page 28

      10.17    Employment Agreement between Ross Stores, Inc. and
               Norman A. Ferber, dated March 17, 1989,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the
               1988 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed by Ross
               Stores, Inc., a California corporation, for its
               year ended January 28, 1989.

      10.18    Amendment to Employment Agreement between Ross Stores
               and Norman A. Ferber, dated March 11, 1991,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to the
               1990 Annual Report on Form 10-K filed by Ross
               Stores, for its year ended February 2, 1991.

      10.19    Second Amendment to Employment Agreement between Ross
               Stores and Norman A. Ferber, dated April 23, 1992,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to the
               1991 Form 10-K.

      10.20    Employment Agreement between Ross Stores and Melvin A.
               Wilmore, dated November 25, 1991, incorporated by
               reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the 1991 Form 10-K.

      10.21    Agreement and General Release between Ross Stores and
               Greggory L. Baldwin, dated November 6, 1991,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the
               1991 Form 10-K.

      10.22    Consulting Agreement between Ross Stores and Stuart G.
               Moldaw, effective as of March 12, 1993,
               incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.16 on the
               Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores for its quarter
               ended May 1, 1993.

      11       Statement re: Computation of Per Share Earnings.

      21       Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

      23.1     Independent Auditors' Consent.

      23.2     Independent Auditors' Report on Financial
               Statement Schedules.

         (b)  Reports on Form 8-K.

               None.

 begin page 29
                                
                           SIGNATURES


     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.


                               ROSS STORES, INC.
                                      (Registrant)

Date: April 27, 1994         By    /s/Norman A. Ferber
                                (Norman A. Ferber, Chairman of the
                                Board and Chief Executive Officer)




    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.

Signature                 Title                        Date

/s/Norman A. Ferber       Chairman, Chief Executive    April 27, 1994
Norman A. Ferber          Officer and Director

/s/M. Wilmore             President, Chief Operating   April 27, 1994
Melvin A. Wilmore         Officer and Director

/s/Earl Benson            Senior Vice President,       April 27, 1994
Earl T. Benson            Chief Financial Officer
                          and Secretary

/s/John M. Vuko           Senior Vice President,       April 27, 1994
John M. Vuko              Controller and
                          Principal Accounting
                          Officer

/s/Stuart G. Moldaw       Chairman Emeritus,           April 27, 1994
Stuart G. Moldaw          Director

/s/Donald G. Fisher       Director                     April 27, 1994
Donald G. Fisher

/s/Franklin P. Johnson    Director                     April 27, 1994
Franklin P. Johnson, Jr.

/s/G. Orban               Director                     April 27, 1994
George P. Orban

/s/Donald H. Seiler       Director                     April 27, 1994
Donald H. Seiler

/s/Phil Schlein           Director                     April 27, 1994
Philip Schlein

/s/D. L. Weaver           Director                     April 27, 1994
Donna L. Weaver
 begin page 30
                                
                        ROSS STORES, INC.
                                
    SCHEDULE II - AMOUNTS RECEIVABLE FROM RELATED PARTIES AND
UNDERWRITERS, PROMOTERS, AND EMPLOYEES OTHER THAN RELATED PARTIES
                                
                     (Amounts in thousands)

 begin page 31
                                
                        ROSS STORES, INC.
                                
           SCHEDULE V - PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                
                             ($000)



 begin page 32
                                
                        ROSS STORES, INC.
                                
           SCHEDULE VI - ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION AND
          AMORTIZATION OF PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
                                
                             ($000)


 begin page 33
                                
                        ROSS STORES, INC.
                                
 SCHEDULE VIII - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES
                                
                             ($000)


Column                        Column     Column        Column        Column
   A                               B          C             D             E
                                      Additions
                          Balance at charged to
                           beginning  costs and                  Balance at
Description                of period   expenses   Deductions* end of period

Accrued expenses for 1987
store closings

Year ended January 29, 1994       $0                                     $0


Year ended January 30, 1993       $0                                     $0


Year ended February 1, 1992      $20                    ($20)            $0


* Payments for store closures.



                        ROSS STORES, INC.
                                
     SCHEDULE X - SUPPLEMENTARY INCOME STATEMENT INFORMATION
                                
                                
                                
                             ($000)



        Column A                            Column B
                                                      
                                                      
                                    1993     1992     1991
                                                      
Advertising Costs                   $33,849  $34,079  $29,970
                                                      

 begin page 34

INDEX TO EXHIBITS



Exhibit
Number
         Exhibit

 3.1      Certificate  of Incorporation, as amended, incorporated
          by   reference  to  Exhibit  3.1  to  the  Registration
          Statement  on Form 8-B (the "Form 8-B") filed September
          1,  1989  by  Ross Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation
          ("Ross Stores").

 3.2      Amended By-laws, dated August 29, 1991, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 3.2 to the 1991 Form 10-K filed by
          Ross  Stores for its year ended February 1, 1992 ("1991
          Form 10-K").

10.1      Agreement of Lease, dated November 24, 1986,  for  Ross
          Stores' corporate headquarters and distribution  center
          in  Newark,  CA, incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
          10.5 on Form 8-B.

10.2      Credit  Agreement,  dated March  2,  1992,  among  Ross
          Stores, Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, Bank of
          America,  National Trust and Savings  Association,  and
          Security  Pacific National Bank; and Wells Fargo  Bank,
          National  Association, as agent for Banks, incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the 1991 Form 10-K.

10.3      Amended  and Restated Credit Agreement, dated  November
          23, 1992, among Ross Stores, Wells Fargo Bank, National
          Association, Bank of America, N.T. & S.A.,  Nationsbank
          of  Texas,  N.A., and Banque Nationale  de  Paris;  and
          Wells  Fargo Bank, National Association, as  agent  for
          Banks, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.9 to the
          1992  Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores for its year ended
          January 30, 1993 ("1992 Form 10-K").

10.4      First  Amendment  to  Amended  and  Restated  Credit
          Agreement, entered into as of February 5, 1993, by  and
          among   Ross   Stores,  Wells  Fargo   Bank,   National
          Association, Bank of America, N.T. & S.A.,  Nationsbank
          of   Texas,  N.A.,  and  Banque  Nationale   de   Paris
          ("Banks");  and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association,
          as  agent  for  Banks,  incorporated  by  reference  to
          Exhibit 10.10 to the 1992 Form 10-K.

10.5      Revolving Credit Agreement, dated July 31, 1993,  among
          Ross  Stores,  Wells Fargo Bank, National  Association,
          Bank  of  America, N.T. & S.A., Nationsbank  of  Texas,
          N.A.,  and  Banque  Nationale de Paris  ("Banks"),  and
          Wells  Fargo Bank, National Association, as  agent  for
          Banks,  incorporated by reference to Exhibit  10.17  on
          the  Form  10-Q  filed by Ross Stores for  its  quarter
          ended July 31, 1993.

10.6      Term   Credit  Agreement,  dated  September  16,  1991,
          between  Ross Stores and the Industrial Bank of  Japan,
          Limited, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10 to the
          Form  10-Q  filed by Ross Stores for its quarter  ended
          August 3, 1991.

10.7      Amendment to Term Credit Agreement, dated February  19,
          1993,  between Ross Stores and the Industrial  Bank  of
          Japan,  Limited, incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
          10.12 to the 1992 Form 10-K.

10.8      Second Amendment to Term Credit Agreement, dated as  of
          October   29,  1993,  between  Ross  Stores   and   the
          Industrial  Bank  of Japan, Limited,  incorporated  by
          reference to Exhibit 10.13  to the Form 10-Q  filed  by
          Ross Stores for its quarter ended October 30, 1993.

          Management Contracts and Compensatory Plans

10.9      Ross  Stores  1992 Stock Option Plan,  incorporated  by
          reference  to Exhibit 19.1 on Form 10-Q filed  by  Ross
          Stores for its quarter ended August 1, 1992.

10.10     Third  Amended and Restated Ross Stores Employee  Stock
          Purchase  Plan,  incorporated by reference  to  Exhibit
          19.2  on Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores for its quarter
          ended August 1, 1992.

 begin page 35

Exhibit
Number        Exhibit

10.11     Third Amended and Restated Ross Stores, 1988 Restricted
          Stock  Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit  19.3
          on  Form  10-Q  filed by Ross Stores, for  its  quarter
          ended August 1, 1992.

10.12     1991  Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, incorporated
          by reference to Exhibit 10.13 to the 1991 Form 10-K.

10.13     Ross Stores Executive Medical Plan.

10.14     Third   Amended  and  Restated  Ross  Stores  Executive
          Supplemental Retirement Plan.

10.15     Ross Stores Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation Plan.

10.16     Ross Stores Incentive Compensation Plan.

10.17     Employment  Agreement  between Ross  Stores,  Inc.  and
          Norman A. Ferber, dated March 17, 1989, incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the 1988 Annual Report  on
          Form  10-K  filed  by Ross Stores, Inc.,  a  California
          corporation, for its year ended January 28, 1989.

10.18     Amendment  to Employment Agreement between Ross  Stores
          and   Norman   A.   Ferber,  dated  March   11,   1991,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.51 to the  1990
          Annual  Report on Form 10-K filed by Ross  Stores,  for
          its year ended February 2, 1991.

10.19     Second  Amendment to Employment Agreement between  Ross
          Stores  and  Norman A. Ferber, dated  April  23,  1992,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7 to  the  1991
          Form 10-K.

10.20     Employment Agreement between Ross Stores and Melvin  A.
          Wilmore,  dated  November  25,  1991,  incorporated  by
          reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the 1991 Form 10-K.

10.21     Agreement  and General Release between Ross Stores  and
          Greggory   L.   Baldwin,  dated   November   6,   1991,
          incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the  1991
          Form 10-K.

10.22     Consulting Agreement between Ross Stores and Stuart  G.
          Moldaw, effective as of March 12, 1993, incorporated by
          reference  to Exhibit 10.16 on the Form 10-Q  filed  by
          Ross Stores for its quarter ended May 1, 1993.

11        Statement re:  Computation of Per Share Earnings.

21        Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23.1      Independent Auditors' Consent.

23.2      Independent  Auditors'  Report on  Financial  Statement
          Schedules.




