
10-K
FORM 10-K






                              SNAP-ON INCORPORATED

                                 1994 FORM 10-K






                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

 X   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
---  ACT OF 1934
                   For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994
                          Commission File Number 1-7724

                              SNAP-ON INCORPORATED
                              --------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

    DELAWARE                                               39-0622040
----------------                                       ------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                         Identification No.)

2801 - 80th Street, Kenosha, Wisconsin                    53141-1410
--------------------------------------                 ----------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                  (ZIP Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including Area Code - (414) 656-5200

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

      Title of each Class                   Name of Exchange on which registered
-------------------------------             ------------------------------------
Common stock, $1 par value                        New York Stock Exchange
Preferred stock purchase rights                   New York Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements
for the past 90 days.  Yes   X     No
                            ---        ----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in a definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K  ______.

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of February 28, 1995, with a closing price per share on that
date of $34.00.

              Common Stock, Par Value $1 Per Share, $1,435,397,074

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of
common stock, as of February 28, 1995.

             Common Stock, Par Value $1 Per Share, 42,217,561 Shares

                  Shares Preferred Stock Purchase Rights, NONE.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Corporation's Annual Report to Shareholders for the fiscal year
ended December 31, 1994, are incorporated by reference into Parts I, II and IV
of this report.

Portions of the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 24, 1995, prepared
for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders scheduled for April 28, 1995, are
incorporated by reference into Part III of this report.

Exhibit Index Page 15                                  Page 1 of 99 Pages



                              SNAP-ON INCORPORATED
                                 1994 FORM 10-K


                              TABLE OF CONTENTS                            Page
                              -----------------                            ----
                                     PART I

Item   1.   Business                                                          3
Item   2.   Description of Properties                                         9
Item   3.   Legal Proceedings                                                 9
Item   4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders               9

                                     PART II
Item   5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder
            Matters                                                          10
Item   6.   Selected Financial Data                                          10
Item   7.   Management Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
            Results of Operations                                            10
Item   8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data                      10
Item   9.   Disagreements on Accounting and Financial Disclosure             10

                                    PART III

Item   10.  Directors and Officers of Registrant                             10
Item   11.  Executive Compensation                                           10
Item   12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management   10
Item   13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions                   10

                                     PART IV

Item   14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K  11

Auditor's Reports                                                            12

Signature Pages                                                              13

Financial Schedule                                                           16



PART I

ITEM 1:  BUSINESS OVERVIEW

Snap-on Incorporated (the "Corporation") was incorporated under the laws of the
State of Wisconsin in 1920 and reincorporated under the laws of the State of
Delaware in 1930.  Its corporate headquarters is located in Kenosha, Wisconsin.

The Corporation, which is in a single line of business, is a leading
manufacturer and distributor of high-quality hand tools, power tools, tool
storage products, diagnostics and shop equipment and information services,
primarily for use by professional technicians.  In addition to individual
automotive technicians, shop owners and other professional tool users, the
Corporation's products are marketed to industrial and governmental entities, as
well as to original equipment manufacturers.

The Corporation is a multinational corporation with operations in several
countries, including the United States, Australia, Belgium, Brazil, Canada,
France, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Netherlands, New Zealand,
Taiwan and the United Kingdom.

The Corporation conducts its business through four principal operating groups:

- SNAP-ON TOOLS focuses on the development and sale of products and services
through the Corporation's worldwide dealer direct sales programs to automotive
and transportation technicians. Subsidiaries manage dealer operations in several
countries outside the United States.

- SNAP-ON DIAGNOSTICS focuses on the development and sale of diagnostics and
shop equipment to automotive service and repair shops.  Subsidiaries associated
with this operating group are: Sun Electric Corporation ("Sun"), a leading
producer of diagnostics and service equipment; Balco, Inc., a developer of
engine diagnostic and wheel-balancing equipment; and Wheeltronic Ltd.
("Wheeltronic"), a manufacturer of hoists and lifts for automotive service
shops;

- SNAP-ON INDUSTRIAL focuses on the development and sale of industrial tools and
equipment through a direct sales force as well as through industrial
distributors and other channels. Subsidiaries associated with this operating
group include: J. H. Williams Company ("Williams"), a manufacturer of hand
tools; A.T.I. Tools, Inc. ("ATI"), a producer of tools and equipment for
aerospace and industrial applications; and Sioux Tools, Inc. ("Sioux"), a
manufacturer of power tools;

- SNAP-ON FINANCIAL SERVICES, INC., through its Snap-on Credit Corporation
subsidiary, is responsible for certain credit and non-credit services used to
support sales and provide dealer financing options.  Credit programs support the
sale of the Corporation's products and services, especially higher-value
products such as diagnostics and other shop equipment.

In recent years, the Corporation has expanded its product line and marketing
programs to address additional customer tool and equipment needs and to expand
internationally. The Corporation also has entered into agreements with and has
made investments (including minority investments) in information and technology
firms to strengthen its position as a leading supplier of hardware and software
for automotive service and repair.

In addition to direct sales to individual technicians, shop owners, industrial
and other customers at their places of business through mobile van dealers and
employee sales representatives, other methods of marketing and distribution
include both direct and indirect sales to industrial and government customers
and indirect sales through foreign distributors.

PRODUCTS AND SERVICES

The Corporation offers a broad product line which it divides into four groups --
hand tools, power tools, tool storage products, and diagnostics and shop
equipment.

Following is a discussion of the four product groups:

HAND TOOLS -- Includes wrenches, screwdrivers, sockets, pliers, ratchets and
other similar products; and instruments developed for medical applications and
for the manufacture and servicing of electronic equipment.  The Stanley Works,
Danaher Corporation, Cooper Industries and Strafor Facom are some of the many
manufacturers of hand tools.

POWER TOOLS -- Includes pneumatic (air), cord-free (battery) and corded
(electric) tools such as impact wrenches, ratchets, chisels, drills, sanders,
polishers and similar products.  Makita Corporation, Atlas Copco AB, Ingersoll-
Rand Company and The Black & Decker Corporation are some of the many
manufacturers in this product category.

TOOL STORAGE PRODUCTS -- Includes tool chests, roll cabinets and other similar
products for automotive, industrial, aerospace and other storage applications.
Stanley, Danaher, Waterloo Industries (a division of American Brands, Inc.) and
Kennedy Manufacturing Company are some of the many manufacturers of tool storage
products.




DIAGNOSTICS AND SHOP EQUIPMENT -- Includes hardware and software solutions for
diagnosis and service of automotive and industrial equipment. Products include:
engine and emissions analyzers, transmission troubleshooting equipment, air
conditioning service equipment, brake service equipment, wheel balancing and
alignment equipment, battery chargers and lifts and hoists used in repair shops.
Also included are service and repair information services.  Automotive
Diagnostics (a division of SPX Corporation), Hunter Engineering Company, Inc.,
Robert Bosch GmbH and Danaher are among the many other manufacturers in this
market.

The Corporation supports the sale of its diagnostic and shop equipment by
offering training programs to technician customers. These programs offer
certification in both specific automotive technologies and in the application of
specific diagnostic equipment developed and marketed by the Corporation and its
subsidiaries.

The Corporation exited the market for centralized automotive emissions testing
services in 1994 with the sale of its Systems Control subsidiary, acquired as
part of the Sun purchase in 1992.

Table 1 shows the approximate percentage of total consolidated sales for each of
the Corporation's product groups in each of the past three years, including the
contributions of Sun in the fourth quarter of 1992 and full year 1993 and 1994.

TABLE 1 CONSOLIDATED SALES



The Corporation believes this analysis is representative of its consolidated net
sales mix worldwide.

Sales in the diagnostics/shop equipment product group include technical training
services and revenues for contracted emissions-testing services for various
governmental entities prior to the sale of Systems Control in 1994.

MARKETS SERVED

GEOGRAPHIC MARKETS SERVED -- Products and services are marketed and distributed
in more than 100 countries directly through the Snap-on and SNAP-ON/SUN TECH
SYSTEMS sales organizations or indirectly through industrial distributors and
foreign distributors.  Table 2 shows the approximate percentage of sales by
geographic market for the past three years.

TABLE 2 CONSOLIDATED SALES



The acquisition of Sun in the fourth quarter of 1992 significantly raised the
percentage of sales outside North America.  For further information on the
Corporation's international and domestic operations, see Note 13 on page  36 of
the Corporation's 1994 Annual Report, incorporated herein by reference.

MARKET SECTORS SERVED -- The Corporation markets and distributes primarily to
two market sectors, in both the U.S. and internationally:

- The professional market of individual technicians as well as automotive
service and repair shops, including independent, chain and dealership
facilities.

- The industrial market for tools and equipment used in manufacturing and
industrial maintenance and repair, as well as tools included with products sold
by original equipment manufacturers ("OEM") as instrumentation or used in OEM
and distributor equipment service programs.

Table 3 shows the approximate percentage of total sales for the last three years
for these sectors as well as for sales to foreign distributors, who sell to the
same types of customers the Corporation serves in the United States.

TABLE 3 CONSOLIDATED SALES



PROFESSIONAL SECTOR

The professional sector has two primary customer groups: professional
technicians who purchase tools and equipment for themselves, and shop owners and
managers who purchase equipment for use by multiple technicians within a service
or repair facility. Following is a discussion of the characteristics of these
customers and the Corporation's position in their markets.





PROFESSIONAL TECHNICIANS -- The Corporation markets its products and services to
professional technicians worldwide primarily through its dealer van distribution
system. It provides innovative tools and equipment to meet technicians' evolving
needs, as well as technical sales support and training to meet the information
and technology needs of the professional technician.

Professional technician customers demand the highest quality tools and equipment
in terms of function, reliability, productivity, appearance and service. Most
professional technicians, particularly in the transportation service industry,
are paid based on a flat rate and buy their own tools.  Thus, these customers
value the time-and-place utility offered by the Corporation's mobile van
distribution system and productivity advantages of professional-quality tools.

The Corporation's success with professional technicians is believed to be due to
its high-quality products, its extensive product line, its dealer and dealer-
related marketing and sales programs, its frequent call schedule, the
availability of financing for major purchases, product warranties and service
and repair programs.

The Corporation has a strong presence in this sector, although its U.S. and
worldwide market shares cannot accurately be determined.  Stanley and Danaher
are active in the mobile dealer van channel through their MAC Tools and Matco
operations, respectively. Other van operations include Vulcan and The Cornwell
Quality Tools Company. Additionally, technicians purchase products from other
sources, including wholesalers, hardware stores and retail outlets such as Sears
Roebuck and Co.

For the reasons stated earlier, the Corporation's focus in this sector generally
is on service and product quality, performance and productivity.  Other
suppliers, outside the dealer van channel, generally compete on price.

Major challenges for the Corporation and the industry include slower automotive
technician turnover, improved vehicle quality which reduces service and repair
demand, general economic conditions and increased competition within the mobile
dealer van channel during the past decade.

SHOP OWNERS -- Through its dealers and sales representatives, the Corporation
serves owners and managers of shops where technicians work with tools, equipment
and diagnostic products.

The needs of these customers are increasingly driven by technological innovation
and government regulation. In order to remain competitive, shop owners must
purchase a growing array of sophisticated, specialized equipment that enables
their shops to service and repair computerized automotive systems and to comply
with vehicle environmental and safety regulations. The ability to recruit and
retain professional technicians also depends on the quality and sophistication
of the equipment and service and repair information available in shops.

The Corporation is continually expanding its line of automotive diagnostic and
shop equipment to address needs in this market sector, and to expand its
customer base and grow its sales.

INDUSTRIAL SECTOR

The Corporation markets its products to a wide variety of industrial customers,
including industrial maintenance and repair facilities; manufacturing and
assembly operations; industrial distributors; government facilities; schools;
and original equipment manufacturers who require instrumentation or service
tools and equipment for their products.

Customers in the industrial sector have different needs and base their purchase
decisions on a variety of factors. Small- to mid-sized manufacturers and
industrial and government maintenance and repair shops and motor pools often
prefer the consultative advantages of direct selling and make their purchase
decisions based on quality, breadth of product offering, and service. Larger
manufacturing operations often prefer the economies and efficiencies of buying
through industrial distributors. For such large, high-volume customers, key
purchase factors include competitive pricing, one-stop shopping, single point
invoicing, and on-time delivery.

In addition to tool and equipment manufacturers previously listed, companies
involved in the industrial sector include industrial distribution houses such as
W.W. Grainger, Inc. and McMaster Carr Supply Company. While the Corporation's
tool and storage equipment lines are among the largest offered for industrial
applications, they are only two of several categories of products these other
companies offer.  Additionally, the Corporation's ability to provide value-added
services such as tool control programs, training, and special tools in its
direct-sales segment should also result in market penetration.

Major challenges in the industrial market include a highly competitive, cost-
conscious environment, as well as an increase in new technologies. The
Corporation believes it is currently a relatively small participant in the
market for industrial tools and equipment.  However, the Corporation also
believes its ability to address the industrial distribution channel through
Williams and Sioux will result in increased market penetration over the next
decade.




DISTRIBUTION

The Corporation serves customers through direct and indirect sales channels,
each of which are described more fully below.

SNAP-ON TOOLS
                                     DEALERS
Marketing worldwide to professional technicians and shop owners is conducted
primarily through the mobile dealer van system. Dealers operate from van-type
vehicles, which house their inventory, and sell the Corporation's products to
customers, primarily auto technicians and shop owners, at their places of
business.  Dealers purchase the products made available to them at a discount
from suggested retail prices and resell them to customers at prices of the
dealers' choosing.  Revolving account sales typically comprise a significant
percentage of dealer sales.

The Corporation's dealers are entitled to purchase and sell SNAP-ON brand
products and products contained in the SNAP-ON catalogs; the Corporation also
sells and/or distributes its products through a national accounts program. In
the U.S., SUN brand products are sold only through the SNAP-ON/SUN Tech Systems
sales force (Tech Reps), which is described more fully later, and a national
accounts program.  Internationally, SUN products are sold by subsidiaries and
through distributors.  Dealers are encouraged to provide sales leads to Tech
Reps.  Under certain conditions, dealers participate in the proceeds of sales of
SUN brand equipment and sales made under national account programs.

Although some dealers have sales areas defined by other methods, most dealers
and all new U.S. dealers are provided a list of calls -- addresses or places of
business -- which serve as the basis of the dealer's sales route.  Weekly dealer
calls on customers for both service and sales solicitation are essential
elements of the Corporation's dealer-marketing program.

                              SALES REPRESENTATIVES
The Corporation makes it possible for prospective dealer candidates to work as
employee sales representatives for up to one year prior to making an investment
in a franchise (subject to the Corporation's approval). This program is
particularly useful for candidates who lack the financial resources to become
franchisees or who are not certain of their aptitude for mobile van sales work.

As employees,  sales representatives are paid a salary plus commission on sales;
however, they are responsible for certain expenses.  They perform essentially
all of the functions of a dealer, including making weekly sales and service
calls, collecting customer accounts receivable, and participating in product and
business training programs.

                              FOREIGN DISTRIBUTORS
Sales to the Corporation's foreign distributors are made by its subsidiary,
Snap-on Tools International, Ltd., in those countries where the Corporation does
not have subsidiary operations. These foreign distributors operate under license
or contract with the Corporation.  Their customers may include industrial and
governmental entities as well as individual technicians and shop owners. These
sales were not material to the Corporation's total sales in 1994.

SNAP-ON DIAGNOSTICS

Marketing of higher-value diagnostics and shop equipment in the United States is
conducted primarily through the SNAP-ON/SUN Tech Systems group. In addition, SUN
brand equipment is marketed in Europe through both a direct sales force and
distributors and, in Canada, through distributors.

                              TECHNICAL SPECIALISTS
Technical Specialists, or Tech Reps, are employees of the Corporation trained in
the operation and sales of certain sophisticated diagnostic and shop equipment.
They are compensated primarily on the basis of commission. Tech Reps help
dealers demonstrate and sell technically complex equipment and train dealers'
customers in how to use it.  Dealers receive a smaller discount than their
normal discount on the Corporation's suggested retail prices on items Tech Reps
help them sell.

Tech Reps demonstrate and assist in the sale of SNAP-ON equipment and sell SUN
equipment.  They call on accounts on their own and also work with Snap-on
dealers and sales representatives to identify sales leads and to respond to
customer needs.

SNAP-ON INDUSTRIAL

Marketing to industrial and governmental customers is by direct sales through
industrial sales representatives and indirect sales through industrial
distributors.

                        INDUSTRIAL SALES REPRESENTATIVES
The sale of SNAP-ON products is conducted through industrial sales
representatives who are employees of the Corporation and compensated primarily
on a commission basis. These sales representatives focus on the Corporation's
traditional industrial customers; generally those who prefer to buy on quality,
selection and service, as well as certain OEM accounts.




At year-end 1994, the Corporation had industrial sales representatives in
Australia, Belgium, Germany, Japan, Mexico, Puerto Rico, the Netherlands, the
United Kingdom and the United States. U.S. industrial sales accounted for the
majority of the Corporation's total industrial sales.

              J. H. WILLIAMS AND SIOUX TOOLS SALES REPRESENTATIVES
Williams and Sioux are operated as separate companies with separate sales forces
and distinct brands and product lines. Williams' and Sioux's sales
representatives focus on sales to industrial distributors as well as appropriate
OEM accounts.

FRANCHISE PROGRAM

Since 1991, all new U.S. dealers, and a majority of existing U.S. dealers, have
been enrolled as franchisees of the Corporation.  It is the Corporation's belief
that a franchise program facilitates and promotes a more uniform marketing and
business program and allows the Corporation to take additional steps to support
the success of its dealers. At year-end 1994, approximately 81% of all U.S.
dealers were enrolled as franchisees.

As part of the franchise program, certain programs and benefits are made
available to franchised dealers.  The current package of franchise benefits
includes a volume purchase discount, a stock purchase program, certain types of
insurance coverage, access to a family assistance counseling program, discounts
on cellular telephone service and the ability to purchase a second franchise.
Additional programs and benefits enable franchised dealers to obtain start-up
financing (discussed later), operate a second van to service their customers,
transfer their franchises, and establish retirement savings programs. A National
Dealer Advisory Council elected by dealers assists the Corporation in
identifying and implementing enhancements to the franchise program.

The Corporation currently charges initial and ongoing monthly license fees which
did not add material revenue to the Corporation's operations.

To qualify for a franchise, a new dealer applicant must meet minimum personal
and financial qualifications. The dealer must make an initial investment in the
business for such items as inventory, travel and living expenses while training,
van acquisition, development of customer accounts receivable, equipment,
fixtures, computer equipment, additional funds for the initial phase of
operations, and other miscellaneous expenses.

In the United States and most foreign locations, dealers lease or purchase their
vans from a third-party vendor not affiliated with the Corporation.

FIELD MANAGEMENT/SALES SUPPORT

The Corporation supports and services its dealer, sales representative and
industrial sales network with an extensive field organization of branch offices
and service, repair and distribution centers, which are discussed in more detail
later.  Dealers are organized by field groups of seven to ten dealers within
branch operations.  Each field group is headed by an employee field manager, who
provides product, sales and business training on a continuous basis.

The Corporation provides its dealers with instruction, training and practical
experience regarding its products, sales techniques, record keeping and
reporting, inventory control methods, and general business practices. Training
initially is conducted in branch offices and, on an ongoing basis, through field
managers working with dealers as they service their list of calls.

The Corporation also engages in various marketing and sales promotion programs
designed to increase sales to both dealers and their customers.  These programs
include advertising, sales materials, premiums and the offering of promotional
tools.

FINANCIAL ASSISTANCE AND CREDIT

The Corporation's customer and dealer credit programs are conducted by Snap-on
Financial Services, Inc. and its subsidiary, Snap-on Credit Corporation.

Financial assistance for dealer operations and dealer sales is offered by the
Corporation as part of its program of dealer support.  This assistance includes,
but is not limited to, the financing of inventory; financing a new dealer's
purchase of accounts receivable from a predecessor dealer in a sales route; and
the purchase of various extended credit contracts between dealers and their
customers.

The Dealer Finance Program offered by Snap-on Credit Corporation provides funds
for the initial investment of start-up and converted franchise dealers which
could include the license fee, inventory, revolving account acquisition,
equipment, fixtures, other expenses and an initial checking account deposit.
Dealers are required to make a minimum down payment.  Participating dealers must
enter into a Loan Security Agreement and execute a Promissory Note evidencing
the loan.




The Credit Corporation operates credit programs, which provide financing for
high-value product purchases by dealers' customers, through the purchase of
paper from dealers.

FIELD SERVICES AND INVENTORY

In the U.S., the Corporation operates four regional finished-goods distribution
centers, a replacement processing center, eight regional customer service
centers, and four regional repair centers.  In addition, the Corporation
operates 49 U.S. branch sales offices.

Regional customer service centers, whose offices include regional offices of the
Credit Corporation, process all dealer orders and inquiries, including billing
and accounting, manage dealer credit, and provide credit collection assistance.
Service and repair of SNAP-ON products is provided at regional repair centers,
while service for SUN product is provided through a network of more than 200
contract service technicians.

RAW MATERIAL & PURCHASED PRODUCT

The Corporation's supply of raw materials (various grades of steel bars and
sheets) and purchased components are readily available from numerous suppliers.

The majority of 1994 consolidated net sales consisted of products manufactured
by the Corporation.  The remainder was purchased from outside suppliers.  No
single supplier's products accounted for a material portion of 1994 consolidated
net sales.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

The Corporation vigorously pursues and relies on patent protection to protect
its inventions and its position in the market.  As of December 31, 1994, the
Corporation and its subsidiaries held approximately 354 patents and more than
211 pending patent applications.

Patent protection covers certain products which are believed to have significant
market potential.  Examples of these products include Engine Analyzers, Serrated
Jaw Open End Wrenches, Wheel Balancers, Sealed Ratchets, Electronic Torque
Wrenches, Ratcheting Screwdrivers, Emissions Sensing Devices and Air
Conditioning Equipment.

Much of the technology used in the manufacturing of automotive tools and
equipment is in the public domain. The Corporation relies primarily on trade
secret protection to protect proprietary processes used in manufacturing.
Methods and processes are patented when appropriate.

Corporation trademarks are of continuing importance to the Corporation in the
marketplace.  Trademarks have been registered in the U.S. and in 61 other
countries, and additional applications for trademark registrations are pending.
Proper use of the Corporation's trademarks is rigorously policed.

The Corporation's right to manufacture and sell certain products is dependent
upon licenses from others. These products do not represent a material portion of
the Corporation's sales.

WORKING CAPITAL

Since the Corporation's business is not seasonal, and since its inventory needs
are relatively constant, no unusual working capital needs arise during the year.

The Corporation's use of working capital to extend credit to its dealers and to
purchase installment credit receivables from dealers is discussed in
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Results of Operations and Financial
Condition," which is found on pages 18 to 22 of the Corporation's 1994 Annual
Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

The Corporation does not depend on any single customer, small group of customers
or government for any material part of its sales and has no significant backlog
of orders.

ENVIRONMENT

The Corporation complies with applicable environmental control requirements in
its operations. Compliance has not had a material effect upon the Corporation's
capital expenditures, earnings or competitive position.

EMPLOYEES

At the end of 1994, the Corporation employed approximately 9,000 people, of whom
approximately 17% were covered by collective bargaining agreements.
Approximately one-third of all employees are engaged in manufacturing
activities.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

In September 1994, the Corporation filed a registration statement with the
Securities and Exchange Commission which allows the Corporation to offer for
sale from time to time up to $300 million of unsecured indebtedness.  As of
December 31, 1994, the Corporation has not incurred indebtedness under this
filing.




In January 1995, the Board of Directors approved a common stock repurchase
program of up to $100 million to be executed from time to time through open
market purchases and by block purchases.

ITEM 2:  DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTIES

The Corporation maintains both leased and owned manufacturing, warehouse,
distribution and office facilities throughout the world.

The Corporation's principal manufacturing locations and distribution centers are
located in Escondido and San Jose, California; Columbus, Georgia; Crystal Lake,
Mt. Carmel and Ottawa, Illinois; Algona and Sioux City, Iowa; Natick,
Massassachutes; Olive Branch, Mississippi; Carson City, Nevada; Robesonia,
Pennsylvania; Johnson City and Elizabethton, Tennessee; East Troy, Kenosha and
Milwaukee, Wisconsin; Sydney, Australia; Barbara D'oeste, Brazil; Calgary,
Mississagua and Newmarket, Canada; King's Lynn, England; Shannon, Ireland;
Tokyo, Japan; and Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

The Corporation believes that its facilities are well maintained and have a
capacity adequate to meet the Corporation's present and foreseeable future
demand.  The Corporation's U.S. facilities occupy approximately 3.8 million
square feet, of which approximately 3.4 million square feet are owned.  The
Corporation's facilities outside the U.S. contain approximately 1.1 million
square feet, of which approximately .5 million square feet are owned.

In the fourth quarter of 1993, the Corporation completed a reorganization and
consolidation of its field services and inventory.  As part of the
reorganization, the Corporation has sold 32 U.S. branch offices and 2 division
offices as of December 1994.  The branches that were sold have been replaced
with smaller leased facilities.

ITEM 3:  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Note 4 to the Financial Statements of the Corporation on page 29 of its 1994
Annual Report is incorporated herein by reference.  None of this litigation is
material within the meaning of Section 103 of Regulation S-K in that such
matters individually or in the aggregate do not exceed 10% of current assets.

ITEM 4:  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There was no matter submitted to a vote of the shareholders during the fourth
quarter of the fiscal year ending December 31, 1994.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The executive officers of the Corporation are listed below.  All but two of the
said officers have been with the Corporation for more than five years.  There is
no family relationship among the executive officers and there has been no
involvement in legal proceedings during the past five years that would be
material to the evaluation of the ability or integrity of any of the executive
officers.  Executive officers may be elected by the Board of Directors or
appointed by the Chief Executive Officer at the regular meeting of the Board
which follows the Annual Shareholders' Meeting, held on the fourth Friday of
April each year, and at such other times as new positions are created.

NAME, POSITION AND
BUSINESS EXPERIENCE                                                      AGE
----------------------------------------------------------------------------

ROBERT A. CORNOG                                                        (54)
Chairman, President and CEO since July 1991.  A Director since 1982.  Prior to
joining Snap-on, he was President of Macwhyte Company from 1981 to 1991.

DONALD S. HUML                                                          (48)
Senior Vice President - Finance and Chief Financial Officer since August 1994.
Prior to joining Snap-on, he was Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of
Saint-Gobain Corporation from December 1990 to August 1994.  Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of CertainTeed Corporation from August 1989 to December
1990.

MICHAEL F. MONTEMURRO                                                   (46)
Senior Vice President - Financial Services and Administration since August
1994. Senior Vice President -Financial Services, Administration and Chief
Financial Officer from April 1994 to August 1994.  Senior Vice President -
Finance and Chief Financial Officer from March 1990 to April 1994.  Vice
President - Marketing Services from May 1989 to March 1990.

JAY H. SCHNABEL                                                         (51)
Senior Vice President - Diagnostics since April 1994 and President of Sun
Electric Corporation since December 1992.  Senior Vice President -
Administration from April 1990 to April 1994.  Senior Vice President -
Manufacturing and Research & Engineering from November 1988 to April 1990.  A
Director since August 1989.

DR. JAMES L. SOMERS                                                     (51)
Senior Vice President - Manufacturing and Technology since January 1992.  Senior
Vice President - Manufacturing and Research & Engineering from April 1990 to
January 1992.  Vice President - Corporate Manufacturing from January 1987 to
April 1990.




NAME, POSITION AND
BUSINESS EXPERIENCE                                                      AGE
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------
BRANKO M. BERONJA                                                       (60)
President - North American Operations since April 1994, and Vice President -
Sales, North America since August 1989.

GREGORY D. JOHNSON                                                      (45)
Controller since April 1992.  Financial Controller - Asia/Pacific from April
1991 to April 1992.  Director - Budgets, Corporate Cost and International
Accounting from April 1984 to April 1991.

SUSAN F. MARRINAN                                                       (46)
Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel since January 1992.  Secretary and
General Counsel from November 1990 to January 1992.  Prior to joining Snap-on,
she was Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for H. B. Fuller
Company from 1987 to October 1990.


PART II

ITEM 5:   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

At December 31, 1994, the Corporation had 43,128,696 shares of common stock
outstanding.  Institutional shareholders had voting authority for approximately
69% of these shares.

Additional information required by Item 5 is contained on page 40 of the
Corporation's 1994 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by reference to said
Annual Report.

ITEM 6:  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

The information required by Item 6 is contained on pages
38 and 39 of the Corporation's 1994 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by
reference to said Annual Report.

ITEM 7:   MANAGEMENT DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
          FINANCIAL CONDITION

The information required by Item 7 is contained on pages
18-22 of the Corporation's 1994 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by
reference to said Annual Report.

ITEM 8:  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The information required by Item 8 is contained on pages
23-36 of the Corporation's 1994 Annual Report and is incorporated herein by
reference to said Annual Report.

ITEM 9:  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


PART III

ITEM 10:  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The identification of the Corporation's directors as required by Item 10 is
contained in the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 24, 1995, and is
incorporated herein by reference to said Proxy Statement.  In respect to
information as to the Corporation's executive officers, see caption "Executive
Officers of the Registrant" at the end of Part I of this report.

The disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
contained in the Corporation's Proxy Statement, dated March 24, 1995, and is
incorporated herein by reference to said Proxy Statement on page 13.

ITEM 11:  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 11 is contained in the Corporation's Proxy
Statement, dated March 24, 1995, and is incorporated herein by reference to said
Proxy Statement on pages 5-10.

ITEM 12:  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by Item 12 is contained in the Corporation's Proxy
Statement, dated March 24, 1995, and is incorporated herein by reference to said
Proxy Statement on page 5.

ITEM 13:  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.




PART IV

ITEM 14:  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

ITEM 14(A):  DOCUMENT LIST

1.  LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

The following consolidated financial statements of Snap-on Incorporated, and the
Auditors' Report thereon, each included in the 1994 Annual Report of the
Corporation to its  shareholders for the year ended December 31, 1994, are
incorporated by reference in Item 8:

  Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31, 1994 and January 1, 1994.

  Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31, 1994,
  January 1, 1994 and January 2, 1993.

  Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended December
  31, 1994, January 1, 1994 and January 2, 1993.

  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31, 1994,
  January 1, 1994 and January 2, 1993.

  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE

The following consolidated financial statement schedule of Snap-on Incorporated
is included in Item 14(d) as a separate section of this report.


SCHEDULE II     Valuation and Qualifying Accounts     pg. 16

All other schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting
regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are inapplicable and,
therefore, have been omitted, or are included in the Corporation's 1994 Annual
Report in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for the years ended
December 31, 1994, January 1, 1994 and January 2, 1993, which are incorporated
by reference in Item 8.

3.  LIST OF EXHIBITS

THE FOLLOWING EXHIBITS ARE FILED AS A SEPARATE SECTION OF THIS REPORT.

(3)  (a)  Restated Certificate of Incorporation, effective March 10, 1995.

     (b)  Bylaws of the Corporation, effective June 24, 1994.

(4)  Rights Agreement dated as of October 23, 1987, between the Corporation and
Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Rights Agent, filed as Exhibit 1 to the
Corporation's Registration Statement on Form 8-A dated October 26, 1987, is
incorporated herein by reference thereto.  A Form 8-K, dated June 4, 1992, was
filed reporting an amendment to this Rights Agreement and is incorporated herein
by reference.  No financial statements were filed.  On January 28, 1994, the
Board of Directors adopted amendments to the Rights Agreement.  A Form 8-K dated
January 28, 1994 reporting these amendments was filed and is incorporated herein
by reference.  No financial statements were filed.  The Corporation and its
subsidiaries have no long-term debt agreement for which the related outstanding
debt exceeds 10% of consolidated total assets as of December 31, 1994.  Copies
of debt instruments for which the related debt is less than 10% of consolidated
total assets will be furnished to the Commission upon request.

(10) Material Contracts

     (a)  Incentive Stock Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 10(a) to the
          Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 29, 1990, is incorporated herein by reference thereto.

     (b)  Executive and Senior Officer Agreements, amended and restated, filed
          as Exhibit 10(b) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994, is incorporated herein by
          reference thereto.

     (c)  Indemnification Agreement for Directors, contained in the Proxy
          Statement dated March 23, 1990, is incorporated herein by reference
          thereto.

     (d)  Directors' 1993 Fee Plan, contained in the Corporation's Proxy
          Statement dated March 19, 1993, is incorporated by reference thereto.

     (e)  Snap-on Tools Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan, filed as
          Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended January 1, 1994, is incorporated herein by reference
          thereto.

(13) Annual Report to Shareholders

(22) Subsidiaries of the Corporation

ITEM 14(B):  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the last quarter of the period covered
by this report.




                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                         ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE


We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the
financial statements included in Snap-on Incorporated's (the "Corporation")
Annual Report to Shareholders, incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and
have issued our report thereon dated January 31, 1995.  Our audit was made for
the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.  The
schedule listed on page 16 is the responsibility of the Corporation's management
and is presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and Exchange
Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.  This
schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audit of
the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.


                                        /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

                                        ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin
January 31, 1995




                    CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS


As independent public accountants, we hereby consent to the incorporation of our
reports included (or incorporated by reference) in this Form 10-K, into the
Corporation's previously filed Registration Statement File Nos. 2-53663,
2-53578, 33-7471, 33-22417, 33-37924, 33-39660, 33-57898 and 33-55607.



                                        /s/ Arthur Andersen LLP

                                        ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP

Milwaukee, Wisconsin
March 20, 1995




                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


    SNAP-ON INCORPORATED
------------------------


By:  /s/ R. A. Cornog                                  Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     R. A. Cornog, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
     President and Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Corporation and in the
capacities as indicated.



     /s/ R. A. Cornog                                  Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     R. A. Cornog, Chairman of the Board of Directors,
     President and Chief Executive Officer



     /s/ D. S. Huml                                    Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     D. S. Huml, Principal Financial Officer,
     and Senior Vice President - Finance



     /s/ G. D. Johnson                                 Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     G. D. Johnson, Principal Accounting Officer,
     and Controller




                                   SIGNATURES


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Corporation has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the Corporation and in the
capacities as indicated.



By:  /s/ D. W. Brinckman                               Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     D. W. Brinckman, Director



By:  /s/ B. S. Chelberg                                Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     B. S. Chelberg, Director



By:  /s/ R. J. Decyk                                   Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     R. J. Decyk, Director



By:  /s/ R. F. Farley                                  Date:     March 17, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     R. F. Farley, Director



By:  /s/ A. L. Kelly                                   Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     A. L. Kelly, Director



By:  /s/ G. W. Mead                                    Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     G. W. Mead, Director



By:  /s/ E. H. Rensi                                   Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     E. H. Rensi, Director



By:  /s/ J. H. Schnabel                                Date:     March 21, 1995
     -----------------------------------------------          -----------------
     J. H. Schnabel, Director




                                  EXHIBIT INDEX


Item 14(c):  Exhibits                                                       Page
---------------------                                                       ----
 (3)  (a)  Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Corporation,
           effective as of March 10, 1995. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   17
      (b)  Bylaws of the Corporation, effective as of June 24, 1994. . . .   31
 (4)  Rights Agreement dated as of October 23, 1987 between the
      Corporationand Harris Trust and Savings Bank, as Rights Agent, filed as
      Exhibit 1 to the Corporation's Registration Statement on Form 8-A
      dated October 26, 1987, is incorporated herein by reference thereto.
      A Form 8-K, dated June 4, 1992, was filed reporting an amendment to
      this Rights Agreement and is incorporated herein by reference.  No
      financial statements were filed.  On January 28, 1994, the Board of
      Directors adopted amendments to the Rights Agreement.  A Form 8-K
      dated January 28, 1994 reporting these amendments was filed and is
      incorporated herein by reference.  No financial statements were filed.
      The Corporation and its subsidiaries have no long-term debt agreement
      for which the related outstanding debt exceeds 10% of consolidated
      total assets as of January 1, 1994.  Copies of debt instruments for
      which the related debt is less than 10% of consolidated total assets
      will be furnished to the Commission upon request.
(10)  Material Contracts
      (a)  Incentive Stock Option Plan, filed as Exhibit 10(a) to the
           Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
           ended December 29, 1990, is incorporated herein by reference
           thereto.
      (b)  Executive and Senior Officer Agreements, filed as Exhibit
           10(b) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
           fiscal year ended January 1, 1994, is incorporated herein by
           reference thereto
      (c)  Indemnification Agreement for Directors, contained in the Proxy
           Statement dated March 23, 1990, is incorporated herein by
           reference thereto
      (d)  Directors' 1993 Fee Plan, contained in the Corporation's Proxy
           Statement dated March 19, 1993, is incorporated by reference
           thereto.
      (e)  Snap-on Tools Corporation Supplemental Retirement Plan, filed
           as Exhibit 10(d) to the Corporation's Annual Report on Form
           10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994, is incorporated
           herein by reference thereto.
(13)  Annual Report to Shareholders. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55
(22)  Subsidiaries of the Corporation. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   55




                       Snap-on Incorporated

  SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS AND RESERVES






