
10-K405


                 SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                   
                               FORM 10-K
                                   
   / x /    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
           THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934   [FEE REQUIRED]
              FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995
                                OR
   /   /    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d)
                 OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                     Commission File Number 1-3610
                                   
                      ALUMINUM COMPANY OF AMERICA
        (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

      Pennsylvania                    25-0317820
(State of incorporation)  (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)
                                   
           425 Sixth Avenue, Alcoa Building, 
           Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania         15219-1850
   (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)

             Registrant's telephone number--area code 412
                                   
                Investor Relations------------553-3042
                 Office of the Secretary------553-4707
                                   
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

                                     Name of each exchange 
Title of each class                   on which registered
     
Common Stock, par value $1.00        New York Stock Exchange
     
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has 
filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) 
of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 
12 months, and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements 
for the past 90 days.      Yes / x /   No      .

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers 
pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained 
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's 
knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  / x /

     As of March 1, 1996 there were 175,070,628 shares of 
common stock, par value $1.00, of the registrant outstanding.  
The aggregate market value of such shares, other than shares 
held by persons who may be deemed affiliates of the registrant, 
was approximately $9,997 million.

Documents incorporated by reference.

     Parts I and II of this Form 10-K incorporate by reference 
certain information from the registrant's 1995 Annual Report 
to Shareholders.  Part III of this Form 10-K incorporates by 
reference the registrant's Proxy Statement dated March 6, 1996, 
except for the performance graph and Compensation Committee 
Report.
                                   
                                   
                   ALUMINUM COMPANY OF AMERICA

     Aluminum Company of America was formed in 1888 under the 
laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania.  Unless the context 
otherwise requires, Alcoa or the Company means Aluminum Company 
of America and all subsidiaries consolidated for the purposes 
of its financial statements.

                                PART I

Item 1.  Business.

     Alcoa is the world's largest integrated aluminum company,
producing and selling primary aluminum and semi-fabricated and 
finished aluminum products. Alcoa is also the world's largest 
producer of alumina.  The Company produces and sells alumina-
based chemicals, a variety of other finished products and compo-
nents and systems.  The Company's products are used primarily 
by packaging, transportation (including aerospace, automotive, 
rail and shipping), building and industrial customers world-
wide.  Alcoa has operating and sales locations in 28 countries.

     Alcoa serves a variety of customers in a number of 
markets.  Consolidated revenues from these markets were:



     Segment and geographic area financial information is 
presented in Note P to the Financial Statements.

  Major Operations

     Most aluminum facilities located in the United States are 
owned by the parent company.  Alcoa of Australia Limited 
(AofA), Alcoa Aluminio S.A. (Aluminio) in Brazil and Alcoa 
Fujikura Ltd. (AFL) are the three largest operating subsi-
diaries.

     AofA operates integrated aluminum facilities in Australia,
including mining, refining, smelting and fabricating opera-
tions.  More than half of AofA's 1995 revenues were derived 
from alumina, and the balance was derived principally from 
primary aluminum, rigid container sheet and gold.

     Alcoa Brazil Holdings Company holds Alcoa's 59% 
interest in Aluminio, an integrated aluminum producer in 
Brazil.  Aluminio operates mining, refining, smelting, 
fabricating and closures facilities at various locations in 
Brazil.  Approximately 28% of Aluminio's 1995 unconsolidated 
revenues was derived from primary aluminum, and exports 
accounted for approximately one-fourth of its revenues.

                              -2-

     AFL, owned 51% by Alcoa and 49% by Fujikura Ltd. of Japan,
produces and markets automotive electrical distribution 
systems, as well as fiber optic products and systems for 
selected electric utilities, telecommunications, cable televi-
sion and datacom markets.

  Alumina and Chemicals Restructuring

     In December 1994, Alcoa and WMC Limited of Melbourne, 
Australia (WMC) (formerly Western Mining Corporation Holdings 
Limited) restructured and combined their respective worldwide 
bauxite, alumina and alumina-based chemicals businesses and 
investments into a group of companies (Alcoa World Alumina) 
owned 60% by Alcoa.  The restructuring and combination of cer-
tain businesses and investments in Brazil between Alcoa, WMC 
and third party investors in Aluminio were concluded late in
the first quarter of 1995.  See Note C to the Financial 
Statements.

     Alcoa World Alumina is a series of affiliated operating 
entities and assets which includes the following:

     1.   99.25% ownership interest in AofA, including its 
aluminum smelting and fabricating operations;

     2.   Alcoa's operations at Point Comfort, Texas 
(refining); bauxite mining in Guinea, Africa (through an 
interest in Halco (Mining) Inc.); Jamaica (mining and 
refining); Suriname (mining, refining and smelting); and the 
U.S. Virgin Islands (refining);

     3.   Alcoa's bauxite and alumina shipping operations;

     4.   Alcoa's alumina-based chemicals businesses in 
Australia, Germany, India, Japan, the Netherlands, Singapore 
and U.S.; and

     5.   An interest in the Alumar alumina refinery at Sao 
Luis, Brazil (Alumar Refinery) and in Mineracao Rio do Norte 
S.A. (MRN) (mining).

     A five-member strategic council, with three members 
appointed by Alcoa and two by WMC, provides counsel and direc-
tion to Alcoa World Alumina.  Alcoa provides operating manage-
ment for all of the affiliated operating entities.

  Competition

     The markets for most aluminum products are highly competi-
tive.  Price, quality and service are the principal competitive 
factors in most of these markets.  Where aluminum products 
compete with other materials, the diverse characteristics of 
aluminum are also a significant factor, particularly its light 
weight and recyclability.  The competitive conditions are 
discussed later for each of the Company's major product classes.

     The Company continues to examine all aspects of its opera-
tions and activities and redesign them where necessary to 
enhance effectiveness and achieve cost reductions.  Alcoa 
believes that its competitive position is enhanced by its 
improved processes, extensive facilities and willingness and 
ability to commit capital where necessary to meet growth in 
important markets and by the capability of its employees.
Research and development, and an increased emphasis on full 
utilization of technology, have led to improved product 
quality and production techniques, new product development and 
cost control.

                              -3-

     The dissolution of the former Soviet Union and the lack of 
a mechanism to successfully integrate its economy with market 
economies significantly contributed to a global oversupply of 
aluminum in recent years.  Prior to 1991, former Soviet alumi-
num producers primarily served internal markets which weakened 
substantially after the collapse of the Soviet Union, and 
aluminum produced at former Soviet smelters began to be 
exported.  These exports caused an imbalance in demand and 
supply and resulted in severe downward pressure on aluminum
prices.

     In January 1994, an accord was reached among the govern-
ments of six major primary aluminum-producing nations 
(Australia, Canada, the European Union, Norway, Russia and the 
U.S.) to address the global aluminum supply situation.  Under 
the accord, the Russian industry would reduce its annual alumi-
num exports for up to two years, the EU would refrain from 
renewing import quotas on Russian ingot when the quotas expired 
in early 1994, and certain of the participating governments 
would create a fund to assist in the modernization of the
Russian industry.

     By year-end 1994, Alcoa indefinitely curtailed 450,000 
metric tons (mt) per year of its total worldwide smelting pro-
duction.  This capacity remains idled.

  Risk Factors

     In addition to risks inherent in Alcoa's worldwide opera-
tions, Alcoa is exposed generally to financial, market, politi-
cal and economic risks.

     Commodity Risks

     Alcoa is a leading global producer of aluminum ingot and 
aluminum fabricated products.  Aluminum ingot is an interna-
tionally priced, sourced and traded commodity.  The principal 
trading market for ingot is the London Metal Exchange (LME).  
Alcoa participates in this market by buying and selling forward 
portions of its aluminum requirements and output.

     Alcoa divides its operations into four regions: U.S., 
Pacific, Other Americas and Europe.  AofA in the Pacific 
region, and Aluminio in the Other Americas, are generally in 
net long metal positions.  From time to time, they may sell 
production forward.  In the European region there are no 
smelting operations controlled by Alcoa, and accordingly, this 
region is net short and may purchase forward positions from 
time to time.  At the present time, forward purchase and sales 
activity within these three regions is not material.

     In the U.S., and for export, Alcoa enters into long-term 
contracts with a number of its fabricated products customers.  
At December 31, 1995, and 1994, such contracts approximated 
2,483,000 mt and 1,500,000 mt, respectively, of fabricated 
products over the next several years.  Alcoa may enter into 
similar arrangements in the future.

     As a hedge against the economic risk of higher prices for 
metal needs associated with these long-term contracts, Alcoa 
entered into long positions, principally using futures and 
option contracts.  At December 31, 1995 and 1994, these con-
tracts totaled approximately 1,210,000 mt and 1,400,000 mt, 
respectively.  The contracts limit the unfavorable effect of 
price increases on metal purchases and likewise limit the 
favorable effect from price declines.  The futures and option
contracts are with creditworthy counterparties and are further
supported by cash, treasury bills or irrevocable letters of 
credit issued by carefully chosen banks.

     For financial accounting purposes, the gains and losses 
on the hedging contracts are reflected in earnings concurrent 
with the hedged costs.  The cash flows from these contracts 
are classified in a manner consistent with the underlying 
nature of the transactions.

                              -4-

     Alcoa intends to close out the hedging contracts at the 
time it purchases the metal from third parties, thus creating 
the right economic match both in time and price.  The deferred 
gains on the closed hedging contracts of $466 million at 
December 31, 1995 are expected to offset the increase in the 
price of the purchased metal.

     The expiration dates of the call options and the delivery 
dates of the futures contracts do not always coincide exactly 
with the dates on which Alcoa is required to purchase metal to 
meet its contractual commitments with customers.  Accordingly, 
some of the futures and option positions will be rolled forward.  
This may result in significant cash inflows if the hedging con-
tracts are "in-the-money" at the time they are rolled forward.  
Conversely, there could be significant cash outflows if metal 
prices fall below the price of contracts being rolled forward.

     In addition, Alcoa had 461,000 mt of LME contracts out-
standing at year-end 1995 that cover long-term fixed-price 
commitments to supply customers with metal from internal 
sources.  Accounting convention requires that these contracts 
be marked to market which resulted in an aftertax charge to 
earnings of $38 million in 1995.

     Alcoa also purchases certain other commodities, such as 
gas and copper, for its operations and enters into contracts 
to eliminate volatility in the prices of such products.  None 
of these contracts are material.  For additional information 
on financial instruments, see Note Q.

     Financial Risk

     Since Alcoa participates in the global marketplace, it is 
subject to significant exposure from fluctuations in foreign 
currencies.  As a matter of company policy, Alcoa enters into 
foreign currency exchange contracts, including forwards and 
options, to manage its transactional exposure to changes in 
currency exchange rates.

     Alcoa also attempts to maintain a reasonable balance 
between fixed and floating rate debt, using interest rate swaps 
where appropriate to keep financing costs as low as possible.

     Risk Management

     All of the aluminum and other commodity contracts, as well 
as the various types of financial instruments, are straight-
forward.  They are primarily entered into for the purpose of 
removing uncertainty and volatility, and principally cover 
underlying exposures.

     Alcoa's commodity and derivative activities are subject to 
the management, direction and control of the Strategic Risk 
Management Committee (SRMC).  It is composed of the Chief Execu-
tive Officer, the Vice Chairman, the Chief Financial Officer and 
other officers and employees as the Chief Executive Officer may 
select from time to time.  SRMC reports to the Board of 
Directors at each of its scheduled meetings on the scope of 
Alcoa's derivatives activities and programs.

     For further information on Alcoa's hedging and derivatives
activities, see Notes A, I and Q to the Financial Statements, 
which are incorporated herein by reference.

  Segments

     Alcoa's operations consist of three segments: Alumina and
Chemicals, Aluminum Processing, and Nonaluminum Products.  
Discussion of Alcoa's operations and properties by its three 
segments follows.

                              -5-

Alumina and Chemicals Segment

     The Alumina and Chemicals segment includes the production 
and sale of bauxite, alumina, alumina (industrial) chemicals 
and transportation services.

  Bauxite

     Bauxite, aluminum's principal raw material, is refined 
into alumina through a chemical process and is then smelted 
into primary aluminum.  Most of the bauxite mined and alumina 
produced by the Company, except by AofA, is further processed 
by the Company into aluminum.  All of the Company's bauxite 
interests are now included in Alcoa World Alumina with the 
exception of Alcoa's bauxite mines in Arkansas, Aluminio's 
bauxite mines in Pocos de Caldas, Brazil and an 8.6% interest 
in MRN, which is also held by Aluminio.

     The Company has long-term contracts to purchase bauxite 
mined by a partially-owned entity in the Republic of Guinea.  
These agreements expire after 2011.  This bauxite services 
most of the requirements of the Point Comfort, Texas alumina 
refinery.  Suriname Aluminum Company, L.L.C. (Suralco) mines 
bauxite in Suriname under rights which expire after the year 
2000.  Suralco also holds a 26% minority interest in a bauxite 
mining joint venture managed by the majority owner, an 
affiliate of Gencor Limited of South Africa (Gencor).  Bauxite 
from both mining operations serves Suralco's share of the 
refinery in Suriname referred to below.

     AofA's bauxite mineral leases expire in 2003.  Renewal 
options allow AofA to extend the leases until 2045.  The 
natural gas requirements of the refineries are supplied 
primarily under a contract with the parties comprising the North 
West Shelf Gas Joint Venture.  The contract expires in 2005 and 
imposes minimum purchase requirements.

     Bauxite mining rights in Jamaica expire after the year 
2020.  These rights are owned by the joint venture with the 
government of Jamaica referred to in the next section.

  Alumina

     Alumina is sold principally from operations in Australia, 
Jamaica and Suriname.  Approximately 38% of the Company's 
alumina production in 1995 was sold to third parties.  Most of 
the alumina supply contracts are negotiated on the basis of 
agreed volumes over a multi-year time period to assure a con-
tinuous supply of alumina to the smelters which receive the 
alumina.  Most alumina is sold under contracts where prices
are negotiated periodically or are based on formulas related to
aluminum ingot market prices or to production costs.  Alumina 
demand and supply are generally in balance.

     AofA is the world's largest and one of the lowest-cost 
producers of alumina.  Its three alumina plants, located in 
Kwinana, Pinjarra and Wagerup in Western Australia, have in the 
aggregate an annual rated capacity of approximately 6.4 million 
mt.  Most of AofA's alumina is sold under supply contracts to a 
number of customers worldwide.

     Suralco owns 55% of the 1.6 million mt per year alumina 
refinery in Paranam, Suriname and operates the plant.  An 
affiliate of Gencor holds the remaining 45%.

     An Alcoa subsidiary and a corporation owned by the govern-
ment of Jamaica are equal participants in a joint venture, 
managed by the subsidiary, that owns an alumina refinery in 
Clarendon Parish, Jamaica.  Annual alumina capacity at the 
Clarendon refinery will be increased from 800,000 to approxi-
mately 1,000,000 mt in the next several years.

                              -6-

     Aluminio is the operator of the Alumar Consortium 
(Alumar), a cost-sharing and production-sharing venture which 
owns a large refining and smelting project near the northern 
coastal city of Sao Luis, Brazil.  The Alumar Refinery has an 
annual capacity of approximately 1,000,000 mt and is owned 
35.1% by Aluminio, 36% by an affiliate of Gencor, 18.9% by 
Abalco S.A. (owned 60% by Alcoa and 40% by WMC) and 10% by an
affiliate of Alcan Aluminium Limited (Alcan).  A majority of 
the alumina production is consumed at the smelter.

     Aluminio holds an 8.6% interest and Abalco S.A. holds a 
4.6% interest in MRN, a mining company which is jointly owned 
by affiliates of Alcan, Companhia Brasileira de Aluminio, 
Companhia Vale do Rio Doce, Gencor, Norsk Hydro and Reynolds 
Metals Company.  Aluminio purchases bauxite from MRN under a 
long-term supply contract.

     At Pocos de Caldas, Brazil, Aluminio mines bauxite and 
operates a refinery which produces alumina, primarily for its 
nearby smelter.

     In July 1995, Alcoa Alumina & Chemicals, L.L.C., through a
majority owned entity, St. Croix Alumina, L.L.C., acquired a 
600,000 mt per year alumina refinery located on St. Croix, U.S. 
Virgin Islands from Virgin Islands Alumina Corporation, a sub-
sidiary of Glencore International AG.

  Industrial Chemicals

     The Company sells industrial chemicals to customers in a 
broad spectrum of markets for use in refractories, ceramics, 
abrasives, chemicals processing and other specialty applica-
tions.

     A variety of industrial chemicals, principally alumina-
based chemicals, are produced or processed at plants located in 
Mobile, Alabama; Bauxite, Arkansas; Ft. Meade, Florida; Dalton, 
Georgia; Lake Charles, Port Allen and Vidalia, Louisiana; 
Leetsdale, Pennsylvania; Nashville, Tennessee; Point Comfort, 
Texas; Kwinana and Rockingham, Australia; Pocos de Caldas and 
Salto, Brazil; Ludwigshafen, Germany; Iwakuni and Naoetsu, 
Japan; Moerdijk and Rotterdam, the Netherlands; and Singapore.  
Aluminum fluoride, used in aluminum smelting, is produced from 
fluorspar at Point Comfort and from hydrofluosilicic acid at 
Ft. Meade.  With the exception of the plants located in Pocos 
de Caldas and Salto, all of these facilities are now part of 
Alcoa World Alumina.

     The Company and The Associated Cement Companies Ltd. of 
Bombay, India have formed a joint venture to import, process 
and market tabular alumina and alumina-based chemicals for the 
refractory and ceramic industries in India.  The venture com-
pleted construction of its processing plant in India in 1995.

     In June 1995, the Company acquired Discovery Industries, 
Inc., a privately-held producer of alumina-based chemicals in 
Port Allen, Louisiana.

Aluminum Processing Segment

     The Aluminum Processing segment comprises the production 
and sale of molten metal, ingot, and aluminum products that are 
flat-rolled, engineered or finished.  Also included are power, 
transportation and other services.

                              -7-

     Revenues and shipments for the principal classes of pro-
ducts in the aluminum processing segment are as follows:



  Aluminum Ingot

     The Company smelts primary aluminum from alumina obtained
principally from the alumina refineries discussed earlier.  
Smelters are located at Warrick, Indiana; Massena, New York; 
Badin, North Carolina; Alcoa, Tennessee; Rockdale, Texas; 
Wenatchee, Washington; Point Henry and Portland, Australia; 
Pocos de Caldas and Sao Luis, Brazil; and Paranam, Suriname.  
The Company's smelting operations in Australia and Suriname 
have been included in Alcoa World Alumina.  Alcoa's consoli-
dated annual rated primary aluminum capacity is approximately 
1.9 million mt.  When operating at capacity, the Company's 
smelters more than satisfy the primary aluminum requirements
of the Company's fabricating operations.  Purchases of aluminum 
scrap (principally used beverage cans), supplemented by pur-
chases of ingot when necessary, satisfy any additional aluminum 
requirements.  Most of the Company's primary aluminum produc-
tion in 1995 was delivered to other Alcoa operations for 
alloying and/or further fabricating.

     The Company utilizes electric power, natural gas and other 
forms of energy in its refining, smelting and processing opera-
tions.  Aluminum is produced from alumina by an electrolytic 
process requiring large amounts of electric power.  Electric 
power accounts over time for approximately 25% of the Company's 
primary aluminum costs.  Alcoa generates approximately 40% of 
the power used at its smelters worldwide.  Most firm power 
purchase contracts tie prices to aluminum prices or to prices 
based on various indices.

     The joint venture smelter at Portland, Victoria, with an 
annual rated capacity of 320,000 mt, is owned 45% by AofA, 25% 
by the State of Victoria, 10% by the First National Resources 
Trust, 10% by the China International Trust and Investment Cor-
poration, and 10% by Marubeni Aluminium Australia Pty., Ltd. 
(Portland Smelter Participants).  A subsidiary of AofA operates 
the smelter.  Each Portland Smelter Participant is required to 
contribute to the cost of operations and construction in pro-
portion to its interests in the venture and is entitled to its 
proportionate share of the output.  Alumina is supplied by 
AofA.  The Portland site can accommodate additional smelting
capacity.

     Currently, approximately 36% of the power for the Point 
Henry smelter is generated by AofA using its extensive brown 
coal deposits.  The balance of the power, and power for the 
Portland, Victoria smelter, is available under contracts with 
the State Electricity Commission of Victoria which expire in 

                              -8-

2014 and 2016, respectively.  Power prices are tied by formula 
to aluminum prices.  The State Government of Victoria has 
announced its desire to renegotiate the power contracts for the
Point Henry and Portland smelters, but, after discussions, ter-
minated the negotiations and advised that the existing base 
contracts will be honored.  Informal discussions are continuing 
on clarifying various aspects of power supply to the smelters.

     The Alumar Consortium aluminum smelter at Sao Luis, Brazil 
has an annual rated capacity of 328,000 mt.  Aluminio receives 
about 54% of the primary aluminum production.

     Electric power for Alumar's Sao Luis smelter is purchased 
from the government-controlled power grid in Brazil at a small 
discount from the applicable industrial tariff price and is 
protected by a cap based on the LME price of aluminum.  
Aluminio's Pocos de Caldas smelter purchased firm and inter-
ruptible power from the government-controlled electric utility 
under a contract which expired January 1, 1996.  Aluminio is 
negotiating with the utility for a renewal of that contract.  
Pending completion of a new contract, Aluminio is purchasing
power from the utility at the applicable common tariff price.

     Over 50% of the power requirements for Alcoa's U.S. 
smelters is generated by the Company, and the remainder is 
purchased from others under long-term contracts.  Less than 15% 
of the self-generated power results from the Company's entitle-
ment to a fixed percentage of the output from a hydroelectric 
power facility located in the northwestern United States.

     The Company generates substantially all of the power used 
at its Warrick smelter using coal reserves near the smelter 
that should satisfy requirements through year-end 1997.  The 
Company is negotiating a coal supply contract to meet the needs 
of the smelter through 2006.  Lignite is used to generate power 
for the Rockdale, Texas smelter.  Company-owned generating 
units supply about half of the total requirements and the 
balance is purchased from a dedicated power plant under a con-
tract which expires not earlier than 2013.

     In connection with the electric power generated for the 
aluminum smelters at Alcoa, Tennessee and Badin, North Carolina, 
two subsidiaries of the Company own and operate hydroelectric 
facilities subject to Federal Energy Regulatory Commission 
licenses effective until 2005 and 2008, respectively.  For the 
Tennessee plant, the Company also purchases firm and interrup-
tible power from Tennessee Valley Authority under a contract 
which expires in 2000.  For the Badin plant, the Company pur-
chases additional power under an evergreen contract providing 
for specified periods of notice before termination by either 
party.

     The purchased power contract for the Massena smelter 
expires not earlier than 2003 but may be terminated by the 
Company with one year's notice.

     Alcoa has two principal power contracts for its Wenatchee 
smelter.  The contract for the power output entitlement 
referred to above expires in 2011.  The contract with Bonne-
ville Power Administration expires in 2001 and includes 25% 
interruptible power.  Power restrictions may occur when pre-
cipitation is below normal.  Beginning in 1995, a portion
of the power supplied under the entitlement contract was 
replaced by power purchased from the local public utility 
district.  Additional power also may be purchased from the 
district.

     Although not included in the revenues by market or 
revenues and shipments tables above or in the rated primary 
aluminum capacity figure above, the Company reports equity 
earnings from its interest in two primary aluminum smelters in 
Norway.  Elkem Aluminium ANS, 50% owned by Norsk Alcoa A/S, a 
subsidiary, is a partnership that owns and operates the 
smelters.

                              -9-

     In November 1995, Alcoa signed an agreement to acquire the
principal operating assets of Alumix S.p.A., Italy's state-
owned integrated aluminum producer.  Alcoa will acquire two 
primary aluminum smelters, at Portovesme and Fusina, with 
combined annual capacity of 170,000 mt; a rolling mill at 
Fusina with annual capacity of 140,000 mt; four aluminum extru-
sion plants (at Bolzano, Fossanova, Feltre and Iglesias) with 
combined annual capacity of 70,000 mt; and an extrusion die 
shop, six metal distribution centers, three administrative 
centers and sales offices in France, Germany, Spain and the 
United Kingdom.  The acquisition is expected to close before 
mid-year 1996.

  Flat-Rolled Products

     The Company's flat-rolled products serve three principal 
markets: light gauge sheet products serve principally the 
packaging market, and sheet and plate products serve princi-
pally the transportation and building and construction markets.

     Alcoa employs its own sales force for most products sold 
in the packaging market.  Most of the packaging revenues in 
1995 were derived from rigid container sheet (RCS) sold to can 
companies for production of beverage and food cans and can 
ends.  The number of RCS customers in the U.S. is relatively 
small, and the number of can companies has been shrinking.  Use 
of aluminum beverage cans continues to increase, particularly 
in Asia, Europe and South America, where per capita consump-
tion remains relatively low.  Aluminum foil and packaging sheet
(other than RCS) are sold principally in the packaging markets.

     Aluminum's diverse characteristics, particularly its light 
weight and recyclability, are significant factors in packaging 
markets where alternatives such as steel, plastic and glass are 
competitive materials.  Leadership in the packaging markets is 
maintained by improving processes and facilities, as well as by 
providing research and technical support to customers.

     Light gauge aluminum sheet and foil products are manufac-
tured at several locations.  RCS is produced at Warrick, 
Indiana; Alcoa, Tennessee; Point Henry, Australia; Yennora, 
Australia (a joint venture facility acquired in January 1996); 
Moka, Japan (a joint venture facility); and Swansea, Wales.  
Light gauge sheet and foil are produced at Lebanon, Pennsyl-
vania; Shanghai, China; and Yennora, Australia.  Foil conver-
sion activity at the Davenport, Iowa plant will be repositioned 
to the Lebanon facility by mid-year 1996.  Light gauge sheet, 
foil products and laminated evaporator panels are manufactured
by Aluminio at Recife, Brazil.

     Used aluminum beverage cans are an important source of 
metal for RCS.  The cost of used beverage cans continued to 
increase during the first half of 1995, then drifted lower 
during the second half of the year.  Recycling aluminum con-
serves raw materials, reduces litter and saves energy - about 
95% of the energy needed to produce aluminum from bauxite.  
Also, recycling capacity costs much less than new primary
aluminum capacity. Can recycling or remelt facilities are 
located at or near Alcoa's Warrick, Indiana and Alcoa, 
Tennessee plants.

     In early 1995 the Company and Shanghai Aluminum Fabrica-
tion Plant (SAFP) formed a joint venture company to acquire and 
operate SAFP's existing aluminum foil and foil laminate produc-
tion facility in Shanghai, China.  The joint venture company, 
which commenced operations in May 1995, is owned 60% by Alcoa 
and 40% by SAFP.  The facility currently produces approximately 
8,500 mt of aluminum foil per year.  It is anticipated that 
through the use of technology developed by Aluminio and the 
addition of a second caster, annual output will increase to 
approximately 18,000 mt within five years.

     The Company has joint ventures with Kobe Steel, Ltd. 
(Kobe) in Australia and Japan that serve the packaging markets.  
KSL Alcoa Aluminum Company, Ltd. (KAAL) manufactures and sells 
RCS in 

                              -10-

Japan and other Asian countries.  The Company holds a 50% 
interest in KAAL.  In connection with this joint venture, 
Alcoa entered into a long-term metal contract with Kobe.

     KAAL Australia Pty. Limited (KAAL/Australia) was formed in
December 1995 to acquire Comalco Limited's rolled products 
operations at Yennora, Australia.  KAAL/Australia will manufac-
ture and sell aluminum sheet and foil for the Australian market, 
as well as RCS for Australian and Asian markets.  The Company 
also holds a 50% interest in KAAL/Australia.  Negotiations 
relating to the acquisition of the AofA rolling mill at Point 
Henry by KAAL/Australia or an affiliate are proceeding.

     Sheet and plate products serve aerospace, automotive,
lithographic, railroad, ship-building, building and construc-
tion, defense and other industrial and consumer markets.  The 
Company maintains its own sales forces for most of these 
products.  Differentiation of material properties, price and 
service are significant competitive factors.  Aluminum's 
diverse characteristics are important in these markets, where 
competitive materials include steel and plastics for automotive 
and building applications; magnesium, titanium, composites and 
plastics for aerospace and defense applications; and wood and 
vinyl in building and construction applications.

     The Company's largest sheet and plate plant is located at
Davenport, Iowa.  It produces products requiring special 
alloying, heat treating and other processing, some of which are 
unique or proprietary.  The Company serves European sheet and 
plate markets through a distribution center in Paal, Belgium.

     The Company substantially has completed a plant in 
Hutchinson, Kansas for further processing and just-in-time 
stocking of aluminum sheet products for the aerospace market.

     Alcoa continues to develop alloys and products for aero-
space applications, such as new aluminum alloys for application 
in the Boeing 777 aircraft.  A research and development effort 
also has resulted in the commercial development of a series of 
aluminum and aluminum-lithium alloys which offer significant 
weight savings over traditional materials for aerospace and 
defense applications.

     The Company and Kobe also have two joint venture 
companies, one in the U.S. and one in Japan, to serve the 
transportation industry.  The initial emphasis of these 
companies is on expanding the use of aluminum sheet products 
in passenger cars and light trucks.

     The Company has a 50.1% interest in Alcoa-Kofem Kft., a 
Hungarian subsidiary.  The government-owned Hungarian Aluminium 
Industrial Corporation holds the remaining equity interest.  
The subsidiary produces common alloy flat and coiled sheet, 
soft alloy extrusions and end products for the building, con-
struction, food and agricultural markets in central and western 
Europe.  Alcoa is providing technological and operational 
expertise to Alcoa-Kofem Kft.

  Engineered Products

     Engineered products principally include extrusion and 
tube, wire, rod and bar, forgings, castings, aluminum building 
products, aluminum memory disk blanks and other products which 
are sold in a wide range of markets, but principally in the 
transportation market.

     Aluminum extrusions and tube are produced principally at 
five U.S. locations.  The Chandler, Arizona plant produces hard 
alloy extrusions, tube and forge stock; the Lafayette, Indiana 
plant produces a broad range of hard alloy extrusions and tube; 
the Baltimore, Maryland plant produces large press extrusions; 
and plants at Tifton, Georgia and Delhi, Louisiana produce 
common alloy extrusions.  In 1994, the Company announced the 
shutdown of the hard alloy extrusion and tube and forgings 
facilities at its Vernon, California plant.  This plant
continues to produce cast aluminum plate.  In August 

                              -11-

1995, Alcoa announced that it will invest approximately $12 
million over the next two years in new machinery and equip-
ment for the cast aluminum plate operations.

     Alcoa and VAW Aluminium AG (VAW) have a joint venture that
produces and markets high-strength aluminum extrusions, rod and 
bar to serve principally European transportation and defense 
markets.  An Alcoa subsidiary owns 60% and VAW owns 40% of the 
venture, which is called Alcoa VAW Hannover Presswerk GmbH & 
Co. KG and is located in Hannover, Germany.

     Aluminum extruded products are manufactured by a subsidiary 
of Alcoa Latin American Holdings Corporation in Argentina and at 
several Aluminio locations in Brazil.  In early March 1996, 
Aluminio acquired the extrusion assets of an Alcan affiliate in 
Brazil.  These assets include four plants and eight extrusion 
presses.  The transaction will be submitted to the Brazilian 
antitrust authorities for review and approval.

     Alcoa Nederland Holding B.V. (ANH) and its subsidiaries 
produce extrusions, common alloy sheet products and a variety 
of finished products for the building industry, such as alumi-
num windows, doors and aluminum ceiling systems, as well as 
products for the agricultural industry such as automated green-
house systems.

     The Company also produces extrusions in Hungary, Spain and 
the United Kingdom.

     Mechanical-grade redraw rod, wire and cold-finished rod 
and bar are produced at Massena, New York and are sold to dis-
tributors and customers for a variety of applications in the 
building and transportation markets.

     Aluminum forgings are produced at Cleveland, Ohio and 
Bologne, France.  These forgings are sold principally in the 
aerospace, defense and transportation markets.  Forged alumi-
num wheels for truck, bus and automotive markets are produced 
at Cleveland, Ohio.

     During the third quarter of 1995, Alcoa announced plans 
to build a plant in Szekesfehervar, Hungary to manufacture 
forged aluminum truck wheels for the European market.  The 
plant also may manufacture wheels for export to Asian, South 
American and other geographic markets where European-type 
wheels are used.  The plant is scheduled to commence operations 
in early 1997.

     Alcoa Automotive Structures GmbH produces aluminum compo-
nents and sub-assemblies for aluminum automotive spaceframes.  
Aluminum spaceframes represent a significant departure from the 
traditional method and material used to manufacture primary 
auto body structures.  In 1993 Alcoa completed construction and 
began operating a unique multi-million dollar plant in Soest, 
Germany to supply aluminum spaceframe products to its first 
customer, Audi AG.  In 1994 Audi began marketing its new A8 
luxury sedan, the first automobile to utilize a complete
aluminum spaceframe body structure.  The aluminum body struc-
ture of the A8 is a result of a cooperation between Alcoa and 
Audi that began in 1981 and is constructed from components and 
sub-assemblies that are or will be produced by Alcoa.  Audi has 
announced that the A8 will go on sale in the United States in 
the fall of 1996.

     Alcoa continues to cooperate with several automobile manu-
facturers in Europe, North America and Japan to develop new 
automotive applications for aluminum products.  For example, 
Chrysler Corporation's Plymouth Prowler, a new roadster, is 
scheduled to enter initial, low-volume production in January 
1997.  Carrying 900 pounds of aluminum (or approximately one-
third of its weight), the Prowler will utilize an all aluminum 
frame and body as well as aluminum for brake rotors and suspen-
sion components.  Alcoa will provide the car's frame as well as 
aluminum sheet stock to be stamped into body panels and bumper 
assemblies.

                              -12-

     Alcoa has constructed and begun production at a plant in
Northwood, Ohio, near Toledo, which will manufacture aluminum
structural assemblies for the automotive industry.

     During the first quarter of 1995 the Company formed a 
joint venture with a subsidiary of CMI International, Inc. to 
produce cast and forged aluminum automotive parts.  The Company 
holds a 50% interest in the venture called A-CMI.

     In September 1995, A-CMI announced plans to build its 
first European manufacturing plant in Lista, Norway.  The plant 
will develop and produce cast aluminum chassis, suspension, 
brake and powertrain components and systems.  The plant repre-
sents a total investment of approximately $40 million and will 
be built in close proximity to an Elkem Aluminium ANS smelter 
which will deliver molten aluminum to the plant.  This facility 
will commence production in mid-1997.

     In August 1995, the Company acquired DBM Industries, Ltd., 
of Montreal, Canada, a designer and builder of specialized die-
casting machines.  The acquisition provides Alcoa with the 
capability to manufacture die-cast aluminum parts and custom 
die-casting machines.

     Aluminio produces aluminum truck and van bodies in Sao 
Paulo, Brazil and aluminum electrical cables at its Pocos de 
Caldas plant.

     Alcoa Building Products produces and markets residential 
aluminum siding and other aluminum building products.  These 
products are sold principally to wholesale distributors.

  Other Aluminum Products

     Alcoa produces aluminum closures for bottles at Richmond, 
Indiana; Worms, Germany; Nogi and Ichikawa, Japan; and near 
Barcelona, Spain.

     The Company also sells aluminum scrap and produces and 
markets aluminum paste, particles, flakes, atomized powder, and 
is engaged in the production of high purity aluminum.

Nonaluminum Products Segment

     The Nonaluminum Products segment includes the production 
and sale of electrical, ceramic, plastic, and composite 
materials products, manufacturing equipment, gold, magnesium 
products, and steel and titanium forgings.

     AFL produces and markets automotive electrical distribu-
tion systems (EDS), as well as fiber optic products and systems 
for selected electric utilities, telecommunications, cable 
television and datacom markets.  AFL is the only EDS supplier 
that has been awarded the Total Quality Excellence (TQE) Award 
by Ford Motor Company.  All AFL automotive operations also have 
the Q1 rating from Ford.  AFL now is supplying EDS to Subaru of 
America, Inc. (in the U.S.), Auto Alliance, Inc. (Mazda-Ford 
joint venture), Kenworth, Peterbilt, Mack and Navistar.  AFL 
has a 90% interest in Michels GmbH & Co. KG, a manufacturer of 
EDS for automobiles, appliances and farm equipment with three 
plants in Germany and five plants in Hungary.  AFL's Stribel
group of companies are European manufacturers of electro-
mechanical and electronic components for the European automo-
tive market.

     In July 1995, AFL acquired the operations of Electro-Wire
Products, Inc.  Electro-Wire Products also manufactured EDS for 
autos, trucks and farm equipment.  Combining these two busi-
nesses created a worldwide enterprise that is the largest 
supplier of EDS to Ford Motor Company's worldwide operations.  
The combined enterprise also is the largest supplier of EDS to 
the heavy truck industry.

                              -13-

     In the first half of 1996, AFL and Aluminio will manufac-
ture and sell EDS in Brazil through a joint venture.

     Alcoa Electronic Packaging, Inc. (AEP) produces ceramic 
packages used to hold integrated circuits for electronic equip-
ment.  In early December 1995, AEP was notified by its major 
customer, Intel, that no new orders would be forthcoming.  
Alcoa is exploring all options available at this time.  The 
book value of AEP's net assets at year-end 1995 was $69 million.

     Alcoa produces plastic closures for bottles at Crawfords-
ville, Indiana; Olive Branch, Mississippi; Buenos Aires, Argen-
tina; Sao Paulo, Brazil; Santiago, Chile; Tianjin, China; 
Bogota, Colombia; Szekesfehervar, Hungary; Nogi, Japan; 
Saltillo, Mexico; and near Barcelona, Spain.  The Company also 
operates a plastic closures decorating facility and polye-
thylene (PET) injection and blow molding facilities at Lima, 
Peru.  Aluminio produces PET pre-forms and finished PET bottles 
at several plant and customer sites in Brazil and Argentina.  
Projects to manufacture pre-forms and bottles also are in 
development in China.

     Alcoa Zepf, L.L.C., a joint venture company owned 60% by 
the Company and 40% by Zepf Technologies USA Inc., manufactures 
rapid changeover and quick-change bottle control parts for the 
beverage industry.  Alcoa also participates in a joint venture 
with Al Zayani Investments W.L.L. of Bahrain, known as Gulf 
Closures W.L.L., that manufactures plastic closures for markets 
in the Middle East.  Alcoa's worldwide closures businesses are 
coordinated from Indianapolis, Indiana.  The use of plastic 
closures has surpassed that of aluminum closures for beverage 
containers in the U.S. and is gaining momentum in other 
countries.

     Alcoa Composites, Inc. principally designs and manufac-
tures composite parts and structures for aerospace and trans-
portation applications.

     The Company manufactures packaging equipment and machinery,
principally for producing and decorating metal cans and can 
ends.  In addition, the Company manufactures lines of equipment 
for producing plastic closures and for applying plastic or 
aluminum closures to beverage containers.  Effective at the end 
of February 1996, Alcoa divested its minority interest in a 
company which sells food packaging machinery that fills and 
seals metal and multi-layered polymer and paper containers.

     Facilities to recover gold from AofA's mining leases in 
Western Australia were constructed, and mined gold was first 
poured, in 1988.  Production has been declining since 1990.

     Magnesium produced by Northwest Alloys, Inc. in Addy, 
Washington (NWA) from minerals in the area owned by NWA is used 
by Alcoa and sold to third parties.  Alcoa uses magnesium for 
certain aluminum alloys.  Recycling is also a source of 
aluminum-magnesium alloys.  Responding to world magnesium 
market conditions, NWA maintained high levels of magnesium 
production during 1995.

     Large press steel, titanium and special Inconel super-alloy
forgings are produced at Cleveland, Ohio.  Titanium and steel 
forgings are produced at Bologne, France.  These products are 
sold principally in aerospace and commercial markets.

     Aluminio produces copper electrical cables at its Pocos de 
Caldas and Guarulhos, Brazil plants.  It also owns and operates 
a chain of retail construction materials outlets in Brazil.

     Alcoa Building Products' principal products for building 
and construction markets are vinyl siding and accessories and 
plastic injected molded shutters and architectural accessories.  
Other nonaluminum building products include vinyl windows by 
Alcoa Vinyl Windows, vinyl window lineals by Dayton Techno-
logies, and wood windows and patio doors by Caradco.

                              -14-

     Norcold manufactures recreational vehicle refrigerators, 
and Stolle Products Division owns a 36% interest in a joint 
venture, established in January 1996, that manufactures auto 
parts and appliance control panels.

     A wholly owned subsidiary owns and develops a luxury resi-
dential community in South Carolina.  Another subsidiary 
recently completed its involvement in the development of a 
residential community in Florida.

Research and Development

     The Company, a technological leader in the aluminum 
industry, engages in research and development (R&D) programs 
which include basic and applied research and process and pro-
duct development.  The research activities are conducted 
principally at Alcoa Technical Center, near Pittsburgh, Penn-
sylvania.  Several subsidiaries and divisions conduct their 
own R&D programs, as do many plants.  Expenditures for such
activities were $141 million in 1995, $126 million in 1994 and
$130 million in 1993.  Substantially all R&D activities are 
funded by the Company and its various units.

Environmental

     Alcoa's Environmental Policy confirms its commitment to 
operate worldwide in a manner which protects the environment 
and the health of employees and of the citizens of the com-
munities where the Company has an impact.

     The Company engages in a continuing effort to develop and
implement modern technology and policies to meet environmental
objectives.  Approximately $54 million was spent during 1995 
for new or expanded facilities for environmental control.  
Capital expenditures for such facilities will approximate $55 
million in 1996.  The costs of operating these facilities are 
not included in these figures.  Remediation expenses being 
incurred by the Company are continuing and expected to increase 
at many of its facilities.  See Environmental Matters on page 
26 in the Annual Report to Shareholders, and Item 3 - "Legal 
Proceedings" below.

     Alcoa's operations, like those of others in manufacturing
industries, have in recent years become subject to increasingly
stringent legislation and regulations intended to protect human 
health and the environment.  This trend is expected to continue.  
Compliance with new laws, regulations or policies could require 
substantial expenditures by the Company in addition to those 
referenced above.

     Environmental and health requirements also may affect the
manufacture or marketing of certain products produced by the
Company.  For example, legislation imposing deposits on beverage
containers, including aluminum cans, has been passed in a number 
of states in the U.S. and is being considered elsewhere.  U.S. 
Federal and state regulations, such as U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration regulations and California Proposition 65, affect 
the manufacture of products for use in food, beverage or medical 
applications and can have worldwide implications.  The Coalition 
of Northeastern Governors (CONEG) model law (as enacted by 
several states) governing the use or presence of certain 
materials has been passed in some states and impacts the manu-
facture of certain packages or packaging components.  A 
directive on packaging waste with a provision similar to the 
CONEG legislation has been passed by the Commission of the 
European Union.  International laws governing delivery and 
format of product safety information may impose requirements 
(e.g., labeling) on other Alcoa products.

     Environmental laws and regulations are important both to 
the Company and to the communities where it operates.  The 
Company supports the use of sound scientific research and rea
listic risk criteria to analyze environmental and human health 
effects and to develop effective laws and regulations in all 

                              -15-

countries where it operates.  The Company also relies on 
internal standards that are applied worldwide to ensure that 
its facilities operate with minimal adverse environmental 
impacts, even where no regulatory requirements exist.  Alcoa 
recognizes that recycling and waste minimization offer real 
solutions to many environmental problems, and it continues 
vigorously to pursue efforts in these areas.

Employees

     The Company employed approximately 72,000 people world-
wide at year-end 1995.  Negotiation of new labor agreements 
covering the majority of the Company's U.S. production workers 
will begin in the spring of 1996.

     Wages for employees in Australia are covered by agreements 
which are negotiated under guidelines established by a national 
industrial relations authority.

     Wages for both hourly and salaried employees in Brazil are
negotiated annually in compliance with government guidelines.  
Each Aluminio location, however, has established a separate 
compensation package for its employees which includes real wage 
increases and certain employee welfare plans.

Item 2. Properties.

     See "Item 1 - Business."  Alcoa believes that its facili-
ties, substantially all of which are owned, are suitable and 
adequate for its operations.

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

     In the ordinary course of its business, Alcoa is involved 
in a number of lawsuits and claims, both actual and potential, 
including some which it has asserted against others.  While the 
amounts claimed may be substantial, the ultimate liability can-
not now be determined because of the considerable uncertainties 
that exist.  It is possible that results of operations or 
liquidity in a particular period could be materially affected 
by certain contingencies.  Management believes, however, that 
the disposition of matters that are pending or asserted will 
not have a material adverse effect on the financial position of
the Company.

     Environmental Matters

     Alcoa is involved in proceedings under the Superfund or 
analogous state provisions regarding the usage, disposal, 
storage or treatment of hazardous substances at a number of 
sites in the U.S.  The Company has committed to participate, or 
is engaged in negotiations with Federal or state authorities 
relative to its alleged liability for participation, in clean-
up efforts at several such sites.

     In response to a unilateral order issued under Section 106 
of CERCLA by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) 
Region II regarding releases of hazardous substances, including 
polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs), into the Grasse River near 
its Massena, New York facility, Alcoa conducted during 1995 
certain remedial activities in the Grasse River for the removal 
and appropriate disposal of certain river sediments.  The 
Company's report on that action is now being reviewed by the 
EPA.

     Representatives of various Federal and state agencies and 
a Native American tribe, acting in their capacities as trustees 
for natural resources, have asserted that Alcoa may be liable 
for loss or damage to such resources under Federal and state 
law based on Alcoa's operations at its Massena, 

                              -16-

New York facility.  While formal proceedings have not been 
instituted, the Company is actively investigating these claims.

     On March 31, 1994, Alcoa and Region VI of the EPA entered 
into an administrative order on consent, EPA Docket No. 6-11-94, 
concerning the Alcoa (Point Comfort)/Lavaca Bay National Priori-
ties List (NPL) site which includes portions of Alcoa's Point 
Comfort, Texas bauxite refining operations and portions of 
Lavaca Bay, Texas, adjacent to the Company's plant.  The 
administrative order requires the Company to conduct a remedial 
investigation and feasibility study at the site overseen by the 
EPA.  Work under the administrative order is proceeding.  
Certain federal and state natural resource trustees previously 
served Alcoa with notice of their intent to file suit to 
recover damages for alleged loss, injury or destruction of 
natural resources in Lavaca Bay and to recover the costs for 
performing the assessment of such alleged damages.

     Other Matters

     Alcoa was named as one of several defendants in a number 
of lawsuits filed as a result of the Sioux City, Iowa DC-10 
plane crash in 1989.  The plaintiffs claim that Alcoa fabri-
cated the titanium fan disk involved in the alleged engine 
failure of the plane from a titanium forging supplied by a 
third party.  Six of the 117 cases are still pending.

     On December 21, 1992, Alcoa was named as a defendant in KML
Leasing v. Rockwell Standard Corporation filed in the District 
Court of Oklahoma County, Oklahoma on behalf of 7,317 Aero 
Commander, Rockwell Commander and Gulfstream Commander aircraft 
owners.  The complaint alleges defects in certain wingspars 
manufactured by Alcoa.  Alcoa's aircraft builders products 
liability insurance carrier has assumed defense of the matter.  
In May 1993, Alcoa received a reservation of rights letter 
from its insurance carrier which purports to reserve its 
rights with respect to a majority of the types of damages 
claimed.  In May 1995, the court granted Alcoa's motion for
summary judgment to dismiss the action.  The summary judgment 
was reversed, on plaintiff's appeal, in February 1996, and the 
case was remanded to the trial court.  The Company and co-defen-
dants filed a petition on March 4, 1996 for rehearing before the 
Oklahoma intermediate appellate court.

     Alcoa and a subsidiary were notified in September 1991 by 
the Department of Justice (DOJ) that it was conducting an inves-
tigation regarding possible violations of the antitrust laws in 
the small press, hard alloy extrusion industry.  On March 5, 
1993, Alcoa and the subsidiary received an antitrust grand jury 
investigation subpoena requiring production of documents 
relating to pricing of small press, hard alloy extrusions.  
Alcoa and its subsidiary provided the documentation requested.  
The DOJ formally advised Alcoa on February 7, 1996 that it has 
closed its investigation and no action will be taken against 
the Company.

     In August 1994 the DOJ issued a Civil Investigative Demand 
(CID) to Alcoa regarding activities undertaken by Alcoa in 
response to a multinational Memorandum of Understanding nego-
tiated by the U.S. government and other sovereign nations.  
Alcoa complied with the request in November 1994 and is waiting 
for a response from the DOJ.

     On March 27, 1995, the DOJ issued a CID requesting infor-
mation regarding pricing policies on aluminum rigid container 
sheet in 1994 and 1995.  Alcoa complied with the document 
request and provided interrogatory answers in June 1995 and is 
waiting for a response from the DOJ.

     On June 13, 1995, the Company was served with a class 
action complaint in the matter of John P. Cooper, et al. v. 
Aluminum Company of America, Case Number 3-95-CV-10074, 
pending in the United States District Court for the Southern 
District of Iowa.  The named plaintiffs allege violation of 
federal and state civil rights laws prohibiting discrimination 
on the basis of race and gender.  Plaintiffs 

                              -17-

seek class action status for five classes of employees or pro-
spective employees of Alcoa at its Davenport, Iowa facility.  
Plaintiffs seek a permanent injunction against allegedly dis-
criminatory practices, restitution of claimed benefits and 
income, and unspecified compensatory and punitive damages.  
Alcoa has answered the Complaint and denied all alleged viola-
tions of Federal or state law.  Alcoa also has filed a motion 
to dismiss certain of the plaintiffs' claims.  Discovery is 
underway.

     Alcoa initiated a lawsuit in King County, Washington in 
December 1992 against nearly one hundred insurance companies 
that provided insurance coverage to the Company for periods 
between the years 1956 and 1985.  In the 1995 third quarter, 
two summary judgment motions made by certain of the defendants 
were ruled upon in Alcoa's favor.  During 1995, the Company 
settled claims against several of the defendants.  Trial in 
this proceeding is expected to commence in March/April 1996.
     
     On March 5, 1996, a class action complaint was filed in 
Los Angeles County (California) Superior Court against U.S. 
producers of primary aluminum, including Alcoa, claiming con-
spiracy and collusive action in violation of state antitrust 
laws.  The suit alleges that the defendants colluded to raise
prices of aluminum products by cutting production.  The pro-
ducers' role as advisors to the U.S. Government during its nego-
tiation of the 1994 Memorandum of Understanding with govern-
ments of other aluminum producing nations was cited in support
of plaintiffs' claim.  Damages sustained by the alleged plain-
tiff class (purchasers of primary or aluminum products during 
the period January 1, 1994 to March 5, 1996) are claimed at 
$4.4 billion and are subject to trebling.  

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.

     No matters were submitted to a vote of the Company's 
security holders during the fourth quarter of 1995.

Item 4A. Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     The names, ages, positions and areas of responsibility of 
the executive officers of the Registrant as of March 1, 1996 
are listed below.

     Paul H. O'Neill, 60, Chairman of the Board and Chief 
Executive Officer.  Mr. O'Neill became a director of Alcoa in 
1986 and was elected Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive 
Officer effective in June 1987.  Before joining Alcoa, 
Mr. O'Neill had been an officer since 1977 and President and a 
director since 1985 of International Paper Company.

     Alain J. P. Belda, 52, Vice Chairman.  Mr. Belda became 
Vice Chairman in December 1995.  He was President of Alcoa 
Aluminio S.A. in Brazil from 1979 to March 1994.  Mr. Belda was 
elected Vice President of Alcoa in 1982 and, in 1989, was given 
responsibility for all of Alcoa's interests in Latin America 
(other than Suriname).  In August 1991 he was named President - 
Latin America for the Company and in 1994 was elected Executive 
Vice President.  In his current assignment Mr. Belda has respon-
sibility for all of Alcoa's business units, except Automotive 
and business units in Latin America and Asia.

     George E. Bergeron, 54, Vice President and President - 
Rigid Packaging Division.  Mr. Bergeron was named President - 
Alcoa Closure Systems International in 1982 and was elected 
Vice President and General Manager - Rigid Packaging Division 
in July 1990.  He assumed his current responsibilities in 1991.

     Peter R. Bridenbaugh, 55, Executive Vice President.  Dr.
Bridenbaugh became Director, Alcoa Laboratories in 1983.  He was
elected Vice President Research and Development in 1984 and 
Executive 

                              -18-

Vice President in 1991.  He was the Company's Chief Technical 
Officer from 1991 to 1995.  Dr. Bridenbaugh currently is 
responsible for Alcoa's automotive groups.

     John L. Diederich, 59, Executive Vice President.  
Mr. Diederich was elected Managing Director of Alcoa of 
Australia Limited and Vice President of Alcoa in 1982.  He was 
named Vice President - Metals and Chemicals in July 1986 and 
was elected a Group Vice President in October 1986.  He assumed 
his current position in 1991.

     Richard L. Fischer, 59, Executive Vice President - Chair-
man's Counsel.  Mr. Fischer was elected Vice President and 
General Counsel in 1983 and became Senior Vice President in 
1984.  He was given the additional responsibility for Corporate 
Development in 1986 and in 1991 named to his present position.  
In his current assignment, Mr. Fischer is responsible for Latin 
America and the Asian Region, Corporate Development and the 
expansion and integration of Alcoa's international business 
activities.

     Ronald R. Hoffman, 61, Executive Vice President - Human 
Resources, Quality, and Communications.  Mr. Hoffman, an officer 
since 1975, was named Vice President - Flat Rolled Products in 
1979.  He was elected a Group Vice President in 1984 and was 
given responsibility for the Company's Packaging Systems group 
in 1986.  He assumed his current responsibilities in 1991.

     Jan H. M. Hommen, 52, Executive Vice President and Chief 
Financial Officer.  Mr. Hommen was Financial Director of Alcoa 
Nederland until 1979 when he was elected Assistant Treasurer - 
Corporate Finance of Alcoa.  He was elected Treasurer in August 
1986 and Vice President and Treasurer in December 1986.  He was 
elected to his current position in 1991.

     Richard B. Kelson, 49, Executive Vice President - Environ-
ment, Health and Safety, and General Counsel.  Mr. Kelson was 
appointed Assistant Secretary and Managing General Attorney in 
1984 and Assistant General Counsel in 1989.  He was elected 
Senior Vice President - Environment, Health and Safety in 1991 
and Executive Vice President and General Counsel in May 1994.

     Frank L. Lederman, 46, Vice President and Chief Technical 
Officer.  Mr. Lederman was Senior Vice President and Chief 
Technical Officer for Noranda, Inc., a company he joined in 
1988.  Mr. Lederman joined Alcoa as a Vice President in May 
1995 and became Chief Technical Officer in December 1995.  In 
his current position Mr. Lederman directs operations of the 
Alcoa Technical Center.

     L. Richard Milner, 49, Vice President - Corporate Develop-
ment.  Mr. Milner was named General Manager - Castings Division 
in 1984 and General Manager - Primary Products, Marketing in 
1986.  In 1987 he assumed responsibility as Director - Corpo-
rate Development.  He was elected to his current position in 
1991.

     Robert F. Slagle, 55, Vice President and President - Alcoa 
World Alumina.  Mr. Slagle was elected Treasurer in 1982 and 
Vice President in 1984.  In 1986, he was named Vice President - 
Industrial Chemicals and, in 1987, was named Vice President - 
Industrial Chemicals and U.S. Alumina Operations.  Mr. Slagle 
was named Vice President - Raw Materials, Alumina and Indus-
trial Chemicals in 1989, and Vice President of Alcoa and 
Managing Director - Alcoa of Australia Limited in 1991.  He was 
named to his current position, with responsibility for Alcoa's
global bauxite and alumina activities, in January 1996.

     G. Keith Turnbull, 60, Executive Vice President - Strategic
Analysis/Planning and Information.  Dr. Turnbull was appointed
Assistant Director of Alcoa Laboratories in 1980.  He was named
Director - Technology Planning in 1982 and Vice President - 
Technology Planning in 1986.  In 1991 he was elected to his 
current position.

                              -19-

                                PART II


Item 5.  Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related
Stockholder Matters.

     Dividend per share data, high and low prices per share and 
the principal exchanges on which the Company's common stock is 
traded are set forth on page 50 of the 1995 Annual Report to 
Shareholders (the Annual Report) and are incorporated herein by 
reference.

     At February 12, 1996 (the record date for the Company's 
1996 annual shareholders meeting) there were approximately 
83,600 Alcoa shareholders, including both record holders and an 
estimate of the number of individual participants in security 
position listings.

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data.

     The comparative columnar table showing selected financial 
data for the Company is set forth on page 21 of the Annual 
Report and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.  Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
Condition and Results of Operations.

     Management's review and comments on the consolidated 
financial statements are set forth on pages 22 through 27 of 
the Annual Report and are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.

     The Company's consolidated financial statements, the notes 
thereto and the report of the independent public accountants 
are set forth on pages 28 through 41 of the Annual Report and 
are incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on 
Accounting and Financial Disclosure.

     None.


                               PART III


Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.

     The information regarding Directors is contained under the 
caption "Board of Directors" on pages 3 through 7 of the Regis-
trant's definitive Proxy Statement dated March 6, 1996 (the 
Proxy Statement) and is incorporated herein by reference.

     The information regarding executive officers is set forth 
in Part I, Item 4A under "Executive Officers of the Registrant."

                              -20-

Item 11.  Executive Compensation.

     This information is contained under the caption "Compensa-
tion of executive officers" on pages 9 through 12 of the Proxy 
Statementand is incorporated herein by reference.  The perfor-
mance graph and Compensation Committee Report shall not be 
deemed to be "filed."

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
Management.

     This information is contained under the caption "Security
ownership" on page 8 of the Proxy Statement and is incorporated 
herein by reference.

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.

     This information is contained under the caption "Certain
relationships and related transactions" on page 7 of the Proxy
Statement and is incorporated herein by reference.


                                PART IV


Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedule and Reports on 
Form 8-K.

    (a)   The consolidated financial statements, financial 
statement schedule and exhibits listed below are filed as part 
of this report.

     (1)  The Company's consolidated financial statements, the 
notes thereto and the report of the independent public accoun-
tants are set forth on pages 28 through 41 of the Annual Report 
and are incorporated herein by reference.

     (2)  The following report and schedule should be read in
conjunction with the Company's consolidated financial state-
ments in the Annual Report:

     Independent Auditor's Report of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. 
     dated January 8, 1996 on the Company's financial statement 
     schedule filed as a part hereof for the fiscal years ended 
     December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 and related consent dated 
     March 11, 1996.

     Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts - for the 
     fiscal years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993.

     (3)  Exhibits

Exhibit
Number                      Description *

 3(a).     Articles of the Registrant as amended, incorporated 
           by reference to exhibit 3(a) to the Company's 
           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
           June 30, 1993.

 3(b).     By-Laws of the Registrant, incorporated by reference 
           to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
           the quarter ended September 30, 1991.

                              -21-

10(a).     Long Term Stock Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 
           1992, incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(a) to 
           the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
           year ended December 31, 1991.

10(a)(1).  Amendments to Long Term Stock Incentive Plan, effec-
           tive January 1, 1995, incorporated by reference to 
           exhibit 10(a)(1) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.

10(b).     Employees' Excess Benefit Plan, Plan A, incorporated 
           by reference to exhibit 10(b) to the Company's 
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
           December 31, 1980.

10(c).     Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended effective 
           January 1, 1993, incorporated by reference to 
           exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

10(d).     Employees' Excess Benefit Plan, Plan C, as amended 
           and restated in 1994, effective January 1, 1989, 
           incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(d) to the 
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
           ended December 31, 1994.

10(e).     Employees' Excess Benefit Plan, Plan D, as amended 
           effective October 30, 1992, incorporated by 
           reference to exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Annual 
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
           1992 and exhibit 10(e)(1) of the Company's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
           1994.

10(f).     Employment Agreement of Paul H. O'Neill, as amended 
           through February 25, 1993, incorporated by reference 
           to exhibit 10(h) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, 
           exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 
           10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, and 
           exhibit 10(f)(2) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

10(g).     Deferred Fee Plan for Directors, as amended effective
           November 10, 1995 (filed herewith).

10(h).     Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as 
           amended effective March 10, 1995, incorporated by 
           reference to exhibit 10(h) of the Company's Annual 
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
           1994.

10(h)(1).  Amendment to Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee
           Directors, effective November 10, 1995 (filed here-
           with).

10(i).     Fee Continuation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, 
           incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(k) to the 
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
           ended December 31, 1989.

10(i)(1).  Amendment to Fee Continuation Plan for Non-Employee
           Directors, effective November 10, 1995 (filed here-
           with).

10(j).     Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective 
           October 30, 1992, incorporated by reference to 
           exhibit 10(k) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 
           10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

10(j)(1).  Amendments to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
           January 1, 1993, February 1, 1994 and January 1, 
           1995, incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(j)(1) 
           of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
           year ended December 31, 1994.

                              -22-

10(j)(2).  Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective 
           June 1, 1995 (filed herewith).

10(k).     Summary of the Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance 
           Plan, dated November 1990, incorporated by reference 
           to exhibit 10(m) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.

10(l).     Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and 
           individual directors or officers, incorporated by 
           reference to exhibit 10(j) to the Company's Annual 
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
           1987.

11.        Computation of Earnings per Common Share.

12.        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13.        Portions of Alcoa's 1995 Annual Report to Share-
           holders.

21.        Subsidiaries and Equity Entities of the Registrant.

23.        Consent of Independent Certified Public Accountants.

24.        Power of Attorney for certain directors.

27.        Financial data schedule.

     *Exhibit Nos. 10(a) through 10(k) are management contracts 
or compensatory plans required to be filed as Exhibits to this 
Form 10-K.

     Amendments and modifications to other Exhibits previously 
filed have been omitted when in the opinion of the Registrant 
such Exhibits as amended or modified are no longer material or, 
in certain instances, are no longer required to be filed as 
Exhibits.

     No other instruments defining the rights of holders of 
long-term debt of the Registrant or its subsidiaries have been 
filed as exhibits because no such instruments met the threshold 
materiality requirements under Regulation S-K.  The Registrant 
agrees, however, to furnish a copy of any such instruments to 
the Commission upon request.

   (b)    Reports on Form 8-K.  None was filed in the fourth 
quarter of 1995.

                              -23-

                     Independent Auditor's Report

To the Shareholders and Board of Directors
Aluminum Company of America

     Our report on the consolidated financial statements of 
Aluminum Company of America has been incorporated by reference 
in this Form 10-K from page 28 of the 1995 Annual Report to 
Shareholders of Aluminum Company of America.  In connection 
with our audits of such financial statements, we have also 
audited the related financial statement schedule listed under 
Item 14 of this Form 10-K.

     In our opinion, the financial statement schedule referred 
to above, when considered in relation to the basic financial 
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material 
respects, the information required to be included therein.



                                 /s/COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.
                                 COOPERS & LYBRAND L.L.P.


600 Grant Street
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
January 8, 1996

                              -24-



                              -25-

                               SIGNATURE

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused 
this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, 
thereunto duly authorized.


                            ALUMINUM COMPANY OF AMERICA


March 8, 1996               By  /s/Earnest J. Edwards
                                   Earnest J. Edwards
                                Vice President and Controller
                                (Also signing as Principal 
                                 Accounting Officer)


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange 
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following 
persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and 
on the dates indicated.

     Signature               Title                   Date


/s/Paul H. O'Neill   Chairman of the Board         March 8, 1996
   Paul H. O'Neill   and Chief Executive Officer
                     (Principal Executive Officer
                      and Director)


/s/Jan H. M. Hommen  Executive Vice President and  March 8, 1996
   Jan H. M. Hommen  Chief Financial Officer
                     (Principal Financial Officer)


Kenneth W. Dam, John P. Diesel, Joseph T. Gorman, Judith M. 
Gueron, Sir Ronald Hampel, John P. Mulroney, Sir Arvi Parbo, 
Henry B. Schacht, Forrest N. Shumway, Franklin A. Thomas and 
Marina v.N. Whitman, each as a Director, on March 8, 1996, 
by Barbara Jeremiah, their Attorney-in-Fact.*


*By /s/Barbara Jeremiah
       Barbara Jeremiah
       Attorney-in-Fact

                              -26-

                            EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit
Number                      Description 
- -------                     -----------    

 3(a).     Articles of the Registrant as amended, incorporated 
           by reference to exhibit 3(a) to the Company's 
           Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
           June 30, 1993.

 3(b).     By-Laws of the Registrant, incorporated by reference 
           to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for 
           the quarter ended September 30, 1991.

10(a).     Long Term Stock Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 
           1992, incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(a) to 
           the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
           year ended December 31, 1991.

10(a)(1).  Amendments to Long Term Stock Incentive Plan, effec-
           tive January 1, 1995, incorporated by reference to 
           exhibit 10(a)(1) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.

10(b).     Employees' Excess Benefit Plan, Plan A, incorporated 
           by reference to exhibit 10(b) to the Company's 
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
           December 31, 1980.

10(c).     Incentive Compensation Plan, as amended effective 
           January 1, 1993, incorporated by reference to 
           exhibit 10(c) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

10(d).     Employees' Excess Benefit Plan, Plan C, as amended 
           and restated in 1994, effective January 1, 1989, 
           incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(d) to the 
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
           ended December 31, 1994.

10(e).     Employees' Excess Benefit Plan, Plan D, as amended 
           effective October 30, 1992, incorporated by 
           reference to exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Annual 
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
           1992 and exhibit 10(e)(1) of the Company's Annual
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
           1994.

10(f).     Employment Agreement of Paul H. O'Neill, as amended 
           through February 25, 1993, incorporated by reference 
           to exhibit 10(h) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1987, 
           exhibit 10(g) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 
           10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990, and 
           exhibit 10(f)(2) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

10(g).     Deferred Fee Plan for Directors, as amended effective
           November 10, 1995 (filed herewith).

10(h).     Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee Directors, as 
           amended effective March 10, 1995, incorporated by 
           reference to exhibit 10(h) of the Company's Annual 
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
           1994.

10(h)(1).  Amendment to Restricted Stock Plan for Non-Employee
           Directors, effective November 10, 1995 (filed here-
           with).

10(i).     Fee Continuation Plan for Non-Employee Directors, 
           incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(k) to the 
           Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year 
           ended December 31, 1989.

10(i)(1).  Amendment to Fee Continuation Plan for Non-Employee
           Directors, effective November 10, 1995 (filed here-
           with).

10(j).     Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended effective 
           October 30, 1992, incorporated by reference to 
           exhibit 10(k) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 
           10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992.

10(j)(1).  Amendments to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective
           January 1, 1993, February 1, 1994 and January 1, 
           1995, incorporated by reference to exhibit 10(j)(1) 
           of the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the 
           year ended December 31, 1994.

10(j)(2).  Amendment to Deferred Compensation Plan, effective 
           June 1, 1995 (filed herewith).

10(k).     Summary of the Executive Split Dollar Life Insurance 
           Plan, dated November 1990, incorporated by reference 
           to exhibit 10(m) to the Company's Annual Report on 
           Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1990.

10(l).     Form of Indemnity Agreement between the Company and 
           individual directors or officers, incorporated by 
           reference to exhibit 10(j) to the Company's Annual 
           Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 
           1987.

11.        Computation of Earnings per Common Share.

12.        Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges.

13.        Portions of Alcoa's 1995 Annual Report to Share-
           holders.

21.        Subsidiaries and Equity Entities of the Registrant.

23.        Consent of Independent Certified Public Accountants.

24.        Power of Attorney for certain directors.

27.        Financial data schedule.



