
10-K405
FORM 10-K FOR FISCAL YEAR END AUGUST 31, 1999



                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

             X ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
            ---                    SECURITIES
                 EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the fiscal year ended
                               AUGUST 31, 1999.
                                       OR
            TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
         ---                       SECURITIES
    EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 for the transition period from ________ to _______

                        Commission file number 001-13643

                                  ONEOK, INC.
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)




       Registrant's telephone number, including area code (918) 588-7000

                  (Former name if changes since last report.)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:



          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

                             (Title of Each Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes X  No
                                             ---   ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Registration S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to
this Form 10-K. X
               ---
Aggregate market value of registrant's voting stock held by nonaffiliates as of
August 31, 1999, was: Common stock of $959.3 million.

On August 31, 1999, the Company had 30,884,225 shares of common stock
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:

          DOCUMENTS                                     PART OF FORM 10-K



                                  ONEOK, INC.
                        1999 ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K




                                    PART I.

ITEM 1.    BUSINESS

GENERAL - ONEOK, Inc., an Oklahoma corporation, was organized on May 16, 1997.
On November 26, 1997, it acquired the gas business of Western Resources, Inc.
(Western) (see Acquisitions and Mergers below) and merged with ONEOK Inc., a
Delaware corporation organized in 1933. It was a successor to a company founded
in 1906 as Oklahoma Natural Gas Company.

ONEOK, Inc. and subsidiaries (collectively, the Company) engage in several
aspects of the energy business. The Company purchases, gathers, compresses,
transports, stores, and distributes natural gas. It also leases pipeline
capacity to others. The Company drills for and produces oil and gas, extracts
and sells natural gas liquids, and is engaged in the gas marketing business.
The Company has begun wholesale marketing of electricity on a limited scale and
has approval from the Company's Board of Directors for construction of a 300
megawatt electric power plant in Logan County, Oklahoma. In addition, the
Company leases and operates a headquarters office building (leasing excess
space to others) and owns and operates a related parking facility. As a
regulated natural gas utility, the Company distributes natural gas to
approximately 1.4 million customers in the states of Oklahoma and Kansas.
The Company's operations are reported in the following segments:

  o Distribution
  o Transportation and Storage
  o Marketing
  o Gathering and Processing
  o Production
  o Other

The Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution in Oklahoma and
Kansas. The Company's operations in Oklahoma are conducted through Oklahoma
Natural Gas Company Division (ONG) which serves residential, commercial, and
industrial customers and leases pipeline capacity. ONG is regulated by the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC). The Company's operations in Kansas are
conducted through Kansas Gas Service Company Division (KGS) which serves
residential, commercial, and industrial customers. KGS also conducts regulated
gas distribution operations in northeastern Oklahoma. The Distribution segment
serves 80 percent of Oklahoma and 67 percent of Kansas. KGS is regulated by the
Kansas Corporation Commission (KCC) and the OCC.

The Transportation and Storage segment provides natural gas transportation and
storage services. These operations are conducted through ONEOK Gas
Transportation, L.L.C. (OGT), ONEOK Sayre Storage Company (Sayre), Market
Center Gathering, Inc., Mid Continent Market Center, Inc. (MCMC), Mid Continent
Transportation, Inc. (MCTI), ONEOK Producer Services, Inc., and ONEOK Gas
Storage, L.L.C (OGS). Some of the business units in this segment, OGT, OGS and
Sayre, are currently regulated by the OCC, and MCMC and MCTI's operations are
regulated by the KCC. In July, 1999, the OCC approved a plan for the removal of
Oklahoma storage and gathering assets from utility regulation effective
November 1, 1999.

The Marketing segment markets natural gas to both wholesale and retail
customers in the central part of the United States and leases gas storage from
others with direct access to the west coast and the Texas intrastate market
through ONEOK Gas Marketing Company (OGMC). It also conducts wholesale trading
of electricity on a limited scale through ONEOK Power Marketing Company.

The Gathering and Processing segment conducts gas gathering and gas processing
activities in Oklahoma and New Mexico through ONEOK Gas Processing, L.L.C. and
ONEOK Field Services Company.

The Production segment produces natural gas and oil in several states including
Oklahoma, Kansas and Texas through ONEOK Resources Company.



ONEOK Leasing Company which leases and operates a headquarters office building,
and ONEOK Parking Company, which owns and operates a parking garage, comprise
the significant operations of the Other segment.

This Form 10-K (and certain other documents that are incorporated by reference
in this Form 10-K) contains statements concerning Company expectations or
predictions of the future that are "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
statements are intended to be covered by the safe harbor provision of the
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking
statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions based on
information currently available. It is important to note that actual results
could differ materially from those projected in such forward-looking
statements. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are
not limited to, the following:

  o the effects of weather and other natural phenomena;
  o increased competition from other energy suppliers as well as alternative
    forms of energy;
  o the capital intensive nature of the Company's business;
  o economic climate and growth in the geographic areas in which the Company
    does business;
  o the uncertainty of gas and oil reserve estimates;
  o the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for natural gas,
    natural gas liquids, electricity, and crude oil;
  o the nature and projected profitability of potential projects and other
    investments available to the Company;
  o conditions of capital markets and equity markets;
  o Year 2000 issues;
  o the effects of changes in governmental policies and regulatory actions,
    including income taxes, environmental compliance, authorized rates, and
    deregulation or "unbundling" of natural gas;
  o the pending merger with Southwest Gas Corporation (Southwest); and
  o regulatory delay or conditions imposed by regulatory bodies in, and the
    results of litigation involving, the Southwest merger.

Accordingly, while the Company believes these forward-looking statements to be
reasonable, there can be no assurance that they will approximate actual
experience or that the expectations derived from them will be realized. When
used in Company documents, the words "anticipate," "expect," "projection,"
"goal" or similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
The Company does not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking
statements after they distribute this Form 10-K even if new information, future
events or other circumstances have made them incorrect or misleading.

ACQUISITIONS AND MERGERS - On December 14, 1998, the Company entered into a
merger agreement with Southwest Gas Corporation subject to shareholder and
regulatory approvals. The Company agreed to pay $28.50 per share of common
stock in cash. On February 1, 1999, Southern Union Company (Southern Union)
made an unsolicited offer to purchase the Southwest shares for $32.00 in cash.
Southern Union then signed a Confidentiality and Standstill Agreement with
Southwest and completed its due diligence investigation. On April 25, 1999, the
Board of Directors of Southwest rejected Southern Union's proposal as not being
a superior proposal. Thereafter, the Company increased its price to $30.00 per
share and the merger agreement was amended. Southern Union then increased its
offer to $33.50 per share and intervened in a shareholders lawsuit in
California state court in an effort to block the holding of a meeting of the
Southwest shareholders to consider the merger with the Company. Southern Union
brought an action in Nevada federal court to block the meeting and to block
proceedings before the Arizona regulatory commission. Southern Union also
intervened in the regulatory proceedings in California and Nevada.

After Southern Union made statements in the public press that it intended to
solicit proxies in opposition to the Company/Southwest merger in breach of the
Confidentiality and Standstill Agreement, the Company (as third party
beneficiary) filed an action in the Oklahoma federal courts. The court entered
a temporary restraining order against Southern Union. It was later converted to
a preliminary injunction requiring Southern Union to abide by terms of the
Agreement. The issuance of the injunction is on appeal and efforts of Southern
Union to have it lifted have been unsuccessful.




On July 19, 1999, Southern Union filed an action in the federal district court
of Arizona in its further effort to block regulatory approval of the merger.
Named as defendants in the case are the Company, Southwest, certain officers of
the companies (including the Company's Eugene N. Dubay and John A. Gaberino,
Jr.), a member of the Arizona Corporation Commission and a former employee of
the Commissioner's staff. Southern Union alleges a scheme of "fraud and
racketeering" by the companies and the individual defendants to block Southwest
shareholders from voting on the Southern Union proposal and ensuring that only
the merger with the Company would be considered. It also alleges a "secret
campaign of deception, corruption and misrepresentation" by the defendants to
influence the vote of the Arizona regulatory commission on the merger and to
"mislead" the Board of Directors of Southwest. Southern Union further alleged
that it was "fraudulently induced" to enter into the Confidentiality and
Standstill Agreement. The complaint asks for $750 million to be trebled for
racketeering and unlawful violations, compensatory damages of not less than
$750 million and rescission of the Confidentiality and Standstill Agreement. On
October 12, 1999, Southern Union filed an amended complaint asserting
essentially the same claims as in the earlier complaint and named additional
individual defendants (including the Company's Larry W. Brummett and James C.
Kneale). The Company intends to file a motion to dismiss.

On August 5, 1999, both the California state court and the Arizona federal
court denied Southern Union's motions for temporary restraining orders. On
August 10, 1999 the shareholders of Southwest approved the merger.

The merger has been approved by the Public Utility Commission of Nevada. In
California, a settlement document was filed with a 30-day comment period. No
comments were filed and consideration is anticipated by year end. Upon approval
by the California Commission, the only remaining regulatory commission required
to approve the merger is the Arizona Corporation Commission where Southern
Union is now directing its primary efforts to block the merger.

At the Arizona Corporation Commission, consideration of the merger is in the
procedural and discovery stage. Testimony has been filed and the staff is
reviewing materials. At staff's request, a hearing on the merger has been
delayed until February 11, 2000.

Initially operating on the theory that the Company had funneled money through
an Arizona law firm to a member of the Arizona Commission in order to influence
improperly the Arizona regulatory proceedings, Southern Union attempted through
discovery and other means to support their theory. Being unable to substantiate
such claim, it was withdrawn in the Arizona federal court case. Southern Union
has now shifted to a new theory that the Company intended to enter into an
arrangement with a large national investment banking firm to funnel money to an
individual who was formerly on the Commission's staff.

The Company has denied that it has done anything illegal or improper in its
efforts to obtain approval of the merger. It has categorically denied all
substantive allegations against the Company in the complaint filed in the
federal district court in Arizona. The Company intends to continue to defend
vigorously the Company and its good reputation and continues to pursue
regulatory approval for the merger.

It is possible that Southern Union will continue its litigation against the
Company, Southwest and the individual defendants claiming substantial damages.
The merger cannot be consummated without all regulatory approvals. If such
approvals are not obtained, or if not obtained in a timely manner, the merger
agreement could be terminated by either the Company or Southwest which could
result in further litigation. If, at the time of consummation of the merger,
there are still outstanding claims against Southwest, those claims will become
claims against the Company, as successor in the merger. If any of the plaintiffs
should be successful in any of their claims against the Company or Southwest and
substantial damages are awarded, it could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's operations, cash flow and financial position. The Company believes the
Southern Union allegations are without merit and is defending itself vigorously
against all claims.

During the 1998 fiscal year, the Company acquired from Western Resources, Inc.
(Western) all of the gas distribution assets of Western and all of the
outstanding capital stock of Western's directly or indirectly wholly-owned
subsidiaries, Westar Gas Marketing, Inc. and MCMC, and assumed all of the
liabilities of Western that arose




primarily out of the gas business and approximately $161 million in debt of
Western. Western received 2,996,702 shares of the Company's Common Stock and
19,317,584 shares of the Company's Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Such
shares and additional shares purchased by Western represent in the aggregate
9.9 percent of the Common Stock and 45 percent of the capital stock of the
Company. A shareholder agreement, which includes standstill provisions,
prohibits Western from increasing its position in the Company above a capital
stock interest of 45 percent and maintains control of the Company in the hands
of the public shareholders of the Company. The transaction added 660,000 new
distribution customers, 10,068 miles of pipeline, two gas processing plants
with a 200 million cubic feet per day capacity, one of which has since been
sold, and a natural gas marketing company with a retail market focus to the
Company.

The aggregate purchase price of $824 million was funded through the issuance to
Western of a combination of preferred and common stock. The excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of the net assets acquired approximated $74
million and is being amortized over 40 years.

The Company's strategy is to acquire additional gas distribution and
transmission facilities, gas producing properties, gas processing and gathering
facilities or other assets which will further enhance its existing operations
and will continue to pursue such opportunities in the future. The Company also
from time to time sells assets when deemed less strategic or as other
conditions warrant.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS - In connection with the Western transaction, the Company
acquired responsibility for 12 manufactured gas sites located in Kansas which
may contain coal tar and other potentially harmful materials that are
classified as hazardous material. Hazardous materials are subject to control or
remediation under various environmental laws and regulations. A consent
agreement with the Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) presently
governs all future work at these sites. The terms of the consent agreement
allow the Company to investigate these sites and set remediation priorities
based upon the results of the investigations and risk analysis. The prioritized
sites will be investigated over a ten year period. At August 31, 1999, the
costs of the investigations and risk analysis have been minimal. Limited
information is available about the sites and no testing has been performed.
Management's best estimate of the cost of remediation ranges from $100 thousand
to $10 million per site based on a limited comparison of costs incurred to
remediate comparable sites. These estimates do not give effect to potential
insurance recoveries, recoveries through rates or from third parties. The KCC
has permitted others to recover their remediation costs through rates and the
Company anticipates it will be allowed to recover such costs. Additional
information and testing could result in costs significantly below or in excess
of the amounts estimated above. To the extent that such remediation costs are
not recovered, any material costs could adversely affect the Company's results
of operations and cash flows depending on the degree of remediation required
and number of years over which the remediation must be completed.

The Company's expenditures for environmental evaluation and remediation have
not been significant in relation to the results of operations of the Company.
Capital expenditures for environmental issues during the 1999 fiscal year
totaled $456,000. There have been no material effects upon earnings or the
Company's competitive position during the 1999 fiscal year related to
compliance with these regulations.

EMPLOYEES - The Company employed 3,252 persons at August 31, 1999. Nine hundred
twenty-one employees of KGS are subject to collective bargaining contracts. The
Company did not experience any strikes or work stoppages during 1999. The
Company's current contracts with the Unions are as follows:






FINANCIAL AND STATISTICAL INFORMATION - For financial and statistical
information regarding the Company's business units by segment, see
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" and Note K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS SEGMENTS

(A)    DISTRIBUTION

GENERAL - ONG distributes natural gas to wholesale and retail customers located
in the state of Oklahoma. It also leases pipeline capacity under its Pipeline
Capacity Lease (PCL) program to large volume commercial and industrial
customers for their use in transporting natural gas to their facilities.

ONG delivered natural gas to approximately 750,000 customers at August 31,
1999, located in 295 communities in Oklahoma. ONG's largest markets are the
Oklahoma City and Tulsa metropolitan areas. ONG also sells natural gas and/or
leases pipeline capacity to other local gas distributors serving 46 Oklahoma
communities. ONG serves an estimated population of over 2 million.

KGS supplies natural gas to retail customers in 389 communities in Kansas and
Oklahoma with approximately 95 percent of those gas deliveries to Kansas
customers. It also makes wholesale delivery to seventeen customers. KGS's
largest markets served include Johnson County, Wichita, and Topeka, Kansas, and
Bartlesville, Oklahoma.

Of the Company's consolidated revenues, revenues from the Distribution segment
represent approximately 49.7, 52.5, and 51.0 percent for 1999, 1998, and 1997,
respectively. Operating income from the Distribution segment is 44.7, 54.9, and
51.5 percent of the consolidated operating income for 1999, 1998, and 1997,
respectively.

GAS SUPPLY - Gas supplies available to ONG for purchase and resale include
supplies of gas under both short and long-term contracts with gas marketers,
independent producers, as well as pipeline companies, gas processors, and other
suppliers that own or control reserves. Oklahoma is the third largest gas
producing state in the nation, and ONG has direct access through the
Transportation and Storage segment's transmission system and transmission
systems belonging to third party companies to all of the major gas producing
areas in the state. The Company's transmission system intersects with
interstate pipelines, gas processing plants, and producing fields located
throughout Oklahoma, allowing natural gas to be moved where needed across the
state. Additionally, the Company's transmission system is directly connected to
five gas storage fields that are operated by the Company and one non-operated
gas storage field. ONG has awarded bids for gas supply for the 1999/2000
heating season with the majority of that supply to come from an affiliate,
OGMC. On November 1, 1999, ONG issued bids for transportation and supply for
two to five year terms beginning with the 2000/2001 heating season.

KGS has transportation agreements for delivery of gas which have terms varying
in length from one to twenty years with the following non-affiliated pipeline
transmission companies: Williams Natural Gas Company ("WNG"), Kansas Pipeline
Partnership, Panhandle Eastern Pipeline Company, and various other intrastate
and interstate pipelines. Gas transported under these agreements represents
approximately 80 percent of the total distribution system throughput.

In October 1994, KGS executed a long-term gas purchase contract ("Base
Contract") with Amoco Production Company ("Amoco") for the purpose of meeting
the requirements of the customers served over the WNG pipeline system. The
Company anticipates that the Base Contract will supply between 55 percent and
65 percent of KGS's demand served by the WNG pipeline system. Amoco is one of
various suppliers over the WNG pipeline system and if this contract were
canceled, management believes gas supplied by Amoco could be replaced with gas
from other suppliers. Gas available under the Base Contract which is excess to
the needs of the Company's residential and commercial customer base is also
available for sale to other parties.




The remaining 20 percent of KGS's total distribution throughput is purchased
from a combination of direct wellhead production, from the outlet of natural
gas processing plants, and from natural gas marketers and production companies.

The ONG rate schedule's "Order of Curtailment" and the KGS rate order's
"Priority of Service" provide for first reducing or totally discontinuing gas
service to the very large industrial users and graduating down to requesting
residential and commercial customers to reduce their gas requirements to an
amount essential for public health and safety.

There is a surplus of natural gas available to its utility systems and the
Company does not anticipate problems with securing additional gas supply as
needed for its customers.

CUSTOMERS - Residential and Commercial - ONG and KGS distribute natural gas as
public utilities to approximately 80 percent of Oklahoma and 67 percent of
Kansas. Natural gas sales to residential and commercial customers, which are
used primarily for heating and cooking, account for approximately 65 and 29
percent of gas sales, respectively in Oklahoma and 74 and 25 percent of gas
sales in Kansas, respectively. Gas sales to residential and commercial
customers are seasonal, as a substantial portion of such gas is used
principally for space heating. Accordingly, the volume of gas sales is
consistently higher during the heating season (November through April) than in
other months of the year. ONG's tariff rates include a temperature
normalization adjustment clause during the heating season which mitigates the
effect of fluctuations in weather. A WeatherProof Bill program, implemented in
September, 1999, is designed to mitigate the effect of weather fluctuations in
Kansas for customers electing to use this program.

A franchise is a right to use the municipal streets, alleys, and other public
ways for utility facilities for a defined period of time for a fee. Although
the laws of the states of Oklahoma and Kansas prohibit exclusive utility
franchises, management nevertheless believes there are advantages to having
franchises in the larger municipalities in which operations are conducted. ONG
has franchises in 44 municipalities including Tulsa and Oklahoma City while KGS
holds franchises in 315 municipalities. In management's opinion, its franchises
contain no unduly burdensome restrictions and are sufficient for the
transaction of business in the manner in which it is now conducted.

Industrial - A substantial portion of the ONG system throughput is transported
for industrial customers. Under the Company's PCL program, the customer, for a
fee, can have its gas, whether purchased from ONG or a third-party supplier,
transported to its facilities utilizing lines owned by ONG or its affiliates.
PCL services are at negotiated rates which are generally below the approved PCL
tariff rates, and competition continues to drive the rates lower. Industrial
sales and rentals for PCL's tend to remain relatively constant throughout the
year. As contracts with PCL customers expire and there is increased competition
for the transportation of gas to these customers, some of the customers may be
lost to third party transporters. The Transportation and Storage segment may
gain some of this business which would result in a shift of some revenues from
the Distribution segment to the Transportation and Storage segment. No single
customer accounted for more than ten percent of consolidated operating
revenues.

KGS industrial sales account for less than one percent of natural gas
delivered. KGS transports gas for its large industrial customers through it's
End-Use Customer Transportation (ECT) program. This program allows industrial
customers to purchase gas on the spot market and have it transported by KGS.

The potential impact of the loss of a significant portion of this volume is
discussed at Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Conditions and
Results of Operations, Liquidity.

COMPETITION - The natural gas industry is expected to remain highly
competitive. Management believes that it must maintain a competitive advantage
in order to retain its customers and, accordingly, continues to focus on
reducing costs and pursuing unbundling opportunities.

The Company is subject to competition from electric utilities offering
electricity as a rival energy source and competing for the space heating, water
heating, and cooking markets. The principal means to compete against




alternative fuels is lower prices, and natural gas continues to maintain its
price advantage in the residential, commercial, and both small and large
industrial markets. In residential markets, the average cost of gas is less for
ONG customers and for KGS customers than the average cost of gas nationwide and
considerably less than the cost of an equivalent amount of electricity.

The Company is subject to competition from other pipelines for its existing
industrial load. The PCL program offered by ONG, in response to such
competitive pressure, allows ONG to effectively compete in these markets and
maintain throughput and therefore, load factors which benefit all customer
classes. KGS, through the ECT program, is able to compete with other pipelines
and continue to serve its large commercial and industrial customers.
Competition, however, continues to lower rates. Unbundling is another response
to competition. A competitive bidding system, made possible by the unbundling
of services, and more customer choice provides the opportunity for lower costs
for the consumer.

GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS - Rates charged for gas services are established by the
OCC for ONG and by the KCC and OCC for KGS. Gas purchase costs are included in
the Purchased Gas Adjustment (PGA) clause. Other costs must be recovered
through periodic rate adjustments approved by the OCC and KCC.

A rate case will be heard by the OCC in early 2000 in Oklahoma. A joint
stipulation between the Company and the OCC staff and approved by the OCC
eliminated the interim rate case previously scheduled for summer of 1999 and
provided for a one-time interim rate reduction of $5 million for residential
customers in Oklahoma beginning September 1, 1999.

A July 1999 order from the OCC removed the Oklahoma gathering and storage
assets from utility regulation effective November 1, 1999. These assets are now
included in the Transportation and Storage segment where they are being
utilized in the competitive marketplace. The removal of the gathering and
storage assets from rate base will result in a net reduction of revenues of
$29.0 million on an annualized basis, based on the allocation of costs from the
1994 rate case. The Transportation and Storage and Marketing segments are
aggressively seeking new business opportunities and have replaced a substantial
portion of the revenues. Additionally, a charge to be collected through the PGA
for ONG's current working gas in storage will replace a portion of the
revenues. These revenue adjustments are subject to review in the current rate
case.

An August 1999 order from the OCC distinguished between upstream
(transportation) and downstream (distribution) assets and cleared the way for
future unbundling activities including competitive bidding for transportation
services. A temperature adjustment clause, in effect for ONG customers since
1995, reduces the effect of extremes in weather for both the Company and the
customer.

In a step toward unbundling, in April, 1999, the KCC approved the reduction in
the minimum requirement for transportation service to 3,000 Mcf annually. This
will allow KGS to expand transportation services to an additional 650
commercial and industrial customers. The Company also requested and was granted
approval to allow all school districts the choice of purchasing their gas
supplies from a third party. This affects over 1,000 schools.

Approval of the KCC has been received allowing the Company to expand the
WeatherProof Bill program to all residential and commercial customers in
Kansas. The program is designed to moderate the cost KGS customers pay for
natural gas in cold weather months. Under this program, which was in effect as
a pilot program during fiscal 1999, the Company used commodity derivative
instruments to cap the price of its anticipated winter heating season gas
purchases in order to protect customers and the Company from the upward
volatility during the winter heating months.

In connection with the Western transaction, KGS filed a stipulation which
included an agreement not to file a general rate increase for three years.




The Company has settled all known claims arising out of long-term gas supply
contracts containing "take-or-pay" provisions which purport to require the
Company to pay for volumes of natural gas contracted for but not taken. The OCC
has authorized recovery of the accumulated settlement costs over a 20 year
period or approximately $6.7 million annually through a combination of a
surcharge from customers and revenue from transportation under Section 311(a)
of the NGPA and other intrastate transportation revenues. There are no
significant potential claims or cases pending against the Company under
remaining gas purchase contracts.

OkTex Pipeline Company transports gas in interstate commerce under Section
311(a) of the NGPA and is treated as a separate entity by FERC. The Company has
the capacity to move up to 200 million cubic feet per day into the Lone Star
Gas Company's system in Texas and the Red River Pipeline. OkTex has complied
with the requirements of Order 636.

(B)    TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE

GENERAL - Five underground storage facilities are owned in Oklahoma and
capacity is leased to third parties under various terms with capacity in the
Sayre gas storage facility leased, on a long-term basis, to and operated by the
Natural Gas Pipeline Company of America. The Company retains capacity in Sayre
for its own use. MCMC stores gas in two company-owned underground storage
facilities in Kansas. A $10 million expansion project for the Kansas
underground storage is to be completed in 2000, and is expected to increase the
storage capacity from 4.6 to 6.3 Bcf. A $3.4 million expansion is expected to
increase deliverability from the Depew storage field by spring 2000.

A $20 million expansion of the Kansas transmission system, to be completed fall
of 2000, extends the system to the Bushton processing facility operated by KN
Energy. This expansion shall provide for opportunities for increased throughput
and supply support for Kansas core and non-core businesses. No major expansions
were developed for the Oklahoma transmission system during 1999, but the
Company continues to pursue opportunities associated with power plant projects.
The transmission system transported 234.9 and 285.8 Bcf in Oklahoma for 1999
and 1998, respectively, and 72.8 and 54.2 Bcf in Kansas for 1999 and 1998,
respectively. A small amount of gathering pipelines owned by the Company and
connected to the Company's transmission pipelines are included in this segment.

The Company's transportation system provides access to all major natural gas
producing areas in the state of Oklahoma. The system intersects with ten
interstate pipelines at 26 interconnect points, 23 gas processing plants, and
approximately 130 producing fields effectively allowing gas to be moved
throughout the state. Of the Company's consolidated revenues, revenues from the
Transportation and Storage segment represent approximately 1.6, 1.0 and 0.5
percent for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Operating income from the
Transportation and Storage segment is 28.1, 24.8, and 26.5 percent of the
consolidated operating income for 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

GOVERNMENT REGULATIONS - Under a July, 1999, order by the OCC, the Company's
gathering and storage assets and services in Oklahoma were removed from utility
regulation effective November 1, 1999. Assets, including current gas in
storage, of $325.0 million were removed from rate base and are now included in
this segment where they will be utilized in the competitive market place to
replace earnings. A portion of the return on rate base related to these assets
will be recovered from the distribution customers through a charge to be
collected through the PGA for maintaining current working gas in storage. In
August, 1999, the OCC approved a plan that distinguishes between upstream and
downstream assets and laid the groundwork for a bidding process for
transportation services that began November 1, 1999.

COMPETITION - The Transportation and Storage segment competes directly with the
other intrastate and interstate pipelines and storage facilities within each of
their respective states. With the unbundling of services ordered by the OCC and
the related competitive bid process, this segment will be competing with other
companies at market - based rates to provide service to the Distribution
segment and to other customers.




CUSTOMERS - The Transportation and Storage segment serves the affiliated
companies of the Distribution segment as well as a number of transporters in
the utilization of the transportation and storage facilities. Each of the
companies provides flexible service alternatives to serve both core and
non-core consumers.

PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS - In March, 1999, the Company acquired assets in Kansas
which consisted of 111 miles of transmission pipelines. These assets enhanced
transportation access to the Wichita, Kansas area.

(C)    MARKETING

GENERAL - The Company purchases and markets natural gas, primarily in the
central part of the United States and stores gas in facilities leased from
others. Due to expanded supply and storage capabilities, the Company can now
market to the west coast. The marketing operation has evolved from an
intrastate aggregator into an interstate aggregator. Of the Company's
consolidated revenues, revenues from the Marketing segment represent
approximately 41.9, 41.0 and 39.6 percent for 1999, 1998, and 1997,
respectively. Operating income from the Marketing segment is 11.8, 6.5, and 6.3
percent of the consolidated operating income for 1999, 1998, and 1997,
respectively.

MARKET CONDITIONS - In response to a very competitive baseload marketing
environment, the Company's strategy is to concentrate its efforts toward
capitalizing on day-to-day pricing volatility through the use of gas storage
facilities leased from others, hedging, and transportation arbitraging.
Management believes that its location in the heart of the natural gas producing
area of the United States as well as the benefits derived from vertically
integrating the gas marketing operations with the Company's production,
gathering, processing, storage, and transportation businesses, will provide the
strategic advantage necessary to compete successfully.

NEW PRODUCTS AND SERVICES - The Company has received approval from its Board of
Directors for construction of a 300 megawatt electric power plant expected to
be in service in June, 2001. In 1998, the Company was granted a rate schedule
by the FERC to trade electricity at market-based wholesale rates. This has
begun on a limited scale in preparation for the plant start-up in 2001.

In 1997, the marketing operation was the successful bidder to provide firm and
interruptible gas service to four natural gas-fired electric generating plants
owned by Public Service Company of Oklahoma.

PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT - In order to mitigate the financial risks arising from
fluctuations in both the market price and transportation costs of natural gas,
the Company routinely enters into natural gas futures, swaps, and options as a
method of protecting its margins on the underlying physical transactions.
However, while not material, net open positions in terms of price, volume, and
specified delivery point do occur.

(D)    GATHERING AND PROCESSING

GENERAL - The Company owns and operates nine gas processing plants and has
nonoperating interests in three gas processing plants in Oklahoma and New
Mexico. The Company also owns the related gathering systems connected to these
plants. The gas processing operation includes the extraction of natural gas
liquids (NGLs) and the separation (fractionation) of mixed NGLs into component
products (ethane, propane, iso butane, normal butane and natural gasoline). The
component products are used for petrochemical feedstock, residential heating
and cooking, and blending into motor fuels. The gathering operation consists of
the pipeline system laid to producing wells as well as compression and
dehydration services. The Company has compensated its gas suppliers for fuel
and shrinkage costs in one of two ways, either by returning a percentage of the
proceeds from the extracted NGL's to the supplier (a "percent of proceeds"
contract) or by replacing an equivalent amount of gas (a "fuel and shrink"
contract). Due to the volatility of the natural gas and NGL prices, "percent of
proceeds" contracts generally provide a more stable cash flow.

Of the Company's consolidated revenues, revenues from the Gathering and
Processing segment represent approximately 3.9, 3.5 and 6.3 percent for 1999,
1998, and 1997, respectively. Operating income from the Gathering



and Processing segment is 7.5, 8.2, and 10.1 percent of the consolidated
operating income for 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS - On April 30, 1999, the Company acquired the midstream
natural gas gathering and processing assets from Koch Midstream Enterprises for
$285 million. These assets included eight gas processing plants and
approximately 3,250 miles of gathering pipeline connected to 1,460 gas wells
located in Oklahoma. Capacity of the gas processing plants is 515 million cubic
feet per day bringing total capacity to 900 million cubic feet per day. The
Company's share of the capacity is 650 million cubic feet per day. Through the
Western transaction in 1998, the Company acquired an additional 34 percent
interest in the Indian Basin gas processing plant. An eight percent interest in
the Indian Basin plant had been acquired in fiscal 1997.

RISK MANAGEMENT - Derivative instruments are used to minimize volatility in
NGLs and natural gas prices.

(E)    PRODUCTION

GENERAL - The Company's strategy is to concentrate ownership of natural gas and
oil reserves in its service territory in order to add value not only to its
existing production operations but also to integrate it into its processing,
marketing, transmission, gathering, and storage business. As a result, the
Company is focusing its efforts on acquisitions and exploitation activities.

Of the Company's consolidated revenues, revenues from the Production segment
represent approximately 2.5, 1.7 and 2.3 percent for 1999, 1998, and 1997,
respectively. Operating income from the Production segment is 7.3, 5.7, and 6.5
percent of the consolidated operating income for 1999, 1998, and 1997,
respectively.

PRODUCING RESERVES - Natural gas is the primary focus of the Company's
production activities. As of August 31, 1999, the Company had a working
interest in 1,860 gas wells and 299 oil wells located primarily in Oklahoma,
Kansas and Texas. A number of these wells produce from multiple zones.

MARKET CONDITIONS - The goal of the Company is to develop an economically
viable reserve base through acquisition and development. The Company is an
operator of the reserve base, which it controls. In doing so, the Company
competes with many large integrated oil and gas companies and numerous
independent oil and gas companies of various size. The Company, following
industry standards, monitors well head prices on a daily basis and, on
occasion, has curtailed some of its natural gas production due to low well head
prices. Most production is sold to third party marketers, including OGMC, at
spot-market prices.

PROPERTY ACQUISITIONS - During the second quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company
consummated a strategic alliance with Magnum Hunter Resources, Inc. (Magnum)
adding $10 million in producing properties and becoming a 31 percent equity
owner in Magnum at a cost of $50 million. The Company also closed on two other
acquisitions with a purchase price of $53 million adding reserves located in
Oklahoma.

Property acquisitions in fiscal 1998 included gas and oil reserves located in
Oklahoma and Kansas purchased from OXY USA, Inc. Other fiscal 1998 acquisitions
included a 40 percent equity interest in K. Stewart Petroleum Corp., an
Oklahoma City based independent oil and gas producer and Washita Production
Company (Washita), a Tulsa based independent oil and gas producer. During
fiscal 1997, the Company purchased PSEC, Inc., an independent oil and gas
company in Oklahoma.

These acquisitions contribute to the Company's long-term strategy of focusing
on natural gas reserves in Oklahoma and Kansas to add value to all of the
Company's gas-related operations.

RISK MANAGEMENT - The Company's production segment continues to utilize
derivatives in order to hedge anticipated sales of oil and natural gas
production. These anticipated transactions have been hedged with commodity
swaps agreements whereby the Company is able to set the price to be received
for the future production and thus





reduce the risk of declining market prices between the origination date of the
swap and the month of production. The Company's strategy in hedging anticipated
transactions is to eliminate the variability in earnings of its production
segment as a result of market fluctuations. To the extent that management does
not terminate a hedge or enter into an opposing derivative, the current
strategy will limit the potential gains which could result from increases in
market prices above the level set by the hedge.

(F)    OTHER

The Company, through two subsidiaries, owns a parking garage and leases an
office building (ONEOK Plaza) in downtown Tulsa, Oklahoma, in which the
Company's headquarters are located. The parking garage is owned and operated by
ONEOK Parking Company. ONEOK Leasing Company leases excess office space to
others. Almost all downtown Tulsa Class A office space is rented and very
little Class A office space is available city-wide. As a result, Class A rental
rates are increasing.

ITEM 2.    PROPERTIES

(A)    DESCRIPTION OF PROPERTY

DISTRIBUTION

The Company owned 15,152 miles of pipeline and other distribution facilities in
Oklahoma and 10,184 miles of pipeline and other distribution facilities in
Kansas at August 31, 1999. The Company owns a five-story office building in
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, as well as a number of warehouses, garages, meter and
regulator houses, service buildings, and other buildings throughout Oklahoma
and Kansas. The Company also owns a fleet of vehicles used primarily in
Oklahoma and maintains an inventory of spare parts, equipment, and supplies. It
leases approximately 50 percent of its vehicles operated in Kansas.

TRANSMISSION AND STORAGE

The Company owned a combined total of 3,787 miles of transmission and gathering
pipeline in Oklahoma and 1,668 miles in Kansas at August 31, 1999. Compression
and dehydration facilities are located at various points throughout the
pipeline system. In addition, the Company owns five underground storage
facilities located throughout Oklahoma and two storage facilities in Kansas.
Four of the Oklahoma storage facilities are located in close proximity to its
large market areas; the other storage facility is located in western Oklahoma
and is leased to and operated by another company. However, 21.4 billion cubic
feet of storage capacity in that facility has been retained for use by the
Company.

GATHERING AND PROCESSING

The Company owns and operates nine gas processing plants in Oklahoma and has
operating interests in three gas processing plants and related gathering
systems in Oklahoma and New Mexico. The total capacity of the plants the
Company has an interest ownership in is 900 million cubic feet per day. The
Company's share of the capacity is 650 million cubic feet per day. The Company
owns approximately 3,250 miles of gathering pipeline in Oklahoma.

PRODUCTION

The Company owns varying economic interests, including working, royalty and
overriding royalty interests, in 2,010 gas wells and 315 oil wells, some of
which are multiple completions. Such interests are in wells located primarily
in Oklahoma, Kansas, and Texas. The Company owns 184,754 net onshore developed
leasehold acres and 41,466 net onshore undeveloped acres, located primarily in
Oklahoma, Kansas, and Texas. The Company owns no offshore acreage.




Lease acreage in producing units is held by production. Leases not held by
production are generally for a term of three years and may require payment of
annual rentals.

OTHER

The Company owns a parking garage and land, subject to a long-term ground lease
expiring in year 2039 with six five-year extensions available, upon which has
been constructed a seventeen-story office building with approximately 517,000
square feet of net rentable space. The office building is being leased to the
Company at a lease term of 25 years with six five-year renewal options. After
the primary term or any renewal period, the Company can purchase the property
at its fair market value. The Company occupies approximately 194,000 square
feet for its own use and leases the remaining space to others.

(B)     OTHER INFORMATION

Oil and gas production is defined by the Securities and Exchange Commission
(SEC) to include natural gas liquids in their natural state. The Company's
processing operation produces natural gas liquids. The SEC excludes the
production of natural gas liquids resulting from the operations of gas
processing plants as an oil and gas activity. Accordingly, the following tables
exclude information concerning the production of natural gas liquids by the
Company's processing operations.

OIL AND GAS RESERVES

All of the oil and gas reserves are located in the United States.

QUANTITIES OF OIL AND GAS RESERVES - See Note Q of Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements.

PRESENT VALUE OF ESTIMATED FUTURE NET REVENUES - See Note R of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

RESERVE ESTIMATES FILED WITH OTHERS

None.

QUANTITIES OF OIL AND GAS PRODUCED

The net quantities of oil and natural gas produced and sold, including
intercompany transactions, were as follows:




AVERAGE SALES PRICE AND PRODUCTION (LIFTING) COSTS

Average sales prices and production costs are as follows:



(a) In determining the average sales price of oil and gas, sales to affiliated
companies were recorded on the same basis as sales to unaffiliated customers.

(b) For the purpose of calculating the average production costs per Mcf
equivalent, barrels of oil were converted to Mcf using six Mcfs of natural gas
to one barrel of oil. Production costs do not include depreciation or
depletion.




WELLS AND DEVELOPED ACREAGE

The table shows gross and net wells in which the Company has a working interest
at August 31, 1999.



Gross developed acres and net developed acres by well classification are not
available. Net developed acres for both oil and gas is 184,754 acres.

UNDEVELOPED ACREAGE

The gross and net undeveloped leasehold acreage at the end of the fiscal year
is as follows:



Of the net undeveloped acres, approximately 35.3 percent lies in the Anadarko
Basin area, 12.9 percent in the Arkoma Basin area and 4.3 percent in the
Ardmore Basin area of Oklahoma. The balance is located in major producing areas
in other states including Kansas, Texas and Colorado.

NET DEVELOPMENT WELLS DRILLED

The net interest in total development wells drilled, by well classification, is
as follows:




PRESENT DRILLING ACTIVITIES

On August 31, 1999, the Company was participating in the drilling of 20 wells.
The Company's net interest in these wells amounts to 6.4 wells.

FUTURE OBLIGATIONS TO PROVIDE OIL AND GAS

None.




ITEM 3.        LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

UNITED STATES EX REL. JACK J. GRYNBERG V. ONEOK, INC., ONEOK RESOURCES COMPANY,
AND OKLAHOMA NATURAL GAS COMPANY, (CTN-8), No. CIV-97-1006-R (Judge Russell),
in the United States District Court for the Western District of Oklahoma. The
complaint asserts claims to recover alleged underpayments of royalties to the
United States as a result of improper measurement of heating contents and
volumes of natural gas which was purchased from federally owned or Indian lands
by ONEOK, Inc., ONEOK Resources Company, and Oklahoma Natural Gas Company
(collectively the "Company"). This case is what is known as a qui tam action
which was brought by the plaintiff relator on behalf of the United States and
himself. The complaint asserts essentially the same claims that the same
plaintiff relator, Jack J. Grynberg ("Grynberg"), asserted in a previous action
(United States et rel. Jack J. Grynberg v. Alaska Pipeline Company, et al., No.
95-725-TFH, in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia)
against the Company and approximately sixty-five other pipeline companies. In
the case, on behalf of the United States, Grynberg seeks to receive the
proceeds for the underpayment of royalties, interest, treble damages, civil
penalties and $5,000 to $10,000 for each violation of the Act. Grynberg also
seeks to receive his expenses incurred in bringing the action, plus attorney
fees and costs. This case is one of 77 similar cases filed by Grynberg. Many of
the allegations in the complaint are virtually identical in all 77 cases. In
addition, Grynberg has asserted claims for underpayment of royalties based upon
generalized allegations of use of a portable chromatograph, affiliate
transactions, use of storage facilities to purchase gas in summer months, and
improper deduction of costs. On or about May 6, 1999, Grynberg filed a motion
with the Judicial Panel on Multidistrict Litigation asking that all 68 actions
currently pending in 8 different federal district courts be transferred and
consolidated for pretrial proceedings before a single district court in either
Colorado or Wyoming. The Judicial Panel accepted the filing. A notice of
appearance was filed with the Judicial Panel on behalf of the Company. The
Company joined with the majority of the other defendants in filing a joint
recommendation to the Panel and the defendants' brief in response to Grynberg's
motion to transfer in which it was argued that if the cases are to be
consolidated for pretrial proceedings before a single district court, it should
be transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Wyoming.
An order was obtained on July 9, 1999, staying the proceedings in the Western
District of Oklahoma until thirty days after the Judicial Panel for
Multidistrict Litigation ruled on Grynberg's motion to transfer and for
consolidation. A hearing on the motion to transfer was held on September 24,
1999 and the motion was subsequently approved transferring all the cases to the
federal district court in Wyoming for pretrial proceedings under multi-
district litigations procedures.

ONEOK, INC. V. SOUTHERN UNION COMPANY, No. 99-CV-0345-H(M), United States
District Court for the Northern District of Oklahoma, on appeal of preliminary
injunction, United States Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit, Case Number
99-5103. On May 5, 1999, the Company filed a complaint against Southern Union
Company ("Southern Union") for breaching the February 21, 1999 confidentiality
and standstill agreement between Southern Union and Southwest Gas Corporation
("Southwest"). The Company is a third party beneficiary. ONEOK also sought to
enjoin Southern Union from breaching the confidentiality and standstill
agreement and from taking any other wrongful actions to disrupt the proposed
merger of the Company with Southwest. On May 11, 1999, the District Court
granted a temporary restraining order enjoining Southern Union from any future
violation of its confidentiality and standstill agreement with Southwest,
including soliciting proxies from Southwest shareholders. On May 17, 1999, the
temporary restraining order became a preliminary injunction by stipulation of
the parties and was appealed to the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals. The Tenth
Circuit received Southern Union's filing on May 18, 1999 and issued an order
staying the injunction for the sole purpose of permitting Southern Union the
opportunity to oppose Southwest's motion to transfer a related California
lawsuit to the Northern District of Oklahoma and to file a motion to remand the
same California lawsuit to the San Diego Superior Court. Southern Union
subsequently filed supplements to its motion for stay seeking the opportunity
to participate in ongoing administrative proceedings before state public
utility commissions, including proceedings in Arizona, California and Nevada.
On June 10, 1999, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals denied Southern Union's
request for a stay of the District Court's injunction insofar as it pertains to
state public utility commission proceedings. On June 9, 1999, Southern Union
filed a motion with the Northern District of Oklahoma to dismiss the lawsuit on
the grounds of lack of personal jurisdiction and improper venue and a motion to
transfer the Oklahoma action to the District of Nevada (where Southwest is
asserting claims against Southern Union similar to those being asserted against
Southern Union by the Company), or alternatively to stay the Oklahoma




action pending the final disposition of the Nevada action. On July 19, 1999,
the defendant, Southern Union, filed with the District Court a motion to vacate
preliminary injunction and to suspend preliminary injunction based on newly
discovered evidence alleged by the defendant to show a conspiracy between the
plaintiff, ONEOK, and Southwest to corrupt the regulatory process so as to
influence the Southwest Board of Directors to approve ONEOK's proposed merger
and reject Southern Union's offer to acquire Southwest. A hearing on the issue
of jurisdiction of the District Court to hear the motion to vacate while the
order was pending on appeal to the Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit was
held on July 23, 1999. By order dated July 23, 1999, the District Court
determined that it lacked jurisdiction to modify the preliminary injunction as
requested by the defendant, and the motion was denied. On August 2, 1999, ONEOK
filed an amended complaint with the District Court and a motion for a contempt
citation. The amended complaint added a claim for abuse of process stating that
Southern Union's actions in filing the Arizona compliant (see Southern Union
case below) were conducted with malice and intention to oppress ONEOK and as a
result of such intentional wrongful conduct, Southern Union is liable for
exemplary damages as a means of punishment and deterrence. The motion alleges
that despite the preliminary injunction issued by the District Court against
Southern Union, Southern Union and persons acting in concert with Southern
Union have continued efforts to derail the ONEOK-Southwest merger at a critical
time in the shareholder and regulatory process. On August 3, 1999, ONEOK filed
a request for immediate hearing on its application for contempt citation and
for an order specifically enjoining Southern Union and persons acting in
concert from proceeding with the motion for temporary restraining order and
preliminary injunction before the Arizona Court. A status hearing was held on
August 11, 1999. On August 25, 1999, the Court denied Southern Union's motion
to dismiss for lack of personal jurisdiction and motion to transfer to the
District of Nevada. Southern Union was required to and did file its answer to
the complaint on September 7, 1999, withdrawing its specific allegations of
wrongdoing in its initial filing. In addition, Southern Union filed
counterclaims against ONEOK for: (1) a declaratory judgment for fraud in the
inducement and breach of the Letter Agreement; (2) a declaratory judgment for
revocation of the Letter Agreement; (3) breach of the Letter Agreement and a
declaratory judgment as to its non-enforceability; and (4) breach of the
covenant of good faith and fair dealing. Southern Union seeks to recover
damages in excess of $75,000. On August 26, 1999, ONEOK filed a motion for an
emergency hearing regarding the preliminary injunction. On August 30, 1999, the
Court held a hearing and took the matter under advisement. On August 31, 1999,
the Court issued an order requiring Southern Union to file documents with the
Court concerning its communications with the Arizona Corporation Commission.
ONEOK has filed additional briefs supporting its motion. Southern Union filed
additional briefs with the Tenth Circuit seeking a stay of the preliminary
injunction based upon events in the other pending actions, including the
subsequent remand of the Klein case. On August 23, 1999, the Tenth Circuit
denied Southern Union's motion for a stay of the preliminary injunction which
should leave it in place until final determination of the appeal. All briefs
have been filed by the parties on the appeal as of September 1, 1999, and the
appeal is awaiting decision by the Tenth Circuit. On October 12, 1999, ONEOK
filed a motion to dismiss the counterclaims asserted by Southern Union in the
District Court. On October 15, 1999, the District Court denied ONEOK's motion
to file an amended complaint. On October 27, 1999 ONEOK filed a motion to
reconsider which was denied November 4, 1999. On November 4, as a result of
ONEOK's motion to dismiss, Southern Union filed an amended answer and
counterclaims.

In a related matter, on December 15, 1998, the case of KLEIN V. SOUTHWEST GAS
CORPORATION, Superior Court of San Diego County, California, Case No. 726615,
was filed as a class action against Southwest and its directors. The amended
complaint alleges breach of fiduciary duty, duty of loyalty, due care, candor,
good faith and fair dealing seeking to enjoin the merger between the Company
and Southwest, a rescission of the merger agreement, the implementation of an
auction or similar process for sale of Southwest and the voiding of the $30
million termination fee under the merger agreement. On May 4, 1999, Southern
Union intervened seeking a decision that it was entitled to solicit Southwest's
shareholders concerning approval of its proposed merger, rescission of a
portion of the confidentiality and standstill agreement and a temporary
restraining order and preliminary injunction to prevent Southwest from
conducting a proxy solicitation in support of the merger during the pendency of
the litigation. The case was removed to the United States District Court for
the Southern District of California (Case No. 99-1004- IEG(CGA)). Southwest
filed motions to dismiss the shareholder and Southern Union cases or
alternatively to transfer the case to the Northern District of Oklahoma. The
Shareholders' motions were heard on September 7, 1999 and August 23, 1999,
respectively. Southern Union also filed a motion to remand. On June 9, 1999,
Southwest signed a Memorandum of Understanding with shareholders' plaintiff
counsel to settle the case with all plaintiffs except





Southern Union. The Memorandum of Understanding sets forth the parties'
agreement in principle settling all shareholders' claims and is subject to
several conditions, including consummation of the merger and entry of final
judgment of dismissal with prejudice that is binding on all shareholders from
December 11, 1998 through the date that the shareholders approve the merger. On
June 25, 1999, the Klein plaintiffs filed a third amended complaint and
withdrew the motion to remand the case back to state court. On the same day,
Southwest withdrew its motion to dismiss the Klein plaintiffs' claims and
motion to transfer the case to Oklahoma as to the Klein plaintiffs. On August
3, 1999, the United States District Court remanded the case back to state
court. Southern Union immediately filed a motion for a temporary restraining
order seeking to delay the Southwest shareholders' meeting scheduled for August
10, 1999. A hearing was held on the motion on August 5, 1999 at which time the
court denied the motion for a temporary restraining order. On September 3,
1999, the Court granted Southwest's motion to stay pending resolution of the
federal court actions in Nevada and Arizona. On September 13, 1999, Southern
Union requested an ex parte hearing on the order granting stay which was
denied. However, the Court did allow Southern Union to file a 5-page brief on
its request which appears to be a motion to reconsider the stay. Southwest was
allowed and filed a response brief on September 22, 1999. On September 24,
1999, the Court dismissed the Southern Union action and stated that Southern
Union could not refile until the federal court actions are complete.

SOUTHERN UNION COMPANY V. SOUTHWEST GAS CORPORATION, et al., No. CIV 99 1294 PHX
ROS, United States District Court for the District of Arizona. On July 19, 1999,
the plaintiff, Southern Union Gas Company ("Southern Union"), filed its
complaint against Southwest Gas Corporation ("Southwest"), ONEOK, Inc.
("ONEOK"), Michael O. Maffie, Thomas Y. Hartley and Thomas R. Sheets (jointly
"Southwest Individual Defendants") and Eugene N. Dubay and John A. Gaberino, Jr.
(jointly "ONEOK Individual Defendants"), James M. Irvin ("Irvin") and Jack D.
Rose ("Rose"). Southern Union alleges (1) that the action arises out of a fraud
and racketeering scheme by Southwest and ONEOK and the individual defendants to
block Southwest's shareholders from voting for Southern Union's offer to acquire
Southwest and ensure that only ONEOK's offer would be approved, (2) the
defendants entered into a secret campaign of deception, corruption and
misrepresentation with members of regulatory commissions in order to influence
their vote on the Southern Union proposal to acquire Southwest and to mislead
the board and shareholders of Southwest to believe falsely that such an
acquisition would face greater regulatory hurdles than the proposed
Southwest-ONEOK merger, (3) Southwest and Southwest Individual Defendants
fraudulently induced Southern Union to enter into a Confidentiality and
Standstill Agreement (the "Agreement") with Southwest, and (4) that corruption
and fraud were necessary to defeat the Southern Union offer. The complaint
alleges numerous causes of action including (1) racketeering in violation of 18
U.S.C. Section 1962(c) and 1962(d), unlawful activity in violation of Arizona
Criminal Code through a pattern of unlawful activities predicated on acts of
extortion and a scheme or artifice to defraud against all defendants and
conspiracy, (2) fraud in the inducement, breach of contracts, violation of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, breach of covenant of good faith and fair
dealing and rescission of the Agreement against Southwest, and (3) intentional
interference with a business relationship and tortious interference of a
contractual relationship against ONEOK, the ONEOK Individual Defendants, the
Southwest Individual Defendants, Rose and Irvin. The complaint asks for the
award of an amount of not less than $750,000,000 to be trebled for racketeering
and unlawful violations (with attorneys' fees and investigators' fees);
compensatory damages of not less than $750,000,000 for fraud in the inducement,
breach of contract, breach of covenant of good faith and fair dealings,
intentional interference with a business relationship, tortious interference
with contractual relationship and civil conspiracy (with interest and costs);
rescission of the Agreement (with costs), punitive damages, injunctive relief
under the Securities Act of 1934 and any further relief the court deems just and
proper. On August 2, 1999, Southern Union filed a motion with the district court
for a temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction requesting, among
other things, that ONEOK and Southwest be enjoined from participating in any
regulatory approval procedures before the Arizona Corporation Commission or the
California Public Utility Commission regarding approval of the pending
ONEOK-Southwest Merger and from otherwise proceeding with or consummating the
proposed merger. The motion was later modified to limit the request to the
regulatory matters. A hearing was held on the motion on August 5, 1999 at which
time the judge denied the motion for a temporary restraining order. On August
27, 1999, motions to dismiss the complaint for failure to state a cause of
action were filed on behalf of ONEOK and the other defendants who had been
served. Thomas R. Sheets with Southwest had previously been dismissed from the
action. Rather than respond to the motion, on October 12, 1999, Southern Union
filed an



amended complaint asserting the same claims as the earlier complaint. Larry
Brummett and James C. Kneale were added as additional defendants. The Company
has filed a new motion to dismiss.

SOUTHWEST GAS CORPORATION MERGER. There are proceedings in process before the
Arizona Corporation Commission, Public Utility Commission of California and the
Public Utility Commission of Nevada requesting authorization to implement the
Agreement and Plan of Merger, dated December 14, 1998, as amended. On July 1,
1999, the Public Utility Commission of Nevada issued an order approving the
merger transaction. On July 30, 1000, a settlement conference was held and a
settlement document filed in the merger approval proceeding before the Public
Utility Commission of California. No comments were received during the 30-day
comment period. The Company anticipates the California settlement will be
considered for approval by year end. The Arizona Corporation Commission ("ACC")
issued a procedural schedule on October 22, 1999 setting the application for
merger approval for hearing on February 11, 2000. ONEOK, Southwest, the ACC
staff and Arizona's consumer advocate have filed a stipulation and agreement
recommending that the transaction be approved.

JOINT APPLICATION OF OKLAHOMA NATURAL GAS COMPANY, A DIVISION OF ONEOK, INC.,
ONEOK GAS TRANSPORTATION COMPANY, A DIVISION OF ONEOK, INC., AND KANSAS GAS
SERVICE COMPANY, A DIVISION OF ONEOK, INC., FOR APPROVAL OF THEIR UNBUNDLING
PLAN FOR NATURAL GAS SERVICES UPSTREAM OF THE CITY GATES OR AGGREGATION POINTS,
Cause PUD No. 980000177, before the Oklahoma Corporation Commission. On April
1, 1998, the Divisions filed a joint application to unbundle natural gas
services upstream of the city gate. The following parties were granted
intervention: Attorney General, Enogex, Inc., Public Service Company of
Oklahoma, Transok, LLC, Williams Gas Pipelines Central, Inc., American Central
Energy, LLC, Conoco, Inc., Oklahoma Industrial Energy Consumers, Williams
Energy Services Company. A hearing was held on the merits before a Special
Referee beginning July 6, 1998 and continuing through July 16, 1998. An Order
was entered by the Commission on July 31, 1998. On August 6, 1998, a
petition-in-error was filed with the Oklahoma Supreme Court appealing the order
of the Commission. The Commission filed a motion to dismiss with the Oklahoma
Supreme Court on August 17, 1998. The Commission issued an amended order on
August 19, 1998, which the Company alleges is invalid due to the pending
appeal. On September 1, 1998, the Company filed a response to the motion to
dismiss of the Commission. On September 8, 1998, the Company filed a
petition-in-error with the Oklahoma Supreme Court appealing the amended order.
On October 5, 1998, the Oklahoma Supreme Court determined that the interim
order was an appealable order and denied the motions to dismiss the appeal. In
respect to the amended interim order, on October 22, 1998, the Oklahoma Supreme
Court issued an order direction that the motion to dismiss the appeal filed by
the Commission be withdrawn as moot and that the Company's motion to dismiss
the petition was held in abeyance until the decision stage of the appeal. The
Company filed its brief on April 19, 1999. On June 4, 1999, the Company and the
Oklahoma Corporation Commission filed a joint motion in the Oklahoma Supreme
Court to stay further appellate proceedings and for leave to proceed before the
Commission. A joint stipulation was entered into and approved by the Oklahoma
Corporation Commission. The joint stipulation established a process pursuant to
which hearings would be conducted to identify the distribution, transmission,
storage and gathering assets of ONEOK and to deregulate gathering and storage
services if the Commission determines that competition exists for such
services. The joint stipulation provides that the Company will dismiss its
appeal upon the satisfaction of certain conditions. In light of the joint
stipulation, the Company and the Commission Staff requested that the Supreme
Court stay further appellate proceedings and allow the parties to proceed
before the Commission. A stay was granted until August 31, 1999. On September
8, 1999, the Supreme Court granted a motion to further extend the stay until
October 15, 1999, to allow the parties to work toward a resolution of the
issues. On October 21, 1999, the Supreme Court granted a stay for an additional
20 days. As settlement had not been reached by the parties, the Company filed a
motion to extend the stay until conclusion of the Commission proceeding. On
November 2, 1999, the Supreme Court directed the parties to respond to its
motion by November 17, 1999. Also on November 5, 1999, the commission staff
filed a response to the motion and a motion to dismiss the appeal as moot.

APPLICATION OF ERNEST G. JOHNSON, DIRECTOR OF THE PUBLIC UTILITY DIVISION,
OKLAHOMA CORPORATION COMMISSION, TO REVIEW THE RATES, CHARGES, SERVICES AND
SERVICE TERMS OF OKLAHOMA NATURAL GAS COMPANY, A DIVISION OF ONEOK, INC., AND
ALL AFFILIATED COMPANIES AND ANY AFFILIATE OR NONAFFILIATE TRANSACTION RELEVANT
TO SUCH INQUIRY, Cause PUD No. 980000683, Oklahoma Corporation Commission. On
December 18, 1998, the Director of




the Commission's Public Utility Division filed an application on behalf of the
Commission Staff to initiate a proceeding to review Oklahoma Natural's rates,
charges, and services and any relevant affiliate and non-affiliate
transactions, and to establish rates upon completion of such review. On May 13,
1999, the Company and the Commission Staff entered into a joint stipulation,
which was orally approved by the Commission on May 26, 1999. Pursuant to the
joint stipulation, the rates to customers of Oklahoma Natural Gas Company and
Kansas Gas Service Company would be reduced by $5 million, which would be in
lieu of the interim hearing. The joint stipulation also set up a process for
the resolution of other issues presented in this case and Oklahoma Natural Gas
Company's rate case (Cause PUD No. 990000166), which is consolidated with this
case, including whether utility rate regulation for gathering and storage
services should be discontinued if competition is determined to exist. Oklahoma
Natural Gas Company will competitively bid for gas supply for the 1999-2000
heating season, and will competitively bid for upstream transportation services
this fall, with service to commence November 1, 2000. On June 16, 1999,
however, the joint stipulation was rejected by the Commission. On July 1, 1999,
the Company filed a motion to approve a new joint stipulation. The principal
difference between the new stipulation and the prior joint stipulation is that
the $5 million interim rate reduction would be credited to residential
customers only on the September, 1999 billing. The stipulation was signed by
the other parties to the proceeding except the Attorney General of the State of
Oklahoma. The Corporation Commission issued an order approving the stipulation
on July 9, 1999. The Attorney General filed for a writ of prohibition from the
Oklahoma Supreme Court. On July 12, 1999, the Oklahoma Supreme Court denied the
Attorney General's emergency motion to stay the Commission hearings pertaining
to deregulation of the Company's gathering and storage assets. The hearings
proceeded and the Commission issued an order on July 15, 1999, deregulating the
gathering and storage assets effective November 1, 1999. Hearings were held on
August 24 and 25, 1999, pursuant to the stipulation to identify and designate
the Company's distribution and transmission assets. Subsequent to the hearing,
a distribution and transmission stipulation was executed by Oklahoma Natural
Gas Company, ONEOK Gas Transportation, L.L.C., Enogex, Transok and the Attorney
General which designated assets as either upstream transmission assets or
downstream distribution assets and addressed competitive bidding. The
stipulation was approved unanimously by the Commission and an order issued
August 30, 1999. On September 20, 1999, Oklahoma Natural Gas filed updated
financial information and requested a $33.6 million rate increase.




ITEM 4.        RESULTS OF VOTES OF SECURITY HOLDERS

(A)    MATTERS SUBMITTED TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matter was submitted during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by
this report to a vote of the Company's security holders, through the
solicitation of proxies or otherwise.

(B)    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

All executive officers are elected at the annual meeting of directors and serve
for a period of one year or until their successors are duly elected.





                                    PART II.

ITEM 5.    MARKET PRICE AND DIVIDENDS ON THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND
           RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS

(A)    MARKET INFORMATION

The Company's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under the
trading symbol OKE. The corporate name ONEOK is used in newspaper stock
listings. The high and low market prices of the Company's common stock for each
fiscal quarter during the last two fiscal years were as follows:



(B)    HOLDERS

There were 11,485 holders of the Company's common stock at August 31, 1999.

(C)    DIVIDENDS

Quarterly dividends declared on the Company's common stock during the last two
fiscal years were as follows:



Debt agreements pursuant to which the Company's outstanding long-term and
short-term debt has been issued limit dividends and other distributions on the
Company's common stock. Under the most restrictive of these provisions, $50.1
million of retained earnings is so restricted. On August 31, 1999, $251.4
million was available for dividends on the Company's common stock.

ITEM 6.         SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

Following are selected financial data for the Company for each of the last five
years.





ITEM 7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
           RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This Form 10-K (and certain other documents that are incorporated by reference
in this Form 10-K) contains statements concerning Company expectations or
predictions of the future that are "forward-looking statements" within the
meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. These
statements are intended to be covered by the safe harbor provision of the
Securities Act of 1933 and the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking
statements are based on management's beliefs and assumptions based on
information currently available. It is important to note that actual results
could differ materially from those projected in such forward- looking
statements. Factors that may impact forward-looking statements include, but are
not limited to, the following:

  o the effects of weather and other natural phenomena;
  o increased competition from other energy suppliers as well as alternative
    forms of energy;
  o the capital intensive nature of the Company's business;
  o economic climate and growth in the geographic areas in which the Company
    does business;
  o the uncertainty of gas and oil reserve estimates;
  o the timing and extent of changes in commodity prices for natural gas,
    natural gas liquids, electricity, and crude oil;
  o the nature and projected profitability of potential projects and other
    investments available to the Company;
  o conditions of capital markets and equity markets;
  o Year 2000 issues;
  o the effects of changes in governmental policies and regulatory actions,
    including income taxes, environmental compliance, authorized rates, and
    deregulation or "unbundling" of natural gas business;
  o the pending merger with Southwest Gas Corporation (Southwest); and
  o regulatory delay or conditions imposed by regulatory bodies in, and the
    results of litigation involving, the Southwest merger.

Accordingly, while the Company believes these forward-looking statements to be
reasonable, there can be no assurance that they will approximate actual
experience or that the expectations derived from them will be realized. When
used in Company documents, the words "anticipate", "expect", "projection",
"goal", or similar words are intended to identify forward-looking statements.
The Company does not have any intention or obligation to update forward-looking
statements after they distribute this Form 10-K even if new information, future
events or other circumstances have made them incorrect or misleading.

OPERATING ENVIRONMENT AND OUTLOOK

Management believes changes in the natural gas business have and will continue
to significantly affect the manner in which natural gas and related services
are marketed. Through a strategic review of its business and of ongoing
developments in the natural gas distribution and energy related industry
regarding competition, regulation, and consolidation, management concluded that
the domestic natural gas business was undergoing a process of deregulation
which would lead, over the next several years, to "unbundling" of services at
the residential level. Management further concluded that markets for
electricity and natural gas were converging and consolidating and that these
trends and competition for customers would alter the structure and business
practices of companies serving these markets in the future.

In order to better position the Company competitively, management determined
that it should seek both to expand its current operations and to become a
provider of energy services not limited to natural gas through acquisitions or
strategic alliances with companies that would enhance and expand its natural
gas distribution, marketing, production, gathering, processing and
transportation business. In a step toward this goal, ONEOK Power Marketing has
begun construction of a $90 million electric generation plant. Gas powered and
located near one of the Company's underground gas storage facilities, the plant
will be designed to provide peaking capacity.




The Company continues to take steps to strengthen its competitive edge and
position it to be a leader in the industry. The pending merger of the Company
and Southwest is another of these steps. The merger will create the largest
stand-alone gas distribution company in the United States serving 2.6 million
customers in five states.

The transaction is expected to be completed during 2000, subject to various
conditions including regulatory approvals. Southwest shareholders approved the
agreement on August 10, 1999. The Company and certain of its officers as well
as Southwest have been named as defendants in a lawsuit brought by Southern
Union Company in connection with the proposed acquisition in the total amount
of $750 million. The Southern Union allegations include, but are not limited
to, Racketeer, Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act violations and improper
interference in a contractual relationship between Southwest and Southern
Union. The Company, as third party beneficiary, has filed a lawsuit against
Southern Union for breach of a confidentiality agreement with Southern Union
and Southwest. The parties are presently involved in discovery. The Company
believes the Southern Union allegations are without merit and is defending
itself vigorously against all claims.

As a result of the acquisition of the gas business of Western Resources, Inc.
(Western) November, 1997, the Company became the eighth largest natural gas
distributor in the country serving approximately 1.4 million customers in two
states.

The Company continues to increase its investment in hydrocarbon reserves in its
service territory, focusing on exploitation activities rather than exploratory
drilling, and has increased its ownership of gathering and processing
facilities in areas where it owns significant natural gas production and
development acreage.

The Company anticipates growth through acquisition opportunities that will add
value to all of the Company's operations. The Company also sells assets from
time to time when deemed less strategic or as other conditions warrant.

OPERATING HIGHLIGHTS

UNBUNDLING - Unbundling has the potential to enhance customer choices, provide
savings to consumers, increase throughput, and allow broader use of the
Company's assets. In January, 1998, the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC)
approved rule-making for the restructuring of Oklahoma's natural gas utility
industry. Under the rules, the Company is required to unbundle its upstream
(transportation) activities. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, the OCC
approved a plan distinguishing between upstream and downstream (distribution)
activities, a plan which laid the groundwork for unbundling of services. Under
a July, 1999, order by the OCC, certain of the Company's gathering and storage
assets will be removed from utility regulation effective November 1, 1999. The
Company has withdrawn its appeal to the Oklahoma Supreme Court related to the
OCC's earlier unbundling order. The Company awarded bids for gas supply in
Oklahoma for the 1999/2000 heating season. On November 1, 1999, the Company
will issue bids for transportation and supply for two to five year terms
beginning with the 2000/2001 heating season.

In Kansas, the Company received approval from the Kansas Corporation Commission
(KCC) in April, 1999 to reduce the minimum requirement for transportation
service to 3,000 Mcf annually from 6,000 Mcf annually allowing more customers
to choose their natural gas supplier. This will allow the Company to expand
transportation services to an additional 650 commercial and industrial
customers. The KCC also approved a proposal that would allow approximately
1,000 schools the opportunity to transport gas supplies.



                             CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS


RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - The Company's operations showed gains for the year,
despite weather which was warmer than normal. Operating income increased for all
segments except Distribution in fiscal 1999. These increases reflect the effect
of additional gas reserves acquired, additional gathering revenues from
acquisitions, operational changes and efficiencies, general market conditions
and an aggressive marketing campaign by the Company's gas marketing operation.
For the year, operating income increased 16.3 percent over 1998.

During 1998, the Company's operations showed strong gains for the year as a
result of the Company's acquisition strategy and operating efficiencies
achieved. Acquisition of the gas business from Western added $45 million to
operating income for the last three quarters of fiscal 1998 despite a warmer
than normal winter. The majority of this increase is reflected in the
Distribution segment which increased $37.7 million (57.2 percent) over 1997. The
Transportation and Storage segment and the Marketing segment also benefitted
from the Western transaction. Other income of $14.6 million represents the gain
on the sale of certain gas processing plants.

RISK MANAGEMENT - To minimize the risk from fluctuations in the price of natural
gas, oil, natural gas liquids (NGLs) and weather, the Company uses derivative
instruments such as future contracts, swaps, and options (collectively,
derivatives) to hedge existing physical gas inventory, purchase or sale
commitments, and degree days. None of these derivatives are held for speculative
purposes and, in general, the Company's risk management policy requires that
positions taken with derivatives be offset by positions in physical transactions
or other derivatives.

KGS uses derivatives to hedge the cost of anticipated gas purchases during the
winter heating months to protect its customers from upward volatility in the
market price of natural gas. The gain or loss resulting from such derivatives is
combined with the physical cost of gas and recovered from the customer through
the gas purchase clause in rates.

The Company's Production segment utilizes derivatives in order to hedge
anticipated sales of oil and natural gas production. With the use of
derivatives, the Company is able to set the price to be received for the future
production thus eliminating the risk of declining market prices between the
origination date of the derivative and the month of production. The Company's
strategy in hedging anticipated transactions is to eliminate the variability in
earnings of its Production segment as a result of market fluctuations. To the
extent that management does not terminate a hedge or enter into an opposing
derivative, the current strategy will limit the potential gains which could
result from increases in market prices above the level set by the hedge.

The Company adheres to policies and procedures which limit its exposure to
market risks from open positions and monitors daily its exposure to market risk.
The results of the Company's derivative trading activities continue to meet its
stated objectives. For further discussion, see Item 7A - Quantitative and
Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and Note C of "Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements."

YEAR 2000. The Year 2000 (Y2K) issue arose because most computer systems,
including application software (IT applications) and computer technology
embedded in plant and equipment (Embedded Technology) were constructed using a
two digit date field that assumed the first two digits are always "19". On
January 1, 2000, these systems may




incorrectly recognize the date as January 1, 1900. Some IT applications and
Embedded Technology may incorrectly process critical financial and operating
information or stop processing altogether.

Management, under the direction of the Board of Directors, has implemented a
program to proactively address the Y2K challenge. Beginning in 1996, the Company
inventoried existing programs and systems and began the conversion process that
is designed to make the Company Y2K compatible. The Company installed a new IBM
Year 2000 compatible mainframe computer in August 1997. The Company believes
that it has fully identified and remediated its critical automated business
systems and the sensitive equipment for Y2K readiness. Testing of the remediated
systems and equipment is underway and will continue throughout the remainder of
1999.

The Company has assessed its operational risks related to suppliers and vendors
with whom it conducts business. Based on this assessment, the Company has
completed the process of contacting suppliers and vendors with whom the Company
conducts business concerning their state of readiness and plans to complete Y2K
compatibility of their systems. The Company tests such third-party compliance to
the extent deemed reasonable and necessary to determine compliance.

The primary business risk associated with Y2K is the Company's ability to
continue to transport and distribute gas to its customers without significant
interruption. In the event the Company and/or its suppliers and vendors are
unable to remediate the Y2K problem prior to January 1, 2000, operations of the
Company could be significantly impacted. In order to mitigate this risk, the
Company has developed contingency plans to continue operations through January
1, 2000 and beyond. The contingency plans include strategically located backup
electric generators, alternative telecommunication systems, including cellular
phones, radios and satellite phones, key personnel meeting sites and command
centers, establishment of natural gas service curtailment and rerouting
procedures, computer record backup systems and specific staffing for manual
operation of key supply points.

In May 1999, the Company completed the asset acquisition from Koch Midstream
Enterprises. The Company contracted with an independent third party to
inventory, assess, and remediate the assets acquired to assure Y2K compliance.
This work has been completed and reviewed by the Company.

The Company believes its essential systems and equipment are ready for the Year
2000 and should be able to provide uninterrupted service provided its key
vendors and suppliers are Y2K ready.

There can be no assurance that the Company's systems will work entirely as
anticipated, or that the systems of other companies on which the Company relies,
will be converted in a timely manner or that any such failure to be Y2K ready
would not have a material adverse effect on the Company operations, liquidity
and financial conditions.

The Company's direct cost to date is approximately $1.7 million for Y2K
conversion. This does not include the cost of programs and equipment that are
being replaced in the ordinary course of business that are Y2K compatible. The
Company estimates it will spend an additional $300,000 in direct costs.

ACCOUNTING POLICIES - For the periods presented, certain operations of the
Company are subject to accounting requirements of the OCC, KCC, and the
provisions of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71 "Accounting for
the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." Accordingly, the allocation of
costs and revenues to accounting periods for ratemaking and regulatory purposes
may differ from those generally applied by companies not regulated. Such
allocations to meet regulatory accounting requirements are considered to be
generally accepted accounting principles for regulated utilities provided that
there is a demonstrable ability to recover any deferred costs in future rates.
Pursuant to the provisions of SFAS No. 71, the regulated operations of the
Company have recognized regulatory assets of $246.7 million, of which $108.0
million is not currently being recovered in rates and has not been subject to
filing and/or approval in a rate proceeding. As the Company continues to
unbundle its services, certain of these assets will no longer meet the criteria
for following SFAS No. 71, and accordingly, a write-off of regulatory assets and
stranded costs may be required. The Company does not anticipate these costs will
be significant.





SEGMENT OPERATIONS - The Company revised its presentation of business segment
information beginning with this Form 10-K. The former regulated operations are
now reported in two different segments; the Distribution segment and the
Transportation and Storage segment. ONEOK Producer services is now reported in
the Transportation and Storage segment rather than the Gathering and Processing
operation as before. Transportation operations previously reported as part of
the production operation and the marketing operation have been transferred to
the Transportation and Storage segment. Prior periods have been restated to
reflect these changes. The following segments characterize the Company's
business units:

 o   Distribution
 o   Transportation and Storage
 o   Marketing
 o   Gathering and Processing
 o   Production
 o   Other

DISTRIBUTION

The Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services in Oklahoma
and Kansas. The Company's operations in Oklahoma are conducted through Oklahoma
Natural Gas Company Division (ONG) which serves residential, commercial, and
industrial customers and leases pipeline capacity. The Company's operations in
Kansas are conducted through Kansas Gas Service Company Division (KGS) which
serves residential, commercial, and industrial customers. KGS also conducts
regulated gas distribution operations in northeastern Oklahoma. The Distribution
segment serves about 80 percent of Oklahoma and about 67 percent of Kansas. ONG
is subject to regulatory oversight by the OCC. KGS is subject to regulatory
oversight by the KCC and the OCC.

Assets of $972.6 million were acquired through the transaction with Western in
the 1998 fiscal year.








OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS - The Company dominates the core energy service markets
in Oklahoma and Kansas with over a 90 percent market share for water heating,
cooking, and home heating. Annual cost comparisons with electricity for these
same services in Oklahoma and Kansas indicate that gas costs were at least 50
percent less, the largest difference being in home heating at 70 percent less.
On a gas to gas comparison, the Company's rates in Oklahoma and Kansas were
lower than the regional and national averages for residential, firm industrial,
and interruptible service.

The transaction with Western in the 1998 fiscal year added approximately 660,000
new distribution customers and 1,400 employees. Cost controls were strengthened
throughout the organization. Total employees were reduced through attrition
without compromising customer safety or service.

REGULATORY INITIATIVES - In August, 1999, the OCC approved a plan to distinguish
between upstream and downstream activities in Oklahoma. The Company began taking
bids for transportation services this fall with bids to be awarded in spring
2000 for service beginning November 1, 2000. As contracts with PCL customers
expire, these contracts may be renewed with the Distribution segment, the
Transportation and Storage segment of the Company or nonaffiliated service
providers. Consequently, this could result in reduced revenues in the
Distribution segment.

Two rate cases were combined in Oklahoma, eliminating an interim rate case
scheduled for the summer of 1999 and providing for a one-time interim rate
reduction beginning September 1, 1999 of $5 million for residential customers in
Oklahoma. Hearings on the consolidated rate case are scheduled for spring 2000.

In April, 1999, the Company received approval from the KCC to reduce the minimum
requirement for transportation service to 3,000 Mcf annually from 6,000 annually
allowing more customers to choose their natural gas supplier. The KCC also
approved a proposal that would allow approximately 1,000 schools the opportunity
to transport gas supplies.

Also in 1999, approval was received to expand the Company's WeatherProof Bill
program to all residential and commercial customers in Kansas. Customers
electing to use this program will receive a set bill each month based on the
customer's projected average usage.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - The Company's capital expenditure program includes
expenditures for extending service to new areas, increasing system capabilities,
and general replacements and betterments. It is the Company's practice to
maintain and periodically upgrade facilities to assure safe, reliable, and
efficient operations. The capital expenditure program included $19.8 million,
$15.6 million and $10.4 million for new business development in 1999, 1998 and
1997, respectively.



OPERATING RESULTS - Fiscal 1999 was the first complete year of service to the
660,000 customers added in the Western acquisition. However, warmer than normal
weather, particularly in Kansas which was 16 percent warmer than normal and
where there is no temperature normalization, reduced net revenues and more than
offset the effect of having a full twelve months of gas sales volumes and
revenues. Operating costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization increased
in fiscal 1999 due to having the acquisition recorded for one full year compared
to nine months for fiscal 1998. Operating costs per customer on a weighted
average basis decreased to $164.29 in fiscal 1999 from $169.67 in fiscal 1998.
This is a decrease of $5.38 per weighted average customer or 3.2%.

Net revenues and operating expenses increased in 1998 fiscal year over 1997
fiscal year primarily due to inclusion of KGS's operations in fiscal 1998. The
statistics presented for the 1998 fiscal year include volumes attributable to
KGS since December 1, 1997.


                                              1999         1998       1997
                                             -------     -------     ------
VOLUMES (MMcf)
Gas sales
         Residential                         105,566     103,700      58,241
         Commercial                           41,398      42,486      29,408
         Industrial                            5,575       7,304      11,384
PCL and ECT                                  212,547     241,262     173,134
                                             -------     -------     -------
           Total gas sales, PCL and ECT      365,086     394,752     272,167
                                             =======     =======     =======


TRANSPORTATION AND STORAGE

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS - A $10 million project to increase the capacity of the
two storage fields in Kansas is scheduled for completion in 2000. Total storage
capacity in Kansas will be increased by almost 40 percent to 6.3 Bcf.

A $3.4 million expansion is expected to increase deliverability from the Depew
storage field in Oklahoma by spring 2000. In 1998, work was completed which
increased injection capabilities by 70 percent and increased withdrawal
capabilities by over 80 percent in one Oklahoma storage field. In another
Oklahoma storage field, the injection capabilities were increased by 50 percent
and the withdrawal capabilities were doubled.

                                              1999       1998       1997
                                           ---------   --------   --------
                                                 (Thousands of Dollars)
FINANCIAL RESULTS
Transportation revenues                    $  73,521    $ 68,759   $ 68,167
Storage revenues                              27,763      14,772         --
Other revenues                                 8,102       7,170      2,332
                                           ---------    --------   --------
         Net revenues                        109,386      90,701     70,499
Operating costs                               33,894      31,052     28,136
Depreciation, depletion, and
amortization                                  13,852      12,818      8,395
                                           ---------    --------   --------
         Operating income                  $  61,640    $ 46,831   $ 33,968
                                           =========    ========   ========

                                              1999       1998       1997
                                           ---------    --------   --------
OPERATING INFORMATION
Volumes transported (MMcf)                   307,726     340,059    313,074
Current gas in storage (MMcf)                  1,014         804         --
Capital expenditures (Thousands)           $  32,618   $  50,271   $ 27,922
Total assets (Thousands)                   $ 373,742   $ 351,692   $221,233
                                           ---------   ---------   --------

REGULATORY INITIATIVES - Under a July, 1999, order by the OCC, the Company's
gathering and storage assets and services in Oklahoma will be removed from
utility regulation effective November 1, 1999. Gathering and storage assets,
including current gas in storage, of $325.0 million will be removed from rate
base. In August, 1999, the OCC approved a plan that distinguishes between
upstream and downstream assets. The Distribution segment issued bids for these
services in the fall of 1999 with bids to be awarded in the spring of 2000. With
unbundling and deregulation of gathering and storage service the Company will be
able to compete for business at market-based rates.



OPERATING RESULTS - The Company's strategy to increase its storage utilization
and its injection and withdrawal capabilities has created opportunities for
increased earnings. In 1999,volumes transported decreased while prices increased
and volumes stored, along with the related prices, increased in fiscal 1999 over
fiscal 1998. Increased injection and storage capabilities led to the increase
storage revenues. In fiscal 1998, margins from gas stored for others increased
operating income by $14.8 million over fiscal 1997. In fiscal 1998, gas volumes
transported increased but were offset by decreased prices.

MARKETING

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS - The Company's marketing operation purchases, stores and
markets natural gas at both the retail and wholesale level, primarily in the
producing areas of the United States. The Company continues to develop its niche
into new market areas by arbitraging storage in the day trading market rather
than focusing on the baseload market. Gas volumes increased in 1999 primarily
from the Company's expansion into the Permian/Waha region of the United States.
The Company now leases from others more than 29 Bcf of storage capacity which
gives direct access to the west coast and Texas intrastate markets.

Construction of a 300 megawatt electric power plant has been approved by the
Company's Board of Directors. The plant, to be located in Logan County,
Oklahoma, adjacent to a Company natural gas storage facility, will be configured
to supply electric power during peak periods with four gas-powered turbine
generators manufactured by General Electric. Application has been made with the
Oklahoma Air Quality Board for a permit, and the plant is expected to be
operational June, 2001. In 1997, the Company was the successful bidder to serve
four gas-fired electric generating plants owned by Public Service Company of
Oklahoma.



PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT - In order to mitigate the financial risks arising from
fluctuations in both the market price and transportation costs of natural gas,
the Company routinely enters into natural gas futures contracts, swaps, and
options as a method of protecting its margins on the underlying physical
transactions. However, while not material, net open positions in terms of price,
volume, and specified delivery point do occur. For further discussion, see Item
7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.

OPERATING RESULTS - The increase in gross margins is attributable to increased
throughput and a more extensive use of storage. Warmer than normal temperatures
across the country during this year's winter resulted in significant downward
movement in prices which allowed the Company to take advantage of volatility.
Increased sales volumes are primarily due to the expanded niche business into
Texas and the west coast. The increase in operating costs is due to the
additional expenses related to leasing storage and start-up costs for ONEOK
Power Marketing Company. The Company has been granted a rate schedule by the
Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) to trade electricity at market-based
wholesale rates and has begun trading on a limited scale.





The increase in gross margins in fiscal 1998 over fiscal 1997 is primarily
attributable to increased throughput due to customers added in the Western
transaction and the addition of service to four gas-fired electric generating
plants. Gross margins per Mcf were lower due primarily to less volatility in
weather in 1998.

GATHERING AND PROCESSING

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS - On April 30, 1999, the Company acquired the midstream
natural gas gathering and processing assets from Koch Midstream Enterprises
(Koch). These assets included approximately 3,250 miles of gathering pipeline
connected to 1,460 gas wells located in Oklahoma gathering approximately 350
million cubic feet per day. Also included is a 100 percent interest in eight gas
processing plants with a total capacity of 515 million cubic feet per day. These
plants are currently processing about 280 million cubic feet per day.

The Company will add a new 25 million cubic feet per day processing plant (the
Fox Plant) which will be started up in the fall of 1999.

Through the Western transaction in fiscal 1998, the Company acquired the
Minneola Gas Processing Plant located in Kansas and an additional 34 percent
interest in the Indian Basin Gas Processing Plant. An eight percent interest in
the Indian Basin had been acquired in fiscal 1997. The Minneola Gas Processing
Plant was sold to Duke in February, 1999.






Note: At August 31, 1999, with Koch acquisition, Percent of Proceeds contracts
are 34%, Fuel and Shrink contracts are 66% of total gas processed.



CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - In April, 1999, the Company acquired all of the Oklahoma
midstream natural gas gathering and processing assets of Koch for $285 million.
Capital expenditures for fiscal 1999 included $3 million for the Fox plant.

The 1998 fiscal year capital was required to sustain operations and projects
related to these operations. Fiscal 1997 capital expenditures included $9
million incurred to purchase an interest in the Indian Basin Gas Processing
Plant as well as sustain and improve operations.

OPERATING RESULTS - Revenues increased in fiscal 1999 due to the acquisition of
the midstream assets from Koch. Average NGL price per gallon increased in late
fiscal 1999, although the average price for fiscal 1999 was lower than fiscal
1998, as prices continued to experience an upward correction from the abnormally
low prices prevalent throughout much of fiscal 1999 and 1998. The increase in
prices corresponded in time with the increase in volumes from the Koch
acquisition. The price of NGLs moves in a direct relationship to crude prices.
Operating costs and depreciation, depletion and amortization also increased due
to the additional assets and the cost of operating those assets. At 1999 fiscal
year end, total gas gathered and total gas processed were 688 MMcf per day and
561 MMcf per day, three times the fiscal 1999 average. This increase in the
average per day is due to the Koch acquisition in April, 1999. Other income in
fiscal 1999 and 1998 consisted of the gains on sales of assets.

RISK MANAGEMENT - Derivative instruments are used to minimize risk of volatility
in NGL's and gas prices.

PRODUCTION

OPERATIONAL HIGHLIGHTS - The Company's strategy is to concentrate ownership of
hydrocarbon reserves in its service territory in order to add value not only to
its existing production operations but also to the related gathering and
processing, marketing, transportation, and storage businesses. Accordingly, the
Company focuses on exploitation activities rather than exploratory drilling. As
a result of recent acquisitions, the number of wells the Company operates has
increased. In its role as operator, the Company controls operating decisions
which impact production volumes and lifting costs.








RISK MANAGEMENT - Since the volatility of energy prices has a significant impact
on the profitability of this segment, the Company utilizes commodity derivative
instruments in order to offset this risk. As of August 31, 1999, approximately
86 percent of anticipated gas production in 2000 has been hedged primarily with
swap agreements. This compares to 50 percent of 1999 production hedged at August
31, 1998. See Item 7A - Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market
Risk.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - The Company's strategy is to concentrate ownership of
natural gas and oil reserves in its service territory in order to add value not
only to its existing production operations but also to integrate it into its
processing, marketing, gathering and storage business. As a result, the Company
is focusing its efforts on acquisitions and exploitation activities. During the
second quarter of fiscal 1999, the Company consummated the strategic alliance
with Magnum Hunter Resources, Inc. (Magnum) adding $10 million in producing
properties and becoming a 31 percent equity owner in Magnum at a cost of $50
million. The Company also closed on two other properties with a purchase price
of $53 million adding reserves located in Oklahoma.

The Company purchased natural gas and oil reserves from OXY USA, Inc. (Oxy) in
fiscal 1998. The reserves are located in Oklahoma and Kansas and include more
than 400 wells. Net production is approximately 30 million cubic feet of gas per
day and 400 barrels of oil per day and includes a gas sweetening plant. The
purchase price was approximately $131 million. Based on estimated reserves, this
transaction almost doubled the Company's oil and gas reserves.

A 40 percent equity interest in the K. Stewart Petroleum Corp., was acquired on
June 2, 1998. The acquisition creates opportunities to expand ownership of oil
and gas reserves in the Anadarko Basin and for the Company to achieve its
strategic objective of growing its reserves base in areas where it has other
energy-related operations.

The acquisition of Washita Production Company (Washita) was closed in December,
1997. This acquisition, valued at approximately $20 million, was made with a
combination of cash and ONEOK, Inc. common stock. The transaction included 235
producing wells and significant behind pipe and development drilling
opportunities with proven reserves of approximately 23 billion cubic feet
equivalent. The wells are primarily located in the Anadarko and Arkoma Basin of
Oklahoma and include some properties in the Hugoton Basin of Kansas.

During 1997, the Company purchased PSEC, Inc. (PSEC), an independent oil and gas
company in Oklahoma. The transaction included 180 wells with proven reserves of
20 Bcf of natural gas and 167,000 barrels of oil. A 42 percent interest in the
Sycamore Gas Gathering System, acquired as part of this transaction, is included
in the Gathering and Processing Segment. The purchase was financed with $9.3
million in long-term debt and 334,252 shares of ONEOK Inc. common stock.

Capital expenditures primarily related to a limited developmental drilling
program were approximately $13.7 million, $16.5 million, and $6.7 million in
1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

OPERATING RESULTS - Increased production from a successful developmental
drilling program and properties acquired during fiscal 1999 and 1998 were the
primary reasons for the increases in volumes in those years. Gas prices for the
1999 fiscal year decreased compared to the 1998 fiscal year, an industry-wide
trend. Operating costs and depreciation, depletion, and amortization also
increased over one year ago due to the Company operating and owning an interest
in an increased number of wells. However, the Company, through efforts to
contain costs, reduced production costs per Mcf equivalent to $0.49 in 1999 from
$0.50 in 1998.

The increased gas production in 1998 over 1997 is primarily related to the
additional proved reserves acquired as a result of the OXY, PSEC and Washita
property acquisitions. Production from these properties more than offset the
natural decline in production from other fields. The increase in operating costs
in 1998 as compared to 1997 is indicative of the increase in the total number of
fields owned by the Company.





LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

In April, 1999, the Company registered a shelf filing for $500 million in debt
securities. The filing allows the Company to sell the debt securities over a two
year period. These funds will be used in the future for general corporate
purposes including repayment and refinancing of debt, acquisitions, working
capital, capital expenditures and repurchases and redemptions of securities. In
August, 1999, the Company issued $300 million in debt securities under this
shelf filing, with the funds used primarily to fund the Koch acquisition.

In July, 1999, the Company filed a registration statement to register preferred
trust securities of $300 million. No securities have been issued under that
registration.

A $600 million short-term unsecured revolving credit facility was entered into
with several banks in July, 1999.

CASH FLOW ANALYSIS

Cash provided by operating activities continues as the primary source for
meeting operating cash requirements and dividend payout. However, due to
seasonal fluctuations and additional capital requirements, the Company
periodically accesses funds through short-term credit agreements and, if
necessary, through long-term borrowing. The Company believes that internally
generated funds and existing credit agreements will be sufficient to meet its
debt service, dividend payment, and capital expenditure requirements, excluding
significant capital acquisitions. The following discussion of cash flows should
be read in conjunction with the Company's "Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows"
and the supplemental cash flow information included in Note M of "Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements."

OPERATING CASH FLOWS

Operating cash flows for fiscal 1999 decreased due to increased prepayments
related to hedging activities, increases in unrecovered purchased gas cost,
increased accounts receivables primarily due to increased sales and increased
regulatory assets.

Operating cash flows for 1998 as compared to 1997 are higher as a result of the
liquidation of the abnormally high net working capital acquired in the Western
acquisition, increased operating income and favorable changes in assets and
liabilities, including recovery of purchased gas costs.

Cash provided by operating activities for the years ended August 31, 1999, 1998,
and 1997 was $131.6, $346.5, and $152.1 million, respectively.

INVESTING CASH FLOWS

Cash used in investing activities totaled $549.3, $299.7, and $88.8 million in
1999, 1998, and 1997 respectively.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES - Capital expenditures totaled $533 million in 1999. This
included $285 million for the acquisition of Oklahoma midstream assets by the
Gathering and Processing segment. In 1998, capital expenditures totaled $306
million which included $164 million for acquisition of production and processing
assets. Capital expenditures totaled $112 million in 1997. Capital expenditures
for 2000 are estimated to be $236 million excluding acquisitions.

ASSET SALES - Approximately $16.5 million of proceeds was received in fiscal
1999 from the sale of one-half interest in Sycamore and the Caddo gas processing
plant. In 1998, approximately $30 million of proceeds was received from the sale
of gas processing assets.





FINANCING CASH FLOW

During fiscal 1999, the Company issued $700 million in debt securities. These
funds were used for general corporate purposes including acquisitions, repayment
of some short-term debt and refinancing certain long-term debt.

Cash provided by financing activities for 1999 was $422.0 million, cash used in
financing activities in 1998 and 1997 was $61.1, and $49.4 million,
respectively.

SHORT-TERM DEBT - At August 31, 1999, $264 million in commercial paper was
outstanding. The Company has a $600 million short-term unsecured revolving
credit facility. The short-term credit agreement primarily provides a back-up
line of credit for commercial paper in addition to providing short-term funds.
Maximum short-term debt from all sources as approved by the Company's Board of
Directors is $750 million. Fluctuations in the amount of cash provided by/used
in financing activities is primarily a factor of short-term borrowing and the
increase in preferred stock dividend requirements for 1999 and 1998 and
significant long-term borrowing in 1999.

LONG-TERM DEBT - At August 31, 1999, $837 million of long-term debt was
outstanding. As of that date, the Company could have issued $724 million of
additional long-term debt under the most restrictive provisions contained in its
various borrowing agreements.

At August 31, 1999, the equity component was 52 percent as compared to 68
percent a year ago. In December, 1997, Moody's Investors Service announced that
it had upgraded the Company's debt rating from A3 to A2 due to the benefits
expected from the acquisition of the gas business, including strengthened market
and financial positions. The debt rating by Standard and Poor's Corporation was
upgraded from A- to A. In December 1998, the Company was placed on CreditWatch
with negative implications, reflecting the Company's plan to acquire Southwest.

SOUTHWEST - Financing for the Company's proposed acquisition of Southwest is
expected to be provided through a combination of a short-term bridge loan,
long-term notes and equity. In addition, the Company will assume approximately
$900 million of Southwest long-term indebtedness.

STOCK AND DIVIDENDS - The Company had approximately 31 million shares of common
stock outstanding at August 31, 1999. The Common stock dividends were $1.24,
$1.20, and $1.20 per share in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively. Convertible
preferred stock dividends were $1.86 and $1.55 per share in 1999, and $1.80 and
$1.50 per share in 1998 for Series A and Series B, respectively. Preferred stock
dividends were $1.78 per share in 1997. Through the Company's Stock Purchase and
Dividend Reinvestment Program, $3.9 million, $4.1 million and $5.5 million of
dividends and optional cash payments were reinvested into common stock in 1999,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

On March 18, 1999, the Company authorized a stock buyback plan for up to 15
percent of its capital stock. The program authorizes the Company to make
purchases of its common stock on the open market with the timing and terms of
purchases and the number of shares purchased to be determined by management
based on market conditions and other factors. Purchases began May 25, 1999, with
715,080 shares purchased through August 31, 1999. The purchased shares will be
held in treasury and will be available for general corporate purposes, funding
of stock-based compensation plans, resale at a future date, or retirement.
Purchases will be financed with short-term debt or made from available funds.

LIQUIDITY

The Distribution segment continues to face competitive pressure to serve the
transportation market which includes all customers who consume 30,000 MMBtu or
more annually. The loss of a substantial portion of that load due to third party
bypass, without recoupment of the revenues from that loss, could have a
materially adverse effect on the





Company's financial condition. However, since 1995, rates have been structured
to reduce the Company's risk in serving its large volume customers.

OTHER

ENVIRONMENTAL - In connection with the Western transaction, the Company acquired
responsibility for 12 manufactured gas sites located in Kansas which may contain
potentially harmful materials that are classified as hazardous material.
Hazardous materials are subject to control or remediation under various
environmental laws and regulations. A consent agreement with the Kansas
Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) presently governs all future work at
these sites. The terms of the consent agreement allow the Company to investigate
these sites and set remediation priorities based upon the results of the
investigations and risk analysis. The prioritized sites will be investigated
over a ten year period. At August 31, 1999, the costs of the investigations and
risk analysis have been minimal. Limited information is available about the
sites and no testing has been performed. Management's best estimate of the cost
of remediation ranges from $100 thousand to $10 million per site based on a
limited comparison of costs incurred to remediate comparable sites. These
estimates do not give effect to potential insurance recoveries, recoveries
through rates or from third parties. The KCC has permitted others to recover
remediation costs through rates. It should be noted that additional information
and testing could result in costs significantly below or in excess of the
amounts estimated above. To the extent that such remediation costs are not
recovered, the costs could be material to the Company's results of operations
and cash flows depending on the remediation done and number of years over which
the remediation is completed.


NEW ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS - Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
133, Accounting for Derivatives Instruments and Hedging Activities (Statement
133), was issued by the FASB in June 1998. Statement 133 standardizes the
accounting for derivatives instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts. Under the standard, entities are required to carry
all derivative instruments in the balance sheet at fair value. The accounting
for changes in the fair value of a derivative instrument depends on whether it
has been designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, if so,
on the reason for holding it. If certain conditions are met, entities may elect
to designate a derivative instrument as a hedge of exposures to changes in fair
values, cash flows, or foreign currencies. If the hedge exposure is a fair value
exposure, the gain or loss on the derivative instrument is recognized in
earnings in the period of change together with the offsetting loss or gain on
the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. If the hedged exposure is
a cash flow exposure, the effective portion of the gain or loss on the
derivative instrument is reported initially as a component of other
comprehensive income (outside earnings) and subsequently reclassified into
earnings when the forecasted transaction affects earnings. Any amounts excluded
from the assessment of hedge effectiveness as well as the ineffective portion of
the gain or loss is reported in earnings immediately. Statement 133 required the
Company to adopt this statement by September 1, 1999. Statement 133 was amended
by Statement No. 137 in June, 1999 which delayed implementation until fiscal
years beginning after June 15, 2000, with early adoption permitted. The Company
has not determined the impact of adopting Statement 133.

In December 1998, the Emerging Issues Task Force reached consensus on Issue
98-10, "Accounting for Contracts involved in Energy Trading and Risk Management
Activities" (EITF 98-10). EITF 98-10 is effective for fiscal years beginning
after December 15, 1998 and requires energy trading contracts to be recorded at
fair value on the balance sheet, with the changes in fair value included in
earnings. Although the Company has not completed its assessment of the impact of
adopting EITF 98-10, it believes that its contracts are designated as and
effective as hedges of non trading activities and are not considered energy
trading contracts. Accordingly, the Company does not believe the adoption of
EITF 98-10 will have a material impact on the financial position or results of
operations of the Company.






ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

RISK MANAGEMENT - The Company, substantially through its nonutility segments, is
exposed to market risk in the normal course of its business operations to the
impact of market fluctuations in the price of natural gas and oil. Market risk
refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising from
adverse changes in commodity energy prices. The Company's primary exposure
arises from fixed price purchase or sale agreements which extend for periods of
up to 48 months, gas in storage inventories utilized by the gas marketing
operation, and anticipated sales of oil and gas production. To a lesser extent,
the Company is exposed to risk of changing prices or the cost of intervening
transportation resulting from purchasing gas at one location and selling it at
another (hereinafter referred to as basis risk). To minimize the risk from
market fluctuations in the price of natural gas and oil, the Company uses
commodity derivative instruments such as future contracts, swaps and options to
hedge existing or anticipated purchase and sale agreements, existing physical
gas in storage, and basis risk. None of these derivatives are held for
speculative purposes. The Company adheres to policies and procedures which limit
its exposure to market risk from open positions and monitors its exposure to
market risk. The results of the Company's derivative hedging activities continue
to meet its stated objective.

The Company's regulated distribution operations are exposed to market risk in
the normal course of business operations due to the impact of fluctuations on
gas sales resulting from weather as measured by heating degree days (HDD).
Market risk refers to the risk of loss in cash flows and future earnings arising
from adverse fluctuation in gross margins on gas sales. Kansas Gas Service has
exposure arising from variances in gas consumption by residential and commercial
customers caused by fluctuations in HDD from normal because it does not have a
temperature adjustment clause in its rate structure. ONG has a TAC, which
partially offsets this risk. From time to time, ONEOK uses weather derivative
swaps to manage the effect of warm weather on its operations.

All of the Company's long-term debt is fixed-rate and, therefore, does not
expose the Company to the risk of earnings or cash flow loss due to changes in
market interest rates.

Kansas Gas Service uses derivative instruments to hedge the cost of some
anticipated gas purchases during the winter heating months to protect their
customers from upward volatility in the market price of natural gas. The gain or
loss resulting from such derivatives is combined with the physical cost of gas
and recovered from the customer through the gas purchase clause in rates. The
Company has no market risk associated with such activities and, accordingly,
these derivatives have been omitted from the value-at-risk disclosures below.

VALUE-AT-RISK DISCLOSURE OF MARKET RISK - The estimation of potential losses
that could arise from changes in market conditions is typically accomplished
through the use of statistical models that seek to predict risk of loss based on
historical price and volatility patterns. The value-at-risk (VAR) measurement
used by the Company is based on J.P. Morgan's RiskMetrics(TM) model, which
measures recent volatility and correlation in the price of natural gas and oil,
pulls through current price levels and net deltas, and applies estimates made by
management regarding the time required to liquidate positions and the degree of
confidence placed in the accuracy of the volatility and correlation estimates.
The Company's VAR calculation presents a comprehensive market risk disclosure by
combining its commodity derivative portfolio used to hedge price and basis risk
together with the current portfolio of firm physical purchase and sale contracts
and nonutility gas-in-storage inventory. At August 31, 1999, the Company's
estimated potential one-day favorable or unfavorable impact on future earnings,
as measured by the VAR, using a 95 percent confidence level, diversified
correlation and assuming three days to liquidate positions is immaterial.

The Company's calculated VAR exposure represents an estimate of potential losses
that would be recognized for its portfolio of derivative financial instruments
and firm physical contracts and nonutility gas-in-storage assuming hypothetical
movements in future market rates and are not necessarily indicative of actual
results that may occur. It does not represent the maximum possible loss nor any
expected loss that may occur, because actual future gains and losses will differ
from those estimated, based on actual fluctuations in the market rates,
operating exposures, and the timing thereof, and changes in the Company's
portfolio of derivative financial instruments and firm physical contracts.

Under the weather derivative swap agreements, the Company receives a fixed
payment per degree day below the





contracted normal HDD and pays a fixed amount per degree day above the
contracted normal HDD. The swaps also contain a contract cap that limits the
amount either party is required to pay. The Company estimates its VAR exposure
on these swaps to be the total contract cap it would be required to pay if the
weather were significantly coder that normal. At August 31, 1999, the total VAR
for the 1999/2000 heating season is approximately $17.7 million. The Company
believes that this risk would be substantially offset by an increase in gas
sales margins resulting from additional gas sold due to the colder than normal
temperatures.





ITEM 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA MANAGEMENT'S
              RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL REPORTING

The management of ONEOK, Inc. is responsible for all information included in the
Annual Report whether audited or unaudited. The financial statements have been
prepared in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, applied in
a consistent manner, and necessarily included some amounts that are based on the
best estimates and judgements of management.

Management maintains a system of internal accounting policies, procedures, and
controls designed to provide reasonable assurance that assets are safeguarded
against loss or unauthorized use and that the financial records are reliable for
preparing financial statements. ONEOK, Inc. maintains an internal auditing staff
responsible for evaluating the adequacy and application of financial and
operating controls and for testing compliance with management's policies and
procedures.

The accompanying consolidated financial statements of ONEOK, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of August 31, 1999 and 1998, and for each of the years in the
three-year period ended August 31, 1999, have been audited by KPMG LLP,
independent certified public accountants. Their audits include reviews of the
system of internal controls to the extent considered necessary to determine the
audit procedures required to support their opinion on the consolidated financial
statements. The Independent Auditors' Report appears herein.

The Board of Directors performs its oversight role for reviewing the accounting
and auditing procedures and financial reporting of ONEOK, Inc. through its Audit
Committee. Both KPMG LLP and the Company's internal auditors have free access to
the Audit Committee, without the presence of management, to discuss accounting,
auditing, and financial reporting matters.





                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



To the Board of Directors and Shareholders ONEOK, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of ONEOK, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of August 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years
in the three-year period ended August 31, 1999. These consolidated financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of ONEOK, Inc. and
subsidiaries as of August 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended August 31,
1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.


                                    KPMG LLP


Tulsa, Oklahoma
October 21, 1999






ONEOK, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.







ONEOK, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.















ONEOK, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.


ONEOK, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




ONEOK, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY






See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.










NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(A)        SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION - ONEOK, Inc. acquired the gas business of Western
Resources, Inc. (Western) on November 26, 1997. The transaction was effective
November 30, 1997, for financial reporting purposes. See Note B of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

NATURE OF OPERATIONS - ONEOK, Inc. and subsidiaries (collectively, the Company)
is a diversified energy company engaged in the production, processing,
gathering, storage, transportation, distribution, and marketing of
environmentally clean fuels and products. The Company manages its business in
six segments: Distribution, Transportation and Storage, Marketing, Gathering and
Processing, Production, and Other.

The Company's Distribution segment provides natural gas distribution services in
Oklahoma and Kansas through its divisions Oklahoma Natural Gas Company and
Kansas Gas Service Company. The Transportation and Storage segment owns and
leases natural gas storage facilities and transports gas in Oklahoma and Kansas.
The Marketing segment purchases and markets natural gas, primarily in the
central area of the United States and began trading electricity on a limited
basis in 1999. The Company owns and operates gas processing plants as well as
gathering pipeline in Oklahoma through its Gathering and Processing segment. The
Production segment produces natural gas and oil and owns natural gas and oil
reserves. The Company's Other segment, whose results of operations are not
material, operates and leases the Company's headquarters building and parking
facility.

CONSOLIDATION - The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of
ONEOK, Inc. and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany
accounts and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. Investments in
twenty percent to 50 percent-owned affiliates are accounted for on the equity
method. Investments in less than twenty percent owned affiliates are accounted
for on the cost method.

REGULATION - The distribution, transportation and portions of the storage and
gathering operations of the Company are subject to the rate regulation and
accounting requirements of the Oklahoma Corporation Commission (OCC) and of the
Kansas Corporation Commission (KCC). Certain other transportation activities of
the Company are subject to regulation by the Federal Energy Regulatory
Commission (FERC). Accordingly, these operations follow the accounting and
reporting guidance contained in Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No.
71, "Accounting for the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation." Allocation of
costs and revenues to accounting periods for ratemaking and regulatory purposes
may differ from bases generally applied by nonregulated companies. Such
allocations to meet regulatory accounting requirements are considered to be
generally accepted accounting principles for regulated utilities provided that
there is a demonstrable ability to recover any deferred costs in future rates.

A July, 1999 order by the OCC removed the Oklahoma gathering and storage assets
from utility regulation effective November 1, 1999. An August, 1999 order from
the OCC distinguished between upstream (transportation) and downstream
(distribution) assets and cleared the way for competitive bidding of upstream
services to begin fall, 1999.

During the rate-making process, regulatory commissions may require a utility to
defer recognition of certain costs to be recovered through rates over time as
opposed to expensing such costs as incurred. This allows the utility to
stabilize rates over time rather than passing such costs on to the customer for
immediate recovery. This causes certain expenses to be deferred as a regulatory
asset and amortized to expense as it is recovered through rates. Total
regulatory assets resulting from this deferral process are approximately $247
million and $230 million at August 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. As the
Company continues to unbundle its services, certain of these assets will no
longer meet the criteria for following SFAS No. 71, and accordingly, a write-off
of regulatory assets and stranded costs may be required. However, the Company
does not anticipate that these costs will be significant. See Note D of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.





REVENUE RECOGNITION - The Company recognizes revenue when services are rendered
or product is delivered. Major industrial and commercial gas distribution
customers are invoiced as of the end of each month. Certain gas distribution
customers, primarily residential and some commercial, are invoiced on a cycle
basis throughout the month, and the Company accrues unbilled revenues at the end
of each month. Oklahoma Natural Gas Company's (ONG's) tariff rates for
residential and commercial customers contain a temperature normalization clause
that provides for billing adjustments from actual volumes to normalized volumes
during the winter heating season. Revenues from marketing, gathering and
processing, and production are recognized on the sales method. Credit is granted
to these customers under customary terms.

REGULATED PROPERTY - Regulated properties are stated at cost which includes
personnel costs, general and administrative costs, and allowance for funds used
during construction. The allowance for funds used during construction represents
the capitalization of estimated average cost of borrowed funds (7.8 percent, 8.6
percent, and 8.6 percent, in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively) used during the
construction of major projects and is recorded as a credit to earnings.

Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method based upon rates
prescribed for ratemaking purposes. The average depreciation rate for property
that is regulated by the OCC approximated 3.8 percent in 1999, and 3.7 percent
in 1998 and 1997. The average depreciation rates for properties regulated by the
KCC were approximately 3.2 percent in 1999 and 3.3 percent in 1998. The average
depreciation rates for Mid Continent Market Center (MCMC) properties were 3.1
percent in 1999 and 3.4 percent in 1998.

Maintenance and repairs are charged directly to expense. Generally, the cost of
property retired or sold, plus removal costs, less salvage, is charged to
accumulated depreciation. Gains and losses from sales or transfers of operating
units or systems are recognized in income.




PRODUCTION PROPERTY - The Company uses the successful-efforts method to account
for costs incurred in the acquisition and exploration of oil and natural gas
reserves. Costs to acquire mineral interests in proved reserves and to drill and
equip development wells are capitalized. Geological and geophysical costs and
costs to drill exploratory wells which do not find proved reserves are expensed.
Unproved oil and gas properties which are individually significant are
periodically assessed for impairment. The remaining unproved oil and gas
properties are aggregated, and amortized based upon remaining lease terms and
exploratory and developmental drilling experience. Depreciation and depletion
are calculated using the unit-of-production method based upon periodic estimates
of proven oil and gas reserves.

OTHER PROPERTY - Gas processing plants and all other properties are stated at
cost. Gas processing plants are depreciated using various rates based on
estimated lives of available gas reserves. All other property and equipment is
depreciated using the straight-line method over its estimated useful life.

INVENTORIES - Materials and supplies are priced at average cost. Noncurrent gas
in storage is classified as property and is priced at cost. Cost of current gas
in storage for ONG is determined under the last-in, first-out, (lifo)
methodology. The estimated replacement cost of current gas in storage valued
under the lifo method was $23.1 million and $73.6 million at August 31, 1999 and
1998, respectively, compared to its value under the lifo method of $18.1 million
and $68.3 million at August 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. Current gas in
storage for all other companies is determined using the weighted average cost of
gas method.





INCOME TAXES - Deferred income taxes are recognized for the tax consequences of
"temporary differences" by applying enacted statutory tax rates applicable to
future years to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts and
the tax bases of existing assets and liabilities. The effect on deferred taxes
of a change in tax rates is deferred and amortized for operations regulated by
the OCC and for all other operations, is recognized in income in the period that
includes the enactment date. The Company continues to amortize previously
deferred investment tax credits on gas distribution and transmission properties
over the period prescribed by the OCC and KCC for ratemaking purposes.

COMMODITY PRICE RISK MANAGEMENT - To minimize the risk from market fluctuations
in the price of natural gas and oil, the Company enters into futures
transactions, swaps, and options in order to hedge certain natural gas in
storage, existing physical gas purchases or sales commitments, as well as
anticipated sales of natural gas production. In order to qualify as a hedge, the
price movements in the underlying commodity derivatives must be sufficiently
correlated with the hedged transaction. Changes in the market value of these
financial instruments utilized as hedges are (1) recognized as an adjustment of
the carrying value in the case of existing assets and liabilities, (2) included
in the measurement of the transaction that satisfies the commitment in the case
of existing commitments, and (3) included in the measurement of the subsequent
transaction in the case of anticipated transactions. In cases where anticipated
transactions do not occur, deferred gains and losses are recognized when such
transactions were scheduled to occur. Some of these financial instruments carry
off-balance sheet risks. See Note C of Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements.

IMPAIRMENTS - The Company accounts for the impairment of long-lived assets to be
recognized when indicators of impairment are present and the undiscounted cash
flows are not sufficient to recover the assets carrying amount. The impairment
loss is measured by comparing the fair value of the asset to its carrying
amount. Fair values are based on discounted future cash flows or information
provided by sales and purchases of similar assets. The Company evaluates
impairment of production assets on the lowest possible level, (a field by field
basis) rather than using a total company basis for its proved properties.

USE OF ESTIMATES - Management has made a number of estimates and assumptions
relating to reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of contingent
assets and liabilities to prepare these financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles. Actual results could differ from these
estimates.

GOODWILL - The Company amortizes goodwill, which represents the excess of the
purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired, over a period of 40
years. The Company assesses the recoverability of this intangible asset by
determining whether the amortization of the goodwill balance over its remaining
life can be recovered through undiscounted future operating cash flows of the
acquired operation.

EARNINGS PER COMMON SHARE - Basic earnings per share are calculated based on the
weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period.
Diluted earnings per share are calculated based on the weighted average number
of shares of common stock outstanding plus potentially dilutive securities.

ENVIRONMENTAL EXPENDITURES - The Company accrues for losses associated with
environmental remediation obligations when such losses are probable and
reasonably estimatable. Accruals for estimated losses from environmental
remediation obligations generally are recognized no later than completion of the
remedial feasibility study. Such accruals are adjusted as further information
develops or circumstances change. Recoveries of environmental remediation costs
from other parties are recorded as assets when their receipt is deemed probable.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS - Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid
investments, which are readily convertible into cash and have original
maturities of three months or less.

COMMON STOCK OPTIONS AND AWARDS - The Company follows SFAS No. 123, "Accounting
for Stock-Based Compensation" which permits, but does not require, a fair value
based method of accounting for stock-based employee compensation. Alternatively,
SFAS No. 123 allows companies to continue applying the provisions of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees"
("APB 25"), however,





such companies are required to disclose pro forma net income and earnings per
share as if the fair value based method had been applied. The Company has
elected to continue to apply the provisions of APB 25 for purposes of computing
compensation expense and has provided the pro forma disclosure provisions of
SFAS No. 123 in Note N of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

RECLASSIFICATION. Certain amounts in the 1997 and 1998 consolidated financial
statements have been reclassified to conform with the 1999 presentation. In
particular, the Company reclassified other income, including gains on sales of
assets from operating revenue to a separate caption, and now presents operating
income.

(B)        ACQUISITION

On November 26, 1997, Old ONEOK acquired from Western all of the gas
distribution assets of Western and all of the outstanding capital stock of
Western's directly or indirectly wholly-owned subsidiaries, Westar Gas
Marketing, Inc. and MCMC, and assumed all of the liabilities of Western that
arose primarily out of the gas business and approximately $161 million in debt
of Western; and Old ONEOK merged with and into New ONEOK, with New ONEOK as the
surviving corporation. The shares of Old ONEOK common stock were converted on a
one-for-one basis into shares of stock of New ONEOK, and Western received
2,996,702 shares of the Company's Common Stock and 19,317,584 shares of the
Company's Series A Convertible Preferred Stock. Such shares and additional
shares purchased by Western at the closing of the transaction represented in the
aggregate 9.9 percent of the outstanding Common Stock or 45 percent of the
Capital Stock of the Company. A shareholder agreement, which includes standstill
provisions, prevents Western from increasing its position in the Company above a
common stock interest of 45 percent on a fully converted basis and maintains
control of the Company in the hands of the public shareholders of the Company.

The acquisition was accounted for as a purchase and, accordingly, the operating
results of the properties acquired from Western are included in the consolidated
financial statements since December 1, 1997. The aggregate purchase price was
approximately $824 million, including debt assumed and transaction costs. The
aggregate purchase price, which was funded through the issuance of a combination
of preferred and common stock, was allocated based on the estimated fair value
of the net assets. The excess of the purchase price over the fair value of the
net assets acquired approximated $74 million and is being amortized over 40
years.

(C)        FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS AND RISK MANAGEMENT

FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS - The following table presents the carrying amounts and
fair values of certain of the Company's financial instruments. Fair value is
defined as the amount at which the instrument could be exchanged in a current
transaction between willing parties. The estimated fair value of long-term debt
and notes payable has been determined using quoted market prices of same or
similar issues, discounted cash flows, and/or rates currently available to the
Company for debt with similar terms and remaining maturities. The fair value of
natural gas and oil swaps, options, and futures contracts generally reflect the
estimated amounts that the Company would pay or receive to terminate the
contracts at the reporting date, thereby taking into account the unrealized
gains and losses on open contracts. There is no readily available market for
natural gas swaps. The items presented without a carrying value are off-balance
sheet financial instruments. All of the Company's financial instruments are held
for purposes other than trading.









RISK MANAGEMENT - The Company's operations subject earnings to variability based
on fluctuations in the market price and transportation costs of natural gas and
oil and in the temperature during the heating season. The Company's exposure
arises from fixed price purchase or sale agreements which extend for periods of
up to 48 months, certain gas storage inventories, and anticipated sales of oil
and gas production. In order to mitigate the financial risks associated with
such activities, the Company routinely enters into natural gas and oil futures
contracts, swaps, and options, collectively referred to herein as derivatives.
Net open positions in terms of price, volume, and specified delivery point do
occur. The Company is using derivative contracts to mitigate its risk associated
with weather for the winter of 1999/2000 and reduce the impact of degree day
variances from normal.

The futures contracts are purchased and sold on the New York Mercantile Exchange
(NYMEX) or the Kansas City Board of Trade (KCBOT) and require the Company to buy
or sell natural gas at a fixed price. Swap agreements generally require one
party to make payments based on the difference between a fixed price or fixed
differential from the NYMEX or KCBOT price while the other party pays a price
based on a published index. Swaps and options allow the Company to commit to
purchase gas at one location and sell it at another location without assuming
unacceptable risk with respect to changes in the price of gas or the cost of the
intervening transportation. Natural gas options held to hedge price risk provide
the right, but not the requirement, to buy or sell natural gas at a fixed price.
The Company utilizes options to limit overall price risk exposure. None of these
derivatives are held for speculative purposes and, in general, the Company's
risk management policy requires that positions taken with derivatives be offset
by positions in physical transactions or other derivatives.

The notional value of futures contracts purchased and sold is $316.2 million and
$407.2 million, respectively, at August 31, 1999. The term "notional amount"
refers to the current contract unit price times the contract volume for the
relevant derivative. In general, such amounts are not indicative of the cash
requirements associated with these derivatives. The notional amount is intended
to be indicative of the Company's level of activity in such derivatives,
although the amounts at risk are significantly smaller because, in general,
changes in market value of these derivatives are offset by changes in the value
associated with the underlying physical transaction or other derivatives.




(A) represents the estimated amount which would have been recognized upon
termination of the relevant derivatives as of the date indicated. The amount
which is ultimately charged or credited to earnings is affected by subsequent
changes in the fair value of these derivatives.





NYMEX- and KCBOT-traded futures and option contracts are guaranteed by NYMEX and
KCBOT and have nominal credit risk. All other derivative transactions expose the
Company to off-balance sheet risk in the event of non performance by the
counterparts. In order to minimize this risk, the Company analyzes each
counterpart's financial condition prior to entering into an agreement,
establishes credit limits, and monitors the appropriateness of these limits on
an on-going basis. Swap agreements are generally settled at the expiration of
the contract term and may be subject to margin requirements with the
counterparty. NYMEX- and KCBOT-traded futures and options contracts require
daily cash settlement in margin accounts with brokers.

(D)        REGULATORY ASSETS

The table presents a summary of regulatory assets, net of amortization,
outstanding at August 31, 1999 and 1998.




The remaining recovery period for these assets that the Company is not earning a
return on is set forth in the table below.



The OCC has authorized recovery of the take-or-pay settlement, pension and
postretirement benefit costs over a 10 to 20 year period. Kansas Gas Service has
been deferring and recording postretirement benefits in excess of pay-as-you-go
as a regulatory asset as authorized by the KCC. See Note H of Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

The KCC has allowed certain transition costs to be amortized and recovered in
rates over a forty year period with no rate of return on the unrecovered
balance. Management believes that all transition costs recorded as a regulatory
asset will be recovered through rates based on the accounting orders received
and regulatory precedents established by the KCC.

The Company amortizes reacquired debt costs, which includes unamortized debt
costs, in accordance with the accounting rules prescribed by the OCC and KCC.
These costs have been included in recent rate filings with the OCC and will be
included in future rate filings with the KCC as a component of interest.

In accordance with various rate orders received from the KCC and the OCC, Kansas
Gas Service has not yet collected through rates the amounts necessary to pay a
significant portion of the net deferred income tax liabilities. As management
believes it is probable that the net future increases in income taxes payable
will be recovered from customers, it has recorded a regulatory asset for these
amounts.

Amortization expense related to regulatory assets was approximately $13.7
million, $11.4 million, and $10.1 million in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.





(E)        CAPITAL STOCK

The Company has approximately 68 million shares of unrestricted common stock
available for issue. The Company redeemed all of its outstanding shares of
Series A Preferred Stock, par value $50 per share, at its stated voluntary
liquidation value of $53 per share during the third quarter of fiscal 1997. The
Company issued Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, par value $0.01 per share,
at the time of the transaction with Western. The holders of Series A Convertible
Preferred Stock are entitled to receive a dividend payment, with respect to each
dividend period of the common stock, equal to 1.5 times the dividend amount
declared in respect of each share of common stock for the first five years of
the agreement. After five years, the rate will be 1.25 times the dividend amount
declared in respect of each share of common stock, and at no time, will the
dividend be less that $1.80 per share. The terms of Series B Convertible
Preferred Stock are the same as Series A Convertible Preferred Stock, except
that the dividend amount is equal to the greater of 1.25 times the common stock
dividend or $1.50 per share. In 1999, the Company acquired and canceled all of
the Series B Convertible Preferred Stock it had issued in 1998 and 1999. Series
C Preferred Stock is designed to protect ONEOK, Inc. shareholders from coercive
or unfair takeover tactics. Holders of Series C Preferred Stock are entitled to
receive, in preference to the holders of ONEOK common stock, quarterly dividends
in an amount per share equal to the greater of $1 or subject to adjustment, 100
times the aggregate per share amount of all cash dividends, and 100 times the
aggregate per share amount of all non-cash dividends. No Series C Preferred
Stock has been issued.

The Series A and Series B Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible, subject to
certain restrictions, at the option of the holder, into ONEOK, Inc., Common
Stock at the rate of one share for each share of Series A or Series B
Convertible Preferred Stock.

During 1999, the Company initiated a stock buyback plan for up to 15 percent of
its capital stock. The program authorizes the Company to make purchases of its
common stock on the open market with the timing and terms of purchases and the
number of shares purchased to be determined by management based on market
conditions and other factors. Through August 31, 1999, the shares purchased
totaled 715,080. The purchased shares will be held in treasury and will be
available for general corporate purposes, funding of stock-based compensation
plans, resale at a future date, or retirement. Purchases will be financed with
short-term debt or made from available funds.

The Board of Directors has reserved 3.0 million shares of ONEOK, Inc's common
stock for the Direct Stock Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan of which 127
thousand shares were issued in 1999 and 142 thousand shares were issued in 1998;
and has reserved approximately 7.2 million shares for the Thrift Plan for
Employees of ONEOK, Inc. and Subsidiaries.

Under the most restrictive covenants of the Company's loan agreements, $251.4
million (83.4 percent) of retained earnings at August 31, 1999, was available to
pay dividends.

(F)        LINES OF CREDIT AND SHORT-TERM NOTES PAYABLE

Commercial paper and short-term notes payable totaling $264 million and $212
million were outstanding at August 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The
commercial paper and notes carried average interest rates of 5.42 percent and
5.83 percent at August 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The Company has a $600
million short-term unsecured revolving credit facility which provides a back-up
line of credit for commercial paper in addition to providing short-term funds.
Interest rates and facility fees are based on prevailing market rates and the
Company's credit ratings. No compensating balance requirements existed at August
31, 1999. Maximum short-term debt from all sources as approved by the Company's
Board of Directors is $750 million.

(G)        LONG-TERM DEBT

All long-term notes payable at August 31, 1999, are unsecured. The aggregate
current maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years ending August
31, 2004, are $22.8 million; $18.2 million; $14.7 million; $14.7 million;





and $14.7 million, respectively, including $7.1 million which is callable at the
option of the holder in each of those years.

During fiscal 1999, the Company refinanced $116.2 million of the 9.7% and $59.7
million of the 9.75% long-term notes payable with new debt at a lower interest
rate. In connection therewith, the Company paid a redemption premium of $18
million. See Note D of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.




(H)        EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

RETIREMENT PLANS - The Company has defined benefit retirement plans covering
substantially all employees. Company officers and certain key employees are also
eligible to participate in supplemental retirement plans. The Company generally
funds pension costs at a level equal to the minimum amount required under the
Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.

OTHER POSTRETIREMENT BENEFIT PLANS - The Company sponsors welfare care plans
that provide postretirement medical benefits and life and accidental death and
dismemberment benefits to substantially all employees who retire under the
Retirement Plans at age 55 or older with at least five years of service. The
plans are contributory, with retiree contributions adjusted periodically, and
contain other cost-sharing features such as deductibles and coinsurance.

The Company elected to delay recognition of the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation (APBO) of approximately $72.2 million and amortize it over 20
years as a component of net periodic postretirement benefit cost.



In 1999, the Company adopted SFAS No. 132, "Employers' Disclosures About
Pensions and Other Postretirement Benefits," which standardized the disclosure
requirements for pensions and other postretirement benefits. SFAS No. 132 did
not change the measurement or recognition of amounts related to those plans.
Prior-year amounts were reclassified to conform to the new standard. The status
of the Company's pension and other postretirement benefit plans are summarized
in the tables below.






For measurement purposes, a 7.2 percent annual rate of increase in the per
capita cost of covered medical benefits (i.e., medical cost trend rate) was
assumed for 1999, the rate was assumed to decrease gradually to 5 percent by the
year 2003 and remain at that level thereafter. The medical cost trend rate
assumption has a significant effect on the amounts reported. For example,
increasing the assumed medical cost trend by one percentage point in each year
would increase the accumulated postretirement benefit obligation as of August
31, 1999, by $14.6 million and the aggregate of the service and interest cost
components of net periodic postretirement benefit cost for the year ended





August 31, 1999, by $1.4 million. Decreasing the assumed medical cost trend by
one percentage point in each year would decrease the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation as of August 31, 1999, by $11.9 million and the aggregate of
the service and interest cost components of net periodic postretirement benefit
cost for the year ended August 31, 1999, by $1.1 million.

EMPLOYEE THRIFT PLANS - The Company has Thrift Plans covering substantially all
employees. Employee contributions are discretionary. Subject to certain limits,
employee contributions are matched by the Company. The annual cost of the plans
was $6.3 million in 1999; $4.7 million in 1998; and $3.4 million in 1997.

POSTEMPLOYMENT BENEFITS - The Company pays postemployment benefits to former or
inactive employees after employment but before normal retirement.

REGULATORY TREATMENT - The OCC has approved the recovery of ONG pension costs
and other postretirement benefit costs through rates. The costs recovered
through rates are based on current funding requirements and the net periodic
postretirement benefit cost for pension and postretirement costs, respectively.
Differences, if any, between the expense and the amount ordered through rates
are charged to earnings.

Prior to the acquisition of the assets regulated by the KCC in fiscal 1998,
Western had established a corporate-owned life insurance ("COLI") program which
it believed in the long term would offset the expenses of its postretirement and
postemployment benefit plans. Accordingly, the KCC issued an order permitting
the deferral of postretirement and postemployment benefit expenses in excess of
amounts recognized on a pay-as-you-go basis. The Company did not acquire the
COLI program. In connection with the KCC's approval of the acquisition, the KCC
granted the Company the benefit of all previous accounting orders issued to
Western and requested that the Company submit a plan of recovery either through
a general rate increase or through specific cost savings or revenue increases.
Based on regulatory precedents established by the KCC, and the accounting order
which permits the Company to seek recovery through rates, management believes
that it is probable that accrued postretirement and postemployment benefits can
be recovered in rates. The Company plans to file for recovery of these costs and
anticipates that recovery will be allowed over a period not to exceed 20 years.
If these costs cannot be recovered in rates charged to customers, the Company
would be required to record a one-time charge to expense the regulatory asset
established for postretirement and postemployment benefit costs totaling
approximately $52.7 million at August 31, 1999.

(I)        COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

LEASES - The initial term of the Company's headquarters building, ONEOK Plaza,
is for 25 years, expiring in 2009, with six five-year renewal options. At the
end of the initial term or any renewal period, the Company can purchase the
property at its fair market value. Rent for the lease accrues annually at $6.8
million until 2009. Rent payments were $5.8 million for 1999, 1998, and 1997.
Estimated future minimum rental payments for the lease are $7.6 million for the
year ending August 31, 2000, and $9.3 million for each of the years ending
August 31, 2001 through 2009.

The Company has the right to sublet excess office space in ONEOK Plaza. The
Company received $2.8 million, $2.8 million, and $2.7 million in rental revenue
during 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively, for various subleases. Estimated
minimum future rental payments to be received under existing contracts for
subleases are $2.9 million in 2000, $2.9 million in 2001, $2.8 million in 2002,
$2.4 million in 2003, $1.8 million in 2004, and a total of $2.9 million
thereafter.

Other operating leases include office buildings and equipment. The total
estimated payments for these leases are $2.5 million in 2000, $1.5 million in
2001, and $1.4 million in 2002, $1.2 million in 2003 and $0.6 million in 2004.

SOUTHWEST GAS CORPORATION - During the year ended August 31, 1999, the Company
and Southwest Gas Corporation (Southwest) entered into a definitive agreement
whereby the Company agreed to acquire Southwest for $30 per share in an all cash
transaction valued at $918 million. The total transaction cost, including
assumed debt, is estimated at $1.8 billion. The transaction is expected to be
completed during 2000, subject to various conditions including regulatory
approvals. Southwest shareholders approved the agreement on August 10, 1999. The
Company and



certain of its officers as well as Southwest have been named as defendants in a
lawsuit brought by Southern Union Company in connection with the proposed
acquisition in the total amount of $750 million. The Southern Union allegations
include, but are not limited to, Racketeer, Influenced and Corrupt Organizations
Act violations and improper interference in a contractual relationship between
Southwest and Southern Union. The Company, as third party beneficiary, has filed
a lawsuit against Southern Union for breach of a confidentiality agreement with
Southern Union and Southwest. The parties are presently involved in discovery.
If any of the plaintiffs should be successful in any of their claims against the
Company or Southwest and substantial damages are awarded, it could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's operations, cash flow, and financial
position. The Company believes the Southern Union allegations are without merit
and is defending itself vigorously against all claims.


ENVIRONMENTAL - In connection with the Western transaction, the Company acquired
responsibility for 12 manufactured gas sites located in Kansas which may contain
coal tar and other potentially harmful materials that are classified as
hazardous material. Hazardous materials are subject to control or remediation
under various environmental laws and regulations. A consent agreement with the
Kansas Department of Health and Environment (KDHE) presently governs all future
work at these sites. The terms of the consent agreement allow the Company to
investigate these sites and set remediation priorities based upon the results of
the investigations and risk analysis. The prioritized sites will be investigated
over a ten year period. At August 31, 1999, the costs of the investigations and
risk analysis have been minimal. Limited information is available about the
sites and no testing has been performed. Management's best estimate of the cost
of remediation ranges from $100 thousand to $10 million per site based on a
limited comparison of costs incurred to remediate comparable sites. These
estimates do not give effect to potential insurance recoveries, recoveries
through rates or from third parties. The KCC has permitted others to recover
their remediation costs through rates. It should be noted that additional
information and testing could result in costs significantly below or in excess
of the amounts estimated above. To the extent that such remediation costs are
not recovered, the costs could be material to the Company's results of
operations and cash flows depending on the degree of remediation required and
number of years over which the remediation must be completed.

OTHER - The Company is a party to other litigation matters and claims which are
normal in the course of its operations, and while the results of litigation and
claims cannot be predicted with certainty, management believes the final outcome
of such matters will not have a materially adverse effect on consolidated
results of operations, financial position, or liquidity.

(J)        INCOME TAXES

The provisions for income taxes are as follows:








Following is a reconciliation of the provision for income taxes.




The tax effects of temporary differences that gave rise to significant portions
of the deferred tax assets and liabilities are shown in the accompanying table.




The Company has remaining net operating loss carry-forwards for income tax
purposes of approximately $17.0 million at August 31, 1999, which expire, unless
previously utilized, at various dates through the year 2011. At August 31, 1999,
the Company had $8.5 million in deferred investment tax credits recorded in
other deferred credits which will be amortized over the next 16 years.

(K)        SEGMENT INFORMATION

In 1999, the Company adopted SFAS 131, "Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information." This statement requires the Company to
define and report the Company's business segments based on how management
currently evaluates its business. Management has segmented its business based on
differences in products and services and management responsibility.

The Company conducts its operations through six segments: (1) the Distribution
segment distributes natural gas to residential, commercial and industrial
customers and leases pipeline capacity to others; (2) the Transportation and
Storage segment transports and stores natural gas for others; (3) the Marketing
segment markets natural gas to wholesale and retail customers and markets
electricity to wholesale customers; (4) the Gathering and Processing segment
gathers and processes natural gas and natural gas liquids; (5) the Production
segment produces natural gas and oil; and (6) the Other segment primarily
operates and leases the Company's headquarters building and a related parking
facility.

The accounting policies of the segments are substantially the same as those
described in the summary of significant accounting policies. Intersegment oil
and gas sales are recorded on the same basis as sales to unaffiliated customers.





All corporate overhead costs relating to a reportable segment have been
allocated for the purpose of calculating operating income. The Company's equity
method investments do not represent operating segments of the Company. The
Company has no single external customer from which it receives ten percent or
more of its revenues.















(L)        QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

Total operating revenues are consistently greater from November through May due
to the large volume of natural gas sold to customers for heating. A summary of
the unaudited quarterly results of operations for 1999 and 1998 follows:












(M)        SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

The table presents supplemental information relative to the Company's cash flows
for the years ended August 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997.




(N)        STOCK BASED COMPENSATION

LONG-TERM INCENTIVE PLAN - The Long-term Incentive Plan (Plan) provides for the
granting of incentive stock options, fixed stock options, and stock bonus awards
to key employees. This Plan replaces the Key Employee Stock Purchase Plan. Under
the Plan, options may be granted by the Executive Compensation Committee (the
Committee) at any time within ten years expiring August 17, 2005. Options may be
granted which are not exercisable until a fixed future date or in installments.
The Plan also provides for restored options in the event that the optionee
surrenders shares of common stock which the optionee already owns in full or
partial payment of the options price under this option and/or surrenders shares
of common stock to satisfy withholding tax obligations incident to the exercise
of this option. A restored option has an option price equal to the fair market
value of the common stock on the date on which the exercise of the option
resulted in the grant of the restored option. The Company has reserved one
million shares of common stock for the Plan.





Options issued to date become void upon voluntary termination of employment
other than retirement. In the event of retirement or involuntary termination,
the optionee may exercise the option within three months. In the event of death,
the option may be exercised by the personal representative of the optionee
within a period to be determined by the Committee and stated in the option.
Options issued to date can be exercised after one year from grant date and must
be exercised no more than ten years after grant date. Activity to date has been
as follows:



At August 31, 1999, the Company had 283,524 outstanding options with exercise
prices ranging between $23.69 to $34.03 and a weighted average remaining life of
7.68 years. All of these options were exercisable at August 31, 1999 with a
weighted average exercise price of $30.26.

The Company also had 338,571 options outstanding at August 31, 1999 with
exercise prices ranging between $35.22 and $42.53 and a weighted average
remaining life of 8.78 years. Of these options, 71,471 were exercisable at
August 31, 1999 at a weighted average exercise price of $35.46.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN - In 1995, the Company authorized the Employee
Stock Purchase Plan and reserved 350,000 shares of common stock for it. Almost
all full-time employees are eligible to participate. Under the terms of the
plan, employees can choose to have up to ten percent of their annual earnings
withheld to purchase the Company's common stock. The Committee may allow
contributions to be made by other means provided that in no event will
contributions from all means exceed ten percent of the employee's annual
earnings. The purchase price of the stock is 85 percent of the lower of its
beginning-of-year or end-of-year market price. Approximately 54 percent, 60
percent and 55 percent of eligible employees participated in the plan in fiscal
1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. Under the plan, the Company sold 97,091
shares in December 1998, 105,923 shares in December 1997 and 107,080 shares in
December 1996.



ACCOUNTING TREATMENT - The Company continues to apply APB 25 in accounting for
both plans and accordingly, no compensation has been recognized in the
consolidated financial statements. Had the Company applied the provisions of
SFAS 123 to determine the compensation cost under these plans, the Company's pro
forma net income and diluted earnings per share would have been as follows:




The fair market value of each option granted is estimated based on the
Black-Scholes model. Based on previous stock performance, volatility is
estimated to be 0.2151 for 1999, 0.2720 for 1998 and 0.2264 for 1997. Dividend
yield is estimated to be 4.0 for 1999, 3.9 percent for 1998 and 3.7 percent for
1997, with a risk-free interest rate of 5.983 percent, 5.032 percent, and 6.590
percent in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

Expected life ranged from 1 to 10 years based upon experience to date and the
make-up of the optionees. Fair value of options granted under the Plan were
$13.86, $8.75, and $11.58 for 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

(O)        EARNINGS PER SHARE INFORMATION

The following is a reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the
basic and diluted EPS computations.

The effect of dilutive options in fiscal 1997 is insignificant.










(P)        OIL AND GAS PRODUCING ACTIVITIES

The following is historical revenue and cost information relating to the
Company's production operations:




The accompanying schedule presents the results of operations of the Company's
oil and gas producing activities. The results exclude general office overhead
and interest expense attributable to oil and gas production.





(Q)        OIL AND GAS RESERVES (UNAUDITED)

Following are estimates of the Company's proved oil and gas reserves, net of
royalty interests and changes herein, for the 1999, 1998, and 1997 fiscal years.





The Company emphasizes that the volumes of reserves shown are estimates, which,
by their nature, are subject to later revision. The estimates are made by the
Company utilizing all available geological and reservoir data as well as
production performance data. These estimates are reviewed annually and revised,
either upward or downward, as warranted by additional performance data.



(R)        DISCOUNTED FUTURE NET CASH FLOWS (UNAUDITED)

Estimates of the standard measure of discounted future cash flows from proved
reserves of oil and natural gas shown in the accompanying table are based on
prices at the end of the year. Gas prices are escalated only for fixed and
determinable amounts under provisions of applicable regulations in some
contracts. These estimated future cash flows are reduced by estimated future
development and production costs based on year-end cost levels, assuming
continuation of existing economic conditions, and by estimated future income tax
expense. The tax expense is calculated by applying the current year-end
statutory tax rates to pretax net cash flows (net of tax depreciation,
depletion, and lease amortization allowances) applicable to oil and gas
production.







The changes in standardized measure of discounted future net cash flow relating
to proved oil and gas reserves are as follows:





ITEM 9.         CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
                FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None



                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, PROMOTERS, AND CONTROL PERSONS OF THE
         REGISTRANT

(A)  DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT

EDWYNA G. ANDERSON                                   Director since 1995
Age 69

Mrs. Anderson served as General Counsel of Duquesne Light Company from September
1988 until retirement in October 1994. She also served as Special Counsel to the
President of Duquesne Light Company from October 1994 until March 1995, when she
retired from that position.

WILLIAM L. FORD                                      Director since 1981
Age 56

Mr. Ford has served as President of Shawnee Milling Company since 1979. He
serves on the boards of numerous civic and business organizations and
not-for-profit associations.

BERT H. MACKIE                                       Director since 1989
Age 57

Mr. Mackie has been with Security National Bank since 1962, and is currently
President and a director. Mr. Mackie serves on the Board of Governors of the
United States Postal Service.

GARY D. PARKER                                       Director since 1991
Age 54

Mr. Parker, a certified public accountant, is also the majority shareholder of
Moffitt, Parker & Company, Inc., and has been President of the firm since 1982.
He is a director of First National Bank and Trust Company of Muskogee, Oklahoma.

LARRY W. BRUMMETT                                    Director since 1994
Age 49

Mr. Brummett has been employed by the Company for more than 24 years. He was
employed by ONEOK's Oklahoma Natural Gas Company division as an engineer trainee
in June 1974 and, after receiving a number of promotions within the division,
was elected Vice President of Tulsa District September 1, 1986, and Executive
Vice President in May 1990. He was elected Executive Vice President of ONEOK
Inc. January 21, 1993. He was elected President and Chief Executive Officer
February 17, 1994, and was elected to the additional position of Chairman of the
Board effective June 1, 1994. Mr. Brummett is a director of the American Gas
Association; Southern Gas Association; Oklahoma State Chamber of Commerce;
Metropolitan Chamber of Commerce, Tulsa; and the Oklahoma City Branch of the
Federal Reserve Bank. He is also an officer or director of numerous civic and
business organizations and not-for-profit associations.

DOUGLAS ANN NEWSOM, PH.D.                            Director since 1982
Age 65

Dr. Newsom is a Professor within the Department of Journalism at Texas Christian
University, Fort Worth, Texas. In addition to her teaching position, Dr. Newsom
is a textbook author and public relations counselor. Ms. Newsom has been a
member of the Advisory Council of GRI for fifteen years.








J. D. SCOTT                                          Director since 1979
Age 67

Mr. Scott served as President, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman of the Board
of ONEOK Inc. from January 1987 until he retired in 1994.

DOUGLAS T. LAKE                                      Director since 1998
Age 49

Mr. Lake, Executive Vice President and Chief Strategic Officer of Western
Resources, Inc., became a director of ONEOK, Inc. in October 1998. He joined
Western Resources, Inc. in September 1998, having previously served as Senior
Managing Director of the investment Banking Department of Bear Stearns & Co.
Inc. He is Chairman of the Board of Directors of Protection One, Inc., and is
currently a Director of Guardian International, Inc.

WILLIAM M. BELL                                      Director since 1981
Age 64

Mr. Bell is President and a director of Bank One, Oklahoma, N.A. He serves on
the boards of numerous civic and business organizations and not-for-profit
associations.

DOUGLAS R. CUMMINGS                                  Director since 1989
Age 69

Mr. Cummings has been President of Cummings Oil Company since 1972. He is an
officer or director of numerous civic and business organizations and
not-for-profit associations.

HOWARD R. FRICKE                                     Director since 1997
Age 63

Mr. Fricke is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of Security
Benefit Group of Companies. He joined the Security Benefit Group of Companies in
1988, having previously served as chairman and chief executive officer of the
Anchor National Company in Phoenix, Arizona. He is currently a director of
Payless ShoeSource, Inc., and UMB Financial Corp. He also serves on the board of
directors of the American Council for Life Insurance and Life Officer Management
Association.

DAVID L. KYLE                                        Director since 1995
Age 47

Mr. Kyle is the President and Chief Operating Officer of ONEOK, Inc. He was
employed by Oklahoma Natural Gas Company, a division of ONEOK Inc., in 1974 as
an engineer trainee. He served in a number of positions prior to being elected
Vice President of Gas Supply September 1, 1986, and Executive Vice President May
17, 1990. He was elected President September 1, 1994. He was elected President
of ONEOK Inc. effective September 1, 1997.

(B)  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

Information concerning the executive officers of the Company is included in Part
I of this Form 10-K.

(C)  COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 16(A) OF THE EXCHANGE ACT

ONEOK believes that during Fiscal 1999 all Securities and Exchange Commission
filings of its officers, directors and ten percent shareholders complied with
the requirements of Section 16 of the Securities Exchange Act, based on a review
of forms filed, or written notice that no annual forms were required, except for
two reports covering two purchases of stock made by Ms. Douglas Ann Newsom's
spouse, which were reported late on a Form 4 filed for April






1999. Ms. Newsom disclaims ownership of these shares.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION




1.   Included in this column are fees received in Fiscal 1999 by Mr. Brummett
     and Mr. Kyle for serving on the Board of Directors of Magnum Hunter
     Resources, Inc. ONEOK Resources Company is a 10% owner of Magnum Hunter
     Resources, Inc.

2.   No SARs were granted in Fiscal Year 1999 to any of the named executive
     officers.

3.   The table below shows the components of this column for Fiscal 1999:




4.   A portion of the securities underlying these grants are restored or
     "reloaded" options. The stock option agreement provided that an additional
     option may be granted if, and when, the optionee exercises all or part of
     the option using Common Stock to pay the purchase price of the option or to
     satisfy tax obligations incident to the exercise of the option. The
     restored option will be exercisable for the number of shares tendered to
     pay the option price or to satisfy any tax obligation, and will be
     exercisable at any time after the date of grant (or at any other time as
     determined by the Company) and will expire on the expiration date of the
     original grant. The number of restored options included in these grants are
     as follows:








AGGREGATED OPTION EXERCISES AND YEAR-END VALUES



The following table shows information for the Named Executive Officers,
concerning:

     o    exercises of stock options and SARs(1) during Fiscal 1999; and

     o    the amount and values of unexercised stock options and SARs as of
          August 31, 1999.


     AGGREGATED OPTIONS/SAR EXERCISES IN 1999 AND YEAR-END OPTION/SAR VALUES




(1)  No Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs") were granted in Fiscal 1999.

(2)  Based on per share price for ONEOK, Inc. Common Stock of $30.812 per share.
     The price reflects the average of the high and low trading price on the New
     York Stock Exchange on August 31, 1999.








OPTION GRANT TABLE

The following table represents additional information concerning the option
awards shown in the Summary Compensation Table for Fiscal Year 1999. These
options to purchase common stock were granted to the Named Executive Officers
under the ONEOK, Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan.

                       OPTION GRANTS IN FISCAL YEAR 1999(1)




1.   No Stock Appreciation Rights ("SARs") were granted in Fiscal 1999.
2.   Each option was awarded with an exercise price equal to the fair market
     value of a share of ONEOK, Inc. Common Stock on the date of the grant and
     will become exercisable in four equal installments commencing one year from
     the grant date.
3.   These amounts represent assumed rates of appreciation only and are not
     intended to forecast future appreciation of the Common Stock price. Actual
     gains, if any, on stock option exercises depend on the future performance
     of the Common Stock and overall market conditions. There can be no
     assurances that the potential values reflected in this table will be
     achieved.




ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT


(A)  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS



1    As of 08/31/99 Western Resources, Inc. and its affiliates owned
     approximately 45% of the outstanding shares of the capital stock of the
     Corporation. Holders of the outstanding convertible preferred stock are not
     entitled to vote on any matters being considered at this Annual Meeting.

2    Westar Capital, Inc. is an affiliate of Western Resources, Inc.









(B)    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF MANAGEMENT

The following table shows how much ONEOK, Inc. Common Stock each Named
Executive Officer and director owned as of August 31, 1999. No director or
executive officer beneficially owns more than 1% of the Common Stock, and
directors and executive officer as a group beneficially own approximately 1.89%
of the Common Stock.

                     DIRECTORS' & OFFICERS' STOCK OWNERSHIP



1.      This column includes ONEOK, Inc. stock held by directors and officers,
        or by certain members of their families for which the directors and
        officers have sole or shared voting or investment power, shares of
        Common Stock they hold in the ONEOK, Inc. Direct Stock Purchase and
        Dividend Reinvestment Plan, and ONEOK, Inc. securities directors and
        officers have the right to acquire within 60 days of August 31, 1999.

2.      Phantom Stock has a value equal to shares of Common Stock, but Phantom
        Stock has no voting rights or other shareholder rights. Phantom Stock
        suffers all the risks, and enjoys all the rewards, of changes in the
        price of Common Stock.

3.      Includes 697 shares held in the Bell Family 1982 Revocable Trust.

4.      The amounts shown include shares of ONEOK, Inc. Common Stock which the
        following persons have the right to acquire as a result of the exercise
        of stock options within 60 days after August 31, 1999 under the ONEOK,
        Inc. Long-Term Incentive Plan:








6.      Includes 1,136 shares owned by the 1979 Leslie A. Ford Trust, of which
        William L. Ford is a trustee. Mr. Ford is not a beneficial owner of
        these shares and disclaims ownership thereof.

7.      Includes 3,475 shares owned by Mrs. James C. Kneale. Mr. Kneale
        disclaims ownership of these shares. Mr. Kneale also holds 640 shares
        in trust for his daughter.

8.      Mr. Neal retired from the company effective 05/31/99.

9.      Includes 1,000 shares owned by Ms. Newsom's spouse. Ms. Newsom
        disclaims ownership of these shares.

10.     Includes 470 shares owned by Mrs. Gary D. Parker. In addition, Mr.
        Parker is holding 1,400 shares in trust as the Trustee of the Phillip
        Wilkinson Irrevocable Trust under agreement dated 07/13/95.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None




                                    PART IV.

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(A)        DOCUMENTS FILED AS A PART OF THIS REPORT















(B)        REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

           June 22, 1999 - announced the Public Utility Commission of Nevada
           has approved the proposed merger between the Company and Southwest
           Gas.

           July 12, 1999 - updated financial information relating to the
           Southwest Gas and required pro forma financial information.

           July 28, 1999 - announced plans for moving into the electric
           generation and power marketing business.

           August 6, 1999 - information relating to legal matters on the
           pending Southwest Gas merger.




           August 9, 1999 - announced Southern Union Company's failure in two
           separate court actions to delay shareholder vote and the regulatory
           approval process for the pending Southwest Gas merger.

           August 11, 1999 - announced the approval of the pending Southwest
           Gas merger by the shareholders of Southwest Gas.

           August 17, 1999 - announced public offering for $300 million 7 3/4%
           notes.

           October 14, 1999 - Chairman and CEO Larry Brummett addressed
           Oklahoma Corporation Commission to say the false allegations about a
           1993 gas purchase contract may jeopardize the planned merger with
           Southwest Gas.

           October 21, 1999 - announced fiscal year change.

           November 8, 1999 - short-term credit agreement signed.

OTHER MATTERS

None.




                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this 18th day of
November 1999.



                                      ONEOK, Inc.
                                      Registrant

                                      By:  Jim Kneale
                                           ------------------------------------
                                           Jim Kneale
                                           Vice President, Chief Financial
                                           Officer, and Treasurer (Principal
                                           Financial Officer)




                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on
behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated, on this 18th day of
November 1999.







                                 EXHIBIT INDEX




