ITEM 1.A. RISK
FACTORS



The risks and
uncertainties set forth below, as well as other factors described elsewhere in
this Report or in other filings by the Company with the SEC, could adversely
affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of operations.
Additional risks and uncertainties that are not currently known to the Company
or that are not currently believed by the Company to be material may also harm
the Company’s business operations and financial results. Risks
include:

significant increases in
  the costs of energy and transportation, including the cost of diesel, or of
  key raw materials, including, but not limited to, resin, chlor-alkali, sodium
  hypochlorite, corrugate, agricultural commodities and other raw
  materials;

the Company’s ability to
  control internal costs and generate expected cost savings and
  efficiencies;

the ability of the
  Company to efficiently manage its supply chain and manufacturing process and
  to effectively provide supply assurances to its customers;

the impact of a
  potential product withdrawal, recall or other quality issue;

the ability of the
  Company to successfully execute its strategies;

the ability of the
  Company to penetrate and grow international markets;

the ability of the
  Company to achieve its business plans, including volume growth and pricing
  plans, as a result of high levels of competitive activity or other
  factors;

fluctuations in federal,
  state, local and foreign taxes and the ability of the Company to successfully
  manage regulatory, tax and legal matters, including the resolution of pending
  matters within current estimates;

the ability of the
  Company to ensure compliance with applicable laws and with the Company’s
  policies and procedures;

the impact of any
  litigation or product liability claims;

the impact of
  environmental remediation costs, including those for which the Company is
  jointly and severally liable;

the introduction of new
  products and line extensions by the Company or its
  competitors;

the effectiveness of the
  Company’s advertising, marketing and promotional programs, including the
  effectiveness of the Company’s use of digital media to reach
  consumers;

the ability of the
  Company to maintain key retail customer relationships;

changes in product
  pricing by the Company or its competitors and consumer and customer reaction
  to such changes;

the impact of customer
  inventory reductions or reduction in the number of brands offered on retailer
  shelves;

the impact of potential
  emerging technologies on the Company’s existing product lines, including any
  potential future obsolescence;

the mix of products sold
  within different channels and countries with varying profitability in a given
  quarter or fiscal year;










the ability of the
  Company to manage inventory at appropriate levels, including decisions
  regarding obsolescence;

the ability of the
  Company to maintain and enhance profits in the face of a consolidating retail
  environment;

the ability to attract
  and retain a sufficient number of qualified personnel to meet the Company’s
  business needs;

the impact of general
  economic conditions in the United States and in other countries in which the
  Company currently does business;

the impact of interest
  rate and currency fluctuations;

the impact of
  fluctuations in the value of derivative instruments and the ability to achieve
  hedge effectiveness for accounting purposes;

the impact of foreign
  import and export restrictions or other trade regulations;

the availability and
  cost of debt financing;

changes to cash flow
  resulting from the Company’s operating results, tax settlement payments, debt
  repayments and share repurchases;

charges resulting from
  any restructuring that management may, from time to time, choose to
  undertake;

charges for impairment
  and obsolescence of property, plant and equipment in excess of
  projections;

expenses for impairment
  of goodwill, trademarks and other intangible assets and equity investments in
  excess of projections;

the impact of changing
  accounting principles and standards;

significant increases in
  insurance costs, or pension, healthcare or other employee benefit
  costs;

the impact of changes in
  the market value of investments, including those investments held in the
  Company’s pension plan, and any resulting funding requirements;
  and

the ability of the
  Company to maintain the value and reputation of its brands.

In addition,
Company growth, whether due to acquisitions or to internal growth, can burden
management resources and financial controls that, in turn, can have a negative
impact on operating results and net earnings. To some extent, the Company sets
its expense levels in anticipation of future revenues. If actual revenue falls
short of these expectations, operating results and net earnings are likely to be
adversely affected.












The Company faces intense
competition in its markets, which could lead to reduced
profitability.



The Company
faces intense competition from consumer product companies both in the U.S. and
in its international markets. Most of the Company’s products compete with other
widely-advertised brands within each product category and with “private label”
brands and “generic” nonbranded products of grocery chains and wholesale
cooperatives in certain categories, which typically are sold at lower
prices.



The Company’s
products generally compete on the basis of product performance, brand
recognition, price, value or other benefits to consumers. Advertising,
promotion, merchandising and packaging also have a significant impact on
consumer purchasing decisions. A newly introduced consumer product (whether
improved or newly developed) usually encounters intense competition requiring
substantial expenditures for advertising, sales promotion and trade
merchandising. If a product gains consumer acceptance, it normally requires
continued advertising, promotional support and product improvements to maintain
its relative market position.



Some of the
Company’s competitors are larger and have financial resources greater than those
of the Company. These competitors may be able to spend more aggressively on
advertising and promotional activities, introduce competing products more
quickly and respond more effectively to changing business and economic
conditions than the Company can. In addition, the Company’s competitors may
attempt to gain market share by offering products at prices at or below those
typically offered by the Company. Competitive activity may require the Company
to increase its spending on advertising and promotions and/or reduce prices and
could lead to reduced profits and could adversely affect growth.



Unfavorable general economic
conditions and financial market volatility may negatively impact the Company’s
financial performance and liquidity.



Although the
Company continues to devote significant resources to support its brands,
unfavorable economic conditions may negatively affect consumer demand for the
Company’s products. Consumers may reduce discretionary spending due to economic
uncertainty or unfavorable economic conditions, and this may lead to reduced
sales volumes or cause a shift in the Company’s product mix from higher margin
to lower margin products. Consumers may increase purchases of lower-priced or
non-branded products and the Company’s competitors may increase levels of
promotional activity for lower-priced products as they seek to maintain sales
volumes during recessionary periods.












In addition,
global markets have continued to experience significant disruptions during
fiscal year 2010 and continuing volatility could harm the Company’s business.
Although the Company currently generates significant cash flows from ongoing
operations and has access to global credit markets through its financing
activities and existing credit facilities, if the current credit conditions were
to worsen, the Company might not be able to access credit markets on favorable
terms, which could adversely affect the Company’s ability to borrow. Financial
market volatility and unfavorable economic conditions may also adversely affect
the financial condition of the Company’s customers, suppliers and other business
partners. If customers’ financial conditions are severely affected, the Company
may not be able to collect account receivables. In addition, the decline in the
equity markets and the valuation of other assets precipitated by the credit
crisis and financial system disruptions has affected the value of the Company’s
pension plan assets. The lower pension plan asset base has negatively affected
the return on plan assets and has increased the Company’s pension expense. As a
result, the Company has contributed additional pension funding. If current
market conditions worsen or continue for a prolonged period of time, it could
have an additional negative impact on future pension expense and cash flow.



Sales growth may be difficult to
achieve.



A large
percentage of the Company’s revenues comes from mature markets that are subject
to increased competition. During fiscal year 2010, approximately 80% of the
Company’s net sales were generated in U.S. markets. U.S. markets for cleaning
products are considered mature and are generally characterized by high household
penetration. The Company’s ability to achieve sales growth will depend on its
ability to drive growth through innovation, investment in its established brands
and enhanced merchandising and its ability to capture market share from
competitors. In addition, price increases may slow sales growth or create
declines in sales in the short term as consumers adjust to price increases. If
the Company is unable to increase market share in existing product lines,
develop product improvements, undertake sales, marketing and advertising
initiatives that grow its product categories, and develop, acquire or
successfully launch new products, it may not achieve its sales growth
objectives.



The Company is subject to foreign
exchange rate risk and uncertain conditions and other risks in international
markets.



The Company is
exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk with respect to its sales,
profits, assets and liabilities denominated in currencies other than the U.S.
dollar. Although the Company uses instruments to hedge certain foreign currency
risks, these hedges only offset a small portion of the Company’s exposure to
foreign currency fluctuations and its reported earnings may be affected by
changes in foreign exchange rates.



In addition to
foreign exchange rate risks, the Company faces and will continue to face
substantial risks associated with having foreign operations, including:

economic or political
  instability in its international markets, particularly in Latin America and
  particularly in Venezuela;difficulty in obtaining
  non-local currency (e.g. U.S. dollars, Euros) to pay for the raw materials
  needed to manufacture the Company’s products and contract-manufactured
  products, particularly in Venezuela;restrictions on or costs
  relating to the repatriation of foreign profits to the United States,
  including possible taxes or withholding obligations on any repatriations;
  andthe imposition of
  tariffs, trade restrictions, price restrictions or other governmental actions
  generating a negative impact on our business.

These risks
could have a significant impact on the Company’s ability to commercialize its
products on a competitive basis in international markets and may have a material
adverse effect on its results of operations or financial position. The Company’s
small sales volume in some countries, relative to some multinational and local
competitors, could exacerbate such risks.












Also, the
Company’s operations outside the United States are subject to risks relating to
potential difficulties in staffing and managing local operations, import and
export laws, credit risk of local customers and distributors and potentially
adverse tax consequences.For further
information regarding the impact of currency exchange rates and uncertain
conditions in international markets, see “Venezuela” in “Management’s Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” onpages 14 through 16of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



Operations outside of the United
States may be affected by legal and regulatory risks, and government reviews,
inquiries or investigations could harm the Company’s business.



The Company’s
operations outside the United States are subject to risks relating to compliance
with legal and regulatory requirements in the United States and in local
jurisdictions. Additionally, there is a risk of potentially higher incidence of
fraud or corruption in certain foreign jurisdictions and greater difficulty in
maintaining effective internal controls. From time to time, the Company may
conduct internal investigations and compliance reviews to ensure that the
Company is in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. Additionally, the
Company could be subject to inquiries or investigations by government and other
regulatory bodies. Any determination that the Company’s operations or activities
are not in compliance with United States laws, including the Foreign Corrupt
Practices Act, or various international laws and regulations could expose the
Company to significant fines, penalties or other sanctions that may harm the
business and reputation of the Company.



Acquisitions, new venture
investments and divestitures may not be successful.



In connection
with the Company’s strategy, the Company may seek to increase growth through
acquisitions. Not only is the identification of good acquisition candidates
difficult and competitive, but these transactions also involve numerous risks,
including the ability to:

successfully integrate
  acquired companies, products, systems or personnel into the Company’s existing
  business, especially with respect to businesses or operations that are outside
  of the United States;minimize any potential
  interruption to the ongoing business of the Company;successfully enter
  categories and markets in which the Company may have limited or no prior
  experience;achieve expected
  synergies and obtain the desired financial or strategic benefits from
  acquisitions;retain key relationships
  with employees, customers, partners and suppliers of acquired companies;
  andmaintain uniform
  standards, controls, procedures and policies throughout acquired
  companies.










Companies or
operations acquired or joint ventures created may not be profitable or may not
achieve sales levels and profitability that justify the investments made. Future
acquisitions could also result in potentially dilutive issuances of equity
securities, the incurrence of debt, the assumption of contingent liabilities,
the increase in expenses related to certain intangible assets and increased
operating expenses, which could adversely affect the Company’s results of
operations and financial condition. Future acquisitions of foreign companies
would increase the Company’s exposure to foreign exchange risks. In addition, to
the extent that the economic benefits associated with any of the Company’s
acquisitions diminish in the future, the Company may be required to record
additional write-downs of goodwill, intangible assets or other assets associated
with such acquisitions, which could adversely affect its operating
results.



The Company
may also decide to divest certain assets, businesses or brands that do not meet
the Company’s strategic objectives or growth targets. With respect to any
divestiture, the Company may encounter difficulty finding potential acquirers or
other divestiture options on favorable terms. Any divestiture could affect the
profitability of the Company, either as a result of the gains or losses on such
sale of a business or brand, the loss of the operating income resulting from
such sale or the costs or liabilities that are not assumed by the acquirer that
may negatively impact profitability subsequent to any divestiture. The Company
may also be required to recognize impairment charges as the result of a
divesture.



Any potential
future acquisitions, new ventures or divestitures may divert the attention of
management and may divert resources from matters that are core or critical to
the business.



The Company may not successfully
develop and introduce new products and line extensions.



The Company’s
future performance and growth depends on its ability to successfully develop and
introduce new products and line extensions and product improvements. The Company
cannot be certain that it will successfully achieve those goals. The development
and introduction of new products require substantial and effective research,
development and marketing expenditures, which the Company may be unable to
recoup if the new products do not gain widespread market acceptance. New product
development and marketing efforts, including efforts to enter markets or product
categories in which the Company has limited or no prior experience, have
inherent risks. These risks include product development or launch delays, which
could result in the Company not being first to market, the failure of new
products and line extensions to achieve anticipated levels of market acceptance
and the cost of failed product introductions.



Dependence on key customers could
adversely affect the Company’s business, financial condition and results of
operations.



A limited
number of customers account for a large percentage of the Company’s net sales.
Net sales to the Company’s largest customer, Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. and its
affiliates, were 27% for fiscal years 2010 and 2009, and 26% for fiscal year
2008 of consolidated net sales and occurred in each of the Company’s reportable
segments. No other customers exceeded 10% of consolidated net sales in any of
these years. During fiscal years 2010, 2009 and 2008, the Company’s five largest
customers accounted for 45%, 43% and 42% of its net sales, respectively. The
Company expects that a significant portion of its revenues will continue to be
derived from a small number of customers. As a result, changes in the strategies
of the Company’s largest customers, including a reduction in the number of
brands they carry or a shift of shelf space to “private-label” or competitors’
products, may harm the Company’s sales. Additionally, this may reduce the
ability of the Company to bring new innovative products to consumers.



In addition,
the Company’s business is based primarily upon individual sales orders, and the
Company typically does not enter into long-term contracts with its customers.
Accordingly, these customers could reduce their purchasing levels or cease
buying products from the Company at any time and for any reason. If the Company
does not effectively respond to the demands of its customers, they could
decrease their purchases from the Company, causing the Company’s sales and
profits to decline. In recent years, the Company has seen increasing retailer
consolidation both in the U.S. and internationally. This trend has resulted in
the increased size and influence of large consolidated retailers, which may
demand lower pricing or special packaging, or impose other requirements on
product suppliers. These business demands may relate to inventory practices,
logistics, or other aspects of the customer-supplier relationship. If the
Company ceases doing business with a significant customer or if sales of its
products to a significant customer materially decrease, the Company’s business,
financial condition and results of operations may be harmed.












The Company’s financial results
could suffer if the Company is unable to implement its strategies or if the
Company’s strategies do not achieve the intended effects.



There is no
assurance that the Company will be able to implement its strategies or will
achieve its intended growth targets. If the Company is unable to implement its
strategies in accordance with its expectations, the Company’s financial results
could be adversely affected. Moreover, the Company cannot be certain that
implementation of its strategies will necessarily advance the Company’s business
or financial results.



Profitability could suffer if the
Company is unable to generate anticipated savings and efficiencies, including
through its supply chain restructuring and other restructuring plans.



The Company’s
success and profitability depend on the efficient manufacture and production of
products. Historically, the Company has undertaken restructuring programs and
incurred restructuring charges, and expects to continue to restructure its
operations as necessary to improve operational efficiency. For example,
beginning in fiscal year 2008, the Company began a supply chain restructuring
involving closing certain domestic and international manufacturing facilities
and redistributing production between the remaining facilities and third-party
producers to optimize available capacity and reduce operating costs. Gaining
additional efficiencies may become increasingly difficult over time and any
failure to successfully execute such changes may result in supply chain
interruption, which may negatively impact product volume and margins. In
addition, one of the Company’s key strategies is to reduce waste, lower costs
and increase productivity. The Company sets aggressive annual cost savings
targets in support of this strategy. Failure to reduce costs through
productivity gains and operating model efficiencies could adversely affect
profitability.



Price increases in raw materials,
energy, transportation and other necessary supplies or services could harm the
Company’s profits.



Increases in
the cost of raw materials, including resin, chlor-alkali, sodium hypochlorite,
linerboard, soybean oil, solvent, natural oils, corrugate and other chemicals
and agricultural commodities, or increases in the cost of energy, transportation
and other necessary services, including the cost of diesel, may harm the
Company’s profits and operating results. If price increases for any of the
primary raw materials or other necessary supplies or services occur and the
Company is not able to increase the prices of its products or achieve cost
savings to offset such price increases, its profits and operating results will
be harmed. In addition, if the Company increases the prices of its products in
response to increases in the cost of commodities, and the commodity costs
decline, the Company may not be able to sustain its price increases over time.
Also, competitors may not adjust their prices, which could lead to sales
declines and loss of market share. Sustained price increases may lead to
declines in volume, and while the Company seeks to project tradeoffs between
price increases and volume, its projections may not accurately predict the
volume impact of price increases.



For further
information regarding the impact of changes in commodity prices, see
“Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk” in “Management’s
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” onpage 20of
Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



Reliance on a limited base of
suppliers may result in disruption to the Company’s
business.



The Company
relies on a limited number of suppliers, including sole-source and single-source
suppliers for certain of its raw materials, packaging, product components,
finished products and other necessary supplies. If the Company is unable to
maintain supplier arrangements and relationships, or if it is unable to contract
with suppliers at the quantity and quality levels needed for its business, or if
any of the Company’s key suppliers becomes insolvent or experiences other
financial distress, the Company could experience disruptions in production and
its financial results could be adversely affected.



15Additional government regulations
could impose material costs.





Act in the areas of healthcare
reform and other initiatives and legislation in the area of taxation of foreign
profits, executive compensation and corporate governance could also increase the
Company's costs.



Product liability claims could
adversely affect the Company’s sales and operating results.



The Company
may be required to pay for losses or injuries purportedly caused by its
products. Claims could be based on allegations that, among other things, the
Company’s products contain contaminants or provide inadequate instructions
regarding their use, or inadequate warnings concerning interactions with other
substances or damage property. Product liability claims could result in negative
publicity that could harm the Company’s sales and operating results. In
addition, if one of the Company’s products is found to be defective, the Company
could be required to recall it, which could result in adverse publicity and
significant expenses. Although the Company maintains product liability insurance
coverage, potential product liability claims may exceed the amount of insurance
coverage or certain product liability claims may be excluded under the terms of
the policy.



Environmental matters create
potential liability risks.



The Company
must comply with various environmental laws and regulations in the jurisdictions
in which it operates, including those relating to air emissions, water
discharges, the handling and disposal of solid and hazardous wastes and the
remediation of contamination associated with the use and disposal of hazardous
substances. The Company is currently involved in or has potential liability with
respect to the remediation of past contamination in the operation of some of its
currently and formerly owned and leased facilities. In addition, some of its
present and former facilities have been or had been in operation for many years
and, over that time, some of these facilities may have used substances or
generated and disposed of wastes that are or may be considered hazardous. It is
possible that those sites, as well as disposal sites owned by third parties to
whom the Company has sent waste, may in the future be identified and become the
subject of remediation. It is possible that the Company could become subject to
additional environmental liabilities in the future that could result in a
material adverse effect on its results of operations or financial
condition.














The Company
also handles and/or transports hazardous substances, including but not limited
to chlorine, at its plant sites, including the rail transit of liquid chlorine
from its point of origin to the Company’s manufacturing facilities. A release of
such chemicals, whether in transit or at the Company’sfacilities, due to accident or an
intentional act, could result in substantial liability. The Company has
incurred, and will continue to incur, significant capital and operating
expenditures and other costs in complying with environmental laws and
regulations and in providing physical security for its worldwide operations, and
such expenditures reduce the cash flow available to the Company for other
purposes.



Failure to maximize, successfully
assert or successfully defend the Company’s intellectual property rights could
impact its competitiveness.





If the Company is found to have
infringed the intellectual property rights of others or cannot obtain necessary
intellectual property rights from others, its competitiveness could be
negatively impacted.



If the Company
is found to have violated the trademark, trade secret, copyright, patent or
other intellectual property rights of others, such a finding could result in the
need to cease use of a trademark, trade secret, copyrighted work or patented
invention in the Company’s business and the obligation to pay a substantial
amount for past infringement. In some instances, the Company may not be able to
obtain the intellectual property rights necessary to support new product
introductions or on-going sales. It could also be necessary to pay a substantial
amount in the future for rights if holders are willing to permit the Company to
continue to use the intellectual property rights. Either having to cease use or
pay such amounts could make the Company less competitive and could have a
material adverse impact on its business, operating results and financial
condition.






The Company’s substantial
indebtedness could adversely affect its operations and financial results and
prevent the Company from fulfilling its obligations.



The Company
has a significant amount of indebtedness. As of June 30, 2010, the Company had
$2.8 billion of debt. The Company’s substantial indebtedness could have
important consequences. For example, it could:

make it more difficult
  for the Company to satisfy its cash obligations;increase the Company’s
  vulnerability to general adverse economic and industry
  conditions;limit the Company’s
  ability to fund potential acquisitions;require the Company to
  dedicate a substantial portion of its cash flow from operations to payments on
  its indebtedness, which would reduce the availability of its cash flow to fund
  working capital requirements, capital expenditures and other general corporate
  purposes;limit the Company’s
  flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in its business and the
  industry in which it operates;place the Company at a
  competitive disadvantage compared to its competitors that have less debt;
  andlimit, along with the
  financial and other restrictive covenants in the Company’s indebtedness, among
  other things, its ability to borrow additional funds. Failure to comply with
  these covenants could result in an event of default that, if not cured or
  waived, could have a significant adverse effect on the Company.

The Company may not have sufficient
cash to service its indebtedness and pay cash dividends.



The Company’s
ability to repay and refinance its indebtedness and to fund capital expenditures
depends on the Company’s cash flow. In addition, the Company’s ability to pay
cash dividends depends on cash flow and net profits (as defined by Delaware
law). The Company’s cash flow and net profits are often subject to general
economic, financial, competitive, legislative, regulatory and other factors
beyond the Company’s control, and such factors may limit the Company’s ability
to repay indebtedness and pay cash dividends.



The Company may incur substantially
more debt, which could further exacerbate the risks described
above.



The Company
may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future to fund
acquisitions, to repurchase shares or to fund other activities for general
business purposes, subject to compliance with the Company’s existing restrictive
debt covenants. As of June 30, 2010, the Company could add approximately $1.3
billion in incremental debt and remain in compliance with restrictive debt
covenants. If new debt is added to the current debt levels, the related risks
that the Company now faces could intensify. In addition, the cost of incurring
additional debt could increase due to possible downgrades in the Company’s
credit rating.



The facilities of the Company and
its suppliers are subject to disruption by events beyond the Company’s
control.



Operations at
the facilities of the Company and its suppliers are subject to disruption for a
variety of reasons, including work stoppages, disease outbreaks or pandemics,
acts of war, terrorism, fire, earthquakes, flooding or other natural disasters.
In addition, the Company’s corporate headquarters and Technical Center are
located near major earthquake fault lines in California. If a major disruption
were to occur, it could result in harm to people or the natural environment,
temporary loss of access to critical data, delays in shipments of products to
customers or suspension of operations.














The Company’s continued growth and
expansion and increasing reliance on third party service providers could
adversely affect its internal control over financial reporting, which could harm
its business and financial results.



Clorox
management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal
control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a
process to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial
reporting for external purposes in accordance with accounting principles
generally accepted in the United States. Because of its inherent limitations,
internal control over financial reporting is not intended to provide absolute
assurance that a misstatement of the Company’s financial statements would be
prevented or detected. The Company’s continuing growth and expansion in domestic
and globally dispersed markets will place significant additional pressure on the
Company’s system of internal control over financial reporting. Moreover, the
Company increasingly engages the services of third parties to assist with
business operations and financial reporting processes, which inserts additional
monitoring obligations and risk into the system of internal control. Any failure
to maintain an effective system of internal control over financial reporting
could limit the Company’s ability to report its financial results accurately and
on a timely basis or to detect and prevent fraud.



A failure of a key information
technology system could adversely impact the Company’s ability to conduct
business.





Harm to the Company’s reputation or
the reputation of one or more of its leading brands could have an adverse effect
on the business.



Maintaining a
strong reputation with consumers, customers and trade partners is critical to
the success of the Company’s business. The Company devotes significant time and
resources to programs designed to protect and preserve the Company’s reputation
and the reputation of its brands. These programs include ethics and compliance,
sustainability, and product safety and quality initiatives, among others.
Despite these efforts, adverse publicity about the Company, including product
safety or quality or similar concerns, whether real or perceived, could harm the
Company’s image and result in an adverse effect on its business, as well as
require resources to rebuild its reputation.












Resolutions of tax disputes may
impact the Company’s earnings and cash flow.



Significant
judgment is required in determining the Company’s effective tax rate and in
evaluating its tax positions. On July 1, 2007, the Company adopted an accounting
standard that provides for uncertain tax positions when such tax positions do
not meet the recognition thresholds or measurement standards prescribed by the
applicable accounting standards. Changes to uncertain tax positions, including
related interest and penalties, impact the Company’s effective tax rate. When
particular tax matters arise, a number of years may elapse before such matters
are audited and finally resolved. Favorable resolution of such matters could be
recognized as a reduction to the Company’s effective tax rate in the year of
resolution. Unfavorable resolution of any tax matter could increase the
effective tax rate. Any resolution of a tax issue may require the use of cash in
the year of resolution. For additional information, refer to the information set
forth in Note 19 -Income Taxesof the Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements beginning onpage 56of Exhibit 99.1 hereto.



