
10-K
1995 FORM 10-K



                        SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C.  20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1995       Commission file no. 1-7434
                          -----------------                           ------

                                AFLAC INCORPORATED                          
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        

            Georgia                                     58-1167100     
- ------------------------------------            ----------------------------
    (State of Incorporation)                         (I.R.S. Employer  
                                                    Identification No.)   

1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, Georgia                        31999           
- ------------------------------------            ----------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)        


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code 706-323-3431     

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                     Name of Each Exchange 
             Title of Each Class                      on Which Registered  
      ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Common Stock, $.10 Par Value                New York Stock Exchange
                                                     Pacific Stock Exchange
                                                      Tokyo Stock Exchange 

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   NONE    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No     .
                                                    ----    ---- 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained 
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in 
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part 
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    
                                                          --------  

The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding at March 
18, 1996, with $.10 par value, was 142,142,286.  The aggregate market value 
of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 18, 
1996 was $4,382,039,560. 





                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE                   


PART I         Item 1         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-19 (Management's
                               Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                               Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)),
                               pages 13-32 to 13-39 (Notes 2 and 3 of the
                               Notes to the Consolidated Financial
                               Statements), and pages 13-50 to 13-51 
                               (Note 10).  The applicable portions of the
                               Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for
                               the year ended December 31, 1995, are
                               included as Exhibit 13        


               Item 2         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-18 (Cash Flow section of
                               MD&A) and page 13-41 (Note 5)


PART II        Item 5         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-1, 13-2 and 13-48
                               (Note 9)   


               Item 6         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-3 and 13-4
       

               Item 7         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-19
       

               Item 8         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-20 to 13-58 



PART III       Item 10        Incorporated by reference from the        
                               definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual 
                               Meeting of Shareholders to be held April 8,
                               1996 (the Proxy Statement)          


               Item 11        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


               Item 12        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


               Item 13        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 









                                     i
 


                              AFLAC Incorporated                            
                          Annual Report on Form 10-K                        
                     For the Year Ended December 31, 1995 


                               Table of Contents                            
                                                                      Page  
                                                                     ______ 
                                    PART I                                  

Item 1.   Business................................................     I- 1 

Item 2.   Properties..............................................     I-14 

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.......................................     I-15 

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.....     I-15 

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company.......................     I-16 


                                    PART II                                 

Item 5.   Market for Company's Common Equity and Related                 
            Shareholder Matters...................................    II- 1 

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.................................    II- 1 

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial              
            Condition and Results of Operations...................    II- 1 

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.............    II- 1 

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on               
            Accounting and Financial Disclosure...................    II- 1 


                                   PART III                                 

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Company.........   III- 1 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation..................................   III- 1 

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and            
            Management............................................   III- 1 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..........   III- 1 


                                   PART IV                                  

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports           
            on Form 8-K...........................................    IV- 1 



                                     ii


                                    PART I                                  

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

     AFLAC Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under 
the laws of the State of Georgia and acts as a general business holding 
company.  The Parent Company is a management company principally engaged, 
through its insurance subsidiaries, in providing supplemental health 
insurance products in the United States and Japan.  In addition, the Parent 
Company, through subsidiaries and a general partnership with American Family 
Life Assurance Company of Columbus (AFLAC), operates in television 
broadcasting.  In 1994, AFLAC transferred its minor Canadian insurance 
subsidiary to the Parent Company.  As a management company, the Parent 
Company oversees the operations of its subsidiaries and provides capital and 
management services.

     AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries (the Company) have only one 
significant industry segment - insurance.  For financial information 
relating to the Company's foreign and U.S. operations, see Exhibit 13, pages 
13-5 to 13-19 (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations (MD&A)) and page 13-32 (Note 2 of Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements), which are incorporated herein by 
reference. 

     The Parent Company's principal operating subsidiary is AFLAC, which 
operates principally in the United States and Japan.  AFLAC is a specialty 
insurer whose dominant business is individual supplemental health insurance 
with emphasis on cancer expense insurance plans.  Management believes AFLAC 
is the world's leading writer of cancer expense insurance.  In recent years, 
AFLAC has diversified its product offerings to include other types of 
supplemental health products in both the United States and Japan.  The Japan 
Branch (AFLAC Japan) also sells long-term care plans, supplemental general 
medical expense plans and a living benefit life plan.  The United States 
operation (AFLAC U.S.), in addition to cancer expense plans, also sells 
other types of supplemental health insurance, including hospital intensive 
care, accident and disability, hospital indemnity, long-term care, short-
term disability and Medicare supplement plans.  AFLAC U.S. also offers 
several life insurance plans.  

     The Company is authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 
states, the District of Columbia, and several U.S. territories and foreign 
countries.  The Company's only significant foreign operation is  AFLAC 
Japan, which accounted for 85% of the Company's total revenues in 1995.

     On February 13, 1996, the board of directors declared a three-for-two 
stock split to shareholders of record as of February 29, 1996, payable on 
March 18, 1996.  Share and per-share amounts have been adjusted to reflect 
this split.

     Insurance premiums and investment income from insurance operations are 
the major sources of revenues.  The Company's consolidated premium income 
was $6.1 billion for 1995, $5.2 billion for 1994 and $4.2 billion for 1993. 
 

     
                                   I-1

     The following table sets forth consolidated premiums earned by class 
offered by AFLAC in Japan and the United States for the three years ended 
December 31.

(In thousands)                         1995          1994          1993 
                                    ----------    ----------    ---------- 
Premiums earned:
  Health insurance                 $ 6,037,206   $ 5,148,406   $ 4,192,259 
  Life and other insurance              17,937        15,149        14,488 
                                    ----------    ----------    ---------- 
     Total U.S. and Japan
       premiums earned             $ 6,055,143   $ 5,163,555   $ 4,206,747 
                                    ==========    ==========    ========== 


     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC health insurance for the years ended December 31.

 (In thousands)                       1995          1994          1993  
                                   ----------    ----------    ----------
Annualized premiums in force, 
  at beginning of year            $ 5,578,987   $ 4,460,076   $ 3,628,961
    New issues including
      policy conversions              965,321       922,773       801,937
    Change in unprocessed 
      policies                       (107,287)      212,058       154,684
    Lapses and surrenders            (408,366)     (347,020)     (302,690)
    Other                             (11,676)     (129,932)     (143,432)
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                     (179,096)      461,032       320,616
                                   ----------    ----------    ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                  $ 5,837,883   $ 5,578,987   $ 4,460,076
                                   ==========    ==========    ==========



INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT RESULTS 

     Effective January 1, 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial 
Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 115, Accounting for Certain Investments in 
Debt and Equity Securities, issued by the Financial Accounting Standards 
Board.  Under the provisions of SFAS No. 115, fixed-maturity securities 
available for sale are carried at fair value.  Previously, fixed-maturity 
securities were carried at amortized cost.  Prior year numbers have not been 
restated.  The fair value of fixed-maturity securities available for sale 
exceeded amortized cost by $2.6 billion and $820.9 million at December 31, 
1995 and 1994, respectively.  For additional information regarding SFAS No. 
115, see Exhibit 13, page 13-34 (Note 3 of Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements).

     The Company's investments (including cash) were $20.0 billion at 
December 31, 1995.  Since December 31, 1994, total investments, including 
unrealized gains on fixed-maturity securities, increased $4.1 billion, or 
25.3%. AFLAC Japan investments increased $3.6 billion (24.7%), while AFLAC 
U.S. investments increased $416.3 million (33.1%).  Since December 31, 1994, 
total investments, excluding unrealized gains on fixed-maturity securities, 

                                   I-2

have increased $2.3 billion, or 15.2%.  AFLAC Japan investments increased 
$2.0 billion (14.7%), while AFLAC U.S. investments increased $265.4 million 
(20.3%).  Net investment income of $1.0 billion in 1995 continued to be a 
growing source of revenues and earnings for the Company, increasing $186.1 
million in 1995 over 1994 and $149.6 million in 1994 over 1993.  It is 
generally AFLAC's policy to invest in high-grade investments, principally in 
government, and high-quality public utility and corporate bonds. 

     AFLAC primarily operates within the investment environments of the 
United States and Japan.  Although aspects of these two financial markets 
are slowly converging, they remain fundamentally different.  For example, 
differences in asset selection, liquidity, credit quality, accounting 
practices, insurance regulations and taxation affect the way the Company 
invests and purchases securities.  The challenge is to integrate the varied 
market characteristics of Japan and the United States into a unified and 
coherent investment strategy.  The Company has streamlined and integrated 
the organizational structure of investment operations into a single 
functional unit and has set specific worldwide criteria regarding credit 
quality, liquidity, compliance with regulatory requirements and conformance 
to product needs.



INVESTMENTS - JAPAN

     During 1995, 90.3% of AFLAC Japan's yen cash flow available for 
investment was allocated to yen-denominated fixed-maturity securities, while 
the remaining 9.7% was invested in dollar-denominated securities.  Of the 
total amount invested in yen-denominated securities in 1995, 26.0% was 
invested in Japanese government bonds at a yield of 3.84%, 33.7% was 
invested in the longer-dated private sector at a rate of 5.07%, 6.0% was 
invested in municipal bonds at a rate of 3.95%, and the remaining 24.6% was 
invested in assorted sectors of yen-denominated fixed-maturity securities at 
an average rate of 4.19%.

     At year-end 1995, Japanese government bonds accounted for 37.7% of 
AFLAC Japan's total investments (at amortized cost).  Twenty-year government 
bonds made up the majority of AFLAC Japan's government bond holdings.  AFLAC 
Japan continued to use longer-dated corporate instruments in 1995, which 
provide a better match of asset and liability durations, and these 
instruments accounted for 20.3% of total investments in Japan at year-end.  
At the end of the year, municipal securities represented 5.3% of the total 
investments, while utility bonds represented 18.1%.  Other assorted sectors 
accounted for 11.1%, and dollar-denominated securities represented 7.5% of 
AFLAC Japan's total investments.

     The Company increased its commitment to the dollar-denominated 
portfolio of AFLAC Japan's invested assets during 1995.  AFLAC Japan added 
$307.9 million to this portfolio at an average yield of 7.55%.  AFLAC 
Japan's dollar-denominated portfolio represented 7.5% of total investments 
in Japan, or $1.3 billion at the end of 1995, compared with $951.3 million 
at the end of 1994.  Investments in dollar-denominated fixed-maturity 
securities provide certain tax and yield advantages to the Company.

     The Company continued to avoid the Japanese equity and investment real 
estate markets in 1995.  AFLAC Japan's equity portfolio accounted for only 
 .1% of invested assets at year-end, and the Company does not expect this 

                                   I-3

portion to increase in 1996.  The Company also does not anticipate any 
change in the current level of mortgage loans on Japanese real estate, which 
was less than .1% of total investments at year-end.


INVESTMENTS - U.S.

     Profits repatriated from AFLAC Japan to AFLAC U.S. totaled $140.5 
million in 1995, up from $132.9 million in 1994.  Of the $140.5 million in 
1995, $21.2 million was transferred to the Parent Company.  Repatriation 
benefits consolidated operations because higher investment yields can be 
earned on funds invested in the United States.  Also, income tax expense is 
presently lower on investment income earned in the United States.  The 
Company expects future profit repatriation to continue to have a positive 
impact on its consolidated net earnings.

     AFLAC U.S. continued to focus on purchasing securities that emphasize 
safety and liquidity.  AFLAC U.S. maintained its overall investment quality 
throughout the year.  Almost half of the fixed-maturity portfolio was rated 
"AA" or better at the end of the year.

     Including profit repatriation, AFLAC U.S. invested $660.7 million in 
1995.  Of that amount, approximately 46.3% was invested in U.S. government 
or agency securities at an average yield to maturity of 7.82%, 42.4% was 
invested in corporate fixed-maturity securities at 7.66%, and 5.1% was 
allocated to various other sectors at an average yield of 7.17%.  We also 
added approximately $41.1 million, or 6.2% of total funds available for 
investment, to the AFLAC U.S. equity portfolio.

     At the end of 1995, fixed-maturity securities continued to dominate 
AFLAC U.S. total investments.  Fixed-maturity securities represented 85.0% 
of total investments at the end of the year.  Within that category, U.S. 
government and agency securities accounted for 17.7% of the holdings, while 
corporate securities were 58.9%.  Equity investments made up 5.7% of total 
investments.  Mortgage loans on real estate remained immaterial.

     For information on the composition of the Company's investment 
portfolio and investment results, see Part IV, Schedule I, and Exhibit 13, 
pages 13-15 to 13-19 (discussions relating to Balance Sheet and Cash Flow) 
and pages 13-34 to 13-41 (Notes 3 and 4 of Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


INSURANCE - JAPAN

     The following table sets forth AFLAC Japan's premiums earned by product 
line for the last three years ended December 31.

(In thousands)                         1995         1994         1993
                                    ----------   ----------   ----------
Premiums earned:  
  Cancer expense                   $ 4,752,338  $ 4,054,697  $ 3,259,705
  Other accident and health            440,635      316,395      224,555
  Life insurance                         2,378            -            -
                                    ----------   ----------   ----------
    Total AFLAC Japan
      premiums earned              $ 5,195,351  $ 4,371,092  $ 3,484,260
                                    ==========   ==========   ==========
                                   I-4

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC Japan health insurance for the years ended December 31:

(In thousands)                          1995         1994         1993
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at beginning of year              $ 4,718,783  $ 3,672,594  $ 2,914,428
    New issues including
      policy conversions                690,170      680,879      576,127
    Change in unprocessed
      policies                         (105,496)     209,392      157,142
    Lapses and surrenders              (200,507)    (163,047)    (145,567)
    Other                               (23,075)    (142,067)    (150,152)
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                       (179,096)     461,032      320,616
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                    $ 4,900,779  $ 4,718,783  $ 3,672,594
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========


INSURANCE PLANS - JAPAN

     AFLAC's insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed to provide 
insurance to cover the medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed 
by other forms of Japanese health insurance coverage.

     The cancer expense insurance plans offered in Japan are basically daily 
indemnity plans, providing a fixed amount for each day the insured is 
hospitalized for treatment of cancer.  The plans differ from the AFLAC U.S. 
cancer plans (described on pages I-9 and I-10) in that the Japanese policies 
also provide death benefits and cash surrender values (the Company estimates 
that approximately 28% of the premiums earned are associated with these 
benefits).  

     In 1992, AFLAC broadened its product line with the introduction of a 
new care product, "Super Care."  Super Care provides periodic benefits to 
those who become bedridden, demented or seriously disabled due to illness or 
accident.  This plan is offered with several riders, providing death 
benefits or additional care benefits to enhance coverage.  Prior to the 
introduction of the Super Care plan, AFLAC marketed a plan that primarily 
provided dementia care benefits.  

     In 1995, the Company introduced two other products in Japan.  The first 
product is an improved medical expense policy.  It is similar to hospital 
indemnity insurance products in the United States and provides cash benefits 
to policyholders when they are hospitalized.  The market for medical expense 
coverage in Japan is very competitive, but the Company believes the revised 
policy will give AFLAC Japan's agents greater flexibility in product 
offerings.

     AFLAC Japan also introduced a new living benefit life plan.  This 
product is a life insurance policy that provides lump-sum benefits when 
policyholders experience heart attack, cancer or stroke.  The Company is 
offering this product in two forms - as a stand-alone policy or as a rider 
to the cancer plan.  Marketing efforts for living benefit life primarily 
focus on the sale of the rider.  Introduction of the rider began in late 

                                   I-5

1995.  AFLAC Japan sold more than 406,000 living benefit life riders in the 
last four months of the year.  Sales of the rider for the year exceeded $77 
million in new annualized premium.  The Company anticipates very strong 
results from this new product in 1996, its first full year of availability.

     Due to the continued low level of available investment yields in Japan, 
the Ministry of Finance has permitted insurers to increase premium rates on 
new policy issues in recent years.  AFLAC Japan increased premium rates by 
an average of 16% on all cancer policy sales made after July 1, 1994.  
Premium rates on care policy new issues were increased by an average of 10% 
in both November 1993 and 1995.  As a result of continuing low yields, the 
Company expects to increase premium rates on all new policy issues by an 
additional 10% beginning in the second half of 1996.


AGENCY FORCE - JAPAN

     The development of a "corporate agency" system has been important to 
the growth of AFLAC Japan.  Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when 
companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell AFLAC products to their 
employees, suppliers and customers.  These agencies help AFLAC Japan reach 
the employees of almost all of Japan's large corporations.  AFLAC has no 
ownership interest in these corporate agencies.

     AFLAC products are also sold through independent corporate agencies and 
individual agencies that are not affiliated with large companies.  At 
December 31, 1995, there were 5,224 agencies in Japan with 20,375 licensed 
agents.  Agents' activities are principally limited to insurance sales, with 
policyholder service functions handled by the main office in Tokyo and 47 
sales offices located throughout Japan.


COMPETITION - JAPAN

     In 1974, AFLAC became the second foreign (non-Japanese) life insurance 
company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market by obtaining 
a license to do business in Japan.  Through 1981, AFLAC was the only company 
in Japan authorized to issue a cancer expense insurance policy.  Since that 
time, several other life companies have been permitted to offer cancer 
insurance.  However, AFLAC remains the leading issuer of cancer expense 
insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to its lead time in the market, 
unique marketing system (see Agency Force), low-cost operations and product 
expertise developed in the United States.  AFLAC has been very successful in 
the sale of cancer expense policies in Japan, with over 12.2 million cancer 
policies in force at December 31, 1995.

     During 1994, the governments of Japan and the United States held a 
series of trade talks.  The U.S.-Japan Framework Agreement negotiations 
discussed the possibility of opening various Japanese market sectors, 
including insurance, to expanded foreign competition.  During the 
discussions, the Japanese government agreed to avoid any radical changes in 
the third sector of the insurance market until a substantial portion of the 
life and non-life insurance sectors are deregulated.  AFLAC and other 
foreign-owned insurers, as well as some small to medium-sized Japanese 
insurers, operate in the third sector.



                                   I-6

     In 1996, the Japanese government will adopt a framework for long-term 
deregulation of the financial services businesses in Japan.  The principles 
upon which deregulation of the Japanese insurance industry is based are:  to 
promote competition and to enhance efficiency through deregulation and 
liberalization; to preserve soundness; and to secure fairness and equity in 
business operations.  As Japan begins gradually deregulating the insurance 
industry, the marketplace should become more competitive; however, the 
ultimate changes and their effects on AFLAC Japan are not presently 
determinable.  But, due to the Company's unique marketing distribution 
system and low-cost operations in Japan, AFLAC believes it should not be 
directly affected by deregulation in Japan in the immediate future.

     AFLAC's strategy for future growth in Japan centers on the expansion of 
the Company's product line.  Although the basic plan for growth is the same 
in Japan as in the United States, management has had to formulate a strategy 
specifically tailored for the Japanese insurance marketplace, which is very 
different from the U.S. system.  There are only 31 life insurance companies 
in Japan, compared with more than 2,000 life insurers in the United States. 
In Japan, insurers have traditionally been restricted in the types of 
policies they could offer.  However, as Japan begins deregulating the 
insurance industry, the marketplace should become more competitive, with 
insurers able to offer more types of products as they do in the United 
States.


REGULATION AND REMITTANCE OF FUNDS - JAPAN

     Payments are made from AFLAC Japan to the Parent Company for management 
fees, and to AFLAC U.S. for allocated expenses and remittances of earnings. 
These payments totaled $179.5 million in 1995, $167.9 million in 1994 and 
$133.4 million in 1993.  Management fees paid to the Parent Company are 
largely based on expense allocations.

     A portion of AFLAC Japan annual earnings, as determined on a Japan 
statutory accounting basis, can be remitted each year to AFLAC U.S. after 
satisfying various conditions imposed by Japanese regulatory authorities for 
protecting policyholders and obtaining remittance approvals from such 
authorities.  These conditions include compliance with risk-based capital 
guidelines for Japanese insurers.  Profit remittances to the United States 
can fluctuate due to changes in the amounts of Japanese regulatory earnings. 
Among other items, factors affecting regulatory earnings include Japanese 
regulatory accounting practices and fluctuations in currency translations of 
AFLAC Japan's U.S. dollar-denominated investments into yen.  It is expected 
that profit remittances will continue in future years, based on projected 
annual earnings of AFLAC Japan as computed on a Japanese regulatory 
accounting basis.

     Japan statutory accounting practices differ in many respects from U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles.  Under Japan statutory accounting 
practices, policy acquisition costs are charged off immediately, policy 
benefit and claim reserving methods are different, deferred income tax 
liabilities are not recognized, and investment securities are generally 
carried at cost.

     As part of the deregulation process, the Japanese Ministry of Finance 
(MOF) is developing new solvency regulations and standards that represent a 
form of risk-based capital requirements.  AFLAC Japan must meet these 

                                   I-7

requirements to continue profit transfers to AFLAC U.S.  At this time, AFLAC 
Japan is in compliance with the proposed new standards, and management does 
not expect these requirements to adversely affect the repatriation of funds 
from Japan in the foreseeable future.

     The insurance business in Japan, which is conducted as a branch office 
of AFLAC, is subject to regulation by the MOF, similar to the regulation and 
supervision in the United States as described on pages I-12 and I-13 under 
"Regulation - U.S."  AFLAC Japan files annual reports and financial 
statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 year-
end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices 
prescribed or permitted by the MOF.  Also, financial and other affairs of 
AFLAC Japan are subject to examination by the MOF.  

     Reconciliations of AFLAC Japan net assets on a GAAP basis to net assets 
determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 are 
as follows:

     (In thousands - unaudited)                     1995           1994   
                                                 ----------     ---------- 
Net assets on GAAP basis                        $ 1,817,106    $ 1,564,938 
Elimination of deferred policy 
  acquisition costs                              (2,067,409)    (1,951,549)
Reduction in carrying value of fixed-
  maturity investments for fair value 
  and foreign exchange adjustments               (2,613,600)      (978,855)
Adjustment to policy liabilities                  2,205,072        500,952 
Elimination of deferred income taxes              1,211,187      1,223,368 
Reduction in premiums receivable                   (237,929)      (227,270)
Other, net                                           98,378         97,041 
                                                 ----------      --------- 
  Net assets on Japanese regulatory
    accounting basis                            $   412,805     $  228,625 
                                                 ==========      ========= 

     For additional information regarding AFLAC Japan's operations, see 
Exhibit 13, pages 13-8 to 13-11 (AFLAC Japan section of MD&A) and pages 13-
32 and 13-50 (Notes 2 and 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


EMPLOYEES - JAPAN

     AFLAC Japan employed 1,571 full-time and 157 part-time employees at 
December 31, 1995.  AFLAC Japan considers its employee relations to be 
excellent.












                                   I-8

INSURANCE - U.S.

     The following table sets forth AFLAC U.S. premiums earned by product 
line for the last three years ended December 31.

 (In thousands)                            1995        1994        1993   
                                         --------    --------    -------- 
Premiums earned:
  Cancer expense                        $ 402,789   $ 384,943   $ 369,256 
  Other accident and health               441,444     392,371     338,743 
  Life insurance                           15,559      15,149      14,488 
                                         --------    --------    -------- 
     Total AFLAC U.S. 
       premiums earned                  $ 859,792   $ 792,463   $ 722,487 
                                         ========    ========    ======== 

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC U.S. health insurance for the years ended December 31.

 (In thousands)                           1995        1994         1993
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Annualized premiums in force, at
  beginning of year                   $  860,204   $  787,482   $  714,533
    New issues including policy
      conversions                        275,151      241,894      225,810
    Change in unprocessed policies        (1,791)       2,666       (2,458)
    Lapses                              (207,859)    (183,973)    (157,123)
    Other                                 11,399       12,135        6,720
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Annualized premiums in force, at
  end of year                         $  937,104   $  860,204   $  787,482
                                       =========    =========    =========


HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC's insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed for people 
who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage.  All of 
AFLAC's supplemental health insurance plans are guaranteed renewable for the 
lifetime of the policyholder.  Guaranteed-renewable coverage may not be 
cancelled by the insurer, but premium rates on existing and future policies 
may be increased by class of policy in response to claims experience higher 
than originally expected (subject to federal and state loss-ratio 
guidelines) on a uniform, nondiscriminatory, statewide basis subject to 
state regulatory approval.  

     AFLAC's cancer plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for 
medical and nonmedical costs that are generally not reimbursed by major 
medical insurance.  AFLAC currently offers a series of four different cancer 
plans in the United States that vary by benefit amount and type.  All four 
plans provide a first occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when 
internal cancer is first diagnosed, a fixed amount for each day an insured 
is hospitalized for cancer treatment, and benefits for medical, radiation, 
chemotherapy, surgery and a "wellness" benefit applicable toward certain 
diagnostic tests such as mammograms, pap smears, flexible sigmoidoscopy, 
etc.  Two of the plans currently offered contain benefits that reimburse the 
insured for nursing services, anesthesia, prosthesis, blood, plasma, second 

                                   I-9

surgical opinion, ambulance, transportation, family lodging, extended care 
facility, bone marrow transplant and hospice.  The remaining two plans make 
these benefits available as an optional schedule of benefits rider.  AFLAC 
also issues several riders, including one that increases the amount of the 
first occurrence benefit on each rider anniversary date until the covered 
person reaches age 65 or until internal cancer is diagnosed.  AFLAC 
periodically introduces new forms of coverage, revising benefits and related 
premiums based upon the anticipated needs of the policyholders and AFLAC's 
claim experience.

     AFLAC offers an accident and disability policy to protect against 
losses resulting from accidents.  The accident portion of the policy 
includes lump sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific 
injuries.  Fixed benefits for hospital confinement, emergency treatment, 
follow-up treatments, ambulance, transportation, family lodging, wellness, 
prosthesis, medical appliances and physical therapy are also provided.  
Optional disability riders are available to the primary insured only and 
include choices of a sickness disability rider, on-the-job disability rider 
and off-the-job disability rider.  These benefits are payable up to a 
maximum benefit period of one year and for one disability at a time.

     AFLAC currently markets five of the Medicare Supplement Standardized 
Plans, with the majority of sales being for Plans F and C.  The plans are 
priced on an issue-age basis.  Under this method, rates are revised due to 
changes in the Medicare program and medical inflation.  There is no 
automatic rate increase due to the aging of the insured.  Premium rates are 
determined based on zip code groupings, which are adjusted for increases in 
costs for each area.  The benefits provided range from the basic plan, 
covering Part A and B coinsurance, to plans with more extensive coverage, 
including Part A and B deductibles, skilled nursing coinsurance, Part B 
excess and other benefits.  AFLAC U.S. does not market the standardized 
plans covering prescription drug benefits.

     AFLAC also issues other supplemental health insurance, such as 
intensive care, which is a low-premium policy that provides protection 
against the high cost of intensive care facilities during hospital 
confinement, regardless of reimbursements from other insurers.  Other types 
of health insurance issued by AFLAC include a long-term convalescent care 
policy, long- and short-term disability, and a hospital confinement 
indemnity policy.  


LIFE INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC issues various life insurance policies including whole life, 
limited pay life, voluntary group term life and term life coverage. 


AGENCY FORCE AND MARKETING - U.S.

     AFLAC's sales agents are licensed to sell accident and health 
insurance, and many are also licensed to sell life insurance.  Most agents' 
efforts are directed toward selling supplemental health insurance.  The 1995 
monthly average number of U.S. agents actively producing business was 6,121, 
compared with 5,489 in 1994 and 5,110 in 1993.  



                                   I-10

     Agents' activities are principally limited to sales, with all 
policyholder service functions, including issuance of policies, premium 
collection, payment notices and claims handled by the staff at headquarters. 
Agents are paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from 
their sales of health and life insurance products.  AFLAC's state, regional 
and district sales coordinators, who are independent contractors, are 
compensated by override commissions.  

     AFLAC has concentrated on the development of "payroll marketing" in 
marketing its policies.  Payroll marketing offers policies to individuals 
through common media such as trade and other associations or place of 
employment.  This manner of marketing is distinct from "group" insurance 
sales in that each individual insured is directly contacted by the sales 
associate.  Policies are individually underwritten in the payroll market, 
with premiums generally paid by the employee.  Additionally, individuals may 
retain their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such 
affiliation, generally at the same premium.  A major portion of premiums on 
such sales are collected through payroll deduction or other forms of group 
billings.  Group-billed plans normally result in a lower average age of the 
insured at the time of policy issuance and also result in certain savings in 
administrative costs, a portion of which are passed on to the policyholder 
in the form of reduced premiums.  Management believes that payroll marketing 
enables the agency force to reach a greater number of prospective 
policyholders than individual solicitation and that this method lowers 
distribution costs.  

     Another valuable marketing and sales tool is the flexible benefits 
program, or cafeteria plan, which allows an employee to pay for medical 
insurance using pretax dollars.  These programs help achieve increased 
penetration as agents are required to present the program to all employees. 
They also help improve overall persistency levels due to the limited changes 
allowed during the plan year.

     During 1995 and 1994, AFLAC continued to develop marketing arrangements 
with insurance brokers.  Also, AFLAC has signed joint-marketing agreements 
with several large companies within and outside of the insurance industry.  
The core of the Company's distribution network will remain independent 
agents.  The Company has improved its access to large payroll groups through 
insurance brokers and joint-marketing alliances.

     In 1995, AFLAC's U.S. premiums collected were $846.4 million, 7.1% of 
which was collected in Florida, 6.8% in both Georgia and Texas, 5.6% in 
North Carolina and 5.1% in Tennessee.  Premiums collected in all other 
states were individually less than 5% of AFLAC's U.S. premiums.


COMPETITION - U.S.

     The accident and health and life insurance industry in the United 
States is highly competitive.  AFLAC competes with a large number of other 
insurers, some of which have been in business for a longer period of time or 
have greater financial resources.  In the United States, there are more than 
2,000 life and accident and health insurance companies, most of which 
compete in the states AFLAC conducts business.

     Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield, provide insurance for meeting basic hospitalization 

                                   I-11

and medical expenses.  Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis.  The 
federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical 
treatment through Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Such major medical 
insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the medical (but not 
nonmedical) expenses incurred by an insured as a result of cancer or other 
major illnesses.  AFLAC's policies are designed to provide coverage that is 
supplemental to coverage provided by major medical insurance.  AFLAC's 
benefits may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses.

     Since other insurers generally do not provide full coverage of medical 
expenses or any coverage of nonmedical expenses, AFLAC's supplemental 
insurance is not an alternative to major medical insurance, but is sold to 
complement major medical insurance by covering the gap between major medical 
insurance reimbursements and the total costs of an individual's health care. 
AFLAC thus competes only indirectly with major medical insurers in terms of 
premium rates and similar factors.  However, the scope of the major medical 
coverage offered by other insurers does represent a limitation on the market 
for AFLAC's products.  Accordingly, expansion of coverage by other insurers 
or governmental programs could adversely affect AFLAC's business 
opportunities.  Conversely, any reduction of coverages, such as increased 
deductibles and copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could 
favorably affect AFLAC's business opportunities.

     AFLAC competes directly with other insurers offering supplemental 
health insurance and believes that its current policies and premium rates 
are generally competitive with those offered by other companies selling 
similar types of insurance.  

     For additional information regarding U.S. insurance operations, see 
Exhibit 13, page 13-12 to 13-14 (AFLAC U.S. section of MD&A), which is 
incorporated herein by reference.


REGULATION - U.S.

     The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to state 
regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system.  
Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies 
within the holding company system must be fair and equitable.  In addition, 
transfer of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend 
payments from insurance subsidiaries and material transactions between 
companies within the system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, 
state regulatory authorities.

     AFLAC and its insurance subsidiaries, in common with all U.S. insurance 
companies, are subject to regulation and supervision in the states and other 
jurisdictions in which they do business.  In general, the insurance laws of 
the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad 
administrative powers relating to, among other things: granting and revoking 
licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, 
prior approval of forms of policies and premium rate increases, standards of 
solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum 
loss ratio requirements, capital for the protection of policyholders, 
limitations on dividends to shareholders, the nature of and limitations on 
investments, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, filing 
of annual reports and financial statements prepared in accordance with 
statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the 

                                   I-12

regulatory authorities, and periodic examinations of the financial, market 
conduct, and other affairs of insurance companies.  In addition, the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is currently working 
on regulatory initiatives relating to investments, reinsurance, dividend 
restrictions, revision of the risk-based capital formula, recodification of 
statutory accounting principles and other related matters.

     For further information concerning state regulatory and dividend 
restrictions, see Exhibit 13, page 13-50 (Note 10 - Statutory Accounting and 
Dividend Restrictions of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
incorporated herein by reference.

     A risk-based capital formula was adopted by the NAIC in 1992 for U.S. 
life insurance companies that established capital requirements relating to 
insurance risk, business risk, asset risk and interest rate risk.  These 
requirements are intended to facilitate identification by insurance 
regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance companies based upon the 
types and mixtures of risks inherent in the insurer's operations.  The 
formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital specify various 
weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or various levels 
of activity based on the perceived degree of risk.  Regulatory compliance is 
determined by a ratio of the company's regulatory total adjusted capital, as 
defined by the NAIC, to its authorized control level risk-based capital, as 
defined by the NAIC.  Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are 
classified within certain levels, each of which requires specified 
corrective action.  The levels are company action, regulatory action, 
authorized control and mandatory control.

     Companies that have triggered a company action level event are required 
to submit a detailed comprehensive financial plan to the domiciliary state 
insurance department.  In the regulatory action level, in addition to 
submitting the comprehensive financial plan, a company may be subjected to a 
detailed regulatory investigation.  The domiciliary state insurance 
department is permitted, but not required, to place the insurance company 
under regulatory control when it falls to the authorized control level; 
regulatory control is required in the mandatory control level.  AFLAC's NAIC 
risk-based capital ratio continues to reflect a very strong statutory 
capital and surplus position.

     Currently, four states have laws, regulations or regulatory practices 
that either prohibit the sale of specified disease insurance, such as 
AFLAC's cancer expense insurance, or make its sale impractical.  These 
states are Connecticut, Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York.  The 
remainder of the states do not impose prohibitions or restrictions that 
prevent AFLAC from marketing cancer expense insurance.  AFLAC U.S. is 
marketing several of its other products in these states, directly or through 
a subsidiary.

     Under insurance guaranty fund laws in most states in the United States, 
insurance companies doing business therein can be assessed up to prescribed 
limits for policyholder losses incurred by insolvent companies with similar 
lines of business.  Such assessments have not been material to the Company 
in recent years.  The Company believes that future assessments relating to 
companies currently involved in insolvency proceedings will not materially 
impact the consolidated financial statements.



                                   I-13

     The Company continues to monitor developments concerning possible 
changes to the U.S. health care system at both the federal and state levels. 
The future of health care changes and its impact on AFLAC U.S. cannot be 
readily predicted at this time.


EMPLOYEES - U.S.

     In its U.S. insurance operations, the Company employed 1,613 full-time 
and 39 part-time employees at December 31, 1995.  The Company considers its 
employee relations to be excellent.


OTHER OPERATIONS

     At December 31, 1995, the AFLAC Broadcast Division operated seven 
network-affiliated television stations with total assets of $159.6 million. 
The Broadcast Division employed 554 full-time and 123 part-time employees at 
December 31, 1995.  The Broadcast Division considers its employee relations 
to be excellent.

     The Broadcast Division produced increased revenues and earnings during 
1995 as compared with 1994.  Revenues increased 5.1%, to $81.6 million.  
Pretax earnings before interest expense rose 10.4%, to $19.0 million.  
Stations benefited from advertising related to an improved U.S. economy and 
strengthened cost controls.

     The Broadcast Division has succeeded despite significant changes in the 
industry.  With the emergence of new cable networks and stations, there are 
more outlets for advertising dollars than ever before.  Despite the 
segmentation of television entertainment and news, network-affiliated 
stations continue to effectively deliver mass audiences to advertisers.  As 
a result, the AFLAC Broadcast Division is able to successfully compete in a 
crowded, competitive marketplace.  

     For additional information regarding broadcast operations, see  Exhibit 
13, page 13-14 (Other Operations section of MD&A), which is incorporated 
herein by reference.

     The Company's other operations employed 332 full-time and four part-
time employees at December 31, 1995; employee relations are considered to be 
excellent.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     AFLAC owns an 18-story office building, which is the worldwide 
headquarters of the Parent Company and AFLAC, along with a six-story parking 
garage.  These structures are located on approximately 14 acres of land in 
Columbus, Georgia.  In addition, AFLAC Real Estate Holdings, Inc. (AREH), a 
wholly owned subsidiary of the Parent Company, owns a two-story building 
located on the same property.  AFLAC also owns administrative office 
buildings located nearby.  AFLAC New York also occupies leased office space 
in Albany, New York.

     In Tokyo, Japan, AFLAC owns an 11-story administrative office building, 
which was completed in April 1994.  AFLAC also leases office space in Tokyo, 

                                   I-14

along with regional sales offices located throughout the country, and owns a 
training and computer facility in Tokyo.  For further information concerning 
the building in Japan, see Exhibit 13, pages 13-18, (discussion concerning 
cash flow) and 13-55 (Note 12 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.  Other foreign 
affiliates of the Company also occupy leased office space.

     The Broadcast Division owns land, buildings, transmission towers and 
other broadcast equipment in the cities where its seven television stations 
are located.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is a defendant in various litigation considered to be in 
the normal course of business.  Some of this litigation is pending in 
Alabama, where large punitive damages bearing little relation to the actual 
damages sustained by plaintiffs have been awarded against other companies, 
including insurers, in recent years.  During 1995, the Company settled 
certain litigation in Alabama related to an ancillary line of business.  
However, the settlement was not material to the Company's consolidated net 
earnings for the year.  Although the final results of any litigation cannot 
be predicted with certainty, the Company believes the outcome of the 
litigation still pending will not have a material adverse effect on the 
financial position of the Company.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     There were no matters submitted to the security holders for a vote in 
the fourth quarter ended December 31, 1995.



























                                   I-15

ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
        NAME                  PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION (*)               AGE
- -------------------      -------------------------------------       ---
Daniel P. Amos           Chief Executive Officer of the               44
                           Company and AFLAC, Vice Chairman             
                           of the Company; President of the
                           Company since August 1991


Paul S. Amos             Chairman of the Board of the Company         69
                           and AFLAC.


William J. Bugg, Jr.     Senior Vice President, Corporate             56
                           Actuary of AFLAC


Monthon Chuaychoo        Vice President, Financial Services, of       52
                           the Company and AFLAC since September
                           1993; Second Vice President, Assistant
                           Controller of the Company and AFLAC
                           from June 1991 to September 1993;
                           Second Vice President of AFLAC until
                           June 1991                 


Kriss Cloninger III      Executive Vice President, Chief              48
                           Financial Officer and Treasurer               
                           of the Company, and Executive                 
                           Vice President, Chief Financial               
                           Officer of AFLAC since March 1993;            
                           Senior Vice President, Chief                  
                           Financial Officer and Treasurer               
                           of the Company, and Senior Vice               
                           President, Chief Financial Officer            
                           of AFLAC from March 1992 until March          
                           1993; Principal, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP,
                           Atlanta, GA until March 1992                  


Martin A. Durant, III    Senior Vice President, Corporate Services,   47
                           of the Company and AFLAC since August
                           1993; Vice President and Controller of
                           the Company until August 1993, and of
                           AFLAC from June 1991 to August 1993


Norman P. Foster         Executive Vice President, Corporate          61
                           Finance, of the Company and AFLAC             
                           since March 1992; Senior Vice             
                           President, Chief Financial Officer           
                           and Treasurer of the Company, and            
                           Senior Vice President and Chief              
                           Financial Officer of AFLAC until             
                           March 1992                                



                                   I-16

David Halmrast           Senior Vice President, Corporate             56
                           Development, of AFLAC since December
                           1993; Senior Vice President, Corporate
                           Development of the Company from April
                           1993 to December 1993; Senior Vice 
                           President and Chief Financial Officer
                           of Colonial Companies, Inc. until July


Kenneth S. Janke Jr.     Senior Vice President, Investor              37
                           Relations, of the Company since
                           August 1993; Vice President, Investor
                           Relations, of the Company until August


Akitoshi Kan             Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,           48
                           Accounting, Corporate Planning, Audit,
                           and Legal Affairs since January 1995;
                           Vice President, AFLAC Japan Accounting 
                           Department, from 1992 through 1994;
                           Manager, AFLAC Japan, Accounting 
                           Department, until 1992


Kyoichi Kasuya           Vice President, Chief Actuary, AFLAC         58
                           Japan, since 1992; General Manager,
                           AFLAC Japan, Actuarial Department,
                           until 1992


Nobuo Kawamura           Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,          51
                           Underwriting, Policy Maintenance, 
                           Premium Accounting, Customer Service, 
                           Administration Support since January 
                           1992; Deputy Director of Marketing,
                           AFLAC Japan, until 1992


Joseph P. Kuechenmeister Senior Vice President, Director              54
                           of Marketing of AFLAC


Joey M. Loudermilk       Senior Vice President, General Counsel       42
                           and Corporate Secretary of the               
                           Company, and Senior Vice President,          
                           General Counsel and Director, Legal          
                           and Governmental Relations and               
                           Corporate Secretary of AFLAC since           
                           May 1992; Senior Vice President,             
                           Corporate Counsel and Assistant              
                           Secretary of the Company and AFLAC           
                           and Director, Legal and Governmental         
                           Affairs of AFLAC until May 1992



                                   I-17

Hidefumi Matsui          President, AFLAC Japan, since January        51
                           1995, Executive Vice President of AFLAC
                           Japan, from January 1992 to 1995; Senior
                           Vice President, Director of Marketing,
                           AFLAC Japan, until January 1992


Minoru Nakai             President of AFLAC International, Inc.,      54
                           since October 1991; Senior Vice 
                           President, U.S.-Japan Operations, of
                           AFLAC, until October 1991   


Yoshiki Otake            Chairman, AFLAC Japan, since January         56
                           1995, Vice Chairman of AFLAC 
                           International Inc., since October 1991,
                           President of AFLAC Japan from October
                           1991 until 1995; Executive Vice 
                           President of AFLAC from January 1991
                           until October 1991


Thomas L. Paul           President of AFLAC Broadcast Group, Inc.;    66
                           Vice President, Corporate Development,
                           of the Company until 1993


E. Stephen Purdom        Executive Vice President of AFLAC since      48
                           October 1994; Senior Vice President,
                           Medical Director of AFLAC until October
                           1994, and also Medical Director, 
                           Columbus Clinic, Columbus, GA until
                           September 1994 


Tsuneo Shioiri           Senior Vice President, Director of Sales     57
                           Administration, AFLAC Japan, since
                           January 1992; Deputy Director of
                           Marketing, AFLAC Japan, until 1992


Joseph W. Smith, Jr.     Senior Vice President, Chief Investment      42
                           Officer of AFLAC since August 1991;
                           Senior Vice President, Investments
                           of AFLAC, until August 1991


Gary L. Stegman          Senior Vice President, Assistant Chief       46
                           Financial Officer of the Company and
                           AFLAC since June 1991; Senior Vice
                           President, Treasurer of AFLAC until 
                           June 1991  

  (*)  Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held
       the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least five years. 
       Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of
       directors and serves until his successor is chosen and qualified,
       or until his death, resignation or removal.
                                   I-18


                                 PART II       

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 5 through 8 are 
incorporated by reference from the Company's 1995 Annual Report to 
Shareholders, the appropriate sections of which are included herein as 
Exhibit 13.
                                               Exhibit 13   Annual Report
                                                  Pages         Pages  
                                               __________   _____________


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON      13-1; 13-2;     1; 24; 
          EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER         13-48       46 (Note 9);
          MATTERS                               (Note 9)       and 50


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA              13-3; 13-4       32 - 33


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND          13-5 to          25 - 31
          ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION       13-19
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND             13-20 to         34 - 50
          SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                    13-58


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS           None            None
          WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE             























                                    


                                   II-1


                                PART III 

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 10 through 13 are 
incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive Proxy Statement 
relating to the Company's 1996 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 1, 1996, pursuant 
to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

                                      Refer to the Information  Refer to
                                      Contained in the Proxy    Printed
                                      Statement under Captions    Proxy
                                       (filed electronically)   Statement
                                                                  Pages
                                      ________________________  _________

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE     Security Ownership of       3 - 7
          OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY     Management.  1. Election
             Directors                of Directors
             Executive Officers -      
               see Part I, Item 4A
               herein  


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      Board and Committee         8 - 18
                                      Meetings and Directors
                                      Compensation; Summary 
                                      Compensation Table; De-
                                      fined Benefit Pension
                                      Plan; Retirement Plans
                                      for Key Executives; 
                                      Employment Contracts and
                                      Termination of Employ-
                                      ment Arrangements


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF       Voting Securities and       2 - 7
          CERTAIN BENEFICIAL          Principal Holders 
          OWNERS AND                  Thereof. Security Owner-
          MANAGEMENT                  ship of Management.  
                                      1. Election of Directors


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS       Certain Transactions       18 - 19
          AND RELATED                 and Relationships
          TRANSACTIONS












                                  III-1


                                 PART IV 

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                   Page(s)
                                                              ----------- 
         Included in Part II of this report and
         incorporated by reference to the following
         pages of Exhibit 13:
           AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries:
             Consolidated Statements of Earnings, for            13-20 -
              each of the years in the three-year                 13-21
              period ended December 31, 1995                   
             Consolidated Balance Sheets, at December            13-22 -
              31, 1995 and 1994                                   13-23
             Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'            13-24 -
              Equity, for each of the years in the                13-25
              three-year period ended December 31,
             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,              13-26 -
              for each of the years in the three-year             13-27
              period ended December 31, 1995             
             Notes to the Consolidated Financial                 13-28 to
              Statements                                          13-55
             Report of Independent Auditors                      13-57

     2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         Included in Part IV of this report:
           Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedules      IV-5
           Schedule I   -  Summary of Investments - Other         IV-6
                            Than Investments in Related 
                            Parties, at December 31, 1995         
           Schedule II  -  Condensed Financial Information of    IV-7 -
                            Registrant, at December 31, 1995      IV-11
                            and 1994 and for each of the 
                            years in the three-year period 
                            ended December 31, 1995         
           Schedule IV  -  Reinsurance, for each of the           IV-12
                            years in the three-year period 
                            ended December 31, 1995                

     Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are 
not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in 
the financial statements or notes thereto.  












                                   IV-1

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
                  reference from 1991 Form 10-K, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
                  amended - incorporated by reference from 1992 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Exhibit 3.0.
         4.0    - The registrant is not filing one instrument evidencing
                  indebtedness since the total amount of securities
                  authorized under any single instrument does not exceed 10%
                  of the total assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries
                  on a consolidated basis.  Copies of such instruments will
                  be furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission 
                  upon request.
        10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
                  Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the 
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family 
                  Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and
                  Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
                  incorporated by reference from Registration Statement
                  No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC
                  Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
        10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan - 
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy 
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 
                  0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
        10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
        10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior 
                  Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.2.
        10.3*   - American Family Corporation Supplemental Executive 
                  Retirement Plan - incorporated by reference from 1989  
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.3.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement 
                  Plan, as amended, effective September 1, 1993 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.3.1.
        10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P. 
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
                  from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
        10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  
                  Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
                  1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.


                                   IV-2

        10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss 
                  Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended 
                  November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.
        10.7*   - AFLAC Incorporated Management Incentive Plan -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession 
                  No. 0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit B.
        10.8*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Hidefumi Matsui, dated
                  January 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.8.
        10.9*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
                  October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S.
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference
                  from form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file
                  number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023,
                  Exhibit 10.1.
        13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                  Report to Shareholders for 1995.
        21.0    - Subsidiaries.
        23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with
                  respect to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American
                  Family Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982)
                  and Stock Option Plan (1985).
        23.1    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-41926 with
                  respect to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
        23.2    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with
                  respect to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(K) Retirement
                  Plan.
        23.3    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
                  to the AFL Stock Plan.
        27.0    - Financial Data Schedule (electronic filing only).
        28.0*   - AFLAC Incorporated 401(K) Retirement Plan incorporated 
                  by reference from 1992 Form 10-K, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Exhibit 28.0.

*Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.


(b)   REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      There were no reports filed on Form 8-K for the quarter ended
      December 31, 1995.




                                   IV-3

(c)   EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 10-K

      13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual 
                Report to Shareholders for 1995.
      21.0    - Subsidiaries.
      23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family  
                Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock 
                Option Plan (1985).
      23.1    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-41926 with respect
                to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
      23.2    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(K) Retirement Plan.
      23.3    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
                to the AFL Stock Plan.
      27.0    - Financial Data Schedule (electronic filing only).






































                                   IV-4




INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 


The Shareholders and Board of Directors  
AFLAC Incorporated:

Under date of January 29, 1996, we reported on the consolidated balance 
sheets of AFLAC Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 
1994, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' 
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended 
December 31, 1995, as contained in the 1995 annual report to shareholders.  
These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are 
incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 
1995.  In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated 
financial statements, we also audited the related financial statement 
schedules as listed in Item 14.  These financial statement schedules are the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these financial statement schedules based on our 
audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.







                                               KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
January 29, 1996




















                                   IV-5

                                   SCHEDULE I
                       AFLAC INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
     Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related Parties
                               December 31, 1995


(In thousands)                                                   Amount in
                                                     Fair         Balance 
      Type of Investment               Cost          Value         Sheet  
    -----------------------         -----------   -----------   ----------
Securities available for sale:
 Fixed maturities:
  Bonds:
   United States Government and 
     government agencies and
     authorities                    $   497,357   $   519,761   $   519,761
   States, municipalities and 
     political subdivisions             872,673       962,966       962,966
   Foreign governments                6,809,934     8,201,769     8,201,769
   Public utilities                   3,272,635     3,735,385     3,735,385
   Convertibles                          29,749        33,465        33,465
   All other corporate bonds          5,622,395     6,221,660     6,221,660
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total fixed maturities 
         available for sale          17,104,743    19,675,006    19,675,006
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
 Equity securities:
  Common stocks:
   Public utilities                       3,264         3,698         3,698
   Banks, trusts and insurance
     companies                            7,033         9,297         9,297
   Industrial, miscellaneous 
     and all other                       70,615        95,067        95,067
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total equity securities           80,912       108,062       108,062
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total securities
         available for sale          17,185,655    19,783,068    19,783,068

Mortgage loans on real estate            22,213        28,825        22,213
Policy loans                              1,230         1,230         1,230
Other long-term investments               2,113         2,113         2,113
Short-term investments                  232,201       232,201       232,201
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
      Total investments             $17,443,412   $20,047,437   $20,040,825
                                     ==========    ==========    ==========












                                   IV-6 

                                 SCHEDULE II 
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                           Condensed Balance Sheets
                       AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)
                              (In thousands)
                                                     December 31, 
                                                   1995         1994    
                                                ----------    ---------- 
    Assets:
    Investments:
      Investments in subsidiaries*             $ 2,573,606   $ 1,988,329 
      Other investments:
        Money market funds                          17,346         2,489 
        Mortgage loans and other                     2,548         2,468 
                                                ----------    ---------- 
          Total investments                      2,593,500     1,993,286 
    Due from subsidiaries*                           3,910         9,574 
    Other receivables                                4,478         4,851 
    Property and equipment, net                      9,231         8,961 
    Other                                            1,291           267 
                                                ----------    ---------- 
          Total assets                           2,612,410     2,016,939 
                                                ==========    ========== 
    Liabilities and Shareholders' Equity:
    Liabilities:
      Cash overdraft                                   160            82
      Due to subsidiaries*                           1,237           714 
      Notes payable (note A)                       272,158       111,970 
      Employee and beneficiary benefit plans       147,319       117,145 
      Income taxes, primarily deferred              33,577        25,399 
      Other                                         23,818         9,862 
    Commitments and contingencies (note B)                               
                                                ----------    ---------- 
          Total liabilities                        478,269       265,172 
                                                ----------    ---------- 
    Shareholders' equity:
       Common stock of $.10 par value:
         Authorized 175,000; issued 156,358
           shares in 1995 and 155,999 shares
           in 1994                                  15,636        15,600 
       Additional paid-in capital                  196,928       192,899 
       Unrealized foreign currency
         translation gains                         213,319       174,091 
       Unrealized gains on securities
         available for sale                        482,787       228,844 
       Retained earnings (note D)                1,577,605     1,277,487 
       Treasury stock                             (351,117)     (135,776)
       Notes receivable for stock purchases         (1,017)       (1,378)
                                                ----------    ---------- 
          Total shareholders' equity             2,134,141     1,751,767 
                                                ----------    ---------- 
          Total liabilities and
            shareholders' equity               $ 2,612,410   $ 2,016,939 
                                                ==========    ========== 

    * Eliminated in consolidation.
    See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
                                   IV-7

                                  SCHEDULE II 
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 

                        Condensed Statements of Earnings 
                        AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only) 
                                 (In thousands)

                                           Years ended December 31,
                                        1995         1994         1993
                                      ----------   ----------   ---------- 
Revenues:
  Dividends from subsidiaries*        $   82,343   $  109,533   $   71,268 
  Management and service fees
    from subsidiaries*                    30,509       26,391       30,357 
  Other income from subsidiaries,
    principally rental and interest*         196          683          992 
  Other income                             1,069        1,327         (620)
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
      Total revenues                     114,117      137,934      101,997 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
Operating expenses:
  Interest expense - subsidiaries*            30           22          162 
  Interest expense - others                8,419        6,070        3,362 
  Capitalized interest                         -       (2,419)      (3,250)
  Other operating expenses                70,921       65,635       53,595 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
      Total operating expenses            79,370       69,308       53,869 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
   Earnings before income taxes,
     equity in undistributed earnings
     of subsidiaries and cumulative
     effect of accounting changes         34,747       68,626       48,128 

Income tax expense (note C)                8,583          874        1,063 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
   Earnings before equity in
     undistributed earnings of
     subsidiaries and cumulative
     effect of accounting changes         26,164       67,752       47,065 

Equity in undistributed earnings
  of subsidiaries                        322,893      225,038      196,824 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
   Earnings before cumulative
     effect of accounting changes        349,057      292,790      243,889 

Cumulative effect on prior years
  of accounting changes (including 
  a $46,100 credit related to
  subsidiaries) (note F)                       -            -       11,438 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
     Net earnings                     $  349,057   $  292,790   $  255,327 
                                       =========    =========    ========= 

* Eliminated in consolidation.
See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.


                                   IV-8

                                   SCHEDULE II
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                       Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
                        AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)
                                 (In thousands)
                                             Years ended December 31,
                                           1995        1994        1993
                                        ----------  ----------  ---------- 
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings                          $  349,057  $  292,790  $  255,327 
  Adjustments to reconcile net
    earnings to net cash provided
    from operating activities:
      Cumulative effect on prior
        years of accounting changes              -           -     (11,438)
      Equity in undistributed
        earnings of subsidiaries          (322,893)   (225,038)   (196,824)
      Deferred income taxes                  8,178        (578)       (300)
      Employee and beneficiary  
        benefit plans                       30,174      32,700      18,195 
      Other, net                            17,017       4,307         190 
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
        Net cash provided by
          operating activities              81,533     104,181      65,150 
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Net (increase) decrease in
    other investments                      (14,325)     18,998     (14,703)
  Additional capitalization
    of subsidiaries                              -      (3,592)          - 
  Additions to property and
    equipment, net                               -           -         (75)
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
       Net cash (used)/provided by
         investing activities              (14,325)     15,406     (14,778)
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from borrowings                 198,250      84,000           - 
  Principal payments under debt
    obligations                            (11,507)    (26,541)    (11,419)
  Proceeds from exercise of
    stock options                            3,235       2,163       6,975 
  Dividends paid to shareholders           (48,939)    (44,928)    (40,057)
  Purchases of treasury stock             (224,204)   (131,734)     (1,325)
  Treasury stock reissued                    9,693       2,761           - 
  Net change in amount due 
    to/from subsidiaries                     6,186      (5,331)     (3,866)
  Other, net                                     -           -      (1,072)
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
       Net cash used by
         financing activities              (67,286)   (119,610)    (50,764)
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
       Net change in cash                      (78)        (23)       (392)
Cash (overdraft) at beginning of year          (82)        (59)        333 
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
Cash (overdraft) at end of year         $     (160) $      (82) $      (59)
                                         =========   =========   ========= 
See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
                                   IV-9

                               SCHEDULE II
                CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                   Notes to Condensed Financial Statements 
                      AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only) 


     The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in 
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of 
AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries (see Part II - Item 8).

(A)  NOTES PAYABLE 

     A summary of notes payable serviced by the Parent Company at
December 31, 1995 and 1994 follows:

(In thousands)                                         1995          1994   
                                                     --------      --------

2.71% unsecured, yen-denominated notes payable
  to banks under reducing revolving credit
  agreement, due annually, July 1996 through
  July 2001........................................  $ 230,695     $      -
5.965% unsecured notes payable to banks,
  due semiannually through 1997....................     39,167       49,000
8.3% note payable, due monthly through 1997,
  secured by equipment.............................      2,296        3,970 
Unsecured notes payable to banks under revolving
  credit and term-loan agreement, variable
  interest rate (6.75% at December 31, 1994),  
  refinanced into the 2.71% notes payable in 1995..          -       50,000
6.63% short-term note payable to bank under  
  unsecured line of credit.........................          -        9,000
                                                      --------     --------
      Total notes payable                            $ 272,158    $ 111,970 
                                                      ========     ======== 

     The aggregate maturities of the notes payable for each of the five
years after December 31, 1995, are as follows:

     (In thousands)

       1996............................................    59,934
       1997............................................    58,427
       1998............................................    38,449
       1999............................................    38,449
       2000............................................    38,449


(B)  CONTINGENCIES

     In prior years, the Parent Company executed promissory notes to banks 
and transferred the proceeds to its broadcast subsidiaries for the 
acquisition of television broadcasting stations.  The outstanding balances 
on these notes assumed by a partnership formed by the Broadcast Group and 
AFLAC were $23.8 million as of December 31, 1995, and are not included in 
the accompanying condensed balance sheet.

                                   IV-10

     In addition, the Parent Company has also guaranteed repayment of bank 
borrowings by its subsidiary, AFLAC.  The related outstanding loan balance 
at December 31, 1995, was $1.0 million.


(C)  INCOME TAXES

     The Company and its eligible U.S. subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. 
federal income tax return.  Income tax liabilities or benefits are recorded 
by each principal subsidiary based upon separate return calculations, and 
any difference between the consolidated provision and the aggregate amounts 
recorded by the subsidiaries is reflected in the Parent Company financial 
statements.  

     The Internal Revenue Service has proposed adjustments to the Company's 
U.S. consolidated federal income tax returns for the years 1989 through 
1991.  The proposed adjustments relate primarily to the computation of 
foreign-source income for purposes of the foreign tax credit that, if 
upheld, would have a significant effect on the Company's operating results 
relating to both the years under examination and subsequent years.  
Management does not agree with the proposed tax issues and is vigorously 
contesting them.  The Company filed a formal protest with the IRS during 
1995.  Although the final outcome is uncertain and will likely take several 
years to resolve, the Company believes that its position will prevail and 
that the ultimate liability will not materially impact the consolidated 
financial statements.

     For further information on income taxes, see Exhibit 13, page 13-45, 
Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


(D)  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     See Exhibit 13, pages 13-50 and 13-51 (Note 10, Statutory Accounting 
and Dividend Restrictions, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements) for information regarding dividend restrictions.


(E)  SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     (In thousands)                           1995       1994       1993
                                            --------   --------   --------
     Cash payments during the year for:
       Interest on debt obligations        $  7,807   $  6,302   $  3,588
       Income taxes                             406        400          -

     In 1993, non-cash investing activities included issuance of common 
stock for purchase of a company amounting to $8.7 million.  For further 
information see Note 9, Other, page 13-49 of Exhibit 13.


(F)  ACCOUNTING CHANGES

     For information concerning the cumulative effect of new accounting 
standards adopted in 1995, 1994, and 1993, see page 13-30 of Exhibit 13, 
Note 1, section on Accounting Changes Adopted, of Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.

                                   IV-11







                                SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                            AFLAC Incorporated



Date   MARCH 26, 1996                 By    /s/ PAUL S. AMOS           
      ------------------------           ----------------------------------
                                               (Paul S. Amos)
                                         Chairman of the Board of Directors


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



/s/ DANIEL P. AMOS           Chief Executive Officer,     MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------     President and Vice           -----------------
 (Daniel P. Amos)            Chairman of the Board 
                             of Directors 





/s/ KRISS CLONINGER, III     Executive Vice President,    MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------     Chief Financial Officer      -----------------
(Kriss Cloninger, III)        and Treasurer         





/s/ NORMAN P. FOSTER         Executive Vice President,    MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------     Corporate Finance            -----------------
(Norman P. Foster)           















                                   IV-13


    /s/ J. SHELBY AMOS, II            Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
       (J. Shelby Amos, II)




  /s/  MICHAEL H. ARMACOST            Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
    (Michael H. Armacost)




  /s/  M. DELMAR EDWARDS, M.D.        Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (M. Delmar Edwards, M.D.)




  /s/  GEORGE W. FORD, JR.            Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (George W. Ford, Jr.)




  /s/  CESAR E. GARCIA                Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
      (Cesar E. Garcia)




  /s/  JOE FRANK HARRIS               Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
      (Joe Frank Harris)




  /s/  ELIZABETH J. HUDSON            Director            MARCH 26, 1996  
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Elizabeth J. Hudson)




  /s/  KENNETH S. JANKE, SR.          Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Kenneth S. Janke, Sr.)





                                   IV-14


  /s/  CHARLES B. KNAPP               Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Charles B. Knapp)
                                    


  /s/  HISAO KOBAYASHI                Director            MARCH 26, 1996
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Hisao Kobayashi)



  /s/  YOSHIKI OTAKE                  Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Yoshiki Otake)



  /s/ E. STEPHEN PURDOM               Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (E. Stephen Purdom)



  /s/ BARBARA K. RIMER                Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Barbara K. Rimer)



/s/  HENRY C. SCHWOB                  Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Henry C. Schwob)



  /s/  J. KYLE SPENCER                Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (J. Kyle Spencer)



  /s/  GLENN VAUGHN, JR.              Director            MARCH 26, 1996   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
   (Glenn Vaughn, Jr.)












                                   IV-15

Exhibit Index


     3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
              reference from 1991 Form 10-K, Commission file number
              1-7434, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
              amended - incorporated by reference from 1992 Form 10-K,
              Commission file number 1-7434, Exhibit 3.0.
     4.0    - The registrant is not filing one instrument evidencing 
              indebtedness since the total amount of securities authorized
              under any single instrument does not exceed 10% of the total
              assets of the registrant and its subsidiaries on a 
              consolidated basis.  Copies of such instruments will be
              furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon
              request.
    10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
              (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
              Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the 
              AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
              Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan 
              (1985).
    10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
              incorporated by reference from Registration Statement No.
              33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC
              Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
              Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan 
              (1985).
    10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan - 
              incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy 
              Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 
              0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
    10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
              amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
              Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
              1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
    10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior 
              Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
              incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
              file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
              Exhibit 10.2.
    10.3*   - American Family Corporation Supplemental Executive 
              Retirement Plan - incorporated by reference from 1989  
              Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Exhibit 10.9.
    10.3.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement 
              Plan, as amended, effective September 1, 1993 - incorporated
              by reference from 1994 Form 10-K, Commission file number
              1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.3.1.
    10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P. 
              Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
              from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
              Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
    10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  
              Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
              1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K, 
              Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
              0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.


                                   IV-16

    10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss 
              Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended 
              November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
              Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
              No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.
    10.7*   - AFLAC Incorporated Management Incentive Plan - incorporated
              by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
              Commission file number 1-7434, Accession 
              No. 0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit B.
    10.8*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
              Employment Agreement with Hidefumi Matsui, dated
              January 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994
              Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
              No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.8.
    10.9*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
              Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
              October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
              Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
              No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
    10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S. Amos,
              dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
              Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
              1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.1.
    13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
              Report to Shareholders for 1995.
    21.0    - Subsidiaries.
    23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family 
              Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock
              Option Plan (1985).
    23.1    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-41926 with respect 
              to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
    23.2    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect 
              to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(K) Retirement Plan.
    23.3    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
              to the AFL Stock Plan.
    27.0    - Financial Data Schedule (electronic filing only).
    28.0*   - AFLAC Incorporated 401(K) Retirement Plan incorporated 
              by reference from 1992 Form 10-K, Commission file number
              1-7434, Exhibit 28.0.

*Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.












                                   IV-17

Exhibits Filed with Current Form 10-K:

    13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual 
              Report to Shareholders for 1995.
    21.0    - Subsidiaries.
    23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family  
              Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock 
              Option Plan (1985).
    23.1    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-41926 with respect
              to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
    23.2    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(K) Retirement Plan.
    23.3    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
              to the AFL Stock Plan.
    27.0    - Financial Data Schedule (electronic filing only).






































                                   IV-18 
 



 

 







