
10-K
1999 FORM 10-K



                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C.  20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1999       Commission file no. 1-7434


                               AFLAC INCORPORATED
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

            Georgia                                          58-1167100
    ------------------------                           -------------------
    (State of Incorporation)                            (I.R.S. Employer
                                                       Identification No.)


1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, Georgia                        31999
- ----------------------------------------        ----------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code 706-323-3431

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                  Name of Each Exchange
             Title of Each Class                   on Which Registered
       ------------------------------           -------------------------
        Common Stock, $.10 Par Value             New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Pacific Exchange
                                                 Tokyo Stock Exchange

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No     .
                                                    ----    ----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein,
and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.
                                                          --------

The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding at March 16,
2000, with $.10 par value, was 265,087,239.  The aggregate market value of the
voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 16, 2000 was
$11,129,693,599.


                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


PART I         Item 1         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-26 (Management's
                               Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                               Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)),
                               pages 13-38 to 13-51 (Notes 2 and 3 of the
                               Notes to the Consolidated Financial
                               Statements), and pages 13-62 to 13-64
                               (Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated
                               Financial Statements).  The applicable
                               portions of the Company's Annual Report to
                               Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
                               1999, are included as Exhibit 13


               Item 2         Exhibit 13 - page 13-68 (Note 12 of the Notes
                               to the Consolidated Financial Statements)


PART II        Item 5         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-1, 13-2 and 13-62
                               (Note 9 of the Notes to the Consolidated
                               Financial Statements)


               Item 6         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-3 and 13-4


               Item 7         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-26


               Item 7A        Exhibit 13 - pages 13-7 to 13-8 and
                                13-15 to 13-19


               Item 8         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-27 to 13-71



PART III       Item 10        Incorporated by reference from the
                               definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual
                               Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 1,
                               2000 (the Proxy Statement)


               Item 11        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy
                               Statement


               Item 12        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy
                               Statement


               Item 13        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy
                               Statement



                                     i

                            AFLAC Incorporated
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   For the Year Ended December 31, 1999


                                                                                                   Page

PART I

Item 1.   Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     I- 1

Item 2.   Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     I-17

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     I-17

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. . .     I-18

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company. . . . . . . . . . . .     I-18


PART II

Item 5.   Market for Company's Common Equity and Related
            Shareholder Matters. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    II- 1

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    II- 1

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
            Condition and Results of Operations. . . . . . . . . .    II- 1

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
            About Market Risk. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    II- 1

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. . . . . . .    II- 1

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on
            Accounting and Financial Disclosure. . . . . . . . . .    II- 1


PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Company. . . . .   III- 1

Item 11.  Executive Compensation . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   III- 1

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and
            Management . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .   III- 1

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions . . . . .   III- 1


PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports
            on Form 8-K. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .    IV- 1


                                     ii

                                   PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

     AFLAC Incorporated was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the State
of Georgia.  AFLAC Incorporated is a general business holding company and acts
as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries by
providing management services and making capital available. Its primary
business is supplemental health and life insurance, which is marketed and
administered primarily through its subsidiary, American Family Life Assurance
Company of Columbus (AFLAC).  Most of AFLAC's policies are individually
underwritten and marketed at worksites through independent agents with
premiums paid by the employee.  Our businesses in Japan (AFLAC Japan) and the
United States (AFLAC U.S.) service the two markets for our insurance
operations.

      We are authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 states, the
District of Columbia and several U.S. territories and foreign countries. Our
only significant foreign operation is AFLAC Japan, which accounted for 81%,
80% and 79% of the company's total revenues for 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, and 87% and 86% of total assets at December 31, 1999 and 1998,
respectively.

     We believe AFLAC is the world's leading writer of cancer expense
insurance.  We continue to diversify our product offerings to include other
types of supplemental health products in both the United States and Japan.
AFLAC Japan, in addition to cancer plans, also sells care plans, supplemental
general medical expense plans, medical/sickness riders to our cancer plan, and
a living benefit life plan.  AFLAC U.S. also sells other types of supplemental
health insurance, including hospital intensive care, accident and disability,
hospital indemnity, long-term care and short-term disability plans.  We also
offer several life insurance plans in the United States and Japan.

     For financial information relating to our foreign and U.S. operations,
see Exhibit 13, pages 13-5 to 13-26 (Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)) and page 13-38 (Note 2
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), which are incorporated
herein by reference.

     Several significant non-operating items affected our net earnings during
the three-year period ended December 31, 1999.

      Two corporate income tax rate reductions were enacted in Japan.  The
statutory tax rate for AFLAC Japan declined from 45.3% to 41.7% in 1998 and
from 41.7% to 36.2% in 1999.  These tax rate declines caused reductions in our
deferred income tax liability.   The deferred tax effect for the 1998 tax
reduction was recognized in the first quarter of 1998, increasing net earnings
by $121 million ($.45 per basic share and $.44 per diluted share).  The
deferred tax effect for the 1999 tax reduction was recognized in the first
quarter of 1999, increasing net earnings by $67 million ($.25 per basic share
and $.24 per diluted share).  For additional information on the income tax
reductions, see Exhibit 13, page 13-56, Note 7 of the Notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements.



                                    I-1

      Another factor affecting net earnings was a policyholder protection fund
system mandated by the Japanese government during the first quarter of 1998.
The pretax charge for our obligation to the new protection fund was $111
million in 1998 ($65 million after tax, or $.24 per basic and diluted shares).
In 1999, Toho Mutual Life Insurance Company, a Japanese insurer, was declared
insolvent by Japanese government regulators.  This insolvency is expected to
deplete most of the policyholder protection fund established in 1998.  In
order to replenish the policyholder protection fund, the Japanese government
and the life insurance industry agreed to new legislation that will increase
the life insurance industry's legal obligation to the fund as well as provide
government support.  Our share of the industry's obligation was recognized in
the fourth quarter of 1999 and decreased pretax earnings by $64 million ($41
million after-tax, or $.15 per basic and diluted share).  For further
information regarding this policyholder protection fund, see Exhibit 13, page
13-38, Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Affecting net earnings in 1997 was the sale of our television business,
which consisted of seven network-affiliated stations.  The sale of one station
closed on December 31, 1996.  The sale of the six remaining stations was
completed in 1997.   The pretax and after-tax gains recognized during the
second quarter of 1997 on the closing of the six stations were $267 million
and $211 million, respectively.  The effect of the after-tax gain on 1997
basic and diluted net earnings per share was $.77 and $.75, respectively.

     The following discussion of earnings comparisons focuses on operating
earnings and excludes realized investment gains/losses, the charges for the
mandated policyholder protection fund, the deferred income tax benefits from
the Japanese income tax rate reductions and the gain from the sale of the
television business.  Operating earnings per share referred to in the
following discussion are based on the diluted number of average outstanding
shares.

     Due to the relative size of AFLAC Japan, fluctuations in the yen/dollar
exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported results.  In years
when the yen weakens, translating yen into dollars causes fewer dollars to be
reported.  When the yen strengthens, translating yen into dollars causes more
dollars to be reported.

     The yen strengthened in relation to the dollar during 1999 after several
years of weakening.  The average yen-to-dollar exchange rates were 113.96 in
1999, 130.89 in 1998 and 121.07 in 1997.  The stronger yen in 1999 compared
with 1998 increased operating earnings by $.12 per share in 1999.  The weaker
yen in 1998 and 1997 lowered operating earnings by $.05 per share in 1998
compared with 1997 and by $.09 in 1997 compared with 1996.  Reported operating
earnings per share increased 28.2% to $2.00 in 1999, 17.3% to $1.56 in 1998
and 10.8% to $1.33 in 1997.

     Our primary financial objective is to grow operating earnings per share
excluding the effect of foreign currency translations.  Our goal for 1999 was
20% growth, which we exceeded.  Excluding the effect of currency fluctuations,
operating earnings per share increased 20.5% in 1999 compared with 1998, 21.1%
in 1998 compared with 1997, and 18.3% in 1997 compared with 1996.

     For further information regarding the impact of currency fluctuations on
our business, see Exhibit 13, pages 13-7 to 13-8 (Foreign Currency Translation
section of Management's Discussion and Analysis).


                                    I-2

     Insurance premiums and investment income from insurance operations are
the major sources of revenues.  Our consolidated premium income was $7.3
billion in 1999 and $5.9 billion for both 1998 and 1997.  For further
information on our consolidated premiums earned by business segment, see Note
2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13, page
13-38, incorporated herein by reference.

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in
force for AFLAC's insurance business in Japan and the United States for the
years ended December 31.

 (In millions)                          1999          1998          1997
                                      --------      --------      --------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at beginning of year                $  6,931      $  5,811      $  5,953
    New issues including
      policy conversions                 1,320         1,061           921
    Change in unprocessed
      policies                              21           (24)          (65)
    Lapses and surrenders                 (684)         (552)         (479)
    Other                                   34            23            26
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                           773           612          (545)
                                       -------       -------       -------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                      $  8,395      $  6,931      $  5,811
                                       =======       =======       =======


INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT RESULTS

     During the fourth quarter of 1998, we revised our investment management
policy regarding the holding-period intent for certain of our private
placement debt securities.  Our past practice was to hold these securities to
their contractual or economic maturity dates.  We have now made this our
formal policy.  Accordingly, debt securities carried at a fair value of $6.4
billion were reclassified as of October 1, 1998, from the category  "available
for sale" to "held to maturity."  The related unrealized gain of $1.1 billion
as of October 1, 1998, on these securities is being amortized from other
comprehensive income into investment income over the remaining term of the
securities.  The related premium over amortized cost in the carrying value of
the debt securities that was created when the reclassification occurred is
also being amortized as an offsetting charge to investment income.

     In recent years, AFLAC Japan has purchased subordinated perpetual
debenture securities issued primarily by European and Japanese banks.  These
securities are subordinated to other debt obligations of the issuer, but rank
higher than equity securities.  Although these securities have no contractual
maturity, the issue-date fixed-rate interest coupons subsequently increase to
a market-interest rate plus 150 to 300 basis points and change to a variable-
interest rate basis, generally by the 10th to 25th year after issuance,
creating an economic maturity date.






                                    I-3

     The following table shows an analysis of investment securities (at cost
or amortized cost) at December 31:

                                      AFLAC Japan             AFLAC U.S.
(In millions)                        1999     1998          1999     1998
                                   -----------------      -----------------
Available for sale:
  Fixed-maturity securities        $15,491   $12,886      $ 3,405*  $ 2,772
  Perpetual debentures               2,411     1,344          153       111
  Equity securities                     45        22           92        79
                                    ------    ------       ------    ------
    Total available for sale        17,947    14,252        3,650     2,962
                                    ------    ------       ------    ------
Held to maturity:
  Fixed-maturity securities          4,389     3,947            -         -
  Perpetual debentures               3,903     3,494            -         -
                                    ------    ------       ------    ------
    Total held to maturity           8,292     7,441            -         -
                                    ------    ------       ------    ------
      Total                        $26,239   $21,693      $ 3,650   $ 2,962
                                    ======    ======       ======    ======

*Includes $240 of securities held by the parent company.


     Net investment income was $1.4 billion in 1999 and $1.1 billion in both
1998 and 1997.

     AFLAC primarily invests within the Japanese, U.S. and Euroyen debt
securities markets.  When committing cash flows to new investments, we
purchase only securities that are rated investment grade by the Securities
Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (SVO).
We require that all private placement issuers have an initial rating of class
1 or 2 as determined by the SVO.  Most of AFLAC's private placement issues are
issued under medium-term note programs and have standard covenants
commensurate with credit rankings, except when internal credit analysis
indicates that additional protective and/or event risk covenants are required.

     For information on the composition of our investment portfolio and
investment results, see Exhibit 13, pages 13-11, 13-14 and 13-15 to 13-26
(discussions relating to investments, balance sheet and cash flow) and pages
13-43 to 13-52 (Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


INVESTMENTS - JAPAN

     Approximately 93.3% of the 271.8 billion yen ($2.7 billion) that AFLAC
Japan had available for investment in 1999 was invested in yen-denominated
securities at an average yield of 4.54%.  We invested 90.5% in longer-dated
securities at an average rate of 4.64%.  The longer-dated sector includes
purchases of dual-currency bonds (yen principal securities that pay a dollar
coupon) at an average yield of 4.74%.  An additional 2.8% was invested in yen-
denominated securities of various other sectors.  Dollar-denominated
securities accounted for the remaining 6.7% of the purchases in 1999 at an
average yield to maturity of 7.42%.


                                    I-4

     Following is the composition of total investments and cash (at cost or
amortized cost) for AFLAC Japan as of December 31:

                                         1999               1998
                                       --------           --------
Debt securities:
  Government and guaranteed              28.8%              31.3%
  Municipalities                          3.5                4.0
  Public utilities                       15.0               16.3
  Banks/financial institutions           38.8               35.9
  Other corporate                        11.5               10.9
Equity securities                          .2                 .1
Cash and cash equivalents                 2.2                1.5
                                       ------             ------
                                        100.0%             100.0%
                                       ======             ======


     We use specific criteria to judge the credit quality and liquidity of our
investments, and we use a variety of credit rating services to monitor these
criteria.  Applying those various credit ratings to a standardized rating
system based on the categories of a nationally recognized rating service, the
percentages of AFLAC Japan's debt securities, at amortized cost, as of
December 31 were as follows:

                                         1999               1998
                                        ------             ------
            AAA                          30.2%              41.7%
            AA                           24.9               16.6
            A                            30.5               28.0
            BBB                          12.4               13.7
            BB                            2.0                  -
                                        -----              -----
                                        100.0%             100.0%
                                        =====              =====

     At December 31, 1999, we owned debt securities rated below investment
grade in the amount of $530 million at amortized cost, or 2.0% of AFLAC
Japan's debt securities.  These securities were issued by two Japanese banks
that had a credit rating downgrade following our purchase of the debt
securities.  Subsequent to December 31, 1999, these two banks were upgraded to
`BBB.'  However, another corporate issue with an amortized cost of $210
million was downgraded to `BB.'

     Japan's life insurance industry has contended with low investment yields
for the last several years.  Despite a series of premium rate increases
designed to help offset the effect of lower yields, two Japanese life
insurance companies have been declared insolvent during the last three years.
As a result, more attention has been paid to the composition of the life
insurance industry's assets.  Our asset allocation is much different than the
industry as a whole and, we believe, is better suited to a low interest rate
environment.  Based on March 31, 1999, Japanese Financial Supervisory Agency
(FSA) data, AFLAC had the highest portfolio yield among all of Japan's major
life insurers.  AFLAC earned this distinction without sacrificing the quality
of its portfolio.

     Our investments in the Japanese equity and investment real estate markets
continued to be immaterial in 1999.
                                    I-5

INVESTMENTS - U.S.

     Profits repatriated from AFLAC Japan to AFLAC U.S. totaled $243 million
in 1999, compared with $154 million in 1998 and $347 million in 1997.  The
profit transfer in 1997 included $125 million of a non-recurring nature.
Including profit repatriation and bond swaps, AFLAC U.S. invested $1.3 billion
in 1999.  Of that amount, approximately 7.3% was invested in U.S. government
or agency securities at an average yield of 6.57%, and 89.3% was invested in
corporate fixed-maturity securities at 7.26%.  The remaining 3.4% was invested
in equities.

     Following is the composition of total investments and cash (at cost or
amortized cost) for AFLAC U.S. as of December 31:

                                         1999               1998
                                       --------           --------
Debt securities:
  U.S. Government                         3.7%               4.0%
  Municipalities                           .5                  -
  Mortgage-backed securities              3.0                 .9
  Public utilities                        5.0                6.2
  Sovereign and Supranational             4.4                4.0
  Banks/financial institutions           44.5               50.6
  Other corporate                        35.7               31.0
Equity securities                         2.5                2.6
Cash and cash equivalents                  .7                 .7
                                       ------             ------
                                        100.0%             100.0%
                                       ======             ======


     AFLAC U.S. debt securities, at amortized cost, as of December 31 were
rated as follows:
                                         1999               1998
                                        ------             ------
            AAA                          11.3%              11.2%
            AA                           22.5               25.4
            A                            56.1               55.5
            BBB                          10.1                7.9
                                        -----              -----
                                        100.0%             100.0%
                                        =====              =====
















                                    I-6

INSURANCE - JAPAN

     AFLAC Japan's earned premiums by product lines are included in Note 2 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, Exhibit 13, page 13-38.

     The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in force
for AFLAC Japan insurance for the years ended December 31:

(In millions)                           1999          1998          1997
                                      --------      --------      --------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at beginning of year                $  5,538      $  4,595      $  4,893
    New issues including
      policy conversions                   765           579           520
    Change in unprocessed
      policies                              20           (25)          (62)
    Lapses and surrenders                 (281)         (212)         (193)
    Other                                  (12)          (11)          (18)
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                           773           612          (545)
                                      --------      --------      --------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                      $  6,803      $  5,538      $  4,595
                                      ========      ========      ========

     We are experiencing a slight increase in lapses and surrenders due to the
poor economic conditions in Japan.

INSURANCE PLANS - JAPAN

     AFLAC's insurance is designed to provide supplemental coverage for
medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed under Japan's health
insurance system.

     AFLAC Japan's sales mix is changing, although cancer life still accounts
for the majority of insurance in force.  Cancer life sales accounted for 46.4%
of total new sales in yen in 1999, 49.4% in 1998 and 52.5% in 1997.  Rider MAX
accounted for 39.8% of our sales in 1999 and 33.2% in 1998.  Ordinary life
accounted for 7.8% of new sales in 1999, 3.8% in 1998 and 1.6% in 1997.
Living benefit life accounted for 2.3% of total new sales in 1999, 7.2% in
1998 and 28.3% in 1997.

     The cancer life insurance plans offered for sale in Japan provide a fixed
daily indemnity benefit for hospitalization and outpatient services related to
cancer and a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer. The
plans differ from the AFLAC U.S. cancer plans (described on page I-12) in that
the Japanese policies also provide death benefits and cash surrender values
(we estimate that approximately 27% of the premiums earned from all cancer
life plans are associated with these benefits).  In 1997, AFLAC Japan
introduced a new economy cancer life policy with lower premium rates and
benefit levels. This plan was developed to mitigate the effect of premium rate
increases due to low investment yields available in Japan.

     Care insurance provides periodic benefits to those who become bedridden,
demented or seriously disabled due to illness or accident.  Prior to the
introduction of this care plan, we marketed a plan that primarily provided
dementia care benefits.

                                    I-7

     Our medical expense policy is similar to hospital indemnity insurance
products in the United States and provides cash benefits to policyholders when
they are hospitalized.  This product is widely available in the Japanese
insurance marketplace, but AFLAC's policy is very competitive.  Our policy
offers a maximum hospitalization benefit of 1,000 days, which is the longest
period offered in the industry.

     The living benefit life plan is a life insurance policy that provides
lump-sum benefits when policyholders experience heart attack, cancer or
stroke.  We are offering this product in two forms -- as a stand-alone policy
or as a rider to the cancer life plan.  The rider adds heart attack and stroke
benefits to the cancer life policy.  Marketing efforts for living benefit life
primarily focus on the sale of the rider.

     Rider MAX, which we began selling in 1998, adds accident and
medical/sickness benefits to our popular cancer life policy.

     Due to the continued low level of available investment yields in Japan,
industry regulators have directed insurers to increase premium rates on new
policy issues from time to time in recent years.  For further information, see
Exhibit 13, page 13-11 of the Management's Discussion and Analysis.

JAPANESE ECONOMY

     Japan's economy has been weak for several years.  The financial strength
of many Japanese financial institutions deteriorated during that time, and
some experienced bankruptcy.  As we have indicated in the past, the weak
economy in Japan in recent years has resulted in a difficult marketing
environment for AFLAC Japan, continued low yields available for new
investments and decreased consumer confidence.

     Many commentators believe the Japanese economy has bottomed out and is on
the way to recovery.  The Japanese government has developed various economic
stimulus packages in the last few years.  The time required for the Japanese
economy to recover remains uncertain.

AGENCY FORCE - JAPAN

     The "corporate agency" system has been important to the growth of AFLAC
Japan.  Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when companies establish
subsidiary businesses to sell AFLAC products to their employees, suppliers and
customers.  These agencies help us reach the employees of almost all of
Japan's large corporations.  In 1998, we purchased a small Japanese insurance
agency.  Its main functions are policyholder related services and direct
marketing programs for AFLAC Japan.

     Our products are also sold through independent corporate agencies and
individual agencies not affiliated with large companies.  As of December 31,
1999, there were 8,283 agencies in Japan with more than 41,400 licensed
agents, compared with 7,010 agencies and 32,622 licensed agents in 1998.
Agents' activities are principally limited to insurance sales, with
policyholder service functions handled by the main office in Tokyo and 62
offices throughout Japan.





                                    I-8

COMPETITION - JAPAN

     In 1974, AFLAC became the second foreign (non-Japanese) life insurance
company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market by obtaining a
license to do business in Japan.  Through 1981, we were the only company in
Japan authorized to issue a cancer life insurance policy.  Now, 18 other life
companies offer cancer insurance.  However, we remain the leading provider of
cancer life insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our lead time in
the market, unique marketing system (see Agency Force - Japan), low-cost
operations and product expertise developed in the United States.  AFLAC has
been very successful in the sale of cancer life policies in Japan, with 13.4
million cancer life policies in force at December 31, 1999.

     In December 1996, the governments of the United States and Japan reached
an agreement on deregulation of the Japanese insurance industry.  The
agreement called for the gradual liberalization of the industry through the
year 2001 and included provisions to avoid "radical change" in the third
sector of the insurance industry, which includes our supplemental health
insurance products.  AFLAC and other foreign-owned insurers, as well as many
small-to-medium-sized Japanese insurers, operate primarily in the third
sector.  Beginning January 1, 2001, additional insurance companies will be
allowed to sell the type of third sector products that AFLAC Japan currently
offers.   AFLAC has inherent competitive advantages through its distribution,
products, administrative efficiency and financial strength that should enable
it to grow even in a more competitive environment.  We also hired an
independent firm to evaluate our progress and plans for deregulation.  Their
analysis took four months to complete and affirmed that our strategies and
tactics have put us in a strong position to succeed in a more competitive
insurance market.  However, the ultimate impact of deregulation is not
presently determinable.

     AFLAC's strategy for future growth in Japan centers on broadening its
product line and expanding the distribution system.  Although the basic plan
for growth is the same in Japan as in the United States, we have had to
formulate a strategy specifically tailored for the Japanese insurance
marketplace, which is very different from the United States market.  There are
only 46 life insurance companies in Japan, compared with more than 2,000 in
the United States.  In Japan, insurers have traditionally been restricted in
the types of policies they could offer.  However, as Japan begins deregulating
the insurance industry, the marketplace should become more competitive, with
insurers able to offer more types of products, as they do in the United
States.  When deregulation is complete, we believe we will be able to sell
more products than we are currently offering.

REGULATION AND REMITTANCE OF FUNDS - JAPAN

     Payments are made from AFLAC Japan to the Parent Company for management
fees and to AFLAC U.S. for allocated expenses and remittances of earnings.
These payments totaled $282 million in 1999, $192 million in 1998 and $386
million in 1997.  Management fees paid to the Parent Company are largely based
on expense allocations.

     A portion of AFLAC Japan's annual earnings, as determined on a Japanese
statutory accounting basis, can be remitted each year to AFLAC U.S. after
complying with solvency margin provisions and satisfying various conditions
imposed by Japanese regulatory authorities for protecting policyholders.
Repatriated profits represent a portion of the after-tax earnings reported to

                                    I-9

the Japanese Financial Supervisory Agency (FSA) on a March 31 fiscal year
basis each year.  Such regulatory basis earnings are determined using
accounting principles that differ materially from U.S. generally accepted
accounting principles.  Under Japanese statutory accounting practices, policy
acquisition costs are charged off immediately, policy benefit and claim
reserving methods are different, policyholder protection fund obligations are
not accrued, deferred income tax liabilities are recognized on a different
basis, and investment securities are carried at cost less certain market value
adjustments for foreign exchange losses on dollar-denominated securities.
Additionally, accounting standards for financial instruments are in the
process of being revised in Japan.  Japanese regulatory earnings and related
profit repatriations may therefore vary materially from year to year because
of these differences.

     The FSA imposes solvency standards that represent a form of risk-based
capital requirements.  AFLAC Japan must meet these requirements to continue
profit transfers to AFLAC U.S. At this time, AFLAC Japan is in compliance with
these standards, and we do not expect these requirements to adversely affect
the funds available for repatriation from Japan.  However, we may elect to
leave a portion of the funds available for repatriation in Japan to enhance
solvency margins for competitive purposes.

     During the second quarter of 1997, Nissan Mutual Life Insurance Company
was declared insolvent.  All life insurers doing business in Japan had
previously agreed to contribute to a voluntary policyholder protection fund
over a 10-year period that would be used to help offset insurer insolvencies.
During the second quarter of 1997, AFLAC Japan recognized a pretax charge of
$25 million for its obligation to this policyholder protection fund.  The
after-tax charge was $14 million ($.05 per basic and diluted share).

     In 1998, the Japanese government enacted a mandatory policyholder
protection fund system, and subsequently established the Life Insurance
Policyholders Protection Corporation.  The life insurance industry is required
to contribute to this fund semi-annually over a 10-year period.  The charge
for our share of the life insurance industry's obligation under the plan
enacted in early 1998 was recognized in the first quarter of 1998 and
decreased pretax earnings by $111 million for the year ended December 31,
1998.  The after-tax charge was $65 million, or $.24 per basic and diluted
share.

     In 1999, Toho Mutual Life Insurance Company, a Japanese insurer, was
declared insolvent by Japanese government regulators.  This insolvency is
expected to deplete most of the policyholder protection fund that was
established in 1998.  In order to replenish the protection fund, the Japanese
government and the life insurance industry agreed to new legislation that will
increase the life insurance industry's legal obligation to the fund as well as
provide government support.  Our share of this new obligation was recognized
in the fourth quarter of 1999 and decreased pretax earnings by $64 million
($41 million after-tax, or $.15 per basic and diluted share).

     In March 1998, the Japanese government reduced the corporate income tax
rate, which lowered AFLAC Japan's rate from 45.3% to 41.7%.  The tax rate was
again reduced in March 1999, from 41.7% to 36.2%.  These tax rate reductions
decreased our consolidated liability for deferred income taxes.  The
reductions were the net effect of applying the new tax rates to the temporary
differences that exist between the Japanese tax basis and financial reporting
basis of assets and liabilities, and the limitations imposed by the U.S.
foreign tax credit provisions.
                                    I-10

     The reduction of the consolidated deferred income tax liability from the
1999 tax rate reduction increased net earnings in the first quarter of 1999 by
$67 million ($.25 per basic share, $.24 per diluted share).  The 1998 tax rate
reduction reduced the deferred income tax liability in the first quarter of
1998 by $121 million ($.45 per basic share, $.44 per diluted share).

     The 1999 reduction in the Japanese corporate income tax rate did not
significantly change our combined U.S./Japan effective tax rate due to the
operation of the U.S. foreign tax credit provisions.

     For further information on the tax rate reductions, see Exhibit 13, page
13-56, Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     The insurance business in Japan, which is conducted as a branch office of
AFLAC, is subject to regulation by the FSA, similar to the regulation and
supervision in the United States as described on pages I-15 and I-16 under
"Regulation - U.S."  AFLAC Japan files annual reports and financial statements
for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 year-end, prepared
in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices prescribed or
permitted by the FSA.  Also, financial and other affairs of AFLAC Japan are
subject to examination by the FSA.

     Reconciliations of AFLAC Japan net assets on a GAAP basis to net assets
determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 are as
follows:

(In millions - unaudited)                          1999            1998
                                                 --------        --------
Net assets on GAAP basis                         $  3,118        $  2,726
Elimination of deferred policy
  acquisition costs                                (2,856)         (2,340)
Elimination of unrealized gains and
  other adjustments to carrying value
  of debt securities                               (2,762)         (2,856)
Adjustment to policy liabilities                    1,553           1,384
Adjustment to income tax liabilities                1,503           1,478
Reduction in premiums receivable                     (146)           (128)
Policyholder protection fund                          262             175
Other, net                                            (34)            (42)
                                                 --------        --------
  Net assets on Japanese regulatory
    accounting basis                             $    638        $    397
                                                 ========        ========


     For additional information regarding AFLAC Japan's operations, see
Exhibit 13, pages 13-8 to 13-12 (AFLAC Japan section of MD&A) and pages 13-38
and 13-62 (Notes 2 and 9 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements),
which are incorporated herein by reference.

EMPLOYEES - JAPAN

     AFLAC Japan had 2,105 employees at December 31, 1999.  AFLAC Japan
considers its employee relations to be excellent.




                                    I-11

INSURANCE - U.S.

     AFLAC U.S.'s earned premiums by product line are summarized in Note 2 of
the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13, page 13-38.

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in
force for AFLAC U.S. insurance for the years ended December 31.

(In millions)                             1999         1998         1997
                                         ------       ------       ------
Annualized premiums in force at
  beginning of year                     $ 1,393      $ 1,216      $ 1,060
    New issues including policy
      conversions                           555          482          401
    Change in unprocessed policies            1            1           (3)
    Lapses                                 (403)        (340)        (286)
    Other                                    46           34           44
                                         ------       ------       ------
Annualized premiums in force at
  end of year                           $ 1,592      $ 1,393      $ 1,216
                                         ======       ======       ======


HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC's insurance is designed to provide supplemental coverage for people
who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage.  Our
supplemental health insurance plans are guaranteed renewable for the lifetime
of the policyholder (to age 70 for short-term disability policies).  We cannot
cancel guaranteed-renewable coverage, but we can increase premium rates on
existing and future policies by class of policy in response to claims
experience higher than originally expected (subject to federal and state loss-
ratio guidelines) on a uniform, nondiscriminatory basis.  Any premium rate
increases are subject to state regulatory approval.

     AFLAC's cancer plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for
medical and nonmedical costs that are generally not reimbursed by major
medical insurance.  We currently offer a series of three different cancer
plans in the United States that vary by benefit amount.  All three plans
provide a first occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when internal
cancer is first diagnosed, a fixed amount for each day an insured is
hospitalized for cancer treatment, and benefits for medical, radiation,
chemotherapy, surgery and a "wellness" benefit applicable toward certain
diagnostic tests such as mammograms, pap smears, prostate exams, flexible
sigmoidoscopy, etc.  These plans also contain benefits that reimburse the
insured for certain direct expenses related to cancer treatment, up to
specified policy limits.  We also issue several riders, including one that
increases the amount of the first occurrence benefit on each rider anniversary
date until the covered person reaches age 65 or until internal cancer is
diagnosed.  AFLAC periodically introduces new forms of coverage, revising
benefits and related premiums based upon the anticipated needs of the
policyholders and our claim experience.

     We offer an accident and disability policy to protect against losses
resulting from accidents.  The accident portion of the policy includes lump-
sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries.  Fixed
benefits for hospital confinement, emergency treatment, follow-up treatments,

                                    I-12

ambulance, transportation, family lodging, wellness, prosthesis, medical
appliances and physical therapy are also provided.  Optional disability riders
are available to the primary insured and include choices of a sickness
disability rider, on-the-job disability rider and off-the-job disability
rider.  These benefits are payable up to a maximum benefit period of one year
and for one disability at a time.  Short-term disability policies provide
similar disability benefits offered with a variety of elimination
period/benefit period options.  The longest such benefit period offered is two
years.

     AFLAC also issues other supplemental health insurance, such as intensive
care, which is a low-premium policy that provides protection against the high
cost of intensive care facilities during hospital confinement, regardless of
reimbursements from other insurers.  Other types of health insurance issued
include qualified and non-qualified long-term care plans, a hospital
confinement indemnity policy, and a new specified health event policy.

LIFE INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC issues various ordinary life insurance policies including whole
life, term life, and limited pay life.  We also issue voluntary group term
life. A large portion of ordinary term life is sold through payroll deduction
at the worksite.

AGENCY FORCE AND MARKETING - U.S.

     Our sales force is comprised of independent sales agents who are licensed
to sell accident and health insurance.  Many are also licensed to sell life
insurance.  Most agents' efforts are directed toward selling supplemental
health insurance at the worksite.  The average number of U.S. agents actively
producing business monthly during 1999 was 8,807, compared with 7,918 in 1998
and 7,376 in 1997.

     Agents' activities are principally limited to sales, with policyholder
service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, payment
notices and claims handled by the staff at headquarters.  Agents are paid
commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales of
insurance products.  The state, regional and district sales coordinators are
also independent contractors, and are compensated by override commissions.

     We have concentrated on the development of marketing at the worksite.
This method offers policies to individuals through common media such as
employment, trade and other associations.  This manner of marketing is
distinct from "group" insurance sales in that each individual insured is
directly contacted by the sales associate.  Policies are individually
underwritten, with premiums generally paid by the employee.  Additionally,
AFLAC supplemental policies are portable, meaning that individuals may retain
their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such
affiliation, generally at the same premium.  A major portion of premiums on
such sales are collected through payroll deduction or other forms of
centralized billings.  Group-issued plans normally result in a lower average
age of the insured at the time of policy issuance and also result in certain
savings in administrative costs, a portion of which are passed on to the
policyholder in the form of reduced premiums.  Marketing at the worksite
enables the agency force to reach a greater number of prospective
policyholders than individual solicitation and lowers distribution costs.


                                    I-13

     Another valuable marketing and sales tool is the flexible benefits
program, or cafeteria plan, which allows an employee to pay for medical
insurance using pretax dollars.  These programs help achieve increased
penetration as agents are required to present the program to all employees.
They also help improve overall persistency levels due to the limited changes
allowed during the plan year.

     We continue to develop marketing arrangements with insurance brokers.
Insurance brokers generally have better access to larger groups than
independent agents.  The core of our distribution network will remain
independent agents.

     In 1999, AFLAC's U.S. premiums collected were $1.3 billion, 7.2% of which
was collected in Texas, 6.2% in Florida, 5.6% in Georgia, and 5.4% in North
Carolina.  Premiums collected in all other states were individually less than
5% of AFLAC's U.S. premiums.

COMPETITION - U.S.

     The accident and health and life insurance industry in the United States
is highly competitive.  AFLAC competes with a large number of insurers, some
of which have been in business for a longer period of time.  In the United
States, there are more than 2,000 life and accident and health insurance
companies.

     Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue Cross
and Blue Shield, provide insurance for meeting basic hospitalization and
medical expenses.  Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis.  The
federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical treatment
through Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Such major medical insurance
generally covers a substantial amount of the medical (but not nonmedical)
expenses incurred by an insured as a result of cancer or other major
illnesses.  AFLAC's policies are designed to provide coverage that is
supplemental to coverage provided by major medical insurance.  Our benefits
may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses.

     Since other insurers generally do not provide full coverage of medical
expenses or any coverage of nonmedical expenses, our supplemental insurance is
not an alternative to major medical insurance, but is sold to complement
(supplement) major medical insurance by helping cover the gap between major
medical insurance reimbursements and the total costs of an individual's health
care.  Thus we compete only indirectly with major medical insurers in terms of
premium rates and similar factors.  However, the scope of the major medical
coverage offered by other insurers does represent a limitation on the market
for our products.  Accordingly, expansion of coverage by other insurers or
governmental programs could adversely affect our business opportunities.
Conversely, any reduction of coverages, such as increased deductibles and
copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could favorably affect
our business opportunities.

     We compete directly with other insurers that offer supplemental health
insurance and believe that our policies and premium rates are generally
competitive with those offered by other companies selling similar types of
insurance.

     For additional information regarding U.S. insurance operations, see
Exhibit 13, pages 13-13 to 13-14 (AFLAC U.S. section of MD&A), which is
incorporated herein by reference.
                                    I-14

REGULATION - U.S.

     The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to state
regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system.  Such
regulations generally provide that transactions between companies within the
holding company system must be fair and equitable.  In addition, transfer of
assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend payments from
insurance subsidiaries and material transactions between companies within the
system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, state regulatory
authorities.

     AFLAC and its subsidiaries, in common with all U.S. insurance companies,
are subject to regulation and supervision in the states and other
jurisdictions in which they do business.  In general, the insurance laws of
the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad
administrative powers relating to, among other things: granting and revoking
licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents,
prior approval of forms of policies and premium rate increases, standards of
solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum loss
ratio requirements, capital for the protection of policyholders, limitations
on dividends to shareholders, the nature of and limitations on investments,
deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, filing of financial
statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance accounting
practices prescribed or permitted by the regulatory authorities, and periodic
examinations of the financial, market conduct, and other affairs of insurance
companies.

     Currently, prescribed or permitted statutory accounting principles (SAP)
used by insurers for financial reporting to state insurance regulators may
vary between states and between companies.  The National Association of
Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has recodified SAP to promote standardization
throughout the industry.  These new accounting requirements are presently
planned by the NAIC to be effective for 2001.  They must also be adopted by
the individual state insurance departments.

     For further information concerning state regulatory and dividend
restrictions, see Exhibit 13, page 13-62 (Note 9 - Statutory Accounting and
Dividend Restrictions of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements),
incorporated herein by reference.

     The NAIC risk-based capital formula for U.S. life insurance companies
established capital requirements based on insurance risk, business risk, asset
risk and interest rate risk.  These requirements are intended to facilitate
identification by insurance regulators of inadequately capitalized insurance
companies based upon the types and mixtures of risks inherent in the insurer's
operations.  The formulas for determining the amount of risk-based capital
specify various weighting factors that are applied to financial balances or
various levels of activity based on the perceived degree of risk.  Regulatory
compliance is determined by a ratio of the company's regulatory total adjusted
capital to its authorized control level risk-based capital as defined by the
NAIC.  Companies below specific trigger points or ratios are classified within
certain levels, each of which requires specified corrective action.  The
levels are company action, regulatory action, authorized control and mandatory
control.  Our NAIC risk-based capital ratio exceeds all regulatory action
levels and continues to reflect a very strong statutory capital and surplus
position.


                                    I-15

     Two states have laws, regulations or regulatory practices that either
prohibit the sale of specified disease insurance, such as our cancer expense
insurance, or make its sale impractical.  These states are Massachusetts and
New Jersey.  The remainder of the states do not impose prohibitions or
restrictions that prevent us from marketing cancer expense insurance.  AFLAC
U.S. is marketing several of its other products in Massachusetts and New
Jersey.

     Under insurance guaranty fund laws in most U.S. states, insurance
companies doing business in those states can be assessed for policyholder
losses up to prescribed limits that are incurred by insolvent companies with
similar lines of business.  Such assessments have not been material to us in
the past.  We believe that future assessments relating to companies in the
U.S. currently involved in insolvency proceedings will not materially impact
the consolidated financial statements.

EMPLOYEES - U.S.

     In the U.S. insurance operations, we had 2,306 employees at December 31,
1999.  We consider our employee relations to be excellent.

POLICY LIABILITIES - JAPAN AND U.S.

     The reserves for policy liabilities reported in the financial statements
have been computed in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP).  These reserves differ from those reflected in the various regulatory
financial statements filed by the Company. Such differences arise from the use
of different mortality, morbidity, interest, lapse assumptions and actuarial
reserving methods as required by the laws of the various states and Japan.

OTHER OPERATIONS

     The Company's other operations include the parent company and a printing
subsidiary.  These operations had 262 employees at December 31, 1999.

    In 1999, we invested $17 million for minor equity interests in two
companies that provide outsourcing for human resource functions.  In 1998, we
purchased a small Japanese insurance agency.  Its main functions are to
provide policyholder-related services and direct marketing programs for AFLAC
Japan.

YEAR 2000

     We did not experience any material date-related problems with our
internal information or other systems, nor did we experience any material
disruptions in connection with external information and data exchanges in
connection with the year 2000 date rollover.  Our preparations for year 2000
were completed as of the end of calendar year 1999 and it was not necessary to
implement any contingency plans prepared as part of those efforts.  We have
discontinued regular meetings of our year 2000 executive steering committee.

     We will continue to monitor our internal systems and external information
and data exchanges throughout the year for first date occurrence events.
Based on the information now available to us, we do not expect any material
disruptions with respect to such events during the coming year.  Since the
inception of the year 2000 project, we incurred costs of approximately $35
million for system upgrades or modifications; of this amount, approximately
$11 million was capitalized.
                                    I-16

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

     The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe
harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long as
those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are
accompanied by meaningful, cautionary statements identifying important factors
that could cause actual results to differ materially from those discussed.  We
desire to take advantage of these provisions.  This report contains cautionary
statements identifying important factors that could cause actual results to
differ materially from those projected in this Form 10-K and in any other
statements made by company officials in oral discussions with the financial
community and contained in documents filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission (SEC).  Forward-looking statements are not based on historical
information and relate to future operations, strategies, financial results or
other developments.  In particular, statements containing words such as
"expect," "anticipate," "believe," "goal," "objective" or similar words as
well as specific projections of future results generally qualify as forward-
looking.  AFLAC undertakes no obligation to update such forward-looking
statements.

     We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other
factors mentioned from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, could
cause actual results to differ materially: regulatory developments,
assessments for insurance company insolvencies, competitive conditions, new
products, ability to repatriate profits from Japan, general economic
conditions in the United States and Japan, changes in U.S. and/or Japanese tax
laws, adequacy of reserves, credit and other risks associated with AFLAC's
investment activities, significant changes in interest rates, and fluctuations
in foreign currency exchange rates.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     AFLAC owns an 18-story office building, which is the worldwide
headquarters, and a five-story administrative office building, which was
completed in 1998 at a cost of $17 million, located on approximately 14 acres
of land in Columbus, Georgia.  We also own a six-story parking garage, two
additional buildings located on the same property and additional
administrative office buildings.  An insurance subsidiary occupies leased
office space in Albany, New York.

     In Tokyo, Japan, AFLAC owns an 11-story administrative office building.
AFLAC leases office space in Tokyo along with regional sales offices located
throughout the country and owns a training facility in Tokyo.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     We are a defendant in various litigation considered to be in the normal
course of business.  Some of this litigation is pending in Alabama, where
large punitive damages bearing little relation to the actual damages sustained
by plaintiffs have been awarded against other companies, including insurers,
in recent years.  Although the final results of any litigation cannot be
predicted with certainty, we believe the outcome of pending litigation will
not have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of
operations, or cash flows.


                                    I-17

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     There were no matters submitted to the security holders for a vote in the
fourth quarter ended December 31, 1999.


ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

        NAME                   PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION (*)                 AGE
- -------------------       -------------------------------------         ---
Paul S. Amos              Chairman, AFLAC Incorporated and               73
                            American Family Life Assurance
                            Company of Columbus (AFLAC)

Daniel P. Amos            Chief Executive Officer, AFLAC                 48
                            Incorporated and AFLAC; President,
                            AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC;
                            Director, The CIT Group, Inc.,
                            Livingston, NJ; Director, Georgia
                            Power Company, Atlanta, GA

Monthon Chuaychoo         Vice President, Financial Services,            56
                            AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC

Kriss Cloninger III       Executive Vice President, Chief                52
                            Financial Officer, AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC;
                            Treasurer, AFLAC Incorporated

Norman P. Foster          Executive Vice President, Corporate            65
                            Finance, AFLAC Incorporated
                            and AFLAC

Kenneth S. Janke Jr.      Senior Vice President, Investor                41
                            Relations, of AFLAC Incorporated

Akitoshi Kan              Executive Vice President, Internal             52
                            Operations, AFLAC U.S., since January
                            2000 and Deputy Chief Financial Officer,
                            AFLAC Incorporated since April 1999;
                            Executive Vice President, AFLAC
                            International until December 1999;
                            Executive Vice President, AFLAC Japan
                            since January 1998 until March 1999 and
                            Deputy Chief Financial Officer, AFLAC,
                            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,
                            Accounting, Information Systems, ABC and
                            Legal Affairs until March 1999; Senior
                            Vice President, AFLAC Japan, Accounting,
                            Corporate Planning, Audit, and Legal
                            Affairs until January 1997; Vice
                            President, AFLAC Japan Accounting
                            Department until 1995





                                    I-18

Nobuo Kawamura            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,            55
                            ABC Promotion, Policy Maintenance,
                            Premium Accounting since January 1999;
                            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,
                            ABC Promotion, Policy Maintenance,
                            Premium Accounting, Administration
                            Support until January 1999

Joseph P. Kuechenmeister  Senior Vice President, Director                58
                            of Marketing, AFLAC

Joey M. Loudermilk        Senior Vice President, General Counsel         46
                            and Corporate Secretary, AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC; Director,
                            Legal and Governmental Relations,
                            AFLAC

Hidefumi Matsui           President, AFLAC Japan, since January          55
                            1995; Executive Vice President, AFLAC
                            Japan until 1995

Shoichi Matsumoto         Executive Vice President, Director             54
                            of Marketing, AFLAC Japan, since January
                            1998; Senior Vice President, Director of
                            Marketing, AFLAC Japan, until January 1998;
                            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan, until
                            July 1997; Vice President, Assistant
                            Director of Marketing, AFLAC Japan, until
                            January 1996

Minoru Nakai              President, AFLAC International, Inc.           58

Yoshiki Otake             Chairman, AFLAC Japan, since January           60
                            1995; President, AFLAC Japan, until
                            December 1994; Vice Chairman, AFLAC
                            International, Inc.

E. Stephen Purdom         Executive Vice President,                      52
                            AFLAC; Retired Director, Trust Company
                            Bank, Columbus, GA

Joseph W. Smith, Jr.      Senior Vice President, Chief Investment        46
                            Officer, AFLAC

Gary L. Stegman           Senior Vice President, Assistant Chief         50
                            Financial Officer, AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC; Treasurer
                            and Assistant Secretary, AFLAC


  (*)  Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held
       the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least five years.
       Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of
       directors and serves until his successor is chosen and qualified,
       or until his death, resignation or removal.



                                    I-19

                                PART II

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 5 through 8 are
incorporated by reference from the Company's 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders, the appropriate sections of which are included herein as Exhibit
13.
                                               Exhibit 13     Annual Report
                                                  Pages           Pages
                                               ----------     --------------


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON      13-1; 13-2;    1; 52 (Note 9);
          EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER         13-62          56 and 59
          MATTERS                               (Note 9)


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA              13-3; 13-4         32 - 33


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND          13-5 to            19 - 31
          ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION       13-26
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE         13-7 to            20 - 21;
          DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         13-8, 13-15       25 - 27
                                                to 13-19


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND             13-27 to           34 - 56
          SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                    13-71


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS           None               None
          WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE






















                                    II-1

                                 PART III

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 10 through 13 are
incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement
relating to the Company's 2000 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was filed
with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 2000, pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.

                                      Refer to the Information    Refer to
                                      Contained in the Proxy      Printed
                                      Statement under Captions      Proxy
                                       (filed electronically)     Statement
                                                                    Pages
                                      ------------------------    ---------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE     Security Ownership of         3 - 7
          OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY     Management.  1. Election
             Directors                of Directors
             Executive Officers -
               see Part I, Item 4A
               herein


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      Board and Committee           8 - 19
                                      Meetings and Directors
                                      Compensation; Summary
                                      Compensation Table; De-
                                      fined Benefit Pension
                                      Plan; Retirement Plans
                                      for Key Executives;
                                      Employment Contracts and
                                      Termination of Employ-
                                      ment Arrangements


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF       Voting Securities and         2 - 7
          CERTAIN BENEFICIAL          Principal Holders
          OWNERS AND                  Thereof; Security Owner-
          MANAGEMENT                  ship of Management
                                      1. Election of Directors


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS       Certain Transactions             19
          AND RELATED                 and Relationships
          TRANSACTIONS













                                   III-1

                                 PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                     Page(s)
                                                                -----------
         Included in Part II of this report and
         incorporated by reference to the following
         pages of Exhibit 13:
           AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries:
             Consolidated Statements of Earnings for               13-27
              each of the years in the three-year
              period ended December 31, 1999
             Consolidated Balance Sheets, at                       13-28 -
              December 31, 1999 and 1998                            13-29
             Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'              13-30
              Equity, for each of the years in the
              three-year period ended December 31,
             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows                 13-31 -
              for each of the years in the three-year               13-32
              period ended December 31, 1999
             Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive              13-33
              Income for each of the years in the
              three-year period ended December 31, 1999
             Notes to the Consolidated Financial                   13-34 to
              Statements                                            13-68
             Report of Independent Auditors                        13-70

     2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         Included in Part IV of this report:
           Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedules        IV-5
           Schedule II  -  Condensed Financial Information of       IV-6 -
                            Registrant at December 31, 1999          IV-11
                            and 1998, and for each of the
                            years in the three-year period
                            ended December 31, 1999
           Schedule III -  Supplementary Insurance Information      IV-12
                            for each of the years in the three-
                            year period ended December 31, 1999
           Schedule IV  -  Reinsurance for each of the              IV-13
                            years in the three-year period
                            ended December 31, 1999


     Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are not
required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in the
financial statements or notes thereto.









                                    IV-1

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
                  reference from Form 10-Q for March 31, 1997,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000011, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
                  amended - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for June 30, 1996, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-96-000012, Exhibit 3.0.
         4.0    - There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
                  amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total
                  assets of AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries on a
                  consolidated basis.  We agree to furnish a copy
                  of any long-term debt instruments to the Securities
                  and Exchange Commission upon request.
        10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
                  Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family
                  Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and
                  Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
                  incorporated by reference from Registration Statement No.
                  33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC Incorporated
                  (Formerly American Family Corporation) Incentive Stock
                  Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
        10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
        10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior
                  Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.2.
        10.3*   - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
                  as amended, effective January 1, 1998 - incorporated by
                  reference from 1998 Form 10-K, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-99-000010, Exhibit 10.3.
        10.3.1* - Amendment to the AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive
                  Retirement Plan effective January 1, 1999, filed with the
                  1999 Form 10-K.
        10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P.
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
                  from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
        10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
                  1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.
        10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss
                  Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended
                  November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
                                    IV-2

                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.
        10.7*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
                  October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.8*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S. Amos,
                  dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from Form
                  10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.1.
        10.9*   - AFLAC Incorporated Deferred Compensation Agreement with
                  Paul S. Amos, dated July 15, 1997 - incorporated by
                  reference from 1997 Form 10-K, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-98-000006, Exhibit 10.11.
        10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan, incorporated
                  by reference from the 1997 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000007, Appendix B.
        10.11*  - AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan,
                  effective January 1, 1999 - incorporated by reference
                  from Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-69333,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-98-00024, Exhibit 4.
        10.12*  - AFLAC Incorporated Amended and Restated Management
                  Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 1999 - incorporated
                  by reference from the 1999 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  99-000007, Exhibit A.
        12.0    - Statement regarding the computation of ratio of earnings
                  to fixed charges for the Registrant.
        13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                  Report to Shareholders for 1999.
        21.0    - Subsidiaries.
        23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect to the
                  AFL Stock Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, as Amended and Restated
                  as of January 1, 1999.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-69333 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.

                                    IV-3

                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-4
                  Registration Statement No. 333-78403 with respect to the
                  Senior Notes.
        27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1999.

 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
** All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.

(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     There were no reports filed on Form 8-K for the quarter ended
     December 31, 1999.

(c)  EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 10-K

      10.3.1* - Amendment to the AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive
                Retirement Plan effective January 1, 1999.
      12.0    - Statement regarding the computation of ratio of earnings to
                fixed charges for the Registrant.
      13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                Report to Shareholders for 1999.
      21.0    - Subsidiaries.
      23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
                Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                (1985).
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect to the
                AFL Stock Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect to the
                AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, as Amended and Restated
                as of January 1, 1999.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-69333 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-4
                Registration Statement No. 333-78403 with respect to the
                Senior Notes.
      27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1999.

 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
** All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.





                                    IV-4


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES


The Shareholders and Board of Directors
AFLAC Incorporated:


Under date of January 27, 2000, we reported on the consolidated balance sheets
of AFLAC Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' equity, cash
flows, and comprehensive income for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1999, as contained in the 1999 annual report to
shareholders.  These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon
are incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year
1999.  In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated
financial statements, we also audited the related financial statement
schedules as listed in Item 14.  These financial statement schedules are the
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express
an opinion on these financial statement schedules based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole,
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.




                                               KPMG LLP




Atlanta, Georgia
January 27, 2000























                                    IV-5

                                    IV-6


                                    IV-7


                                    IV-8


                                    IV-9

                                 SCHEDULE II
                CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                   Notes to Condensed Financial Statements
                       AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)


     The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of
AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries (see Part II - Item 8).

(A)  NOTES PAYABLE

     A summary of notes payable at December 31, 1999 and 1998 follows:

(In millions)                                           1999         1998
                                                       ------       ------
1.67% yen-denominated senior notes due April 2009. .   $  541       $    -
Unsecured, yen-denominated notes payable to banks:
  Reducing, revolving credit agreement, due
  annually through July 2001:
    2.29% fixed interest rate. . . . . . . . . . . .      222          294
    Variable interest rate (.55% at
      December 31, 1999) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       31           35
  Revolving credit agreement due November 2002:
    1.24% fixed interest rate. . . . . . . . . . . .      114          134
    Variable interest rate (.50% at
      December 31, 1999) . . . . . . . . . . . . . .      138          115
  .50% short term. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .       45            -
                                                       ------       ------
    Total notes payable. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $ 1,091      $   578
                                                       ======       ======

     The aggregate contractual maturities of the notes payable for each of the
years after December 31, 1999, are as follows:

     (In millions)

         2000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  $  173
         2001 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     125
         2002 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     252
         2009 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .     541


     For further information regarding notes payable, see Exhibit 13, page 13-
55 (Note 6 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

(B)  PURCHASES OF SUBSIDIARIES

     In 1999, we purchased minor equity interests in two companies that
provide outsourcing for human resource functions.  In 1998, we purchased a
small Japanese insurance agency.  Its main functions are policyholder-related
services and direct marketing programs for AFLAC Japan.





                                    IV-10

(C)  INCOME TAXES

     The Company and its eligible U.S. subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S.
federal income tax return.  Income tax liabilities or benefits are recorded by
each principal subsidiary based upon separate return calculations, and any
difference between the consolidated provision and the aggregate amounts
recorded by the subsidiaries is reflected in the Parent Company financial
statements.

     For further information on income taxes, see Exhibit 13, page 13-56, Note
7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

(D)  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     See Exhibit 13, page 13-62 (Note 9, Statutory Accounting and Dividend
Restrictions, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) for
information regarding dividend restrictions.

(E)  SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     (In millions)                           1999        1998        1997
                                           --------    --------    --------
     Interest paid                         $     13    $     10    $     10
     Non-cash financing activities:
       Treasury shares issued for:
         Dividends to shareholders                5           4           4
         Associate stock bonus plan              42           -           -


(F)  ACCOUNTING CHANGES

     For information concerning new accounting standards recently adopted, see
page 13-38 of Exhibit 13, Note 1, section on Accounting Changes Adopted, of
Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.























                                    IV-11







                               SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                      AFLAC Incorporated


Date   MARCH 27, 2000                 By    /s/ PAUL S. AMOS
      -----------------------            ---------------------------------
                                               (Paul S. Amos)
                                         Chairman of the Board of Directors


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



/s/ DANIEL P. AMOS           Chief Executive Officer,     MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------     President and Vice           ----------------
   (Daniel P. Amos)          Chairman of the Board
                             of Directors





/s/ KRISS CLONINGER, III     Executive Vice President,    MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------     Chief Financial Officer      ----------------
   (Kriss Cloninger, III)    and Treasurer





/s/ NORMAN P. FOSTER         Executive Vice President,    MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------     Corporate Finance            ----------------
   (Norman P. Foster)















                                    IV-14


  /s/  J. SHELBY AMOS, II            Director             MARCH 27, 2000
- -----------------------------                             ----------------
      (J. Shelby Amos, II)




 /s/ MICHAEL H. ARMACOST              Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- -----------------------------                             ----------------
      (Michael H. Armacost)




  /s/  M. DELMAR EDWARDS, M.D.        Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (M. Delmar Edwards, M.D.)




  /s/  JOE FRANK HARRIS               Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Joe Frank Harris)



 /s/ ELIZABETH J. HUDSON	                                 MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------       Director             ----------------
      (Elizabeth J. Hudson)




  /s/  KENNETH S. JANKE, SR.          Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Kenneth S. Janke, Sr.)




  /s/  CHARLES B. KNAPP               Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Charles B. Knapp)




  /s/ HISAO KOBAYASHI                 Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Hisao Kobayashi)



  /s/ YOSHIKI OTAKE                   Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Yoshiki Otake)
                                    IV-15



  /s/  E. STEPHEN PURDOM              Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- -------------------------------                           ----------------
      (E. Stephen Purdom)



  /s/  BARBARA K. RIMER               Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- -------------------------------                           ----------------
      (Barbara K. Rimer)



  /s/  HENRY C. SCHWOB                Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Henry C. Schwob)



  /s/  J. KYLE SPENCER                Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (J. Kyle Spencer)



  /s/  GLENN VAUGHN, JR.              Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Glenn Vaughn, Jr.)



  /s/  ROBERT L. WRIGHT               Director            MARCH 27, 2000
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Robert L. Wright)























                                    IV-16

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
                  reference from Form 10-Q for March 31, 1997,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000011, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
                  amended - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for June 30, 1996, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-96-000012, Exhibit 3.0.
         4.0    - There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
                  amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total
                  assets of AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries on a
                  consolidated basis.  We agree to furnish a copy of any
                  long-term debt instruments to the Securities and Exchange
                  Commission upon request.
        10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
                  Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family
                  Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and
                  Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
                  incorporated by reference from Registration Statement No.
                  33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC Incorporated
                  (Formerly American Family Corporation) Incentive Stock
                  Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
        10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
        10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior
                  Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.2.
        10.3*   - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement
                  Plan, as amended, effective January 1, 1998 - incorporated
                  by reference from 1998 Form 10-K, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-99-000010, Exhibit 10.3.
        10.3.1* - Amendment to the AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive
                  Retirement Plan effective January 1, 1999, filed with the
                  1999 Form 10-K.
        10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P.
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
                  from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
        10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
                  1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.
        10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss
                  Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended
                  November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
                                    IV-17

                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.
        10.7*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
                  October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.8*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S. Amos,
                  dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from Form
                  10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.1.
        10.9*   - AFLAC Incorporated Deferred Compensation Agreement with
                  Paul S. Amos, dated July 15, 1997 - incorporated by
                  reference from 1997 Form 10-K, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-98-000006, Exhibit 10.11.
        10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan, incorporated
                  by reference from the 1997 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000007, Appendix B.
        10.11*  - AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan,
                  effective January 1, 1999 - incorporated by reference
                  from Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-69333,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-98-00024, Exhibit 4.
        10.12*  - AFLAC Incorporated Amended and Restated Management
                  Incentive Plan, effective January 1, 1999 - incorporated
                  by reference from the 1999 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  99-000007, Exhibit A.
        12.0    - Statement regarding the computation of ratio of earnings
                  to fixed charges for the Registrant.
        13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                  Report to Shareholders for 1999.
        21.0    - Subsidiaries.
        23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect to the
                  AFL Stock Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, as Amended and Restated
                  as of January 1, 1999.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-69333 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.

                                    IV-18

                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-4
                  Registration Statement No. 333-78403 with respect to the
                  Senior Notes.
        27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1999.

 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
** All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.


EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 10-K

      10.3.1* - Amendment to the AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive
                Retirement Plan effective January 1, 1999.
      12.0    - Statement regarding the computation of ratio of earnings to
                fixed charges for the Registrant.
      13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                Report to Shareholders for 1999.
      21.0    - Subsidiaries.
      23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
                Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                (1985).
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect to the
                AFL Stock Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect to the
                AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, as Amended and Restated
                as of January 1, 1999.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-69333 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-4
                Registration Statement No. 333-78403 with respect to the
                Senior Notes.
      27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1999.

 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
** All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.









                                    IV-19










