
10-K
1997 FORM 10-K



                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549

                                 FORM 10-K

                  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                      OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1997       Commission file no. 1-7434


                         AFLAC INCORPORATED
____________________________________________________________________________
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        

            Georgia                                     58-1167100     
________________________________________        ____________________________
    (State of Incorporation)                         (I.R.S. Employer  
                                                    Identification No.)   

1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, Georgia                        31999           
________________________________________        ____________________________
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)        


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code 706-323-3431     

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                  Name of Each Exchange 
             Title of Each Class                   on Which Registered      
       ------------------------------           ------------------------- 
        Common Stock, $.10 Par Value             New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Pacific Stock Exchange
                                                 Tokyo Stock Exchange 

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   NONE    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No     .
                                                    ----    ----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained 
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in 
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part 
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
                                                          --------

The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding at March 
16, 1998, with $.10 par value, was 133,571,707.  The aggregate market value 
of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 16, 
1998 was $8,381,997,714. 



                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


PART I         Item 1         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-28 (Management's
                               Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                               Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)),
                               pages 13-42 to 13-52 (Notes 2 and 3 of the
                               Notes to the Consolidated Financial
                               Statements), and pages 13-64 to 13-65 
                               (Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
                               Financial Statements).  The applicable 
                               portions of the Company's Annual Report to
                               Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
                               1997, are included as Exhibit 13        


               Item 2         Exhibit 13 - page 13-54 (Note 5 of the Notes
                               to the Consolidated Financial Statements)


PART II        Item 5         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-1, 13-2 and 13-64
                               (Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
                               Financial Statements)   


               Item 6         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-3 and 13-4


               Item 7         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-28


               Item 7A        Exhibit 13 - pages 13-6 to 13-8, and
                                13-17 to 13-20


               Item 8         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-29 to 13-71



PART III       Item 10        Incorporated by reference from the        
                               definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual 
                               Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 4,
                               1998 (the Proxy Statement)          


               Item 11        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


               Item 12        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


               Item 13        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 



                                      i

                            AFLAC Incorporated
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   For the Year Ended December 31, 1997 


                                                                                                   Page 

PART I

Item 1.   Business................................................     I- 1 

Item 2.   Properties..............................................     I-19 

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.......................................     I-19 

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.....     I-20 

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company.......................     I-20 


PART II

Item 5.   Market for Company's Common Equity and Related                 
            Shareholder Matters...................................    II- 1 

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.................................    II- 1 

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial              
            Condition and Results of Operations...................    II- 1 

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
            About Market Risk.....................................    II- 1

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.............    II- 1 

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on               
            Accounting and Financial Disclosure...................    II- 1 


PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Company.........   III- 1 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation..................................   III- 1 

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and            
            Management............................................   III- 1 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..........   III- 1 


PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports           
            on Form 8-K...........................................    IV- 1 


                                     ii

                                   PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

     AFLAC Incorporated (the Parent Company) and its subsidiaries (the 
Company) have only one significant industry segment - insurance. The Parent 
Company was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the State of Georgia and 
acts as a general business holding company.  The Parent Company is a 
management company whose primary business is supplemental health insurance, 
which is marketed and administered primarily through American Family Life 
Assurance Company of Columbus (AFLAC).  As a management company, the Parent 
Company oversees the operations of its subsidiaries, provides management 
services, and makes capital available. Most of AFLAC's policies are 
individually underwritten and marketed at the work site, with premiums paid 
by the employee.  The Company's operations in Japan (AFLAC Japan) and the 
United States (AFLAC U.S.) service the two markets for the Company's 
insurance operations. 

     For financial information relating to the Company's foreign and U.S. 
operations, see Exhibit 13, pages 13-5 to 13-28 (Management's Discussion and 
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)) and page 
13-42 (Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), which 
are incorporated herein by reference. 

     In 1997, the Company completed the sale of its broadcast business which 
consisted of seven network-affiliated television stations.  The total pretax 
gain from the sale was $327.5 million.  The sale of one station closed on 
December 31, 1996.  The pretax and after-tax gains recognized in 1996 were 
$60.3 million and $48.2 million, respectively.  The effect of the after-tax 
gain on 1996 basic and diluted net earnings per share was $.34 and $.33, 
respectively.  The pretax and after-tax gains recognized during the second 
quarter of 1997 on the closing of the six remaining stations were $267.2 
million and $211.2 million, respectively.  The effect of the after-tax gain 
on 1997 basic and diluted net earnings per share was $1.55 and $1.50, 
respectively.  In March 1997, AFLAC Incorporated sold its minor Canadian 
insurance subsidiary at a nominal gain.  

     The Parent Company's principal operating subsidiary is AFLAC, which 
operates in the United States and Japan.  AFLAC is a specialty insurer whose 
dominant business is individual supplemental health insurance.  Management 
believes AFLAC is the world's leading writer of cancer expense insurance.  
In recent years, AFLAC has diversified its product offerings to include 
other types of supplemental health products in both the United States and 
Japan.  AFLAC Japan also sells care plans, supplemental general medical 
expense plans and a living benefit life plan.  AFLAC U.S., in addition to 
cancer expense plans, sells other types of supplemental health insurance, 
including hospital intensive care, accident and disability, hospital 
indemnity, long-term care, short-term disability and Medicare supplement 
plans.  AFLAC also offers several life insurance plans in the United States 
and Japan.  

     The Company is authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 
states, the District of Columbia, and several U.S. territories and foreign 
countries.  The Company's only significant foreign operation is AFLAC Japan, 
which accounted for 79%, 82% and 85% of the Company's total revenues for

                                   I-1

1997, 1996 and 1995, respectively, and 87% and 88% of total assets at 
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     During 1997, the board of directors authorized the purchase of up to an 
additional 4.0 million shares of AFLAC Incorporated common stock.  Including 
shares remaining under a previous authorization, the Company had approval to 
purchase up to 5.6 million shares as of December 31, 1997.  The Company 
purchased 26.8 million shares from the inception of the share repurchase 
program in February 1994 through December 31, 1997.  During the same period 
2.5 million shares were reissued to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, 
through the Company's dividend reinvestment plan, and the exercise of stock 
options.

     Due to the relative size of AFLAC Japan, fluctuations in the yen/dollar 
exchange rate can have a significant effect on the Company's reported 
operating results.  In years when the yen weakens, translating yen into 
dollars causes fewer dollars to be reported.  When the yen strengthens, 
translating yen into dollars causes more dollars to be reported.  In the 
third quarter of 1995, the yen began to weaken in relation to the dollar and 
continued to weaken throughout 1996 and 1997.  The average yen-to-dollar 
exchange rates were 121.07 in 1997, 108.84 in 1996 and 94.10 in 1995.  
Operating earnings per share (excludes realized investment gains/losses and 
the gain from the sale of the broadcast business), which were affected by 
these fluctuations in the value of the yen, increased 10.8% to $2.66 in 
1997, 3.0% to $2.40 in 1996 and 23.3% to $2.33 in 1995.

     The Company's primary financial objective is the growth of operating 
earnings per share before the effect of foreign currency fluctuations.  In 
1996, the Company set this objective at an annual growth rate of 15% to 17% 
through the year 2000.  The goal for 1997 was 17% growth, which the Company 
exceeded.  Excluding the effect of currency fluctuations, operating earnings 
per share increased 18.3% in 1997, 15.5% in 1996 and 15.3% in 1995.

     In early 1998, the Company raised its 1998 objective for growth in 
operating earnings per share from a 17% increase to 20% before the effect of 
currency translation.  For further information, see Exhibit 13, pages 13-6 
to 13-8 (Foreign Currency Translation section of MD&A).

     Insurance premiums and investment income from insurance operations are 
the major sources of revenues.  The Company's consolidated premium income 
was $5.9 billion for 1997, $5.9 billion for 1996 and $6.1 billion for 1995. 
 
     The following table sets forth consolidated premiums earned by health 
and life insurance offered by AFLAC in Japan and the United States for the 
three years ended December 31.

(In thousands)                         1997          1996          1995    
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
Premiums earned:
  Health insurance                 $ 5,501,816   $ 5,690,886   $ 6,037,206 
  Life and other insurance             362,500       206,480        17,937 
                                    ----------    ----------    ----------
     Total U.S. and Japan
       premiums earned             $ 5,864,316   $ 5,897,366   $ 6,055,143 
                                    ==========    ==========    ==========



                                   I-2

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC health insurance in Japan and the United States for the 
years ended December 31.

 (In thousands)                       1997          1996          1995    
                                   ----------    ----------    ----------
Annualized premiums in force, 
  at beginning of year            $ 5,637,951   $ 5,837,883   $ 5,578,987
    New issues including
      policy conversions              755,650       763,836       965,321
    Change in unprocessed 
      policies                        (20,306)       18,587      (107,287)
    Lapses and surrenders            (462,914)     (414,628)     (408,366)
    Other                              19,337         3,284       (11,676)
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                     (504,736)     (571,011)     (179,096)
                                   ----------    ----------    ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                  $ 5,424,982   $ 5,637,951   $ 5,837,883
                                   ==========    ==========    ==========



INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT RESULTS 

     The Company classifies all fixed-maturity securities as available for 
sale.  All fixed-maturity and equity securities are carried at fair value.  
Net unrealized gains on securities available for sale were $3.4 billion and 
$2.4 billion at December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively.





























                                   I-3

     The following table shows an analysis of investments and cash at 
December 31:

(In millions)                             1997         1996       % Change
                                        --------     --------     --------
AFLAC U.S.:

  Total investments and cash, 
    at cost or amortized cost           $  2,678     $  1,910       40.2%

  Unrealized gains on securities
    available for sale                       228          101
                                         -------      -------
    Total investments and cash          $  2,906     $  2,011       44.5%
                                         =======      =======      =====
AFLAC Japan:

  Total investments and cash, 
    at cost or amortized cost           $ 16,743     $ 16,391        2.1%

  Unrealized gains on securities
    available for sale                     3,155        2,335
                                         -------      -------
    Total investments and cash          $ 19,898     $ 18,726        6.3%
                                         =======      =======      =====
Consolidated:

  Total investments and cash,
    at cost or amortized cost           $ 19,497     $ 18,307        6.5%

  Unrealized gains on securities
    available for sale                     3,383        2,437
                                         -------      -------
    Total investments and cash          $ 22,880     $ 20,744       10.3%
                                         =======      =======      =====

     Net investment income was $1.1 billion in 1997 and $1.0 billion in both 
1996 and 1995.

     AFLAC primarily invests within the United States, Japan, and Euroyen 
investment markets.  The aspects of these financial markets remain 
fundamentally different.  For example, differences in asset selection, 
liquidity, credit quality, accounting practices, insurance regulations and 
taxation affect the way the Company invests and purchases securities.  AFLAC 
maintains a strong portfolio by investing in high-quality securities that 
provide AFLAC with a predictable source of investment income (principally in 
government, public utility and corporate bonds, including private placement 
securities).  When committing the huge cash flows to new investments, the 
Company only purchases securities that are rated investment grade by the 
Securities Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance 
Commissioners.  The Company does not purchase junk bonds and has avoided the 
investment real estate and mortgage loan sectors.  The Company does not 
trade in the derivatives market.  

     For information on the composition of the Company's investment 
portfolio and investment results, see Part IV, Schedule I, and Exhibit 13, 
pages 13-12 and 13-17 to 13-28 (discussions relating to investments, Balance 

                                   I-4

Sheet and Cash Flow) and pages 13-46 to 13-54 (Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to 
the Consolidated Financial Statements), which are incorporated herein by 
reference.


INVESTMENTS - JAPAN

     Approximately 75% of the 353.6 billion yen ($2.7 billion) that AFLAC 
Japan had available for investment in 1997 was invested in yen-denominated 
securities at an average yield of 4.38%.  The Company invested 65.9% in 
longer-dated securities at an average rate of 4.57%.  The longer-dated 
sector includes purchases of dual-currency bonds (yen principal securities 
that pay a dollar coupon) at an average yield of 5.18%.  An additional 8.8% 
was invested in yen-denominated securities of various other sectors.  
Dollar-denominated securities accounted for the remaining 25.3% of the 
purchases in 1997 at an average yield to maturity of 7.61%.

     AFLAC requires that all private placement issuers have an NAIC rating 
of class 1 or 2 and requires call protection limits of ten years or longer 
for such issues.  Most of AFLAC's private placement issues are issued under 
medium term note programs and have standard covenants commensurate with 
credit rankings except when internal credit analysis indicates that 
additional protective and/or event risk covenants are required.

     At the end of 1997, private placements (at amortized cost) held by 
AFLAC Japan represented 37.7% of AFLAC Japan's total investments and cash 
and 32.3% of the consolidated total investments and cash.  Although AFLAC 
Japan purchased only a small amount of Japanese government bonds during 
1997, that sector continues to be a large asset class in Japan.  Japanese 
government bonds constituted 32.3% of AFLAC Japan's total portfolio.  
Utility bonds accounted for 13.1%.  Municipal securities made up 3.1%.  A 
variety of other sectors accounted for 5.3%.  AFLAC Japan's dollar-
denominated portfolio represented 8.5% of the portfolio at year-end.

     AFLAC Japan's fixed-maturity securities available for sale, at 
amortized cost, as of December 31 were rated as follows:

                                         1997             1996
                                        ------           ------
            AAA                          40.6%            48.2%
            AA                           20.6             19.9
            A                            26.0             23.6
            BBB                          12.8              8.3
                                        -----            -----
                                        100.0%           100.0%
                                        =====            =====


     Japan's life insurance industry has contended with low investment 
yields for the last several years.  Despite a series of premium rate 
increases designed to help offset the effect of lower yields, the low 
interest rate environment took its toll in April when the government 
declared Nissan Mutual Life Insurance Company insolvent.  As a result, more 
attention has been paid to the composition of the life insurance industry's 
assets.  The Company's asset allocation is much different than the industry 
as a whole and, management believes, is better suited to a low interest rate 
environment.  Based on March 31, 1997, Ministry of Finance data, AFLAC had 

                                   I-5

the highest portfolio yield among all of Japan's life insurers.  AFLAC 
earned this distinction without sacrificing the quality of the Company's 
portfolio, and management believes it provides AFLAC Japan with a tremendous 
competitive advantage.

     The Company's investments in the Japanese equity and investment real 
estate markets continued to be immaterial in 1997.


INVESTMENTS - U.S.

     AFLAC U.S. had additional funds to invest in 1997 after completing the 
sale of the AFLAC Broadcast Division and also receiving a record profit 
repatriation from AFLAC Japan.

     Profits repatriated from AFLAC Japan to AFLAC U.S. totaled $347.0 
million in 1997, up from $217.3 million in 1996.  The profit transfer in 
1997 included $124.8 million of a non-recurring nature related to gains 
realized from the valuation of investments as determined on a Japanese 
regulatory accounting basis.  Repatriation has a positive effect on 
consolidated results because higher investment yields can be earned on funds 
invested in the United States.  Also, income tax expense is lower on 
investment income earned in the United States.  The Company expects future 
profit repatriation to continue to have a positive impact on its 
consolidated net earnings.

     AFLAC U.S. continued to focus on purchasing securities that emphasize 
safety and liquidity.  AFLAC U.S. fixed-maturity securities available for 
sale, at amortized cost, as of December 31 were rated as follows:

                                         1997             1996
                                        ------           ------
            AAA                          24.1%            27.4%
            AA                           20.0             16.7
            A                            47.5             49.4
            BBB                           8.4              6.5
                                        -----            -----
                                        100.0%           100.0%
                                        =====            =====

     Including profit repatriation and proceeds from the sale of the 
broadcast business, AFLAC U.S. invested $1.7 billion in 1997.  Of that 
amount, approximately 16.1% was invested in U.S. government or agency 
securities at an average yield of 7.65%, 78.9% was invested in corporate 
fixed-maturity securities at 7.65%, and 2.0% was allocated to various other 
sectors.  The remaining 3.0% was invested in equities.

     At the end of 1997, fixed-maturity securities continued to dominate 
AFLAC U.S. total investments.  Fixed-maturity securities represented 93.8% 
of total investments and cash (at amortized cost) at the end of the year.   
U.S. government and agency securities accounted for 17.1% of the fixed-
maturity holdings, while corporate securities made up 78.1%.  Equity 
investments made up 5.0% of total investments and cash at the end of the 
year.  Mortgage loans on real estate remained immaterial.




                                   I-6

INSURANCE - JAPAN

     The following table sets forth AFLAC Japan's premiums earned by product 
line for the years ended December 31:

(In thousands)                          1997         1996         1995    
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
Premiums earned:  
  Cancer life                       $ 4,011,401  $ 4,314,821  $ 4,752,338
  Other accident and health             448,048      445,704      440,635
  Life insurance                        343,216      191,035        2,378
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
    Total AFLAC Japan
      premiums earned               $ 4,802,665  $ 4,951,560  $ 5,195,351
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========


     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC Japan health insurance for the years ended December 31:

(In thousands)                          1997         1996         1995    
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at beginning of year              $ 4,596,416  $ 4,900,779  $ 4,718,783
    New issues including
      policy conversions                365,845      442,629      690,170
    Change in unprocessed
      policies                          (27,168)      23,878     (105,496)
    Lapses and surrenders              (180,125)    (181,756)    (200,507)
    Other                               (16,889)     (18,103)     (23,075)
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                       (504,736)    (571,011)    (179,096)
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                    $ 4,233,343  $ 4,596,416  $ 4,900,779
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========

INSURANCE PLANS - JAPAN

     AFLAC's insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed to provide 
insurance to cover the medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed 
by other forms of Japanese health insurance coverage.

     The cancer life insurance plans offered in Japan provide a fixed daily 
indemnity benefit for hospitalization and outpatient services related to 
cancer and a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer. The 
plans differ from the AFLAC U.S. cancer plans (described on pages I-13 and 
I-14) in that the Japanese policies also provide death benefits and cash 
surrender values (the Company estimates that approximately 28% of the 
premiums earned are associated with these benefits).  In January 1997, AFLAC 
Japan introduced a new economy cancer life policy with lower premium rates 
and benefit levels.  This plan was developed to mitigate the effect of 
premium rate increases due to low investment yields available in Japan.

     In 1992, AFLAC broadened its product line with the introduction of a 
new care product.  Care insurance provides periodic benefits to those who 
become bedridden, demented or seriously disabled due to illness or accident. 

                                   I-7

This plan is offered with several riders, providing death benefits or 
additional care benefits to enhance coverage.  Prior to the introduction of 
this care plan, AFLAC marketed a plan that primarily provided dementia care 
benefits.  

     In 1995, the Company introduced two other products in Japan.  The first 
product is an improved medical expense policy.  It is similar to hospital 
indemnity insurance products in the United States and provides cash benefits 
to policyholders when they are hospitalized.  The market for medical expense 
coverage in Japan is very competitive, but the Company believes this 
coverage gives AFLAC Japan's agents greater flexibility in product 
offerings.  Demand for AFLAC's medical expense coverage rose significantly 
during 1997, accounting for 10.8% of total sales in 1997 compared with 3.1% 
in 1996.  This product is widely available in the Japanese insurance 
marketplace, but AFLAC's policy is very competitive.  AFLAC's plan offers a 
maximum hospitalization benefit of 1,000 days, which is the longest period 
offered in the industry.  Management believes the strong medical expense 
policy sales in 1997 resulted from an increase in the copayments for Japan's 
national health care plans, which took effect in September.

     AFLAC Japan also introduced a new living benefit life plan in late 
1995.  This product is a life insurance policy that provides lump-sum 
benefits when policyholders experience heart attack, cancer or stroke.  The 
Company is offering this product in two forms -- as a stand-alone policy or 
as a rider to the cancer life plan.  The rider adds heart attack and stroke 
benefits to the cancer policy.  Marketing efforts for living benefit life 
primarily focus on the sale of the rider.  Sales of the living benefit life 
plan were $145.5 million and $286.0 million in new annualized premium in 
1997 and 1996, respectively.

     During 1997, AFLAC Japan began selling ordinary life products.  Sales 
for 1997 were immaterial.

     In December 1997, AFLAC Japan received approval from Japanese 
regulators to sell three new riders to the Company's popular cancer life 
policy.  One rider adds cancer surgical benefits, while another provides 
supplemental accident coverage.  The third rider provides supplemental 
medical benefits for general hospitalization.  In September 1997, the 
Japanese government increased copayments for the employer-sponsored health 
care program from 10% to 20% for the primary insured, thereby increasing the 
portion of the costs the insured must pay.  Given the increase in 
copayments, the Company believes the medical benefits should be especially 
appealing to consumers.  During 1998, AFLAC Japan will primarily market the 
accident and medical riders in a single affordable package that should be 
attractive in the current economy.

     AFLAC Japan's sales mix is changing, although cancer life still 
accounts for the majority of insurance in force.  Cancer life sales 
accounted for 52.5% of total new sales in yen in 1997, 46.7% in 1996 and 
71.2% in 1995.  Living benefit life, which was introduced in the fourth 
quarter of 1995, accounted for 28.3% of total new sales in 1997 and 39.5% in 
1996.  Care product sales represented 6.8% of total new sales in 1997, 10.6% 
in 1996 and 15.6% in 1995.

     Due to the continued low level of available investment yields in Japan, 
the Ministry of Finance directed insurers to increase premium rates on new 
policy issues in recent years.  AFLAC Japan increased premium rates by an

                                   I-8

average of 16% on all cancer life policy sales made after July 1, 1994. 
Premium rates on care policy new issues were increased by an average of 16% 
in September 1995.  As a result of continuing low yields, the Company 
increased premium rates by approximately 13% on new policy issues for all 
product lines beginning in the fourth quarter of 1996.


JAPANESE ECONOMY

     Since the last half of 1997, there has been widespread concern 
regarding the economic outlook of many Asian countries, including Japan.  
The financial strength of some Japanese financial institutions has 
deteriorated, and others have experienced bankruptcy.  Some experts believe 
Japan's economy could weaken further.  As management has indicated in the 
past, the weak economy in Japan has resulted in a difficult marketing 
environment for AFLAC Japan, declining interest rates for new money 
investments and decreased consumer confidence.  The time required for the 
Japanese economy to recover remains uncertain.


AGENCY FORCE - JAPAN

     The development of a "corporate agency" system has been important to 
the growth of AFLAC Japan.  Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when 
companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell AFLAC products to their 
employees, suppliers and customers.  These agencies help AFLAC Japan reach 
the employees of almost all of Japan's large corporations.  AFLAC has no 
ownership interest in these corporate agencies.

     AFLAC products are also sold through independent corporate agencies and 
individual agencies that are not affiliated with large companies.  At 
December 31, 1997, there were 5,427 agencies in Japan with 25,293 licensed 
agents.  Agents' activities are principally limited to insurance sales, with 
policyholder service functions handled by the main office in Tokyo and 57 
offices located throughout Japan.


COMPETITION - JAPAN

     In 1974, AFLAC became the second foreign (non-Japanese) life insurance 
company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market by obtaining 
a license to do business in Japan.  Through 1981, AFLAC was the only company 
in Japan authorized to issue a cancer life insurance policy.  Since that 
time, 16 other life companies offer cancer insurance.  However, AFLAC 
remains the leading issuer of cancer life insurance coverage in Japan, 
principally due to its lead time in the market, unique marketing system (see 
Agency Force - Japan), low-cost operations and product expertise developed 
in the United States.  AFLAC has been very successful in the sale of cancer 
life policies in Japan, with 12.7 million cancer policies in force at 
December 31, 1997.

     In 1997, AFLAC had a 93% market share of all stand-alone care insurance 
sold by life insurance companies and approximately 44% market share of all 
stand-alone care insurance sold by non-life and life insurers combined.  
Management believes that future demand for this product will be fueled by 
the Japanese government's plan to introduce a national care 


                                   I-9

insurance program of its own.  Given the current state of the Japanese 
economy, it is unlikely that the government can afford to pay for the entire 
program, and as a result, private care insurance will be an important aspect 
of the new program.

     In December 1996, the governments of the United States and Japan 
reached an agreement on deregulation of the Japanese insurance industry.  
The agreement calls for the gradual liberalization of the industry through 
the year 2001 and includes provisions to avoid "radical change" in the third 
sector of the insurance industry, which includes supplemental insurance 
products.  AFLAC and other foreign-owned insurers, as well as some small to 
medium-sized Japanese insurers, operate primarily in the third sector.  One 
of the measures for avoiding radical change in the third sector is the 
prohibition of additional Japanese life and non-life insurance companies 
from selling cancer or medical insurance until January 1, 2001.  Although 
the Company has inherent competitive strengths in distribution, products and 
investments that should enable the support of business expansion in a more 
competitive environment, the ultimate impact of deregulation is not 
presently determinable.

     AFLAC's strategy for future growth in Japan centers on broadening the 
Company's product line and expanding the distribution system.  Although the 
basic plan for growth is the same in Japan as in the United States, 
management has had to formulate a strategy specifically tailored for the 
Japanese insurance marketplace, which is very different from the U.S. 
system.  There are only 44 life insurance companies in Japan, compared with 
more than 2,000 life insurers in the United States. In Japan, insurers have 
traditionally been restricted in the types of policies they could offer.  
However, as Japan begins deregulating the insurance industry, the 
marketplace should become more competitive, with insurers able to offer more 
types of products, as they do in the United States.


REGULATION AND REMITTANCE OF FUNDS - JAPAN

     Payments are made from AFLAC Japan to the Parent Company for management 
fees, and to AFLAC U.S. for allocated expenses and remittances of earnings. 
These payments totaled $386.0 million in 1997, $253.6 million in 1996 and 
$179.5 million in 1995.  Management fees paid to the Parent Company are 
largely based on expense allocations.

     A portion of AFLAC Japan's annual earnings, as determined on a Japan 
statutory accounting basis, can be remitted each year to AFLAC U.S. after 
satisfying various conditions imposed by Japanese regulatory authorities for 
protecting policyholders and obtaining remittance approvals from such 
authorities.  The Japanese Ministry of Finance imposes solvency standards 
that represent a form of risk-based capital requirements.  AFLAC Japan must 
meet these requirements to continue profit transfers to AFLAC U.S.  At this 
time, AFLAC Japan is in compliance with these standards, and management does 
not expect these requirements to adversely affect the repatriation of funds 
from Japan in the foreseeable future.

     Repatriated profits represent a portion of the after-tax earnings 
reported to the Japanese Ministry of Finance as of March 31 each year.  Such 
regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that 
differ materially from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Such 
differences relate primarily to the valuation of investments, policy benefit 

                                  I-10

and claim reserves, acquisition costs and deferred income taxes.  Among 
other items, fluctuations in currency translations of AFLAC Japan's U.S. 
dollar-denominated investments into yen also affect regulatory earnings.  
Japanese regulatory earnings and related profit repatriations may therefore 
vary materially from year to year because of these differences.  Management 
currently expects that 1998 profit repatriation will approximate 20 billion 
yen ($155 million using the December 31, 1997, exchange rate) and that 
profit remittances will continue in future years, based on projected annual 
earnings of AFLAC Japan as computed on a Japanese regulatory accounting 
basis.

     During the second quarter of 1997, Nissan Mutual Life Insurance 
Company, a medium-sized Japanese insurer, was declared insolvent by the 
Japanese Ministry of Finance.  Previously, all life insurers doing business 
in Japan had agreed to contribute to a voluntary policyholder protection 
fund that would be used to help offset insurer insolvencies.  The total 
assessment was allocated among the life insurance companies based on 
relative company size.  During the second quarter of 1997, AFLAC Japan 
recognized a pretax charge of 3.0 billion yen ($24.9 million) for this 
policyholder protection fund.  The after-tax amount was $13.6 million, or 
$.10 per share for both basic and diluted earnings per share.  Without this 
charge, the expense ratio for 1997 would have decreased from 18.1% to 17.7%.

     The Life Insurance Association of Japan, an industry organization, 
implemented a policyholder protection fund in 1996 to provide capital 
support to insolvent life insurers.  AFLAC Japan has pledged investment 
securities to the Life Insurance Association of Japan for this program.  The 
Company retains ownership of the securities and receives the related 
investment income.  The amount of securities pledged was based on relative 
company size.  As of December 31, 1997, $40.4 million, at fair value, of 
AFLAC Japan's investment securities had been pledged to this fund, of which 
approximately $33.8 million will be used in future years for assessment 
payments for the 1997 insolvency of Nissan Mutual Life.  The policyholder 
protection fund was depleted by this insolvency, and the Japanese government 
may require additional contributions in the future.

     The Japanese Ministry of Finance (MOF) and the Life Insurance 
Association of Japan are discussing a permanent policyholder protection fund 
system that will cover 90% of the reserves of any failed company.  The 
contributions to this system will also be based on relative company size.  
This new system is not expected to be established until April 1999.

     The Japanese government increased the consumption tax from 3% to 5% 
effective April 1, 1997.  AFLAC Japan currently incurs consumption tax on 
most of the commissions paid to its agents.  The Company implemented changes 
in its compensation arrangements with its agents to mitigate a portion of 
this tax increase.  The consumption tax increase had no material affect on 
1997 consolidated net earnings.

     In March 1997, the Japanese government ratified new income tax 
provisions that increase income taxes on investment income received by 
foreign companies operating in Japan from securities issued from their home 
country.  The new provisions are effective beginning in 1998.  Management 
has mitigated some of the tax impact through investment alternatives and by 
restructuring portions of the existing investment portfolio.  Management 
estimates the net impact of this tax change will decrease 1998 net earnings 
by $13 million.

                                  I-11

     Most of the Company's income tax expense represents Japanese income 
taxes on AFLAC Japan's operating results calculated at the Japanese 
corporate tax rate of 45.3%.  In December 1997, Japanese government leaders 
announced proposals to stimulate the Japanese economy.  If enacted as 
presently proposed, the Japanese corporate tax rate would be reduced 
beginning in 1999.  The proposals also include tax-base broadening 
provisions whereby certain accrued expenses would no longer be deductible 
for tax purposes until paid.  Discussions continue among government leaders, 
and these corporate tax changes are expected to be finalized in March 1998.

     The insurance business in Japan, which is conducted as a branch office 
of AFLAC, is subject to regulation by the MOF, similar to the regulation and 
supervision in the United States as described on pages I-16 and I-17 under 
"Regulation - U.S."  AFLAC Japan files annual reports and financial 
statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 year-
end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices 
prescribed or permitted by the MOF.  Also, financial and other affairs of 
AFLAC Japan are subject to examination by the MOF.  

     Reconciliations of AFLAC Japan net assets on a GAAP basis to net assets 
determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 are 
as follows:

(In thousands - unaudited)                          1997           1996 
                                                 ----------     ----------
Net assets on GAAP basis                        $ 2,540,932    $ 1,697,003 
Elimination of deferred policy 
  acquisition costs                              (1,940,447)    (2,022,899)
Elimination of unrealized gains and
  other adjustments to carrying value
  of fixed-maturity securities                   (3,350,246)    (2,561,097)
Adjustment to policy liabilities                  1,612,242      2,476,384 
Elimination of deferred income taxes              1,634,746      1,006,550 
Reduction in premiums receivable                   (114,436)      (124,829)
Other, net                                           17,227         (4,222)
                                                 ----------     ----------
  Net assets on Japanese regulatory
    accounting basis                            $   400,018    $   466,890 
                                                 ==========     ==========


     The decline in net assets based on a Japanese regulatory accounting 
basis is primarily due to the weakening of the yen.  During the last few 
years, the MOF has developed solvency standards, a version of risk-based 
capital requirements.  Management believes the solvency margin of AFLAC 
Japan is very strong compared with other Japanese insurers.

     For additional information regarding AFLAC Japan's operations, see 
Exhibit 13, pages 13-9 to 13-14 (AFLAC Japan section of MD&A) and pages 13-
42 and 13-64 (Notes 2 and 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


EMPLOYEES - JAPAN

     AFLAC Japan had 1,895 employees at December 31, 1997.  AFLAC Japan 
considers its employee relations to be excellent.

                                  I-12

INSURANCE - U.S.

     The following table sets forth AFLAC U.S. premiums earned by product 
line for the years ended December 31:

(In thousands)                           1997         1996         1995 
                                      ---------    ---------    ---------
Premiums earned:
  Cancer expense                     $  456,100   $  429,006   $  402,789 
  Other accident and health             586,267      501,355      441,444 
  Life insurance                         19,284       15,445       15,559 
                                      ---------    ---------    ---------
     Total AFLAC U.S. 
       premiums earned               $1,061,651   $  945,806   $  859,792 
                                      =========    =========    =========


     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC U.S. health insurance for the years ended December 31.

(In thousands)                            1997        1996         1995 
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Annualized premiums in force, at
  beginning of year                   $1,041,535   $  937,104   $  860,204
    New issues including policy
      conversions                        389,805      321,207      275,151
    Change in unprocessed policies         6,862       (5,291)      (1,791)
    Lapses                              (282,789)    (232,872)    (207,859)
    Other                                 36,226       21,387       11,399
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Annualized premiums in force, at
  end of year                         $1,191,639   $1,041,535   $  937,104
                                       =========    =========    =========

     The slight increase in lapses is primarily due to the changing mix of 
business.


HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC's insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed for people 
who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage.  AFLAC's 
supplemental health insurance plans are guaranteed renewable for the 
lifetime of the policyholder.  Guaranteed-renewable coverage may not be 
cancelled by the insurer, but premium rates on existing and future policies 
may be increased by class of policy in response to claims experience higher 
than originally expected (subject to federal and state loss-ratio 
guidelines) on a uniform, nondiscriminatory basis subject to state 
regulatory approval.  

     AFLAC's cancer plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for 
medical and nonmedical costs that are generally not reimbursed by major 
medical insurance.  AFLAC currently offers a series of four different cancer 
plans in the United States that vary by benefit amount and type.  All four 
plans provide a first occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when 
internal cancer is first diagnosed, a fixed amount for each day an insured 
is hospitalized for cancer treatment, and benefits for medical, radiation,

                                  I-13

chemotherapy, surgery and a "wellness" benefit applicable toward certain 
diagnostic tests such as mammograms, pap smears, flexible sigmoidoscopy, 
etc.  Two of the plans currently offered contain benefits that reimburse the 
insured for nursing services, anesthesia, prosthesis, blood, plasma, second 
surgical opinion, ambulance, transportation, family lodging, extended care 
facility, bone marrow transplant and hospice.  The remaining two plans make 
these benefits available as an optional schedule of benefits rider.  AFLAC 
also issues several riders, including one that increases the amount of the 
first occurrence benefit on each rider anniversary date until the covered 
person reaches age 65 or until internal cancer is diagnosed.  AFLAC 
periodically introduces new forms of coverage, revising benefits and related 
premiums based upon the anticipated needs of the policyholders and AFLAC's 
claim experience.  AFLAC is introducing a new series of three cancer plans 
in 1998.

     AFLAC offers an accident and disability policy to protect against 
losses resulting from accidents.  The accident portion of the policy 
includes lump sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific 
injuries.  Fixed benefits for hospital confinement, emergency treatment, 
follow-up treatments, ambulance, transportation, family lodging, wellness, 
prosthesis, medical appliances and physical therapy are also provided.  
Optional disability riders are available to the primary insured only and 
include choices of a sickness disability rider, on-the-job disability rider 
and off-the-job disability rider.  These benefits are payable up to a 
maximum benefit period of one year and for one disability at a time.

     AFLAC currently markets five of the Medicare Supplement Standardized 
Plans, with the majority of sales coming from Plans F and C.  The plans are 
priced on an issue-age basis.  Under this method, rates are revised due to 
changes in the Medicare program and medical inflation.  There is no 
automatic rate increase due to the aging of the insured.  Premium rates are 
determined based on zip code groupings, which are adjusted for increases in 
costs for each geographic area.  The benefits provided range from the basic 
plan, covering Part A and B coinsurance, to plans with more extensive 
coverage, including Part A and B deductibles, skilled nursing coinsurance, 
Part B excess and other benefits.  AFLAC U.S. does not market the 
standardized plans covering prescription drug benefits.

     AFLAC also issues other supplemental health insurance, such as 
intensive care, which is a low-premium policy that provides protection 
against the high cost of intensive care facilities during hospital 
confinement, regardless of reimbursements from other insurers.  Other types 
of health insurance issued by AFLAC include qualified and non-qualified 
long-term care plans, short-term disability, and a hospital confinement 
indemnity policy.  


LIFE INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC issues various life insurance policies including whole life, 
limited pay life, voluntary group term life and term life coverage. 







                                  I-14

AGENCY FORCE AND MARKETING - U.S.

     AFLAC's sales force comprises independent sales agents who are licensed 
to sell accident and health insurance.  Many are also licensed to sell life 
insurance.  Most agents' efforts are directed toward selling supplemental 
health insurance.  The 1997 monthly average number of U.S. agents actively 
producing business was 7,376, compared with 6,665 in 1996 and 6,121 in 1995.

     Agents' activities are principally limited to sales, with policyholder 
service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, 
payment notices and claims handled by the staff at headquarters. Agents are 
paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales 
of health and life insurance products.  AFLAC's state, regional and district 
sales coordinators, who are independent contractors, are compensated by 
override commissions.  

     AFLAC has concentrated on the development of marketing its policies at 
the work site.  This method offers policies to individuals through common 
media such as employment, trade and other associations.  This manner of 
marketing is distinct from "group" insurance sales in that each individual 
insured is directly contacted by the sales associate.  Policies are 
individually underwritten in the payroll market, with premiums generally 
paid by the employee.  Additionally, AFLAC supplemental policies are 
portable in that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage upon 
separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same 
premium.  A major portion of premiums on such sales are collected through 
payroll deduction or other forms of group billings.  Group-issued plans 
normally result in a lower average age of the insured at the time of policy 
issuance and also result in certain savings in administrative costs, a 
portion of which are passed on to the policyholder in the form of reduced 
premiums.  Management believes that marketing at the work site enables the 
agency force to reach a greater number of prospective policyholders than 
individual solicitation and that this method lowers distribution costs.  

     Another valuable marketing and sales tool is the flexible benefits 
program, or cafeteria plan, which allows an employee to pay for medical 
insurance using pretax dollars.  These programs help achieve increased 
penetration as agents are required to present the program to all employees. 
They also help improve overall persistency levels due to the limited changes 
allowed during the plan year.

     AFLAC continues to develop marketing arrangements with insurance 
brokers.  Insurance brokers generally have better access to larger payroll 
groups than independent agents.  The core of the Company's distribution 
network will remain independent agents.

     In 1997, AFLAC's U.S. premiums collected were $1.1 billion, 7.0% of 
which was collected in Texas, 6.5% in Florida, 6.1% in Georgia, and 5.6% in 
North Carolina.  Premiums collected in all other states were individually 
less than 5% of AFLAC's U.S. premiums.








                                  I-15

COMPETITION - U.S.

     The accident and health and life insurance industry in the United 
States is highly competitive.  AFLAC competes with a large number of other 
insurers, some of which have been in business for a longer period of time.  
In the United States, there are more than 2,000 life and accident and health 
insurance companies, most of which operate in the states AFLAC conducts 
business.

     Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield, provide insurance for meeting basic hospitalization 
and medical expenses.  Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis.  The 
federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical 
treatment through Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Such major medical 
insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the medical (but not 
nonmedical) expenses incurred by an insured as a result of cancer or other 
major illnesses.  AFLAC's policies are designed to provide coverage that is 
supplemental to coverage provided by major medical insurance.  AFLAC's 
benefits may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses.

     Since other insurers generally do not provide full coverage of medical 
expenses or any coverage of nonmedical expenses, AFLAC's supplemental 
insurance is not an alternative to major medical insurance, but is sold to 
complement (supplement) major medical insurance by helping cover the gap 
between major medical insurance reimbursements and the total costs of an 
individual's health care. AFLAC thus competes only indirectly with major 
medical insurers in terms of premium rates and similar factors.  However, 
the scope of the major medical coverage offered by other insurers does 
represent a limitation on the market for AFLAC's products.  Accordingly, 
expansion of coverage by other insurers or governmental programs could 
adversely affect AFLAC's business opportunities.  Conversely, any reduction 
of coverages, such as increased deductibles and copayments, by other 
insurers or governmental programs could favorably affect AFLAC's business 
opportunities.

     AFLAC competes directly with other insurers offering supplemental 
health insurance and believes that its current policies and premium rates 
are generally competitive with those offered by other companies selling 
similar types of insurance.  

     For additional information regarding U.S. insurance operations, see 
Exhibit 13, page 13-14 to 13-16 (AFLAC U.S. section of MD&A), which is 
incorporated herein by reference.


REGULATION - U.S.

     The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to state 
regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system.  
Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies 
within the holding company system must be fair and equitable.  In addition, 
transfer of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend 
payments from insurance subsidiaries and material transactions between 
companies within the system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, 
state regulatory authorities.



                                  I-16

     AFLAC and its insurance subsidiaries, in common with all U.S. insurance 
companies, are subject to regulation and supervision in the states and other 
jurisdictions in which they do business.  In general, the insurance laws of 
the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad 
administrative powers relating to, among other things: granting and revoking 
licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, 
prior approval of forms of policies and premium rate increases, standards of 
solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum 
loss ratio requirements, capital for the protection of policyholders, 
limitations on dividends to shareholders, the nature of and limitations on 
investments, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, filing 
of annual reports and financial statements prepared in accordance with 
statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the 
regulatory authorities, and periodic examinations of the financial, market 
conduct, and other affairs of insurance companies.  In addition, the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is currently working 
on regulatory initiatives relating to investments, reinsurance, policy 
reserves, limited benefit insurance policies, revision of the risk-based 
capital formula and other matters.

     Currently, prescribed or permitted statutory accounting principles 
(SAP) may vary between states and between companies.  The NAIC is in the 
process of recodifying SAP to promote standardization throughout the 
industry.  Completion of this project will result in changes to SAP.  One 
change is the requirement that insurance companies establish a deferred 
income tax liability for statutory accounting purposes.  Management 
estimates AFLAC's deferred tax liability under the present provisions of the 
project would be approximately $180 million using SAP.  The capital and 
surplus of AFLAC, as determined on a U.S. statutory accounting basis, was 
$1.8 billion at December 31, 1997.

     For further information concerning state regulatory and dividend 
restrictions, see Exhibit 13, page 13-64 (Note 10 - Statutory Accounting and 
Dividend Restrictions of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
incorporated herein by reference.

     The NAIC risk-based capital formula for U.S. life insurance companies 
established capital requirements relating to insurance risk, business risk, 
asset risk and interest rate risk.  These requirements are intended to 
facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately 
capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mixtures of risks 
inherent in the insurer's operations.  The formulas for determining the 
amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are 
applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the 
perceived degree of risk.  Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of 
the company's regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control 
level risk-based capital, as defined by the NAIC.  Companies below specific 
trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which 
requires specified corrective action.  The levels are company action, 
regulatory action, authorized control and mandatory control.  AFLAC's NAIC 
risk-based capital ratio exceeds all regulatory action levels and continues 
to reflect a very strong statutory capital and surplus position.

     Three states have laws, regulations or regulatory practices that either 
prohibit the sale of specified disease insurance, such as AFLAC's cancer 
expense insurance, or make its sale impractical.  These states are 
Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York.  Regulations in Connecticut were 

                                  I-17

changed to allow the sale of specified disease insurance beginning in June 
1997.  AFLAC is now marketing cancer insurance in Connecticut.  The 
remainder of the states do not impose prohibitions or restrictions that 
prevent AFLAC from marketing cancer expense insurance.  AFLAC U.S. is 
marketing several of its other products in these states, directly or through 
a subsidiary.

     Under insurance guaranty fund laws in most U.S. states, insurance 
companies doing business in those states can be assessed for policyholder 
losses up to prescribed limits that are incurred by insolvent companies with 
similar lines of business.  Such assessments have not been material to the 
Company in the past.  The Company believes that future assessments relating 
to companies in the U.S. currently involved in insolvency proceedings will 
not materially impact the consolidated financial statements.


EMPLOYEES - U.S.

     In its U.S. insurance operations, the Company had 1,870 employees at 
December 31, 1997.  The Company considers its employee relations to be 
excellent.


POLICY LIABILITIES - JAPAN AND U.S.

     The reserves for policy liabilities reported in the financial 
statements have been computed in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP).  These reserves differ from those reflected in 
the various regulatory financial statements filed by the Company.  Such 
differences arise from the use of different mortality, morbidity, interest, 
lapse assumptions and actuarial reserving methods as required by the laws of 
the various states and Japan.


OTHER OPERATIONS

     The Company's other operations had 267 employees at December 31, 1997. 
On March 12, 1997, the Company sold its Canadian insurance subsidiary at a 
nominal gain.  Other operations include an insurance operation in Taiwan.  
Additional expense charges were recognized in 1997 and 1996 for estimated 
termination costs and fair value adjustments related to these operations.

     For additional information regarding other operations, see Exhibit 13, 
page 13-16 (Other Operations section of MD&A), which is incorporated herein 
by reference.


FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

     The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe 
harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long 
as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are 
accompanied by meaningful, cautionary statements identifying important 
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
discussed.  The Company desires to take advantage of these provisions.  This 
report contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that 
could cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in this 

                                  I-18

Form 10-K, and in any other statements made by officers of the Company in 
oral discussions with analysts and contained in documents filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (the SEC).  Forward-looking statements 
are not based on historical information and relate to future operations, 
strategies, financial results or other developments.  In particular, 
statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," 
"goal," "objective" or similar words as well as specific projections of 
future results generally qualify as forward-looking.  The Company undertakes 
no obligation to update such forward-looking statements.

     The Company cautions that the following factors, in addition to other 
factors mentioned from time to time in the Company's reports filed with the 
SEC, could cause the Company's actual results to differ materially:  
regulatory developments, assessments for insurance company insolvencies, 
competitive conditions, new products, Japanese Ministry of Finance approval 
of profit repatriations to the United States, general economic conditions in 
the United States and Japan, changes in U.S. and/or Japanese tax laws, 
adequacy of reserves, credit and other risks associated with the Company's 
investment activities, significant changes in interest rates and 
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     AFLAC owns an 18-story office building, which is the worldwide 
headquarters of the Parent Company and AFLAC, along with a six-story parking 
garage.  These structures are located on approximately 14 acres of land in 
Columbus, Georgia.  In 1997, the Company began construction of a new five-
story administrative office building located on the same property.  The 
building is expected to be completed in the fall of 1998 at an estimated 
cost of $15 million.  The Company also owns two additional buildings located 
on the same property.  AFLAC also owns administrative office buildings 
located nearby.  AFLAC New York occupies leased office space in Albany, New 
York.

     In Tokyo, Japan, AFLAC owns an 11-story administrative office building, 
which was completed in April 1994.  AFLAC also leases office space in Tokyo 
along with regional sales offices located throughout the country, and owns a 
training facility in Tokyo.

     In conjunction with the sale of the broadcast business in 1996 and 
1997, the Company sold the land, buildings, transmission towers and other 
broadcast equipment in the cities where its television stations were 
located.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is a defendant in various litigation considered to be in 
the normal course of business.  Some of this litigation is pending in 
Alabama, where large punitive damages bearing little relation to the actual 
damages sustained by plaintiffs have been awarded against other companies, 
including insurers, in recent years.  Although the final results of any 
litigation cannot be predicted with certainty, the Company believes the 
outcome of the litigation still pending will not have a material adverse 
effect on the financial position of the Company.


                                  I-19

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     There were no matters submitted to the security holders for a vote in 
the fourth quarter ended December 31, 1997.


ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

        NAME                   PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION (*)               AGE
- -------------------       -------------------------------------       ---
Paul S. Amos              Chairman, AFLAC Incorporated and             71
                            American Family Life Assurance
                            Company of Columbus (AFLAC)


Daniel P. Amos            Chief Executive Officer of AFLAC             46
                            Incorporated and AFLAC; President,
                            AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC;
                            Director, CIT Group Inc.,
                            Livingston, NJ; Director, Georgia
                            Power Company, Atlanta, GA   


William J. Bugg, Jr.      Senior Vice President, Corporate             58
                            Actuary of AFLAC


Monthon Chuaychoo         Vice President, Financial Services, of       54
                            AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC since
                            September 1993; Second Vice President,
                            Assistant Controller of AFLAC 
                            Incorporated and AFLAC to
                            September 1993


Kriss Cloninger III       Executive Vice President, Chief              50
                            Financial Officer of AFLAC 
                            Incorporated and AFLAC, and
                            Treasurer of AFLAC Incorporated


Martin A. Durant, III     Senior Vice President, Corporate             49
                            Services, of AFLAC Incorporated 
                            and AFLAC since August 1993; Vice
                            President and Controller of AFLAC 
                            Incorporated and AFLAC to August 1993


Norman P. Foster          Executive Vice President, Corporate          63
                            Finance, of AFLAC Incorporated 
                            and AFLAC


Kenneth S. Janke Jr.      Senior Vice President, Investor              39
                            Relations, of AFLAC Incorporated
                            since August 1993; Vice President,
                            Investor Relations, of AFLAC 
                            Incorporated until August 1993
                                  I-20

Akitoshi Kan              Executive Vice President of AFLAC since      50
                            1998 and Deputy Chief Financial Officer
                            of AFLAC, Senior Vice President, AFLAC
                            Japan, Accounting, Information Systems, 
                            ABC and Legal affairs since January 1997;
                            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan, 
                            Accounting, Corporate Planning, Audit,
                            and Legal Affairs until January 1997;
                            Vice President, AFLAC Japan Accounting 
                            Department until 1995


Nobuo Kawamura            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,          53
                            Underwriting, Policy Maintenance, 
                            Premium Accounting, Customer Service, 
                            Administration Support


Joseph P. Kuechenmeister  Senior Vice President, Director              56
                            of Marketing of AFLAC


Joey M. Loudermilk        Senior Vice President, General Counsel       44
                            and Corporate Secretary of AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC, and Director,
                            Legal and Governmental Relations of
                            AFLAC


Hidefumi Matsui           President, AFLAC Japan, since January        53
                            1995, Executive Vice President of AFLAC
                            Japan until 1995


Shoichi Matsumoto         Executive Vice President, Director           52
                            of Marketing, AFLAC Japan, since 1998;
                            Senior Vice President, Director of
                            Marketing, AFLAC Japan, until January
                            1998; Senior Vice President, AFLAC 
                            Japan, until July 1997; Vice President, 
                            Assistant Director of Marketing, AFLAC
                            Japan, until January 1996


Minoru Nakai              President of AFLAC International, Inc.       56


Yoshiki Otake             Chairman, AFLAC Japan, since January         58
                            1995; President, AFLAC Japan, until
                            December 1994; Vice Chairman, AFLAC
                            International, Inc.







                                  I-21

E. Stephen Purdom         Executive Vice President,                    50
                            AFLAC, since October 1994; Medical
                            Director, Columbus Clinic, Columbus, GA,
                            until September 1994; Senior Vice
                            President and Medical Director, AFLAC,
                            until October 1994; Director,
                            Trust Company Bank, Columbus, GA 


Joseph W. Smith, Jr.      Senior Vice President, Chief Investment      44
                            Officer of AFLAC 


Gary L. Stegman           Senior Vice President, Assistant Chief       48
                            Financial Officer of AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC; Treasurer
                            and Assistant Secretary of AFLAC 

  (*)  Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held
       the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least five years. 
       Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of
       directors and serves until his successor is chosen and qualified,
       or until his death, resignation or removal.



































                                  I-22

                                PART II

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 5 through 8 are 
incorporated by reference from the Company's 1997 Annual Report to 
Shareholders, the appropriate sections of which are included herein as 
Exhibit 13.
                                               Exhibit 13   Annual Report
                                                  Pages         Pages  
                                               ----------   --------------


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON      13-1; 13-2;  1; 54 (Note 10); 
          EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER         13-64        and 57-58
          MATTERS                               (Note 10)      


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA              13-3; 13-4       26 - 27


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND          13-5 to          28 - 38
          ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION       13-28
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE         13-6 to          28, 33-34
          DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         13-8, 13-17
                                                to 13-20


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND             13-29 to         39 - 56
          SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                    13-71


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS           None            None
          WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE             






















                                  II-1

                                PART III

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 10 through 13 are 
incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement 
relating to the Company's 1998 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 13, 1998, 
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

                                      Refer to the Information  Refer to
                                      Contained in the Proxy    Printed
                                      Statement under Captions    Proxy
                                       (filed electronically)   Statement
                                                                  Pages
                                      ------------------------  ---------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE     Security Ownership of       3 - 7
          OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY     Management.  1. Election
             Directors                of Directors
             Executive Officers -      
               see Part I, Item 4A
               herein  


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      Board and Committee         8 - 20
                                      Meetings and Directors
                                      Compensation; Summary 
                                      Compensation Table; De-
                                      fined Benefit Pension
                                      Plan; Retirement Plans
                                      for Key Executives; 
                                      Employment Contracts and
                                      Termination of Employ-
                                      ment Arrangements


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF       Voting Securities and       2 - 7
          CERTAIN BENEFICIAL          Principal Holders 
          OWNERS AND                  Thereof. Security Owner-
          MANAGEMENT                  ship of Management.  
                                      1. Election of Directors


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS       Certain Transactions           20
          AND RELATED                 and Relationships
          TRANSACTIONS













                                  III-1

                                 PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                   Page(s)   
                                                              -----------
         Included in Part II of this report and
         incorporated by reference to the following
         pages of Exhibit 13:
           AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries:
             Consolidated Statements of Earnings, for            13-29
              each of the years in the three-year     
              period ended December 31, 1997           
             Consolidated Balance Sheets, at                     13-30 -
              December 31, 1997 and 1996                          13-31
             Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'            13-32
              Equity, for each of the years in the    
              three-year period ended December 31,
             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,              13-33 -
              for each of the years in the three-year             13-34
              period ended December 31, 1997             
             Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive            13-35
              Income, for each of the years in the
              three-year period ended December 31, 1997        
             Notes to the Consolidated Financial                 13-36 to
              Statements                                          13-68
             Report of Independent Auditors                      13-70

     2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         Included in Part IV of this report:
           Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedules      IV-5
           Schedule I   -  Summary of Investments - Other         IV-6
                            Than Investments in Related 
                            Parties, at December 31, 1997         
           Schedule II  -  Condensed Financial Information of    IV-7 -
                            Registrant, at December 31, 1997      IV-12
                            and 1996 and for each of the 
                            years in the three-year period 
                            ended December 31, 1997         
           Schedule IV  -  Reinsurance, for each of the           IV-13
                            years in the three-year period 
                            ended December 31, 1997                



     Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are 
not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in 
the financial statements or notes thereto.  








                                  IV-1

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
                  reference from Form 10-Q for March 31, 1997,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000011, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
                  amended - incorporated by reference from 
                  Form 10-Q for June 30, 1996, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-96-000012, Exhibit 3.0.
         4.0    - There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
                  amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total 
                  assets of AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries on a
                  consolidated basis.  The Company agrees to furnish a copy
                  of any of its long-term debt instruments to the Securities
                  and Exchange Commission upon request.
        10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
                  Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the 
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family 
                  Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and
                  Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
                  incorporated by reference from Registration Statement
                  No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC
                  Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
        10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan - 
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy 
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 
                  0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
        10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
        10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior 
                  Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.2.
        10.3*   - American Family Corporation Supplemental Executive 
                  Retirement Plan - incorporated by reference from 1989  
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.3.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement 
                  Plan, as amended, effective September 1, 1993 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.3.1.
        10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P. 
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
                  from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
        10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  
                  Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
                  1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.

                                  IV-2

        10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss 
                  Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended 
                  November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.
        10.7*   - AFLAC Incorporated Management Incentive Plan -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession 
                  No. 0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit B.
        10.8*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Hidefumi Matsui, dated
                  January 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.8.
        10.9*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
                  October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S. Amos,
                  dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from Form
                  10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.1.
        10.11*  - AFLAC Incorporated Deferred Compensation Agreement with
                  Paul S. Amos, dated July 15, 1997.
        10.12*  - AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan, incorporated
                  by reference from the 1997 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000007, Appendix B.
        13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                  Report to Shareholders for 1997.
        21.0    - Subsidiaries.
        23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with
                  respect to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American
                  Family Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982)
                  and Stock Option Plan (1985).
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
                  to the AFL Stock Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.



                                  IV-3

        27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1997.
        27.1**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for September 30, 1997.
        27.2**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for June 30, 1997.
        27.3**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for March 31, 1997.
        27.4**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1996.
        27.5**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for September 30, 1996.
        27.6**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for June 30, 1996.
        27.7**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for March 31, 1996.
        27.8**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1995.
* Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
**All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.

(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     There were no reports filed on Form 8-K for the quarter ended
     December 31, 1997.

(c)  EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 10-K

      10.11*  - AFLAC Incorporated Deferred Compensation Agreement with
                Paul S. Amos, dated July 15, 1997.
      13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual 
                Report to Shareholders for 1997.
      21.0    - Subsidiaries.
      23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family  
                Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock 
                Option Plan (1985).
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
                to the AFL Stock Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect
                to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
      27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1997.
      27.1**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for September 30, 1997.
      27.2**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for June 30, 1997.
      27.3**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for March 31, 1997.
      27.4**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1996.
      27.5**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for September 30, 1996.
      27.6**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for June 30, 1996.
      27.7**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for March 31, 1996.
      27.8**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1995.
* Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
**All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.
                                  IV-4



INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 


The Shareholders and Board of Directors  
AFLAC Incorporated:


Under date of January 29, 1998, we reported on the consolidated balance 
sheets of AFLAC Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1997 and 
1996, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' 
equity, cash flows, and comprehensive income for each of the years in the 
three-year period ended December 31, 1997, as contained in the 1997 annual 
report to shareholders.  These consolidated financial statements and our 
report thereon are incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 
10-K for the year 1997.  In connection with our audits of the aforementioned 
consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related financial 
statement schedules as listed in Item 14.  These financial statement 
schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statement 
schedules based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.




                                               KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP




Atlanta, Georgia
January 29, 1998





















                                  IV-5

                                 SCHEDULE I
                      AFLAC INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related Parties
                             December 31, 1997


(In thousands)                                                   Amount in
                                                     Fair         Balance 
      Type of Investment               Cost          Value         Sheet   
    -----------------------         -----------   -----------   ----------
Securities available for sale:
 Fixed maturities:
  Bonds:
   United States Government and 
     government agencies and
     authorities                    $   667,367   $   697,682   $   697,682
   States, municipalities and 
     political subdivisions              13,379        14,243        14,243
   Foreign governments                6,829,390     8,643,694     8,643,694
   Public utilities                   2,734,130     3,216,183     3,216,183
   Convertibles                          22,100        24,610        24,610
   All other corporate bonds          8,854,762     9,841,406     9,841,406 
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total fixed maturities 
         available for sale          19,121,128    22,437,818    22,437,818 
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
 Equity securities:
  Common stocks:
   Public utilities                         513           649           649
   Banks, trusts and insurance
     companies                            3,821        14,421        14,421
   Industrial, miscellaneous 
     and all other                       75,936       131,256       131,256 
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total equity securities           80,270       146,326       146,326 
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total securities
         available for sale          19,201,398   $22,584,144    22,584,144
                                                   ==========
Mortgage loans on real estate            14,137                      14,137
Policy loans                              1,288                       1,288
Other long-term investments               1,322                       1,322
Short-term investments                   43,344                      43,344
Cash and cash equivalents               235,675                     235,675 
                                     ----------                  ----------
      Total investments             $19,497,164                 $22,879,910 
                                     ==========                  ==========

See the accompanying Auditors' Report.








                                  IV-6

                                 SCHEDULE II
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                          Condensed Balance Sheets
                      AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)
                               (In thousands)
                                                     December 31, 
                                                 1997            1996    
                                              ----------      ----------
ASSETS:
Investments and cash:
  Investments in subsidiaries*               $ 4,204,586     $ 2,677,304 
  Mortgage loans and other (Note B)               11,215           2,368 
  Cash and cash equivalents                        8,799          22,154 
                                              ----------      ----------
      Total investments and cash               4,224,600       2,701,826 
Due from subsidiaries*                             7,235           3,947 
Other receivables                                  3,108           2,523 
Property and equipment, net                        7,731           8,428 
Other assets                                       3,250           3,288 
                                              ----------      ----------
      Total assets                           $ 4,245,924     $ 2,720,012 
                                              ==========      ==========
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:
Liabilities:
  Due to subsidiaries*                       $         5     $       869 
  Notes payable (note A)                         505,023         327,408 
  Employee and beneficiary benefit plans         207,362         183,807 
  Income taxes, primarily deferred                58,309          45,948 
  Other liabilities                               44,753          36,411 
                                              ----------      ----------
      Total liabilities                          815,452         594,443 
                                              ----------      ----------
Shareholders' equity:
  Common stock of $.10 par value:
    Authorized 400,000 shares; issued
    158,190 shares in 1997 and 157,239
    shares in 1996                                15,819          15,724 
  Additional paid-in capital                     227,292         208,994 
  Retained earnings (note D)                   2,442,309       1,917,794 
  Accumulated other comprehensive income:
    Unrealized foreign currency
      translation gains                          274,074         229,782 
    Unrealized gains on securities
      available for sale                       1,284,717         280,154 
                                              ----------      ----------
       Total accumulated other
         comprehensive income                  1,558,791         509,936
  Treasury stock, at average cost               (812,672)       (526,425)
  Notes receivable for stock purchases            (1,067)           (454)
                                              ----------      ----------
    Total shareholders' equity                 3,430,472       2,125,569 
                                              ----------      ----------
    Total liabilities and
      shareholders' equity                   $ 4,245,924     $ 2,720,012 
                                              ==========      ==========
*Eliminated in consolidation.
See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
See the accompanying Auditors' Report.
                                  IV-7

                                   SCHEDULE II
                   CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                        Condensed Statements of Earnings
                        AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)
                                (In thousands)

                                           Years ended December 31,
                                         1997         1996         1995    
                                      ----------   ----------   ----------
Revenues:
  Dividends from subsidiaries*        $  118,125   $  137,692   $   82,343 
  Management and service fees
    from subsidiaries*                    31,741       30,470       30,509  
  Other income from subsidiaries,
    principally rental and interest*           5            6          196  
  Other income                             3,408        4,041        1,069
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
      Total revenues                     153,279      172,209      114,117 
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Operating expenses:
  Interest expense - subsidiaries*             5           16           30
  Interest expense - others               10,456       10,512        8,419 
  Other operating expenses                82,894       84,055       70,921 
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
      Total operating expenses            93,355       94,583       79,370 
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
  Earnings before income taxes and
    equity in undistributed earnings
    of subsidiaries                       59,924       77,626       34,747 

Income tax expense (note C):
  Current                                    720            -            -
  Deferred                                13,706       12,410        8,583 
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
      Total income taxes                  14,426       12,410        8,583
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
  Earnings before equity in
    undistributed earnings of
    subsidiaries                          45,498       65,216       26,164 

Equity in undistributed earnings
  of subsidiaries                        539,525      329,147      322,893 
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
     Net earnings                     $  585,023   $  394,363   $  349,057 
                                       =========    =========    =========

* Eliminated in consolidation.
See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
See the accompanying Auditors' Report.








                                  IV-8

                                 SCHEDULE II
                CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                      Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
                       AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)
                                             Years ended December 31,
(In thousands)                             1997        1996        1995   
                                        ----------  ----------  ----------
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings                          $  585,023  $  394,363  $  349,057 
  Adjustments to reconcile net
    earnings to net cash provided
    from operating activities:
      Equity in undistributed
        earnings of subsidiaries          (539,525)   (329,147)   (322,893)
      Deferred income taxes                 13,706      12,410       8,583 
      Increase in employee and
        beneficiary benefit plans           23,555      36,488      30,174 
      Other, net                            29,325      14,775      16,585 
                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
        Net cash provided by
          operating activities             112,084     128,889      81,506 
                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Cost of other investments
    disposed of                                373         395         515
  Purchase of mortgage loans
    from subsidiary                        (10,044)          -           - 
                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
         Net cash provided (used) 
          by investing activities           (9,671)        395         515 
                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from borrowings                 409,489     135,914     198,250
  Assumption of debt from affiliate              -      15,389           - 
  Principal payments under debt
    obligations                           (191,398)    (57,671)    (11,507)
  Dividends paid to shareholders           (60,508)    (54,174)    (48,939)
  Net change in amount due 
    to/from subsidiaries                    (4,152)       (405)      6,186 
  Purchases of treasury stock             (314,252)   (204,169)   (224,204)
  Treasury stock reissued                   39,813      34,549       9,693 
  Proceeds from exercise of
    stock options                            5,240       6,549       3,235
  Other, net                                     -         (83)          -
                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
       Net cash used by
         financing activities             (115,768)   (124,101)    (67,286)
                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
       Net change in cash and
         cash equivalents                  (13,355)      5,183      14,735 
Cash and cash equivalents
  at beginning of year                      22,154      16,971       2,236 
                                         ---------   ---------   ---------
Cash and cash equivalents
  at end of year                        $    8,799  $   22,154  $   16,971 
                                         =========   =========   =========
See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
See the accompanying Auditors' Report.
                                  IV-9

                                  SCHEDULE II
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                  Condensed Statements of Comprehensive Income
                        AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)
                                (In thousands)

                                             Years ended December 31,
                                            1997        1996        1995    
                                         ----------  ----------  ----------
Net earnings                            $   585,023 $   394,363 $   349,057
                                         ----------  ----------  ----------
Other comprehensive income,
 before income taxes:
  Foreign currency translation
   adjustments:
    Change in unrealized foreign
     currency translation gains
     during year - Parent only               44,227      38,119      28,728
    Equity in change in unrealized
     foreign currency translation
     gains (losses) during year
     of subsidiaries                           (445)    (21,656)      9,850 
    Reclassification adjustment for
     realized currency (gains) losses
     on sale of subsidiary included
     in net earnings - Parent only              509           -      (1,527)
  Equity in unrealized gains (losses)
   on securities available for sale
   of subsidiaries:
    Unrealized holding gains (losses)
     arising during year                  1,693,389    (314,050)    214,274
    Reclassification adjustment for
     realized (gains) losses included
     in net earnings                          4,158      (4,788)         (1)
                                         ----------  ----------  ----------
      Total other comprehensive
       income, before income taxes        1,741,838    (302,375)    251,324
  Income tax expense (benefit) related
   to items of other comprehensive
   income                                   692,983    (116,205)    (41,847)
                                         ----------  ----------  ----------
    Other comprehensive income, net
     of income taxes                      1,048,855    (186,170)    293,171 
                                         ----------  ----------  ----------
      Total comprehensive income        $ 1,633,878 $   208,193 $   642,228
                                         ==========  ==========  ==========

See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
See the accompanying Auditors' Report.








                                  IV-10

                                 SCHEDULE II
                CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                   Notes to Condensed Financial Statements
                       AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)


     The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in 
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of 
AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries (see Part II - Item 8).

(A)  NOTES PAYABLE 

     A summary of notes payable serviced by the Parent Company at
December 31, 1997 and 1996 follows:

(In thousands)                                          1997         1996   
                                                     ----------   ----------
Unsecured, yen-denominated notes payable to banks:
  2.29% (2.74% in 1996) reducing, revolving credit
    agreement, due annually through July 2001.....   $ 348,962    $ 284,238
  1.24% revolving credit agreement, due
    October 2002..................................     149,116            -
  Variable interest rate, paid in full............           -       17,453
  Short-term line of credit.......................           -        9,850
9.60% to 10.72% unsecured notes payable to bank,
  due semiannually, through September 1998........       6,945       15,389
Other.............................................           -          478
                                                      --------     --------
    Total notes payable...........................   $ 505,023    $ 327,408
                                                      ========     ========


     The aggregate maturities of the notes payable for each of the five
years after December 31, 1997, are as follows:

     (In thousands)

         1998............................................  $ 30,907
         1999............................................    75,000
         2000............................................   125,000
         2001............................................   125,000
         2002............................................   149,116


     For further information regarding notes payable, see Exhibit 13, page 
13-57 (Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).











                                  IV-11

(B)  MORTGAGE LOANS

     During 1997, the Parent Company purchased the entire mortgage loan 
portfolio of AFLAC U.S., at book value ($10.0 million).


(C)  INCOME TAXES

     The Company and its eligible U.S. subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. 
federal income tax return.  Income tax liabilities or benefits are recorded 
by each principal subsidiary based upon separate return calculations, and 
any difference between the consolidated provision and the aggregate amounts 
recorded by the subsidiaries is reflected in the Parent Company financial 
statements.  

     For further information on income taxes, see Exhibit 13, page 13-58, 
Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


(D)  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     See Exhibit 13, page 13-64 (Note 10, Statutory Accounting and Dividend 
Restrictions, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) for 
information regarding dividend restrictions.


(E)  SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     (In thousands)                          1997       1996       1995   
                                           --------   --------   --------
     Cash payments during the year for:
       Interest on debt obligations        $  9,698   $  9,805   $  7,807
       Income taxes                             720          -        406


(F)  ACCOUNTING CHANGES

     For information concerning new accounting standards adopted in 1997, 
1996, and 1995, see page 13-40 of Exhibit 13, Note 1, section on Accounting 
Changes Adopted, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

















                                  IV-12








                               SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                      AFLAC Incorporated


Date   MARCH 26, 1998                 By    /s/ PAUL S. AMOS               
      -----------------------            ---------------------------------
                                               (Paul S. Amos)
                                         Chairman of the Board of Directors


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



/s/ DANIEL P. AMOS           Chief Executive Officer,     MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------     President and Vice           ----------------
   (Daniel P. Amos)          Chairman of the Board
                             of Directors
 




/s/ KRISS CLONINGER, III     Executive Vice President,    MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------     Chief Financial Officer      ----------------
   (Kriss Cloninger, III)    and Treasurer
         




/s/ NORMAN P. FOSTER         Executive Vice President,    MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------     Corporate Finance            ----------------
   (Norman P. Foster)          















                                  IV-14




  /s/  J. SHELBY AMOS, II            Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- -----------------------------                            ----------------
      (J. Shelby Amos, II)  




- ------------------------------        Director            ----------------
      (Michael H. Armacost)




  /s/  M. DELMAR EDWARDS, M.D.        Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (M. Delmar Edwards, M.D.)




  /s/  GEORGE W. FORD, JR.            Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (George W. Ford, Jr.)       




  /s/  JOE FRANK HARRIS               Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Joe Frank Harris)




- ------------------------------       Director             ----------------
      (Elizabeth J. Hudson)




  /s/  KENNETH S. JANKE, SR.          Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Kenneth S. Janke, Sr.)




  /s/  CHARLES B. KNAPP               Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Charles B. Knapp)





                                  IV-15




  /s/  HISAO KOBAYASHI                Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Hisao Kobayashi)




- ------------------------------        Director            ---------------- 
      (Yoshiki Otake)




  /s/  E. STEPHEN PURDOM              Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- -------------------------------                           ----------------
      (E. Stephen Purdom)



  /s/  BARBARA K. RIMER               Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- -------------------------------                           ----------------
      (Barbara K. Rimer)



  /s/  HENRY C. SCHWOB                Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Henry C. Schwob)



  /s/  J. KYLE SPENCER                Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (J. Kyle Spencer)



  /s/  GLENN VAUGHN, JR.              Director            MARCH 26, 1998   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Glenn Vaughn, Jr.)















                                  IV-16

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
                  reference from Form 10-Q for March 31, 1997,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000011, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
                  amended - incorporated by reference from 
                  Form 10-Q for June 30, 1996, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-96-000012, Exhibit 3.0.
         4.0    - There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
                  amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total 
                  assets of AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries on a
                  consolidated basis.  The Company agrees to furnish a copy
                  of any of its long-term debt instruments to the Securities
                  and Exchange Commission upon request.
        10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
                  Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the 
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family 
                  Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and
                  Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
                  incorporated by reference from Registration Statement
                  No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC
                  Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
        10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan - 
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy 
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 
                  0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
        10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
        10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior 
                  Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.2.
        10.3*   - American Family Corporation Supplemental Executive 
                  Retirement Plan - incorporated by reference from 1989  
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.3.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement 
                  Plan, as amended, effective September 1, 1993 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.3.1.
        10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P. 
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
                  from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
        10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  
                  Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
                  1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.

                                 IV-17

        10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss 
                  Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended 
                  November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.
        10.7*   - AFLAC Incorporated Management Incentive Plan -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession 
                  No. 0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit B.
        10.8*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Hidefumi Matsui, dated
                  January 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.8.
        10.9*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
                  October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S. Amos,
                  dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from Form
                  10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.1.
        10.11*  - AFLAC Incorporated Deferred Compensation Agreement with
                  Paul S. Amos, dated July 15, 1997.
        10.12*  - AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan, incorporated
                  by reference from the 1997 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000007, Appendix B.
        13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                  Report to Shareholders for 1997.
        21.0    - Subsidiaries.
        23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with
                  respect to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American
                  Family Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982)
                  and Stock Option Plan (1985).
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
                  to the AFL Stock Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.



                                  IV-18

        27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1997.
        27.1**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for September 30, 1997.
        27.2**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for June 30, 1997.
        27.3**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for March 31, 1997.
        27.4**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1996.
        27.5**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for September 30, 1996.
        27.6**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for June 30, 1996.
        27.7**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for March 31, 1996.
        27.8**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1995.

* Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
**All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.


EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 10-K

      10.11*  - AFLAC Incorporated Deferred Compensation Agreement with
                Paul S. Amos, dated July 15, 1997.
      13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual 
                Report to Shareholders for 1997.
      21.0    - Subsidiaries.
      23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family  
                Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock 
                Option Plan (1985).
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
                to the AFL Stock Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect
                to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
      27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1997.
      27.1**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for September 30, 1997.
      27.2**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for June 30, 1997.
      27.3**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for March 31, 1997.
      27.4**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1996.
      27.5**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for September 30, 1996.
      27.6**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for June 30, 1996.
      27.7**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for March 31, 1996.
      27.8**  - Restated Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1995.

* Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
**All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.


                                  IV-19
 



 

 











