
10-K
1998 FORM 10-K



                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C.  20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                     OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998       Commission file no. 1-7434


                               AFLAC INCORPORATED
____________________________________________________________________________
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        

            Georgia                                     58-1167100     
________________________________________        ____________________________
    (State of Incorporation)                         (I.R.S. Employer  
                                                    Identification No.)   

1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, Georgia                        31999           
________________________________________        ____________________________
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)        


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code 706-323-3431     

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                  Name of Each Exchange 
             Title of Each Class                   on Which Registered      
       ------------------------------           ------------------------- 
        Common Stock, $.10 Par Value             New York Stock Exchange
                                                 Pacific Stock Exchange
                                                 Tokyo Stock Exchange 

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   NONE    


Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No     .
                                                    ----    ----

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained 
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in 
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part 
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. 
                                                          --------

The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding at March 
15, 1999, with $.10 par value, was 266,461,648.  The aggregate market value 
of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 15, 
1999 was $12,890,573,866.



                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


PART I         Item 1         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-30 (Management's
                               Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                               Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)),
                               pages 13-43 to 13-54 (Notes 2 and 3 of the
                               Notes to the Consolidated Financial
                               Statements), and pages 13-67 to 13-68 
                               (Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
                               Financial Statements).  The applicable 
                               portions of the Company's Annual Report to
                               Shareholders for the year ended December 31,
                               1998, are included as Exhibit 13        


               Item 2         Exhibit 13 - page 13-57 (Note 5 of the Notes
                               to the Consolidated Financial Statements)


PART II        Item 5         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-1, 13-2 and 13-67
                               (Note 10 of the Notes to the Consolidated
                               Financial Statements)   


               Item 6         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-3 and 13-4


               Item 7         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-30


               Item 7A        Exhibit 13 - pages 13-7 to 13-8, and
                                13-17 to 13-21


               Item 8         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-31 to 13-75



PART III       Item 10        Incorporated by reference from the        
                               definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual 
                               Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 3,
                               1999 (the Proxy Statement)          


               Item 11        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


               Item 12        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


               Item 13        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


                                    i

                            AFLAC Incorporated
                        Annual Report on Form 10-K
                   For the Year Ended December 31, 1998


                                                                                                   Page 

PART I

Item 1.   Business................................................     I- 1 

Item 2.   Properties..............................................     I-20 

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.......................................     I-20 

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.....     I-20 

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company.......................     I-21 


PART II

Item 5.   Market for Company's Common Equity and Related                 
            Shareholder Matters...................................    II- 1 

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.................................    II- 1 

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial              
            Condition and Results of Operations...................    II- 1 

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures
            About Market Risk.....................................    II- 1

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.............    II- 1 

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on               
            Accounting and Financial Disclosure...................    II- 1 


PART III

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Company.........   III- 1 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation..................................   III- 1 

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and            
            Management............................................   III- 1 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..........   III- 1 


PART IV

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports           
            on Form 8-K...........................................    IV- 1 


                                    ii

                                   PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

     AFLAC Incorporated was incorporated in 1973 under the laws of the State 
of Georgia.  AFLAC Incorporated is a general business holding company, and 
acts as a management company, overseeing the operations of its subsidiaries 
by providing management services and making capital available. Its primary 
business is supplemental health insurance, which is marketed and 
administered primarily through its subsidiary, American Family Life 
Assurance Company of Columbus (AFLAC).  Most of AFLAC's policies are 
individually underwritten and marketed at the worksite, with premiums paid 
by the employee.  Our operations in Japan (AFLAC Japan) and the United 
States (AFLAC U.S.) service the two markets for our insurance operations. 

     We believe AFLAC is the world's leading writer of cancer expense 
insurance.  In recent years, we have diversified our product offerings to 
include other types of supplemental health products in both the United 
States and Japan.  AFLAC Japan also sells care plans, supplemental general 
medical expense plans, medical/sickness riders to our cancer plan, and a 
living benefit life plan.  AFLAC U.S., in addition to cancer expense plans, 
sells other types of supplemental health insurance, including hospital 
intensive care, accident and disability, hospital indemnity, long-term care 
and short-term disability plans.  We also offer several life insurance plans 
in the United States and Japan.  

     The company is authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 
states, the District of Columbia, and several U.S. territories and foreign 
countries.  Our only significant foreign operation is AFLAC Japan, which 
accounted for 80%, 79% and 82% of the company's total revenues for 1998, 
1997 and 1996, respectively, and 86% and 87% of total assets at December 31, 
1998 and 1997, respectively.

     For financial information relating to our foreign and U.S. operations, 
see Exhibit 13, pages 13-5 to 13-30 (Management's Discussion and Analysis of 
Financial Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)) and page 13-43 (Note 2 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), which are 
incorporated herein by reference. 

     Three significant items affected net earnings during the three-year 
period ended December 31, 1998.

     First, due to a corporate income tax rate reduction in Japan during 
1998, the statutory tax rate for AFLAC Japan declined from 45.3% to 41.7%.  
This tax rate decline resulted in a reduction in our deferred income tax 
liability as of March 31, 1998, which increased net earnings by $121 million 
($.46 per basic share and $.44 per diluted share) in 1998.  For additional 
information on the income tax reduction, see Exhibit 13, page 13-61, Note 8 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     The second factor affecting net earnings was a policyholder protection 
fund system mandated by the Japanese government during the first quarter of 
1998.  The pretax charge for our obligation to the new protection fund was 
$111 million ($65 million after tax, or $.24 per both basic and diluted 


                                   I-1

shares).  For further information regarding this policyholder protection 
fund, see Exhibit 13, page 13-43, Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.

     Also affecting net earnings was the sale of our television business, 
which consisted of seven network-affiliated stations.  The total pretax gain 
from the sale was $327 million.  The sale of one station closed on December 
31, 1996.  The pretax and after-tax gains recognized in 1996 on this sale 
were $60 million and $48 million, respectively.  The effect of the after-tax 
gain on 1996 basic and diluted net earnings per share was $.17 and $.16, 
respectively.  The pretax and after-tax gains recognized during the second 
quarter of 1997 on the closing of the six remaining stations were $267 
million and $211 million, respectively.  The effect of the after-tax gain on 
1997 basic and diluted net earnings per share was $.77 and $.75, 
respectively.  For further information, see Exhibit 13, page 13-43, Note 2 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.

     The following discussion of earnings comparisons focuses on pretax 
operating earnings and excludes realized investment gains/losses, the charge 
for the mandated policyholder protection fund, the benefit of the Japanese 
tax rate reduction and the gains from the sale of the television business.  
Operating earnings per share referred to in the following discussion are 
based on the diluted number of average outstanding shares.

     Due to the relative size of AFLAC Japan, fluctuations in the yen/dollar 
exchange rate can have a significant effect on our reported results.  In 
years when the yen weakens, translating yen into dollars causes fewer 
dollars to be reported.  When the yen strengthens, translating yen into 
dollars causes more dollars to be reported.  

     The yen weakened in relation to the dollar throughout 1996, 1997 and 
most of 1998.  The average yen-to-dollar exchange rates were 130.89 in 1998, 
121.07 in 1997 and 108.84 in 1996.  The weakening of the yen during the 
three-year period lowered operating earnings by $.05 per share in 1998 
compared with 1997, $.09 per share in 1997 compared with 1996 and $.15 per 
share in 1996 compared with 1995.  Despite the weakening of the yen, 
operating earnings per share increased 17.3% to $1.56 in 1998, 10.8% to 
$1.33 in 1997, and 2.6% to $1.20 in 1996. 

     Our primary financial objective is the growth of operating earnings per 
share before the effect of foreign currency translations.  In 1996, we set 
this objective at an annual growth rate of 15% to 17% through the year 2000. 
In early 1998 we increased our goal for 1998 to 20% growth, which we 
exceeded.  Excluding the effect of currency fluctuations, operating earnings 
per share increased 21.1% in 1998, 18.3% in 1997 and 15.4% in 1996.

     In April 1998, we raised our 1999 objective for growth in operating 
earnings per share to 20% excluding the impact of currency fluctuation.  For 
further information, see Exhibit 13, pages 13-7 to 13-8 (Foreign Currency 
Translation section of MD&A).

     Insurance premiums and investment income from insurance operations are 
the major sources of revenues.  Our consolidated premium income was $5.9 
billion for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 
1998.  For further information on our consolidated premiums earned by 
business segment, see Note 2 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements in Exhibit 13, page 13-43, incorporated herein by reference.  

                                   I-2

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC's insurance business in Japan and the United States for the 
years ended December 31.

 (In millions)                        1998          1997          1996    
                                    --------      --------      -------- 
Annualized premiums in force, 
  at beginning of year              $  5,811      $  5,953      $  5,873
    New issues including
      policy conversions               1,061           921         1,056
    Change in unprocessed 
      policies                           (24)          (65)           39
    Lapses and surrenders               (552)         (479)         (423)
    Other                                 23            26             1
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                         612          (545)         (593)
                                     -------       -------       -------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                    $  6,931      $  5,811      $  5,953
                                     =======       =======       =======


INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT RESULTS 

     During the fourth quarter of 1998, we revised our investment management 
policy regarding the holding-period intent for certain of our private 
placement debt securities.  Our past practice was to hold these securities 
to their contractual or economic maturity dates.  We have now made this our 
formal policy.  Accordingly, debt securities carried at a fair value of $6.4 
billion were reclassified as of October 1, 1998, from the category  
"available for sale" to the category "held to maturity."  The related 
unrealized gain of $1.1 billion as of October 1, 1998, on these securities 
is being amortized over the remaining term of the securities.  Securities 
that are available for sale are reported in the balance sheet at fair value 
and securities that are held to maturity are reported at amortized cost.

     In recent years, AFLAC Japan has purchased perpetual debenture 
securities issued primarily by European and Japanese banks.  These 
securities are subordinated to other debt obligations of the issuer, but 
rank higher than equity securities.  Although these securities have no 
contractual maturity, the issue-date fixed-rate interest coupons 
subsequently increase to a market-interest rate plus 150 to 300 basis points 
and change to a variable-interest rate basis, generally by the 25th year 
after issuance, creating an economic maturity date.














                                   I-3

     The following table shows an analysis of investment securities (at cost 
or amortized cost) at December 31:

                                      AFLAC Japan          AFLAC U.S.
(In millions)                        1998     1997       1998     1997
                                   -----------------   -----------------
Available for sale:
  Fixed-maturity securities        $12,886   $13,527   $ 2,813   $ 2,546
  Perpetual debentures               1,344     3,011        70        37
  Equity securities                     22         7        79        73
                                    ------    ------    ------    ------
    Total available for sale        14,252    16,545     2,962     2,656
                                    ------    ------    ------    ------
Held to maturity:
  Fixed-maturity securities          3,947         -         -         -
  Perpetual debentures               3,494         -         -         -
                                    ------    ------    ------    ------
    Total held to maturity           7,441         -         -         -
                                    ------    ------    ------    ------
      Total                        $21,693   $16,545   $ 2,962   $ 2,656
                                    ======    ======    ======    ======


     Net investment income was $1.1 billion in both 1998 and 1997, and $1.0 
billion in 1996.

     AFLAC primarily invests within the United States, Japan and Euroyen 
investment markets.   We maintain a strong portfolio by investing in 
investment grade securities that provide us with a predictable source of 
investment income.  When committing cash flows to new investments, we only 
purchase securities that are rated investment grade by the Securities 
Valuation Office of the National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  

     For information on the composition of our investment portfolio and 
investment results, see Exhibit 13, pages 13-13 and 13-17 to 13-30 
(discussions relating to investments, balance sheet and cash flow) and pages 
13-48 to 13-56 (Notes 3 and 4 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


INVESTMENTS - JAPAN

     Approximately 90.8% of the 332.1 billion yen ($2.9 billion) that AFLAC 
Japan had available for investment in 1998 was invested in yen-denominated 
securities at an average yield of 3.84%.  We invested 55.8% in longer-dated 
securities at an average rate of 4.72%.  The longer-dated sector includes 
purchases of dual-currency bonds (yen principal securities that pay a dollar 
coupon) at an average yield of 4.91%.  An additional 35.0% was invested in 
yen-denominated securities of various other sectors.  Dollar-denominated 
securities accounted for the remaining 9.2% of the purchases in 1998 at an 
average yield to maturity of 7.61%.

     We require that all private placement issuers have an initial rating of 
class 1 or 2 as determined by the Securities Valuation Office of the 
National Association of Insurance Commissioners.  Most of AFLAC's private 
placement issues are issued under medium-term note programs and have 
standard covenants commensurate with credit rankings, except when internal 

                                   I-4

credit analysis indicates that additional protective and/or event risk 
covenants are required.

     Following is the composition of total investments and cash (at cost or 
amortized cost) for AFLAC Japan as of December 31:

                                         1998             1997
                                       --------         --------
Debt securities:
  Government and guaranteed              31.3%            36.7%
  Municipalities                          4.0              4.5
  Public utilities                       16.3             15.7
  Banks/financial institutions           35.9             31.9
  Other corporate                        10.9             10.0
Equity securities                          .1               .1
Cash and cash equivalents                 1.5              1.1
                                       ------           ------
                                        100.0%           100.0%
                                       ======           ======

     AFLAC invests primarily within the Japanese, U.S. and Euroyen fixed-
maturity markets.  We use specific criteria to judge the credit quality and 
liquidity of our investments, and use a variety of credit rating services to 
monitor these criteria.  Applying those various credit ratings to a 
standardized rating system based on the categories of a nationally 
recognized rating service, the percentages of AFLAC Japan's debt securities, 
at amortized cost, as of December 31 were as follows:

                                         1998             1997
                                        ------           ------
            AAA                          41.7%            47.8%
            AA                           16.6             17.4
            A                            28.0             26.8
            BBB                          13.7              8.0
                                        -----            -----
                                        100.0%           100.0%
                                        =====            =====

     As of December 31, 1998, we held no debt securities rated below "BBB." 
However, in January 1999, the credit ratings of several major Japanese 
financial institutions were downgraded.  We owned debt securities issued by 
a Japanese bank in the amount of $454 million, or 1.8% of total company debt 
securities at December 31, 1998.  Following the downgrade, these securities 
were rated "Ba1" by Moody's and "BB+" by Standard & Poor's.

     Japan's life insurance industry has contended with low investment 
yields for the last several years.  Despite a series of premium rate 
increases designed to help offset the effect of lower yields, the low 
interest rate environment took its toll in April 1997 when Nissan Mutual 
Life Insurance Company was declared insolvent.  As a result, more attention 
has been paid to the composition of the life insurance industry's assets.  
Our asset allocation is much different than the industry as a whole and, we 
believe, is better suited to a low interest rate environment.  Based on 
March 31, 1998, Japanese Financial Supervisory Agency (FSA) data, AFLAC had 
the highest portfolio yield among all of Japan's major life insurers.  AFLAC 
earned this distinction without sacrificing the quality of its portfolio.


                                   I-5

     Our investments in the Japanese equity and investment real estate 
markets continued to be immaterial in 1998.


INVESTMENTS - U.S.

     Profits repatriated from AFLAC Japan to AFLAC U.S. totaled $154 million 
in 1998, compared with $347 million in 1997.  The profit transfer in 1997 
included $125 million of a non-recurring nature.  Including profit 
repatriation and bond swaps, AFLAC U.S. invested $1.1 billion in 1998.  Of 
that amount, approximately 6.2% was invested in U.S. government or agency 
securities at an average yield of 6.89%, and 90.3% was invested in corporate 
fixed-maturity securities at 7.26%.  The remaining 3.5% was invested in 
equities.  

     Following is the composition of total investments and cash (at cost or 
amortized cost) for AFLAC U.S. as of December 31:

                                         1998             1997
                                       --------         --------
Debt securities:
  U.S. Government                         4.0%             7.3%
  Municipalities                            -               .5
  Mortgage-backed securities               .9              9.0
  Public utilities                        6.2              4.2
  Sovereign and Supranational             4.0              4.0
  Banks/financial institutions           50.6             43.1
  Other corporate                        31.0             27.9
Equity securities                         2.6              2.7
Cash and cash equivalents                  .7              1.3
                                       ------           ------
                                        100.0%           100.0%
                                       ======           ======

     AFLAC U.S. debt securities, at amortized cost, as of December 31 were 
rated as follows:

                                         1998             1997
                                        ------           ------
            AAA                          11.2%            26.4%
            AA                           25.4             22.3
            A                            55.5             49.0
            BBB                           7.9              2.3
                                        -----            -----
                                        100.0%           100.0%
                                        =====            =====


INSURANCE - JAPAN

     AFLAC Japan's earned premiums by product lines are included in Note 2 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, in Exhibit 13, page 
13-43.





                                   I-6

     The following table presents the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC Japan health insurance for the years ended December 31:

(In millions)                           1998         1997         1996 
                                      --------     --------     --------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at beginning of year                $  4,595     $  4,893     $  4,919
    New issues including
      policy conversions                   579          520          729
    Change in unprocessed
      policies                             (25)         (62)          47
    Lapses and surrenders                 (212)        (193)        (187)
    Other                                  (11)         (18)         (22)
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                           612         (545)        (593)
                                      --------     --------     --------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                      $  5,538     $  4,595     $  4,893
                                      ========     ========     ========

     We are experiencing a slight increase in lapses and surrenders due to 
the poor economic conditions in Japan.


INSURANCE PLANS - JAPAN

     AFLAC's insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed to provide 
insurance to cover medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed 
under Japan's national health insurance system.

     The cancer life insurance plans offered for sale in Japan provide a 
fixed daily indemnity benefit for hospitalization and outpatient services 
related to cancer and a lump-sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal 
cancer. The plans differ from the AFLAC U.S. cancer plans (described on page 
I-13) in that the Japanese policies also provide death benefits and cash 
surrender values (we estimate that approximately 32% of the premiums earned 
from all cancer life plans are associated with these benefits).  In January 
1997, AFLAC Japan introduced a new economy cancer life policy with lower 
premium rates and benefit levels. This plan was developed to mitigate the 
effect of premium rate increases due to low investment yields available in 
Japan.

     In 1992, we broadened our product line with the introduction of a new 
care product.  Care insurance provides periodic benefits to those who become 
bedridden, demented or seriously disabled due to illness or accident.  Prior 
to the introduction of this care plan, we marketed a plan that primarily 
provided dementia care benefits.  

     In 1995, we introduced two other products in Japan.  The first product 
is an improved medical expense policy.  It is similar to hospital indemnity 
insurance products in the United States and provides cash benefits to 
policyholders when they are hospitalized.  This product is widely available 
in the Japanese insurance marketplace, but AFLAC's policy is very 
competitive.  Our policy offers a maximum hospitalization benefit of 1,000 
days, which is the longest period offered in the industry.  Our medical 
expense coverage accounted for 2.7% of total sales in 1998, and 10.8% of 
total sales in 1997 compared with 3.1% in 1996. 

                                   I-7

     AFLAC Japan also introduced a new living benefit life plan in late 
1995.  This product is a life insurance policy that provides lump-sum 
benefits when policyholders experience heart attack, cancer or stroke.  We 
are offering this product in two forms -- as a stand-alone policy or as a 
rider to the cancer life plan.  The rider adds heart attack and stroke 
benefits to the cancer life policy.  Marketing efforts for living benefit 
life primarily focus on the sale of the rider.  Sales of the living benefit 
life plan were $41 million and $146 million in new annualized premium in 
1998 and 1997, respectively.

     During 1997, AFLAC Japan began selling ordinary life products.  Sales 
for 1998 and 1997 were immaterial.

     In September 1997, the Japanese government increased copayments for the 
employer-sponsored health care program from 10% to 20% for the primary 
insured, thereby increasing the portion of the costs the insured must pay.  
Given the increase in copayments, we believe AFLAC's products and riders 
that provide supplemental medical benefits will be especially appealing to 
consumers.  As such, we began selling a new product called Rider MAX in 
1998.  Rider MAX provides accident and medical/sickness benefits to our 
popular cancer life policy.  

     AFLAC Japan's sales mix is changing, although cancer life still 
accounts for the majority of insurance in force.  Cancer life sales 
accounted for 49.4% of total new sales in yen in 1998, 52.5% in 1997 and 
46.7% in 1996.  We sold more than 948,000 riders of Rider MAX in 1998, which 
was its first year of availability.  Rider MAX accounted for 33.2% of our 
sales for the year, and 39.9% of our cancer life policies were sold with 
Rider MAX.  The rider we introduced in the fourth quarter of 1995, living 
benefit life, accounted for 7.2% of total new sales in 1998, 28.3% in 1997 
and 39.5% in 1996.  Care product sales represented 3.7% of total new sales 
in 1998, 6.8% in 1997 and 10.6% in 1996.

     Due to the continued low level of available investment yields in Japan, 
the industry regulators have directed insurers to increase premium rates on 
new policy issues in recent years.  The last industry-wide increase was in 
the fourth quarter of 1996.  At that time we increased premium rates by 
approximately 13% on new policy issues for all product lines.  As a result 
of continuing low yields, the government is again directing life insurers to 
raise rates on new policy issues.  We anticipate increasing premium rates in 
July 1999.


JAPANESE ECONOMY

     Japan's economy has been weak for several years.  The economic downturn 
has spread to several Asian countries since mid-1997.  The financial 
strength of many Japanese financial institutions has deteriorated, and some 
have experienced bankruptcy.  As we have indicated in the past, the weak 
economy in Japan has resulted in a difficult marketing environment for AFLAC 
Japan, declining available investment yields for new investments and 
decreased consumer confidence.

     Although the Japanese government has developed various economic 
stimulus packages, the time required for the Japanese economy to recover 
remains uncertain.


                                   I-8

AGENCY FORCE - JAPAN

     The development of a "corporate agency" system has been important to 
the growth of AFLAC Japan.  Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when 
companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell AFLAC products to their 
employees, suppliers and customers.  These agencies help us reach the 
employees of almost all of Japan's large corporations.  We have no ownership 
interest in these corporate agencies.

     Our products are also sold through independent corporate agencies and 
individual agencies that are not affiliated with large companies.  As of 
December 31, 1998, there were 7,010 agencies in Japan with 32,622 licensed 
agents, compared with 5,427 agencies and 25,293 licensed agents in Japan in 
1997.  Agents' activities are principally limited to insurance sales, with 
policyholder service functions handled by the main office in Tokyo and 60 
offices located throughout Japan.


COMPETITION - JAPAN

     In 1974, AFLAC became the second foreign (non-Japanese) life insurance 
company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market by obtaining 
a license to do business in Japan.  Through 1981, we were the only company 
in Japan authorized to issue a cancer life insurance policy.  Now, 16 other 
life companies offer cancer insurance.  However, we remain the leading 
provider of cancer life insurance coverage in Japan, principally due to our 
lead time in the market, unique marketing system (see Agency Force - Japan), 
low-cost operations and product expertise developed in the United States.  
AFLAC has been very successful in the sale of cancer life policies in Japan, 
with 13.0 million cancer life policies in force at December 31, 1998.

     In 1998, AFLAC had a 89% market share of all stand-alone (non-rider) 
care insurance sold by life insurance companies.  We believe the future 
demand for this product will be fueled by the Japanese government's plan to 
introduce a national care insurance program of its own.  Given the current 
state of the Japanese economy, it is unlikely that the government can afford 
to pay for the entire program, and as a result, private care insurance will 
be an important aspect of the new program.

     In December 1996, the governments of the United States and Japan 
reached an agreement on deregulation of the Japanese insurance industry.  
The agreement calls for the gradual liberalization of the industry through 
the year 2001 and includes provisions to avoid "radical change" in the third 
sector of the insurance industry, which includes our supplemental insurance 
products.  AFLAC and other foreign-owned insurers, as well as some small-to- 
medium-sized Japanese insurers, operate primarily in the third sector.  One 
of the measures for avoiding radical change in the third sector is the 
prohibition of additional Japanese life and non-life insurance companies 
from selling cancer or medical insurance until January 1, 2001.  AFLAC has 
inherent competitive advantages through its distribution, products, 
administrative efficiency and financial soundness that should enable it to 
continue to grow, even in a more competitive environment.  The ultimate 
impact, however, of deregulation still isn't known.

     AFLAC's strategy for future growth in Japan centers on broadening its 
product line and expanding the distribution system.  Although the basic plan 
for growth is the same in Japan as in the United States, we have had to 

                                   I-9

formulate a strategy specifically tailored for the Japanese insurance 
marketplace, which is very different from the United States.  There are only 
45 life insurance companies in Japan, compared with more than 2,000 in the 
United States.  In Japan, insurers have traditionally been restricted in the 
types of policies they could offer.  However, as Japan begins deregulating 
the insurance industry, the marketplace should become more competitive, with 
insurers able to offer more types of products, as they do in the United 
States.  When deregulation is complete, we believe we will be able to sell 
more products than we are currently offering.


REGULATION AND REMITTANCE OF FUNDS - JAPAN

     Payments are made from AFLAC Japan to the Parent Company for management 
fees and to AFLAC U.S. for allocated expenses and remittances of earnings. 
These payments totaled $192 million in 1998, $386 million in 1997 and $254 
million in 1996.  Management fees paid to the Parent Company are largely 
based on expense allocations.

     A portion of AFLAC Japan's annual earnings, as determined on a Japanese 
statutory accounting basis, can be remitted each year to AFLAC U.S. after 
satisfying various conditions imposed by Japanese regulatory authorities for 
protecting policyholders.  The Japanese Financial Supervisory Agency (FSA) 
imposes solvency standards that represent a form of risk-based capital 
requirements.  AFLAC Japan must meet these requirements to continue profit 
transfers to AFLAC U.S.  At this time, AFLAC Japan is in compliance with 
these standards, and we do not expect these requirements to adversely affect 
the repatriation of funds from Japan in the foreseeable future.

     Repatriated profits represent a portion of the after-tax earnings 
reported to the FSA on a March 31 fiscal year basis each year.  Such 
regulatory basis earnings are determined using accounting principles that 
differ materially from U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.  Such 
differences relate primarily to the valuation of investments, policy benefit 
and claim reserves, acquisition costs and deferred income taxes.  Among 
other items, fluctuations in currency translations of AFLAC Japan's U.S. 
dollar-denominated investments into yen also affect regulatory earnings.  
Japanese regulatory earnings and related profit repatriations may therefore 
vary materially from year to year because of these differences.  Management 
currently expects that 1999 profit repatriation will approximate 20 billion 
yen ($171 million using the December 31, 1998, exchange rate).

     During the second quarter of 1997, Nissan Mutual Life Insurance 
Company, a medium-sized Japanese insurer, was declared insolvent.  All life 
insurers doing business in Japan had previously agreed to contribute to a 
voluntary policyholder protection fund that would be used to help offset 
insurer insolvencies.  During the second quarter of 1997, AFLAC Japan 
recognized a pretax charge of 3.0 billion yen ($25 million) for its 
obligation to this policyholder protection fund.  The after-tax charge was 
$14 million ($.05 per basic and diluted share).  This assessment is payable 
semiannually over 10 years beginning in 1998.

     During the first quarter of 1998, the Japanese government enacted a 
mandatory policyholder protection fund system.  The life insurance industry 
is required to contribute $4.2 billion to this fund over a 10-year period.  
The total charge for our share of the contribution obligation was recognized 
in the first quarter of 1998 and decreased pretax earnings by $111 million

                                   I-10

for the year ended December 31, 1998.  The after-tax charge was $65 million, 
or $.24 per basic and diluted share.

     Effective January 1, 1998, the Japanese government changed the income 
tax provisions for foreign companies operating in Japan, increasing income 
taxes on investment income and realized gains/losses from securities issued 
by entities located in their home country.  This change increases Japanese 
income taxes on the income from most of AFLAC Japan's dollar-denominated 
securities.  In addition, the Japanese government enacted a reduction in the 
Japanese corporate income tax rate in March 1998.  The statutory rate for 
AFLAC Japan declined from 45.3% to 41.7% beginning May 1, 1998.  The net 
effect of these two Japanese tax changes increased income tax expense on 
consolidated operating earnings by approximately $10 million for the year 
ended December 31, 1998 (an increase of approximately $22 million from 
increased taxes on AFLAC Japan's dollar-denominated investment income, less 
approximately $12 million from the benefit of the statutory tax rate 
reduction).

     The Japanese tax rate reduction also resulted in a benefit to 1998 
earnings of $121 million ($.46 per basic share, $.44 per diluted share) from 
the reduction of AFLAC Japan's deferred tax liability as of March 31, 1998 
(the date of enactment of the reduced tax rate).  The deferred tax reduction 
represented the effect of recalculating Japanese deferred income taxes at 
the new 41.7% rate on the temporary differences between the financial 
reporting basis and the Japanese income tax basis of AFLAC Japan's assets 
and liabilities.

     The Japanese income tax change in 1998 described above, relating to the 
income on AFLAC Japan's dollar-denominated securities issued by U.S. 
entities, also impacted income tax expense for the two other-comprehensive-
income components for the year ended December 31, 1998.  Deferred income tax 
expense on unrealized gains (losses) for 1998 on debt securities includes 
$76 million for AFLAC Japan's dollar-denominated securities, of which $59 
million related to accumulated unrealized gains existing as of January 1, 
1998 (the effective date of the tax law change).  The deferred income tax 
benefits of $29 million on changes in unrealized foreign currency 
translation gains for 1998 represent Japanese income taxes on currency 
translation gains that arise for Japanese tax purposes from conversion of 
AFLAC Japan's dollar-denominated investments into yen.  This tax benefit is 
net of a deferred income tax expense of $51 million on accumulated currency 
translation gains existing as of January 1, 1998.

     In late 1998, the Japanese government proposed a further reduction in 
the Japanese statutory income tax rate.  The proposal would reduce AFLAC 
Japan's income tax rate from 41.7% to 36.2% effective April 1, 1999.  The 
proposal is expected to be finalized in early 1999.  Such tax rate reduction 
is not expected to reduce AFLAC's future consolidated income tax expense.  
Instead, it will largely result in a shift of income tax expense from Japan 
to the United States as a result of the U.S. foreign tax credit provisions.

     The insurance business in Japan, which is conducted as a branch office 
of AFLAC, is subject to regulation by the FSA, similar to the regulation and 
supervision in the United States as described on pages I-16 and I-17 under 
"Regulation - U.S."  AFLAC Japan files annual reports and financial 
statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 year-
end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices 


                                   I-11

prescribed or permitted by the FSA.  Also, financial and other affairs of 
AFLAC Japan are subject to examination by the FSA.  

     Reconciliations of AFLAC Japan net assets on a GAAP basis to net assets 
determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 are 
as follows:

(In millions - unaudited)                           1998           1997 
                                                  --------       --------
Net assets on GAAP basis                          $  2,726       $  2,541
Elimination of deferred policy 
  acquisition costs                                 (2,340)        (1,940)
Elimination of unrealized gains and
  other adjustments to carrying value
  of debt securities                                (2,856)        (3,350)
Adjustment to policy liabilities                     1,384          1,612
Elimination of deferred income taxes                 1,478          1,635
Reduction in premiums receivable                      (128)          (114)
Policyholder protection fund                           175             29
Other, net                                             (42)           (13)
                                                  --------       --------
  Net assets on Japanese regulatory
    accounting basis                              $    397       $    400
                                                  ========       ========


     For additional information regarding AFLAC Japan's operations, see 
Exhibit 13, pages 13-10 to 13-14 (AFLAC Japan section of MD&A) and pages 13-
43 and 13-67 (Notes 2 and 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


EMPLOYEES - JAPAN

     AFLAC Japan had 2,038 employees at December 31, 1998.  AFLAC Japan 
considers its employee relations to be excellent.


INSURANCE - U.S.

     AFLAC U.S.'s earned premiums by product line are summarized in Note 2 
of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements in Exhibit 13, page 
13-43. 















                                   I-12

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC U.S. insurance for the years ended December 31.

(In millions)                             1998        1997         1996 
                                         ------      ------       ------
Annualized premiums in force at
  beginning of year                     $ 1,216     $ 1,060      $   954
    New issues including policy
      conversions                           482         401          327
    Change in unprocessed policies            1          (3)          (8)
    Lapses                                 (340)       (286)        (236)
    Other                                    34          44           23
                                         ------      ------       ------
Annualized premiums in force at
  end of year                           $ 1,393     $ 1,216      $ 1,060
                                         ======      ======       ======


HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC's insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed for people 
who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage.  Our 
supplemental health insurance plans are guaranteed renewable for the 
lifetime of the policyholder.  We cannot cancel guaranteed-renewable 
coverage, but we can increase premium rates on existing and future policies 
by class of policy in response to claims experience higher than originally 
expected (subject to federal and state loss-ratio guidelines) on a uniform, 
nondiscriminatory basis.  Any premium rate increases are subject to state 
regulatory approval. 

     AFLAC's cancer plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for 
medical and nonmedical costs that are generally not reimbursed by major 
medical insurance.  We currently offer a series of three different cancer 
plans in the United States that vary by benefit amount.  All three plans 
provide a first occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when internal 
cancer is first diagnosed, a fixed amount for each day an insured is 
hospitalized for cancer treatment, and benefits for medical, radiation, 
chemotherapy, surgery and a "wellness" benefit applicable toward certain 
diagnostic tests such as mammograms, pap smears, prostate exams, flexible 
sigmoidoscopy, etc.  These plans also contain benefits that reimburse the 
insured for nursing services, home health care, extended care facilities, 
hospice, second surgical opinion, experimental treatment, 
evaluation/consultation from the National Cancer Institute, bone marrow and 
stem cell transplant, family lodging, ambulance, transportation, anesthesia, 
prosthesis, blood, and plasma expenses related to cancer treatments.  We 
also issue several riders, including one that increases the amount of the 
first occurrence benefit on each rider anniversary date until the covered 
person reaches age 65 or until internal cancer is diagnosed.  AFLAC 
periodically introduces new forms of coverage, revising benefits and related 
premiums based upon the anticipated needs of the policyholders and our claim 
experience.  

     We offer an accident and disability policy to protect against losses 
resulting from accidents.  The accident portion of the policy includes lump-
sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific injuries.  
Fixed benefits for hospital confinement, emergency treatment, follow-up 
treatments, ambulance, transportation, family lodging, wellness, prosthesis, 

                                   I-13

medical appliances and physical therapy are also provided.  Optional 
disability riders are available to the primary insured and include choices 
of a sickness disability rider, on-the-job disability rider and off-the-job 
disability rider.  These benefits are payable up to a maximum benefit period 
of one year and for one disability at a time.

     AFLAC also issues other supplemental health insurance, such as 
intensive care, which is a low-premium policy that provides protection 
against the high cost of intensive care facilities during hospital 
confinement, regardless of reimbursements from other insurers.  Other types 
of health insurance issued include qualified and non-qualified long-term 
care plans, short-term disability, and a hospital confinement indemnity 
policy.  


LIFE INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC issues various life insurance policies including whole life, 
limited pay life, voluntary group term life and term life coverage. 


AGENCY FORCE AND MARKETING - U.S.

     Our sales force is comprised of independent sales agents who are 
licensed to sell accident and health insurance.  Many are also licensed to 
sell life insurance.  Most agents' efforts are directed toward selling 
supplemental health insurance at the worksite.  The average number of U.S. 
agents actively producing business monthly during 1998 was 7,918, compared 
with 7,376 in 1997 and 6,665 in 1996.

     Agents' activities are principally limited to sales, with policyholder 
service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, 
payment notices and claims handled by the staff at headquarters.  Agents are 
paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales 
of health and life insurance products.  The state, regional and district 
sales coordinators are also independent contractors, and are compensated by 
override commissions.  

     We have concentrated on the development of marketing at the worksite.  
This method offers policies to individuals through common media such as 
employment, trade and other associations.  This manner of marketing is 
distinct from "group" insurance sales in that each individual insured is 
directly contacted by the sales associate.  Policies are individually 
underwritten, with premiums generally paid by the employee.  Additionally, 
AFLAC supplemental policies are portable so that individuals may retain 
their full insurance coverage upon separation from employment or such 
affiliation, generally at the same premium.  A major portion of premiums on 
such sales are collected through payroll deduction or other forms of 
centralized billings.  Group-issued plans normally result in a lower average 
age of the insured at the time of policy issuance and also result in certain 
savings in administrative costs, a portion of which are passed on to the 
policyholder in the form of reduced premiums.  Marketing at the worksite 
enables the agency force to reach a greater number of prospective 
policyholders than individual solicitation and lowers distribution costs.  

     Another valuable marketing and sales tool is the flexible benefits 
program, or cafeteria plan, which allows an employee to pay for medical 

                                   I-14

insurance using pretax dollars.  These programs help achieve increased 
penetration as agents are required to present the program to all employees. 
They also help improve overall persistency levels due to the limited changes 
allowed during the plan year.

     We continue to develop marketing arrangements with insurance brokers.  
Insurance brokers generally have better access to larger groups than 
independent agents.  The core of our distribution network will remain 
independent agents.

     In 1998, AFLAC's U.S. premiums collected were $1.2 billion, 7.2% of 
which was collected in Texas, 6.5% in Florida, 6.0% in Georgia, and 5.7% in 
North Carolina.  Premiums collected in all other states were individually 
less than 5% of AFLAC's U.S. premiums.


COMPETITION - U.S.

     The accident and health and life insurance industry in the United 
States is highly competitive.  AFLAC competes with a large number of other 
insurers, some of which have been in business for a longer period of time.  
In the United States, there are more than 2,000 life and accident and health 
insurance companies.

     Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield, provide insurance for meeting basic hospitalization 
and medical expenses.  Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis.  The 
federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical 
treatment through Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Such major medical 
insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the medical (but not 
nonmedical) expenses incurred by an insured as a result of cancer or other 
major illnesses.  AFLAC's policies are designed to provide coverage that is 
supplemental to coverage provided by major medical insurance.  Our benefits 
may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses.

     Since other insurers generally do not provide full coverage of medical 
expenses or any coverage of nonmedical expenses, our supplemental insurance 
is not an alternative to major medical insurance, but is sold to complement 
(supplement) major medical insurance by helping cover the gap between major 
medical insurance reimbursements and the total costs of an individual's 
health care.  Thus we compete only indirectly with major medical insurers in 
terms of premium rates and similar factors.  However, the scope of the major 
medical coverage offered by other insurers does represent a limitation on 
the market for our products.  Accordingly, expansion of coverage by other 
insurers or governmental programs could adversely affect our business 
opportunities.  Conversely, any reduction of coverages, such as increased 
deductibles and copayments, by other insurers or governmental programs could 
favorably affect our business opportunities.

     We compete directly with other insurers offering supplemental health 
insurance and believe that our policies and premium rates are generally 
competitive with those offered by other companies selling similar types of 
insurance.  

     For additional information regarding U.S. insurance operations, see 
Exhibit 13, pages 13-14 to 13-16 (AFLAC U.S. section of MD&A), which is 
incorporated herein by reference.

                                   I-15

REGULATION - U.S.

     The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to state 
regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system.  
Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies 
within the holding company system must be fair and equitable.  In addition, 
transfer of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend 
payments from insurance subsidiaries and material transactions between 
companies within the system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, 
state regulatory authorities.

     AFLAC and its subsidiaries, in common with all U.S. insurance 
companies, are subject to regulation and supervision in the states and other 
jurisdictions in which they do business.  In general, the insurance laws of 
the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad 
administrative powers relating to, among other things: granting and revoking 
licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, 
prior approval of forms of policies and premium rate increases, standards of 
solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum 
loss ratio requirements, capital for the protection of policyholders, 
limitations on dividends to shareholders, the nature of and limitations on 
investments, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, filing 
of financial statements prepared in accordance with statutory insurance 
accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the regulatory authorities, 
and periodic examinations of the financial, market conduct, and other 
affairs of insurance companies. 

     Currently, prescribed or permitted statutory accounting principles 
(SAP) used by insurers for financial reporting to state insurance regulators 
may vary between states and between companies.  The National Association of 
Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) has recodified SAP to promote standardization 
throughout the industry.  These new accounting requirements are presently 
planned by the NAIC to be effective for 2001.  They must also be adopted by 
the individual state insurance departments.  The most significant change to 
AFLAC is the requirement that insurance companies establish a deferred 
income tax liability for statutory accounting purposes.  We estimate AFLAC's 
deferred tax liability would be approximately $165 million at December 31, 
1998, under the provisions of the recodified SAP.  AFLAC's capital and 
surplus, as determined on the present U.S. statutory accounting basis, was 
$1.6 billion at December 31, 1998.

     For further information concerning state regulatory and dividend 
restrictions, see Exhibit 13, page 13-67 (Note 10 - Statutory Accounting and 
Dividend Restrictions of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
incorporated herein by reference.

     The NAIC risk-based capital formula for U.S. life insurance companies 
established capital requirements based on insurance risk, business risk, 
asset risk and interest rate risk.  These requirements are intended to 
facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately 
capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mixtures of risks 
inherent in the insurer's operations.  The formulas for determining the 
amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are 
applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the 
perceived degree of risk.  Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of 
the company's regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control 
level risk-based capital, as defined by the NAIC.  Companies below specific 

                                   I-16

trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which 
requires specified corrective action.  The levels are company action, 
regulatory action, authorized control and mandatory control.  Our NAIC risk-
based capital ratio exceeds all regulatory action levels and continues to 
reflect a very strong statutory capital and surplus position.

     Two states have laws, regulations or regulatory practices that either 
prohibit the sale of specified disease insurance, such as our cancer expense 
insurance, or make its sale impractical.  These states are Massachusetts and 
New Jersey.  Regulations in New York and Connecticut were recently changed 
to allow the sale of specified disease insurance.  We are now marketing 
cancer insurance in New York and Connecticut.  The remainder of the states 
do not impose prohibitions or restrictions that prevent us from marketing 
cancer expense insurance.  AFLAC U.S. is marketing several of its other 
products in Massachusetts and New Jersey.

     Under insurance guaranty fund laws in most U.S. states, insurance 
companies doing business in those states can be assessed for policyholder 
losses up to prescribed limits that are incurred by insolvent companies with 
similar lines of business.  Such assessments have not been material to us in 
the past.  We believe that future assessments relating to companies in the 
U.S. currently involved in insolvency proceedings will not materially impact 
the consolidated financial statements.


EMPLOYEES - U.S.

     In the U.S. insurance operations, we had 2,156 employees at December 
31, 1998.  We consider our employee relations to be excellent.


POLICY LIABILITIES - JAPAN AND U.S.

     The reserves for policy liabilities reported in the financial 
statements have been computed in accordance with generally accepted 
accounting principles (GAAP).  These reserves differ from those reflected in 
the various regulatory financial statements filed by the Company.  Such 
differences arise from the use of different mortality, morbidity, interest, 
lapse assumptions and actuarial reserving methods as required by the laws of 
the various states and Japan.


OTHER OPERATIONS

    In 1997, we sold our Canadian insurance subsidiary and on December 31, 
1998, we sold our insurance operation in Taiwan.  Both transactions produced 
nominal gains.  

     The Company's other operations had 256 employees at December 31, 1998. 


YEAR 2000

     The term "year 2000 issue" generally refers to incorrect date 
calculations that might occur in computer software and hardware as the year 
2000 approaches.  The use of computer programs that rely on two-digit date 
fields to perform computations and decision-making functions may cause

                                   I-17

systems to malfunction when processing information involving dates after 
1999.  For example, any computer software that has date-sensitive coding 
might recognize a code of "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000.

     Our efforts to address year 2000 issues began in 1997.  We established 
a Year 2000 Executive Steering Committee, made up of senior management and 
representatives of our information technology, financial, legal, internal 
audit and various operational areas to identify and address year 2000 issues 
throughout our U.S. and Japanese operations.  We also established a Year 
2000 Project Office consisting of department coordinators from Information 
Technology, Worldwide Headquarters business operations and AFLAC Japan.  The 
Project Office established both domestic and Japanese plans to address year 
2000 readiness and minimize the risk of business disruption caused by year 
2000 issues.  We also engaged third party consultants to assist AFLAC U.S. 
and AFLAC Japan with their year 2000 efforts.

     The plans contain five phases:  (1) the assessment phase, which 
includes creating awareness of the issue throughout the company and 
assessment of all systems, significant business processes, facilities and 
third party dependencies; (2) the remediation phase, which includes updating 
or modifying systems which are identified as critical to our efforts to 
become year 2000 ready; (3) the testing phase, which includes the testing of 
systems that have been updated or modified; (4) the implementation phase, 
which includes placing systems into the production environment, as well as 
additional comprehensive testing to identify and resolve any remaining year 
2000 issues; and (5) contingency planning.  

     We have remediated substantially all of our critical production systems 
in both the United States and Japan.  Verification that the critical 
production systems have been correctly remediated will continue through the 
third quarter of 1999 in a year 2000 test environment.  The additional 
testing may raise new issues that require further remediation and 
implementation activities, all of which are scheduled to be completed in the 
third quarter of 1999.  We intend to develop contingency plans for any 
critical systems that we determine may not be fully remediated during the 
second and third quarters of 1999 as testing is finalized.  Testing and any 
further remediation and implementation activities required for non-critical 
systems will continue through the end of 1999.

     We rely on a widely distributed customer base in the United States and 
Japan for continued payment of premiums.  Many of the systems utilized by 
our group accounts are automated and date dependent.  We randomly surveyed 
group accounts in the United States to determine their year 2000 readiness. 
AFLAC Japan depends heavily on substantial premium payments that are 
electronically transmitted by third-party payment agents from employers of 
the insured.  We have surveyed our more significant customers in Japan to 
determine whether such customers expect their ability to pay premiums or 
transmit policy and claims data in this fashion to be impacted by year 2000 
issues.  We have not yet conducted any tests with those customers in a year 
2000 test environment and have no assurance that they will achieve year 2000 
compliance.  We intend to contact certain significant Japanese customers 
during the first quarter of 1999 to recommend data transmission testing.  If 
a large number of customers (in the U.S. and/or Japan) are unable to submit 
premium payments in a timely or accurate manner due to year 2000 issues, the 
resulting delays could have a material adverse effect on our financial 
condition or results of operations.  It is not currently possible to predict 
the probability of any delays occurring or the extent of such delays.

                                   I-18

     AFLAC owns publicly traded and privately placed fixed-maturity and 
equity securities in the U.S. and Japan, and other foreign countries.  If a 
material portion of such securities are adversely impacted by year 2000 
issues, our investment portfolio may also be adversely impacted.

     Since the inception of the year 2000 project, we had incurred costs of 
approximately $18 million for system upgrades or modifications through 
December 31, 1998.  Of this amount, approximately $6 million was 
capitalized.  The remaining cost to complete the various projects is 
currently estimated to be $14 million, of which $7 million is expected to be 
capitalized.  We may determine that additional expenditures are necessary as 
testing continues.  Company personnel have spent considerable time and 
effort on the project, and we intend to continue to devote additional 
internal resources and personnel to work on the project.  However, we 
believe that any deferral of information technology projects due to the year 
2000 effort will not have a material adverse effect on our operations or 
financial condition.

     Due to the uncertainty inherent in year 2000 issues, particularly with 
regard to Japanese customers' year 2000 readiness and the various 
governmental functions, public utilities, financial infrastructures and 
similar outside facilities on which we depend in both the United States and 
Japan, we are unable to determine at this time whether the consequences of 
external year 2000 failures will have a material impact on our financial 
condition or results of operations.  Although a year 2000 failure with 
respect to any single internal or external system may not have a material 
adverse effect on AFLAC, the failure of multiple systems may cause a 
material disruption to its business.

     All statements made herein regarding our year 2000 efforts are "Year 
2000 Readiness Disclosures" made pursuant to the Year 2000 Information and 
Readiness Disclosure Act, and to the extent applicable, are entitled to the 
protections of such act.


FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION

     The Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 provides a "safe 
harbor" to encourage companies to provide prospective information, so long 
as those informational statements are identified as forward-looking and are 
accompanied by meaningful, cautionary statements identifying important 
factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those 
discussed.  We desire to take advantage of these provisions.  This report 
contains cautionary statements identifying important factors that could 
cause actual results to differ materially from those projected in this Form 
10-K, and in any other statements made by company officers in oral 
discussions with analysts and contained in documents filed with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  Forward-looking statements are 
not based on historical information and relate to future operations, 
strategies, financial results or other developments.  In particular, 
statements containing words such as "expect," "anticipate," "believe," 
"goal," "objective" or similar words as well as specific projections of 
future results generally qualify as forward-looking.  AFLAC undertakes no 
obligation to update such forward-looking statements.

     We caution readers that the following factors, in addition to other 
factors mentioned from time to time in our reports filed with the SEC, could 

                                   I-19

cause actual results to differ materially: regulatory developments, 
assessments for insurance company insolvencies, competitive conditions, new 
products, ability to repatriate profits from Japan, general economic 
conditions in the United States and Japan, changes in U.S. and/or Japanese 
tax laws, adequacy of reserves, credit and other risks associated with 
AFLAC's investment activities, significant changes in interest rates, 
fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, and the ability of AFLAC, 
and third parties with whom it does business, to achieve year 2000 readiness 
for significant systems on a timely basis.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     AFLAC owns an 18-story office building, which is the worldwide 
headquarters, and a new five-story administrative office building, which was 
completed in 1998 at a cost of $17 million, located on approximately 14 
acres of land in Columbus, Georgia.  We also own a six-story parking garage, 
two additional buildings located on the same property and additional 
administrative office buildings located nearby.  An insurance subsidiary 
occupies leased office space in Albany, New York.

     In Tokyo, Japan, AFLAC owns an 11-story administrative office building, 
which was completed in April 1994.  AFLAC also leases office space in Tokyo 
along with regional sales offices located throughout the country, and owns a 
training facility in Tokyo.

     In conjunction with the sale of the broadcast business in 1996 and 
1997, the Company sold the land, buildings, transmission towers and other 
broadcast equipment in the cities where its television stations were 
located.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     We are a defendant in various litigation considered to be in the normal 
course of business.  Some of this litigation is pending in Alabama, where 
large punitive damages bearing little relation to the actual damages 
sustained by plaintiffs have been awarded against other companies, including 
insurers, in recent years.  Although the final results of any litigation 
cannot be predicted with certainty, we believe the outcome of the litigation 
still pending will not have a material adverse effect on our financial 
position.


ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     There were no matters submitted to the security holders for a vote in 
the fourth quarter ended December 31, 1998.










                                   I-20

ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

        NAME                   PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION (*)               AGE
- -------------------       -------------------------------------       ---
Paul S. Amos              Chairman, AFLAC Incorporated and             72
                            American Family Life Assurance
                            Company of Columbus (AFLAC)


Daniel P. Amos            Chief Executive Officer of AFLAC             47
                            Incorporated and AFLAC; President,
                            AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC;
                            Director, The CIT Group, Inc.,
                            Livingston, NJ; Director, Georgia
                            Power Company, Atlanta, GA   


William J. Bugg, Jr.      Senior Vice President, Corporate             59
                            Actuary of AFLAC


Monthon Chuaychoo         Vice President, Financial Services, of       55
                            AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC 


Kriss Cloninger III       Executive Vice President, Chief              51
                            Financial Officer of AFLAC 
                            Incorporated and AFLAC, and
                            Treasurer of AFLAC Incorporated


Martin A. Durant, III     Senior Vice President, Corporate             50
                            Services, of AFLAC Incorporated 
                            and AFLAC 


Norman P. Foster          Executive Vice President, Corporate          64
                            Finance, of AFLAC Incorporated 
                            and AFLAC


Kenneth S. Janke Jr.      Senior Vice President, Investor              40
                            Relations, of AFLAC Incorporated


Akitoshi Kan              Executive Vice President of AFLAC Japan      51
                            since January 1998 and Deputy Chief
                            Financial Officer of AFLAC, Senior Vice 
                            President, AFLAC Japan, Accounting,
                            Information Systems, ABC and Legal 
                            Affairs since January 1997; Senior Vice
                            President, AFLAC Japan, Accounting,
                            Corporate Planning, Audit, and Legal 
                            Affairs until January 1997; Vice 
                            President, AFLAC Japan Accounting
                            Department until 1995


                                   I-21

Nobuo Kawamura            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,          54
                            ABC Promotion, Policy Maintenance,
                            Premium Accounting since January 1999;
                            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,
                            Underwriting, Policy Maintenance, 
                            Premium Accounting, Customer Service, 
                            Administration Support until January 1999


Joseph P. Kuechenmeister  Senior Vice President, Director              57
                            of Marketing of AFLAC


Joey M. Loudermilk        Senior Vice President, General Counsel       45
                            and Corporate Secretary of AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC, and Director,
                            Legal and Governmental Relations of
                            AFLAC


Hidefumi Matsui           President, AFLAC Japan, since January        54
                            1995; Executive Vice President of AFLAC
                            Japan until 1995


Shoichi Matsumoto         Executive Vice President, Director           53
                            of Marketing, AFLAC Japan, since January
                            1998; Senior Vice President, Director of
                            Marketing, AFLAC Japan, until January
                            1998; Senior Vice President, AFLAC 
                            Japan, until July 1997; Vice President, 
                            Assistant Director of Marketing, AFLAC
                            Japan, until January 1996


Minoru Nakai              President of AFLAC International, Inc.       57


Yoshiki Otake             Chairman, AFLAC Japan, since January         59
                            1995; President, AFLAC Japan, until
                            December 1994; Vice Chairman, AFLAC
                            International, Inc.


E. Stephen Purdom         Executive Vice President,                    51
                            AFLAC, since October 1994; Medical
                            Director, Columbus Clinic, Columbus, GA,
                            until September 1994; Senior Vice
                            President and Medical Director, AFLAC,
                            until October 1994; Director,
                            Trust Company Bank, Columbus, GA 


Joseph W. Smith, Jr.      Senior Vice President, Chief Investment      45
                            Officer of AFLAC 



                                   I-22

Gary L. Stegman           Senior Vice President, Assistant Chief       49
                            Financial Officer of AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC; Treasurer
                            and Assistant Secretary of AFLAC 

  (*)  Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held
       the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least five years. 
       Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of
       directors and serves until his successor is chosen and qualified,
       or until his death, resignation or removal.
















































                                   I-23


                                PART II

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 5 through 8 are 
incorporated by reference from the Company's 1998 Annual Report to 
Shareholders, the appropriate sections of which are included herein as 
Exhibit 13.
                                               Exhibit 13   Annual Report
                                                  Pages         Pages  
                                               ----------   --------------


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON      13-1; 13-2;  1; 54 (Note 10); 
          EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER         13-67        59 and 62
          MATTERS                               (Note 10)      


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA              13-3; 13-4       20 - 21


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND          13-5 to          22 - 24;
          ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION       13-30           26 - 35
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE         13-7 to          22 - 23; 
          DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK         13-8, 13-17     29 - 30
                                                to 13-21


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND             13-31 to         36 - 59
          SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                    13-75


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS           None            None
          WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE             





















                                   II-1

                                PART III

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 10 through 13 are 
incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement 
relating to the Company's 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 16, 1999, 
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

                                      Refer to the Information  Refer to
                                      Contained in the Proxy    Printed
                                      Statement under Captions    Proxy
                                       (filed electronically)   Statement
                                                                  Pages
                                      ------------------------  ---------

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE     Security Ownership of       3 - 7
          OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY     Management.  1. Election
             Directors                of Directors
             Executive Officers -      
               see Part I, Item 4A
               herein  


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      Board and Committee         8 - 19
                                      Meetings and Directors
                                      Compensation; Summary 
                                      Compensation Table; De-
                                      fined Benefit Pension
                                      Plan; Retirement Plans
                                      for Key Executives; 
                                      Employment Contracts and
                                      Termination of Employ-
                                      ment Arrangements


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF       Voting Securities and       2 - 7
          CERTAIN BENEFICIAL          Principal Holders 
          OWNERS AND                  Thereof. Security Owner-
          MANAGEMENT                  ship of Management.  
                                      1. Election of Directors


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS       Certain Transactions           19
          AND RELATED                 and Relationships
          TRANSACTIONS













                                  III-1

                                 PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                   Page(s)   
                                                              -----------
         Included in Part II of this report and
         incorporated by reference to the following
         pages of Exhibit 13:
           AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries:
             Consolidated Statements of Earnings, for            13-31
              each of the years in the three-year     
              period ended December 31, 1998           
             Consolidated Balance Sheets, at                     13-32 -
              December 31, 1998 and 1997                          13-33
             Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'            13-34
              Equity, for each of the years in the    
              three-year period ended December 31,
             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,              13-35 -
              for each of the years in the three-year             13-36
              period ended December 31, 1998             
             Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive            13-37
              Income, for each of the years in the
              three-year period ended December 31, 1998        
             Notes to the Consolidated Financial                 13-38 to
              Statements                                          13-72
             Report of Independent Auditors                      13-74

     2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         Included in Part IV of this report:
           Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedules      IV-5
           Schedule II  -  Condensed Financial Information of    IV-6 -
                            Registrant, at December 31, 1998      IV-11
                            and 1997 and for each of the 
                            years in the three-year period 
                            ended December 31, 1998         
           Schedule III -  Supplementary Insurance Information    IV-12
                            for each of the years in the three-
                            year period ended December 31, 1998
           Schedule IV  -  Reinsurance, for each of the           IV-13
                            years in the three-year period 
                            ended December 31, 1998                


     Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are 
not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in 
the financial statements or notes thereto.  









                                   IV-1

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
                  reference from Form 10-Q for March 31, 1997,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000011, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
                  amended - incorporated by reference from 
                  Form 10-Q for June 30, 1996, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-96-000012, Exhibit 3.0.
         4.0    - There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
                  amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total 
                  assets of AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries on a
                  consolidated basis.  We agree to furnish a copy
                  of any long-term debt instruments to the Securities
                  and Exchange Commission upon request.
        10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
                  Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the 
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family 
                  Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and
                  Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
                  incorporated by reference from Registration Statement
                  No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC
                  Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
        10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan - 
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy 
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 
                  0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
        10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
        10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior 
                  Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.2.
        10.3*   - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
                  as amended, effective January 1, 1998, filed with the 1998 
                  Form 10-K.
        10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P. 
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
                  from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
        10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  
                  Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
                  1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.
        10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss 
                  Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended 
                  November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.

                                   IV-2

        10.7*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Hidefumi Matsui, dated
                  January 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.8.
        10.8*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
                  October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.9*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S. Amos,
                  dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from Form
                  10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.1.
        10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated Deferred Compensation Agreement with
                  Paul S. Amos, dated July 15, 1997 - incorporated by
                  reference from 1997 Form 10-K, Commission file
                  number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-98-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.11.
        10.11*  - AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan, incorporated
                  by reference from the 1997 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000007, Appendix B.
        10.12*  - AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan,
                  effective January 1, 1999 - incorporated by reference
                  from Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-69333,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-98-00024, Exhibit 4.
        13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                  Report to Shareholders for 1998.
        21.0    - Subsidiaries.
        23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect to the
                  AFL Stock Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, as Amended and Restated
                  as of January 1, 1999.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8 
                  Registration Statement No. 333-69333 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.

                                   IV-3

                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3 
                  Registration Statement No. 333-69795 with respect to the
                  AFLAC New York Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
        27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1998.

 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
** All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.

(b)  REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

     There were no reports filed on Form 8-K for the quarter ended
     December 31, 1998.

(c)  EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 10-K

      10.3*   - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
                as amended, effective January 1, 1998.
      13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual 
                Report to Shareholders for 1998.
      21.0    - Subsidiaries.
      23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
                Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                (1985).
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect to the
                AFL Stock Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect to the
                AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, as Amended and Restated
                as of January 1, 1999.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8 
                Registration Statement No. 333-69333 with respect to the 
                AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3 
                Registration Statement No. 333-69795 with respect to the 
                AFLAC New York Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
      27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1998.

 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
** All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.




                                   IV-4


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 


The Shareholders and Board of Directors  
AFLAC Incorporated:


Under date of January 28, 1999, we reported on the consolidated balance 
sheets of AFLAC Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 
1997, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' 
equity, cash flows, and comprehensive income for each of the years in the 
three-year period ended December 31, 1998, as contained in the 1998 annual 
report to shareholders.  These consolidated financial statements and our 
report thereon are incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 
10-K for the year 1998.  In connection with our audits of the aforementioned 
consolidated financial statements, we also audited the related financial 
statement schedules as listed in Item 14.  These financial statement 
schedules are the responsibility of the Company's management.  Our 
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statement 
schedules based on our audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.




                                               KPMG LLP




Atlanta, Georgia
January 28, 1999






















                                   IV-5


                                   IV-6


                                  IV-7


                                   IV-8


                                   IV-9

                                 SCHEDULE II
                CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                   Notes to Condensed Financial Statements
                       AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)


     The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in 
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of 
AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries (see Part II - Item 8).

(A)  NOTES PAYABLE 

     A summary of notes payable at December 31, 1998 and 1997 follows:

(In millions)                                           1998         1997
                                                       ------       ------  
Unsecured, yen-denominated notes payable to banks:
  Reducing, revolving credit agreement, due
  annually through July 2001:
    2.29% fixed interest rate.....................     $  294       $  349
    Variable interest rate (.95% at
      December 31, 1998)..........................         35            -
  Revolving credit agreement due November 2002:
    1.24% fixed interest rate.....................        134          149
    Variable interest rate (.90% at 
      December 31, 1998)..........................        115            -
Other.............................................          -            7
                                                       ------       ------
    Total notes payable...........................     $  578       $  505
                                                       ======       ======


     The aggregate contractual maturities of the notes payable for each of 
the years after December 31, 1998, are as follows:

     (In millions)

         1999............................................  $ 79
         2000............................................   125
         2001............................................   125
         2002............................................   249


     For further information regarding notes payable, see Exhibit 13, page 
13-60 (Note 7 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements).


(B)  PURCHASE OF SUBSIDIARY 

     In 1998, we purchased a small Japanese insurance agency.  Its main 
functions will be policyholder-related services and direct marketing 
programs for AFLAC Japan.  





                                   IV-10

(C)  INCOME TAXES

     The Company and its eligible U.S. subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. 
federal income tax return.  Income tax liabilities or benefits are recorded 
by each principal subsidiary based upon separate return calculations, and 
any difference between the consolidated provision and the aggregate amounts 
recorded by the subsidiaries is reflected in the Parent Company financial 
statements.  

     For further information on income taxes, see Exhibit 13, page 13-61, 
Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


(D)  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     See Exhibit 13, page 13-67 (Note 10, Statutory Accounting and Dividend 
Restrictions, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements) for 
information regarding dividend restrictions.


(E)  SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     Cash payments for interest on debt obligations were $10 million in each 
of the years during the three-year period ended December 31, 1998.


(F)  ACCOUNTING CHANGES

     For information concerning new accounting standards recently adopted, 
see page 13-42 of Exhibit 13, Note 1, section on Accounting Changes Adopted, 
of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


























                                   IV-11








                               SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                      AFLAC Incorporated


Date   MARCH 26, 1999                 By    /s/ PAUL S. AMOS               
      -----------------------            ---------------------------------
                                               (Paul S. Amos)
                                         Chairman of the Board of Directors


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



/s/ DANIEL P. AMOS           Chief Executive Officer,     MARCH 26, 1999
- ------------------------     President and Vice           ----------------
   (Daniel P. Amos)          Chairman of the Board
                             of Directors
 




/s/ KRISS CLONINGER, III     Executive Vice President,    MARCH 26, 1999   
- ------------------------     Chief Financial Officer      ----------------
   (Kriss Cloninger, III)    and Treasurer
         




/s/ NORMAN P. FOSTER         Executive Vice President,    MARCH 26, 1999  
- ------------------------     Corporate Finance            ----------------
   (Norman P. Foster)          















                                   IV-14




  /s/  J. SHELBY AMOS, II            Director             MARCH 26, 1999
- -----------------------------                             ----------------
      (J. Shelby Amos, II)  



                                                                         
- ------------------------------        Director            ----------------
      (Michael H. Armacost)




  /s/  M. DELMAR EDWARDS, M.D.        Director            MARCH 26, 1999
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (M. Delmar Edwards, M.D.)




  /s/  GEORGE W. FORD, JR.            Director            MARCH 26, 1999   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (George W. Ford, Jr.)       




  /s/  JOE FRANK HARRIS               Director            MARCH 26, 1999   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Joe Frank Harris)



 /s/  ELIZABETH J. HUDSON                                 MARCH 26, 1999
- ------------------------------       Director             ----------------
      (Elizabeth J. Hudson)




  /s/  KENNETH S. JANKE, SR.          Director            MARCH 26, 1999
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Kenneth S. Janke, Sr.)




  /s/  CHARLES B. KNAPP               Director            MARCH 26, 1999   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Charles B. Knapp)





                                   IV-15




  /s/  HISAO KOBAYASHI                Director            MARCH 26, 1999
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Hisao Kobayashi)



                                      Director                           
- ------------------------------                            ---------------- 
      (Yoshiki Otake)




  /s/  E. STEPHEN PURDOM              Director            MARCH 26, 1999
- -------------------------------                           ----------------
      (E. Stephen Purdom)



                                      Director                             
- -------------------------------                           ----------------
      (Barbara K. Rimer)



  /s/  HENRY C. SCHWOB                Director            MARCH 26, 1999   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Henry C. Schwob)



  /s/  J. KYLE SPENCER                Director            MARCH 26, 1999   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (J. Kyle Spencer)



  /s/  GLENN VAUGHN, JR.              Director            MARCH 26, 1999   
- ------------------------------                            ----------------
      (Glenn Vaughn, Jr.)















                                   IV-16

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
                  reference from Form 10-Q for March 31, 1997,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000011, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
                  amended - incorporated by reference from 
                  Form 10-Q for June 30, 1996, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-96-000012, Exhibit 3.0.
         4.0    - There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
                  amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total 
                  assets of AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries on a
                  consolidated basis.  We agree to furnish a copy of any
                  long-term debt instruments to the Securities and Exchange
                  Commission upon request.
        10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
                  Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the 
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family 
                  Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and
                  Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
                  incorporated by reference from Registration Statement
                  No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC
                  Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
        10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan - 
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy 
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 
                  0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
        10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
        10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior 
                  Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.2.
        10.3*   - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement
                  Plan, as amended, effective January 1, 1998, filed with
                  the 1998 Form 10-K.
        10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P. 
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
                  from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
        10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  
                  Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
                  1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.
        10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss 
                  Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended 
                  November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.

                                   IV-17

        10.7*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Hidefumi Matsui, dated
                  January 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.8.
        10.8*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
                  October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.9*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S. Amos,
                  dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from Form
                  10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.1.
        10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated Deferred Compensation Agreement with
                  Paul S. Amos, dated July 15, 1997 - incorporated by
                  reference from 1997 Form 10-K, Commission file
                  number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-98-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.11.
        10.11*  - AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan, incorporated
                  by reference from the 1997 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-
                  97-000007, Appendix B.
        10.12*  - AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan,
                  effective January 1, 1999 - incorporated by reference
                  from Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-69333,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-98-00024, Exhibit 4.
        13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                  Report to Shareholders for 1998.
        21.0    - Subsidiaries.
        23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan 
                  (1985).
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8     
                  Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect to the
                  AFL Stock Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, as Amended and Restated
                  as of January 1, 1999.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                  Registration Statement No. 333-69333 with respect to the
                  AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.

                                   IV-18

                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                  Registration Statement No. 333-69795 with respect to the
                  AFLAC New York Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
        27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1998.

 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
** All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.


EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 10-K

      10.3*   - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan,
                as amended, effective January 1, 1998.
      13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual 
                Report to Shareholders for 1998.
      21.0    - Subsidiaries.
      23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
                Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                (1985).
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect to the
                AFL Stock Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect to the
                AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan, as Amended and Restated
                as of January 1, 1999.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-27883 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated 1997 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-8
                Registration Statement No. 333-69333 with respect to the
                AFLAC Incorporated Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG LLP, to Form S-3
                Registration Statement No. 333-69795 with respect to the
                AFLAC New York Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
      27.0**  - Financial Data Schedule for December 31, 1998.

 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.
** All Financial Data Schedules are submitted in the electronic filing only.








                                   IV-19
 

 
 







