
10-K
1996 FORM 10-K



                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           Washington, D.C.  20549

                                  FORM 10-K

                 ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d)
                    OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934


For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996       Commission file no. 1-7434
                          -----------------                           ------

                                AFLAC INCORPORATED                          
- ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)        

            Georgia                                     58-1167100     
- ------------------------------------            ----------------------------
    (State of Incorporation)                         (I.R.S. Employer  
                                                    Identification No.)   

1932 Wynnton Road, Columbus, Georgia                        31999           
- ------------------------------------            ----------------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                 (Zip Code)        


       Registrant's telephone number, including area code 706-323-3431     

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:

                                                     Name of Each Exchange 
             Title of Each Class                      on Which Registered  
      ----------------------------------------------------------------------
        Common Stock, $.10 Par Value                New York Stock Exchange
                                                     Pacific Stock Exchange
                                                      Tokyo Stock Exchange 

     SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:   NONE    

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports 
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act 
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the 
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to 
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No     .
                                                    ----    ---- 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 
405 of Regulation S-K (Section 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained 
herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in 
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part 
III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    
                                                          --------  

The number of shares of the registrant's Common Stock outstanding at March 
17, 1997, with $.10 par value, was 136,612,572.  The aggregate market value 
of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of March 17, 
1997 was $5,355,683,873. 





                   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE                   


PART I         Item 1         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-24 (Management's
                               Discussion and Analysis of Financial
                               Condition and Results of Operations (MD&A)),
                               pages 13-37 to 13-46 (Notes 2 and 3 of the
                               Notes to the Consolidated Financial
                               Statements), and pages 13-57 to 13-58 
                               (Note 10).  The applicable portions of the
                               Company's Annual Report to Shareholders for
                               the year ended December 31, 1996, are
                               included as Exhibit 13        


               Item 2         Exhibit 13 - page 13-23 (Cash Flow section of
                               MD&A) and page 13-48 (Note 5)


PART II        Item 5         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-1, 13-2 and 13-57
                               (Note 10)   


               Item 6         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-3 and 13-4


               Item 7         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-5 to 13-24


               Item 8         Exhibit 13 - pages 13-25 to 13-64



PART III       Item 10        Incorporated by reference from the        
                               definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual 
                               Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 5,
                               1997 (the Proxy Statement)          


               Item 11        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


               Item 12        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 


               Item 13        Incorporated by reference from the Proxy  
                               Statement                                 









                                      i



                              AFLAC Incorporated                            
                          Annual Report on Form 10-K                        
                     For the Year Ended December 31, 1996 


                               Table of Contents                            
                                                                      Page  
                                                                     ______ 
                                    PART I                                  

Item 1.   Business................................................     I- 1 

Item 2.   Properties..............................................     I-16 

Item 3.   Legal Proceedings.......................................     I-17 

Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders.....     I-17 

Item 4A.  Executive Officers of the Company.......................     I-18 


                                    PART II                                 

Item 5.   Market for Company's Common Equity and Related                 
            Shareholder Matters...................................    II- 1 

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data.................................    II- 1 

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial              
            Condition and Results of Operations...................    II- 1 

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data.............    II- 1 

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on               
            Accounting and Financial Disclosure...................    II- 1 


                                   PART III                                 

Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Company.........   III- 1 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation..................................   III- 1 

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and            
            Management............................................   III- 1 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions..........   III- 1 


                                   PART IV                                  

Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports           
            on Form 8-K...........................................    IV- 1 



                                      ii

                                    PART I                                  

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS 

GENERAL DESCRIPTION

     AFLAC Incorporated (the Parent Company) was incorporated in 1973 under 
the laws of the State of Georgia and acts as a general business holding 
company.  The Parent Company is a management company principally engaged, 
through its insurance subsidiaries, in providing supplemental health 
insurance products in the United States and Japan.  In addition, the Parent 
Company, through subsidiaries and a general partnership with American Family 
Life Assurance Company of Columbus (AFLAC), operates in television 
broadcasting.  As a management company, the Parent Company oversees the 
operations of its subsidiaries and provides capital and management services.

     AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries (the Company) have only one 
significant industry segment - insurance.  For financial information 
relating to the Company's foreign and U.S. operations, see Exhibit 13, pages 
13-5 to 13-24 (Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition 
and Results of Operations (MD&A)) and page 13-37 (Note 2 of Notes to the 
Consolidated Financial Statements), which are incorporated herein by 
reference. 

     During 1996, the Company entered into definitive agreements for the 
sale of its broadcast division business consisting of seven network-
affiliated television stations.  The total pretax gain from this transaction 
is estimated to be $325 million.  Finalization of the transaction is subject 
to approval by the Federal Communications Commission.  The sale of one 
station, WAFB-TV in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, closed on December 31, 1996.  
The pretax and after-tax gains recognized on the sale of WAFB in 1996 were 
$60.3 million and $48.2 million, respectively.  The effect of the after-tax 
gain on 1996 net earnings per share was $.33.  Management expects the sale 
of the six remaining stations to be finalized during the first half of 1997. 
On March 12, 1997, AFLAC Incorporated sold its minor Canadian insurance 
subsidiary.  

     The Parent Company's principal operating subsidiary is AFLAC, which 
operates in the United States and Japan.  AFLAC is a specialty insurer whose 
dominant business is individual supplemental health insurance.  Management 
believes AFLAC is the world's leading writer of cancer expense insurance.  
In recent years, AFLAC has diversified its product offerings to include 
other types of supplemental health products in both the United States and 
Japan.  The Japan Branch (AFLAC Japan) also sells care plans, supplemental 
general medical expense plans and a living benefit life plan.  The United 
States operation (AFLAC U.S.), in addition to cancer expense plans, also 
sells other types of supplemental health insurance, including hospital 
intensive care, accident and disability, hospital indemnity, long-term care, 
short-term disability and Medicare supplement plans.  AFLAC U.S. also offers 
several life insurance plans.  

     The Company is authorized to conduct insurance business in all 50 
states, the District of Columbia, and several U.S. territories and foreign 
countries.  The Company's only significant foreign operation is AFLAC Japan, 
which accounted for 82% of the Company's total revenues in 1996.

     The Company issued a three-for-two stock split on March 18, 1996.  
Share and per-share amounts have been adjusted to reflect this split.
                                    I-1

     In the fourth quarter of 1996, the Company raised its primary financial 
objective for 1997 through 2000 from 13% to 15% annual growth in operating 
earnings per share to 15% to 17% excluding the effect of foreign currency 
translation.

     During 1996, the board of directors authorized the purchase of up to an 
additional 7.0 million shares of AFLAC Incorporated common stock.  Including 
shares remaining under a previous authorization, the Company had approval to 
purchase up to 8.0 million shares as of December 31, 1996.  The Company had 
purchased 20.4 million shares from the inception of the plan in February 
1994 through December 31, 1996.

     Due to the relative size of AFLAC Japan, fluctuations in the yen/dollar 
exchange rate can have a significant effect on the Company's reported 
results.  During the first half of 1995, the yen strengthened substantially 
versus the dollar.  In the third quarter of 1995, the yen began to weaken in 
relation to the dollar and continued to weaken throughout 1996.  The average 
yen-to-dollar exchange rates were 108.84 in 1996, 94.10 in 1995 and 102.26 
in 1994.

     In years when the yen weakens, translating yen into dollars causes 
smaller increases or negative percentage changes for financial results in 
dollars.  When the yen strengthens, translating yen into dollars causes 
larger increases for financial results in dollars.

     Insurance premiums and investment income from insurance operations are 
the major sources of revenues.  The Company's consolidated premium income 
was $5.9 billion for 1996, $6.1 billion for 1995 and $5.2 billion for 1994. 

     The following table sets forth consolidated premiums earned by class 
offered by AFLAC in Japan and the United States for the three years ended 
December 31.

(In thousands)                         1996          1995          1994 
                                    ----------    ----------    ---------- 
Premiums earned:
  Health insurance                 $ 5,690,886   $ 6,037,206   $ 5,148,406 
  Life and other insurance             206,480        17,937        15,149 
                                    ----------    ----------    ---------- 
     Total U.S. and Japan
       premiums earned             $ 5,897,366   $ 6,055,143   $ 5,163,555 
                                    ==========    ==========    ========== 
















                                    I-2

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC health insurance for the years ended December 31.

 (In thousands)                       1996          1995          1994  
                                   ----------    ----------    ----------
Annualized premiums in force, 
  at beginning of year            $ 5,837,883   $ 5,578,987   $ 4,460,076
    New issues including
      policy conversions              763,836       965,321       922,773
    Change in unprocessed 
      policies                         18,587      (107,287)      212,058
    Lapses and surrenders            (414,628)     (408,366)     (347,020)
    Other                               3,284       (11,676)     (129,932)
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                     (571,011)     (179,096)      461,032
                                   ----------    ----------    ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                  $ 5,637,951   $ 5,837,883   $ 5,578,987
                                   ==========    ==========    ==========



INVESTMENTS AND INVESTMENT RESULTS 

     The Company classifies all fixed-maturity securities as available for 
sale.  All fixed-maturity and equity securities are carried at fair value.  
The fair value of fixed-maturity securities available for sale exceeded 
amortized cost by $2.4 billion and $2.6 billion at December 31, 1996 and 
1995, respectively.





























                                    I-3

    The following table shows an analysis of invested assets at December 31:

(In thousands)                       1996             1995         % Change
                                 ------------     ------------     --------
AFLAC U.S.:

  Total invested assets, at
    cost or amortized cost       $  1,910,154     $  1,543,549        23.8%

  Unrealized gains
    on securities available
    for sale                          101,258          128,697
                                 ------------     ------------ 
    Total invested assets        $  2,011,412     $  1,672,246        20.3%
                                 ============     ============      ======

AFLAC Japan:

  Total invested assets, at
    cost or amortized cost       $ 16,390,997     $ 15,924,083         2.9%

  Unrealized gains
    on securities available
    for sale                        2,334,537        2,468,018
                                 ------------     ------------  
    Total invested assets        $ 18,725,534     $ 18,392,101         1.8%
                                 ============     ============      ======

Consolidated:

  Total invested assets, at
    cost or amortized cost       $ 18,309,930     $ 17,447,551         4.9%

  Unrealized gains
    on securities available
    for sale                        2,436,605        2,597,413
                                 ------------     ------------  
    Total invested assets        $ 20,746,535     $ 20,044,964         3.5%
                                 ============     ============      ======

     Net investment income was $1.0 billion in 1996, unchanged from 1995.  
Net investment income in 1995 was $186.1 million higher than in 1994.  It is 
generally AFLAC's policy to invest in high-grade investments, principally in 
government and high-quality public utility and corporate bonds. 

     AFLAC primarily operates within the investment environments of the 
United States and Japan.  Although aspects of these two financial markets 
are slowly converging, they remain fundamentally different.  For example, 
differences in asset selection, liquidity, credit quality, accounting 
practices, insurance regulations and taxation affect the way the Company 
invests and purchases securities.  The challenge is to integrate the varied 
market characteristics of Japan and the United States into a unified and 
coherent investment strategy.  The Company has streamlined and integrated 
the organizational structure of investment operations into a single 
functional unit and has set specific worldwide criteria regarding credit 
quality, liquidity, compliance with regulatory requirements and conformance 
to product needs.

                                    I-4

     For information on the composition of the Company's investment 
portfolio and investment results, see Part IV, Schedule I, and Exhibit 13, 
pages 13-16 to 13-24 (discussions relating to Balance Sheet and Cash Flow) 
and pages 13-41 to 13-47 (Notes 3 and 4 of Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


INVESTMENTS - JAPAN

     Approximately 96% of the 301.4 billion yen ($2.6 billion) that AFLAC 
Japan had available for investment activities was invested in yen-
denominated securities at an average yield to maturity of 3.92%.  The 
company invested 26.6% of the total funds available in Japanese government 
bonds at an average yield to maturity of 3.46% and allocated 56.6% to 
longer-dated securities at an average rate of 4.29%.  An additional 12.3% 
was invested in yen-denominated securities of various other sectors.  
Dollar-denominated securities accounted for the remaining 4.5% of the 
purchases in 1996 at an average yield to maturity of 7.20%.

     At year-end 1996, Japanese government bonds accounted for 37.2% of 
AFLAC Japan's total investments (at amortized cost).  Twenty-year government 
bonds made up the majority of AFLAC Japan's government bond holdings.  AFLAC 
Japan continued to use longer-dated corporate instruments in 1996, which 
provide a better match of asset and liability durations, and these 
instruments accounted for 30.1% of total investments in Japan at year-end.  
At the end of the year, municipal securities represented 3.8% of the total 
investments, while utility bonds represented 15.3%.  Other assorted sectors 
accounted for 5.5%, and dollar-denominated securities represented 8.1% of 
AFLAC Japan's total investments.

     Low investment yields have posed difficulties for the entire insurance 
industry in Japan for several years.  To help insurers address the problem 
of low rates of return, the Ministry of Finance (MOF) has required the 
industry to raise premium rates on new policies for four consecutive years. 
The most recent rate increase, which was implemented on all policies sold 
after October 1, 1996, will benefit AFLAC Japan in the long run.  In the 
meantime, management believes the Company's investment approach in Japan 
provides the Company with an advantage over its competitors.  The Company's 
asset allocation is much different than the industry as a whole, and 
management believes it is better suited to a low interest rate environment. 
As in 1995, the Company's portfolio yield was once again the third highest 
among all life insurers in Japan based on March 31, 1996 data submitted to 
the MOF.

     The Company's investments in the Japanese equity and investment real 
estate markets continued to be immaterial in 1996.


INVESTMENTS - U.S.

     Profits repatriated from AFLAC Japan to AFLAC U.S. totaled $217.3 
million in 1996, up from $140.5 million in 1995.  AFLAC U.S. in turn paid 
additional dividends to the Parent Company in 1996 in the amount of $64.3 
million.  Repatriation has a positive effect on consolidated results because 
higher investment yields can be earned on funds invested in the United 
States.  Also, income tax expense is presently lower on investment income 
earned in the United States.  The Company expects future profit repatriation 
to continue to have a positive impact on its consolidated net earnings.
                                    I-5

     AFLAC U.S. continued to focus on purchasing securities that emphasize 
safety and liquidity.  AFLAC U.S. maintained its overall investment quality 
throughout the year.  Approximately 44% of the fixed-maturity portfolio was 
rated "AA" or better at the end of the year.

     Including profit repatriation and proceeds from bond swaps and 
redemptions, AFLAC U.S. invested $977.4 million in 1996.  Of that amount, 
approximately 31.0% was invested in U.S. government or agency securities at 
an average yield to maturity of 7.60%, 65.0% was invested in corporate 
fixed-maturity securities at 7.49%, and 1.8% was allocated to various other 
sectors.  Approximately $21.6 million, or 2.2% of total funds available for 
investment, were added to the AFLAC U.S. equity portfolio.

     At the end of 1996, fixed-maturity securities continued to dominate 
AFLAC U.S. total investments.  Fixed-maturity securities represented 84.9% 
of total investments at the end of the year.  Within that category, U.S. 
government and agency securities accounted for 20.6% of the holdings, while 
corporate securities were 73.0%.  Equity investments made up 6.0% of total 
investments.  Mortgage loans on real estate remained immaterial.


INSURANCE - JAPAN

     The following table sets forth AFLAC Japan's premiums earned by product 
line for the last three years ended December 31.

(In thousands)                         1996         1995         1994
                                    ----------   ----------   ----------
Premiums earned:  
  Cancer expense                   $ 4,314,821  $ 4,752,338  $ 4,054,697
  Other accident and health            445,704      440,635      316,395
  Life insurance                       191,035        2,378            -
                                    ----------   ----------   ----------
    Total AFLAC Japan
      premiums earned              $ 4,951,560  $ 5,195,351  $ 4,371,092
                                    ==========   ==========   ==========


     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC Japan health insurance for the years ended December 31:

(In thousands)                          1996         1995         1994
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at beginning of year              $ 4,900,779  $ 4,718,783  $ 3,672,594
    New issues including
      policy conversions                442,629      690,170      680,879
    Change in unprocessed
      policies                           23,878     (105,496)     209,392
    Lapses and surrenders              (181,756)    (200,507)    (163,047)
    Other                               (18,103)     (23,075)    (142,067)
    Foreign currency translation
      adjustment                       (571,011)    (179,096)     461,032
                                     ----------   ----------   ----------
Annualized premiums in force,
  at end of year                    $ 4,596,416  $ 4,900,779  $ 4,718,783
                                     ==========   ==========   ==========

                                    I-6

INSURANCE PLANS - JAPAN

     AFLAC's insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed to provide 
insurance to cover the medical and nonmedical costs that are not reimbursed 
by other forms of Japanese health insurance coverage.

     The cancer expense insurance plans offered in Japan provide a fixed 
daily indemnity benefit for hospitalization and outpatient services related 
to cancer and a lump sum benefit upon initial diagnosis of internal cancer. 
The plans differ from the AFLAC U.S. cancer plans (described on pages I-11 
and I-12) in that the Japanese policies also provide death benefits and cash 
surrender values (the Company estimates that approximately 28% of the 
premiums earned are associated with these benefits).  In 1997, AFLAC Japan 
will offer an economy cancer plan that has lower premiums and benefits.  
This new plan should appeal to those who may have postponed a purchase 
decision due to the weak economy in Japan.

     In 1992, AFLAC broadened its product line with the introduction of a 
new care product.  Care insurance provides periodic benefits to those who 
become bedridden, demented or seriously disabled due to illness or accident. 
This plan is offered with several riders, providing death benefits or 
additional care benefits to enhance coverage.  Prior to the introduction of 
this care plan, AFLAC marketed a plan that primarily provided dementia care 
benefits.  

     In 1995, the Company introduced two other products in Japan.  The first 
product is an improved medical expense policy.  It is similar to hospital 
indemnity insurance products in the United States and provides cash benefits 
to policyholders when they are hospitalized.  The market for medical expense 
coverage in Japan is very competitive, but the Company believes the revised 
policy gives AFLAC Japan's agents greater flexibility in product offerings.

     AFLAC Japan also introduced a new living benefit life plan.  This 
product is a life insurance policy that provides lump-sum benefits when 
policyholders experience heart attack, cancer or stroke.  The Company is 
offering this product in two forms - as a stand-alone policy or as a rider 
to the cancer plan.  The rider adds heart attack and stroke benefits to the 
cancer policy.  Marketing efforts for living benefit life primarily focus on 
the sale of the rider.  Introduction of the rider began in late 1995. Sales 
of the rider for 1996, its first full year of availability, were $282.9 
million in new annualized premium, representing 1.6 million units.

     Due to the continued low level of available investment yields in Japan, 
the Ministry of Finance has required insurers to increase premium rates on 
new policy issues in recent years.  AFLAC Japan increased premium rates by 
an average of 16% on all cancer policy sales made after July 1, 1994.  
Premium rates on care policy new issues were increased by an average of 16% 
in September 1995.  As a result of continuing low yields, the Company 
increased premium rates on all new policy issues by approximately 13% 
beginning in the fourth quarter of 1996.



AGENCY FORCE - JAPAN

     The development of a "corporate agency" system has been important to 
the growth of AFLAC Japan.  Affiliated corporate agencies are formed when 
companies establish subsidiary businesses to sell AFLAC products to their 
                                    I-7

employees, suppliers and customers.  These agencies help AFLAC Japan reach 
the employees of almost all of Japan's large corporations.  AFLAC has no 
ownership interest in these corporate agencies.

     AFLAC products are also sold through independent corporate agencies and 
individual agencies that are not affiliated with large companies.  At 
December 31, 1996, there were 5,166 agencies in Japan with 20,067 licensed 
agents.  Agents' activities are principally limited to insurance sales, with 
policyholder service functions handled by the main office in Tokyo and 50 
offices located throughout Japan.


COMPETITION - JAPAN

     In 1974, AFLAC became the second foreign (non-Japanese) life insurance 
company to gain direct access to the Japanese insurance market by obtaining 
a license to do business in Japan.  Through 1981, AFLAC was the only company 
in Japan authorized to issue a cancer expense insurance policy.  Since that 
time, several other life companies offer cancer insurance.  However, AFLAC 
remains the leading issuer of cancer expense insurance coverage in Japan, 
principally due to its lead time in the market, unique marketing system (see 
Agency Force), low-cost operations and product expertise developed in the 
United States.  AFLAC has been very successful in the sale of cancer expense 
policies in Japan, with 12.6 million cancer policies in force at December 
31, 1996.

     In December 1996, the governments of the United States and Japan 
reached an agreement on deregulation of the Japanese insurance industry.  
The agreement calls for the gradual liberalization of the industry over the 
next four years and includes provisions to avoid "radical change" in the 
third sector of the insurance industry.  AFLAC and other foreign-owned 
insurers, as well as some small to medium-sized Japanese insurers, operate 
primarily in the third sector.  One of the measures for avoiding radical 
change in the third sector is the prohibition of additional Japanese life 
and non-life insurance companies from selling cancer or medical insurance 
until January 1, 2001.

     AFLAC's strategy for future growth in Japan centers on broadening the 
Company's product line and expanding the distribution system.  Although the 
basic plan for growth is the same in Japan as in the United States, 
management has had to formulate a strategy specifically tailored for the 
Japanese insurance marketplace, which is very different from the U.S. 
system.  There are only 44 life insurance companies in Japan, compared with 
more than 2,000 life insurers in the United States. In Japan, insurers have 
traditionally been restricted in the types of policies they could offer.  
However, as Japan begins deregulating the insurance industry, the 
marketplace should become more competitive, with insurers able to offer more 
types of products as they do in the United States.


REGULATION AND REMITTANCE OF FUNDS - JAPAN

     Payments are made from AFLAC Japan to the Parent Company for management 
fees, and to AFLAC U.S. for allocated expenses and remittances of earnings. 
These payments totaled $253.6 million in 1996, $179.5 million in 
1995 and $167.9 million in 1994.  Management fees paid to the Parent Company 
are largely based on expense allocations.

                                    I-8

     A portion of AFLAC Japan's annual earnings, as determined on a Japan 
statutory accounting basis, can be remitted each year to AFLAC U.S. after 
satisfying various conditions imposed by Japanese regulatory authorities for 
protecting policyholders and obtaining remittance approvals from such 
authorities.  These conditions include compliance with risk-based capital 
guidelines for Japanese insurers.  Profit remittances to the United States 
can fluctuate due to changes in the amounts of Japanese regulatory earnings. 
Among other items, factors affecting regulatory earnings include Japanese 
regulatory accounting practices and fluctuations in currency translations of 
AFLAC Japan's U.S. dollar-denominated investments into yen.  It is expected 
that profit remittances will continue in future years, based on projected 
annual earnings of AFLAC Japan as computed on a Japanese regulatory 
accounting basis.

     Japan statutory accounting practices differ in many respects from U.S. 
generally accepted accounting principles.  Under Japan statutory accounting 
practices, policy acquisition costs are charged off immediately, policy 
benefit and claim reserving methods are different, deferred income tax 
liabilities are not recognized, and investment securities are generally 
carried at cost less certain market value adjustments.

     The Japanese Ministry of Finance imposes solvency standards that 
represent a form of risk-based capital requirements.  AFLAC Japan must meet 
these requirements to continue profit transfers to AFLAC U.S.  At this time, 
AFLAC Japan is in compliance with these standards, and management does not 
expect these requirements to adversely affect the repatriation of funds from 
Japan in the foreseeable future.

     The Life Insurance Association of Japan, an industry organization, is 
currently implementing a policyholder protection fund.  The purpose of the 
fund is to provide capital support to member companies for business assumed 
from insolvent life insurers.  AFLAC Japan has pledged investment securities 
to the Life Insurance Association of Japan for this program.  The Company 
retains ownership of the securities and receives the related investment 
income.  The amount of securities pledged is based on premium income and 
policy reserves.  As of December 31, 1996, $49.5 million, at fair value, of 
AFLAC Japan's investment securities had been pledged to this fund.

     In 1994, the Japanese government passed a package of tax reform bills 
centering on an increase in the consumption tax, which is similar to a sales 
tax in the United States.  The consumption tax is scheduled to increase from 
the current rate of 3% to 5% effective April 1, 1997.  AFLAC Japan currently 
incurs consumption tax on agents' commissions.  Had the rate increase been 
enacted effective January 1, 1996, pretax operating earnings would have been 
reduced by approximately $16.4 million ($9.0 million after income tax) in 
1996.  The Company is in the process of evaluating changes in its 
compensation arrangements with its agents to mitigate a portion of this tax 
increase.

     In late 1996, the Japanese government proposed new income tax 
provisions that would increase Japan's income taxes on investment income 
received by foreign companies operating in Japan from securities issued from 
their home country.  The government plans to finalize the proposal near the 
end of March 1997.  The new provisions are expected to be effective 
beginning in 1998.  If the proposal had been enacted in 1996 in its present 
form, AFLAC Japan's income tax expense would have been increased, and net 
earnings of the Company would have decreased by approximately $23.7 million 
for the year 1996.
                                     I-9

     Management is evaluating the impact of this proposal and will seek to 
mitigate much of the tax impact through investment alternatives and by 
restructuring portions of the existing investment portfolio.  Based on a 
preliminary review, management does not expect this tax change as it is 
presently proposed to materially affect future net earnings of the Company.

     The insurance business in Japan, which is conducted as a branch office 
of AFLAC, is subject to regulation by the MOF, similar to the regulation and 
supervision in the United States as described on pages I-14 and I-15 under 
"Regulation - U.S."  AFLAC Japan files annual reports and financial 
statements for the Japanese insurance operations based on a March 31 year-
end, prepared in accordance with Japanese regulatory accounting practices 
prescribed or permitted by the MOF.  Also, financial and other affairs of 
AFLAC Japan are subject to examination by the MOF.  

     Reconciliations of AFLAC Japan net assets on a GAAP basis to net assets 
determined on a Japanese regulatory accounting basis as of December 31 are 
as follows:

     (In thousands - unaudited)                     1996           1995   
                                                 ----------     ---------- 
Net assets on GAAP basis                        $ 1,697,003    $ 1,817,106 
Elimination of deferred policy 
  acquisition costs                              (2,022,899)    (2,067,409)
Adjustment to carrying value of fixed-
  maturity securities                            (2,561,097)    (2,613,600)
Adjustment to policy liabilities                  2,476,384      2,205,072 
Elimination of deferred income taxes              1,006,550      1,211,187 
Reduction in premiums receivable                   (124,829)      (237,929)
Other, net                                           (4,222)        98,378 
                                                 ----------      --------- 
  Net assets on Japanese regulatory
    accounting basis                            $   466,890     $  412,805 
                                                 ==========      ========= 

     For additional information regarding AFLAC Japan's operations, see 
Exhibit 13, pages 13-9 to 13-13 (AFLAC Japan section of MD&A) and pages 13-
37 and 13-57 (Notes 2 and 10 of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements), which are incorporated herein by reference.


EMPLOYEES - JAPAN

     AFLAC Japan employed 1,584 full-time and 236 part-time employees at 
December 31, 1996.  AFLAC Japan considers its employee relations to be 
excellent.












                                    I-10

INSURANCE - U.S.

     The following table sets forth AFLAC U.S. premiums earned by product 
line for the last three years ended December 31.

 (In thousands)                            1996        1995        1994   
                                         --------    --------    -------- 
Premiums earned:
  Cancer expense                        $ 429,006   $ 402,789   $ 384,943 
  Other accident and health               501,355     441,444     392,371 
  Life insurance                           15,445      15,559      15,149 
                                         --------    --------    -------- 
     Total AFLAC U.S. 
       premiums earned                  $ 945,806   $ 859,792   $ 792,463 
                                         ========    ========    ======== 

     The following table sets forth the changes in annualized premiums in 
force for AFLAC U.S. health insurance for the years ended December 31.

 (In thousands)                           1996        1995         1994
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Annualized premiums in force, at
  beginning of year                   $  937,104   $  860,204   $  787,482
    New issues including policy
      conversions                        321,207      275,151      241,894
    Change in unprocessed policies        (5,291)      (1,791)       2,666
    Lapses                              (232,872)    (207,859)    (183,973)
    Other                                 21,387       11,399       12,135
                                       ---------    ---------    ---------
Annualized premiums in force, at
  end of year                         $1,041,535   $  937,104   $  860,204
                                       =========    =========    =========


HEALTH INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC's insurance is supplemental in nature and is designed for people 
who already have major medical or primary insurance coverage.  AFLAC's 
supplemental health insurance plans are guaranteed renewable for the 
lifetime of the policyholder.  Guaranteed-renewable coverage may not be 
cancelled by the insurer, but premium rates on existing and future policies 
may be increased by class of policy in response to claims experience higher 
than originally expected (subject to federal and state loss-ratio 
guidelines) on a uniform, nondiscriminatory basis subject to state 
regulatory approval.  

     AFLAC's cancer plans are designed to provide insurance benefits for 
medical and nonmedical costs that are generally not reimbursed by major 
medical insurance.  AFLAC currently offers a series of four different cancer 
plans in the United States that vary by benefit amount and type.  All four 
plans provide a first occurrence benefit that pays an initial amount when 
internal cancer is first diagnosed, a fixed amount for each day an insured 
is hospitalized for cancer treatment, and benefits for medical, radiation, 
chemotherapy, surgery and a "wellness" benefit applicable toward certain 
diagnostic tests such as mammograms, pap smears, flexible sigmoidoscopy, 
etc.  Two of the plans currently offered contain benefits that reimburse the 
insured for nursing services, anesthesia, prosthesis, blood, plasma, second 

                                    I-11

surgical opinion, ambulance, transportation, family lodging, extended care 
facility, bone marrow transplant and hospice.  The remaining two plans make 
these benefits available as an optional schedule of benefits rider.  AFLAC 
also issues several riders, including one that increases the amount of the 
first occurrence benefit on each rider anniversary date until the covered 
person reaches age 65 or until internal cancer is diagnosed.  AFLAC 
periodically introduces new forms of coverage, revising benefits and related 
premiums based upon the anticipated needs of the policyholders and AFLAC's 
claim experience.

     AFLAC offers an accident and disability policy to protect against 
losses resulting from accidents.  The accident portion of the policy 
includes lump sum benefits for accidental death, dismemberment and specific 
injuries.  Fixed benefits for hospital confinement, emergency treatment, 
follow-up treatments, ambulance, transportation, family lodging, wellness, 
prosthesis, medical appliances and physical therapy are also provided.  
Optional disability riders are available to the primary insured only and 
include choices of a sickness disability rider, on-the-job disability rider 
and off-the-job disability rider.  These benefits are payable up to a 
maximum benefit period of one year and for one disability at a time.

     AFLAC currently markets five of the Medicare Supplement Standardized 
Plans, with the majority of sales coming from Plans F and C.  The plans are 
priced on an issue-age basis.  Under this method, rates are revised due to 
changes in the Medicare program and medical inflation.  There is no 
automatic rate increase due to the aging of the insured.  Premium rates are 
determined based on zip code groupings, which are adjusted for increases in 
costs for each area.  The benefits provided range from the basic plan, 
covering Part A and B coinsurance, to plans with more extensive coverage, 
including Part A and B deductibles, skilled nursing coinsurance, Part B 
excess and other benefits.  AFLAC U.S. does not market the standardized 
plans covering prescription drug benefits.

     AFLAC also issues other supplemental health insurance, such as 
intensive care, which is a low-premium policy that provides protection 
against the high cost of intensive care facilities during hospital 
confinement, regardless of reimbursements from other insurers.  Other types 
of health insurance issued by AFLAC include a long-term convalescent care 
policy, long- and short-term disability, and a hospital confinement 
indemnity policy.  


LIFE INSURANCE PLANS - U.S.

     AFLAC issues various life insurance policies including whole life, 
limited pay life, voluntary group term life and term life coverage. 


AGENCY FORCE AND MARKETING - U.S.

     AFLAC's sales force comprises independent sales agents who are licensed 
to sell accident and health insurance.  Many are also licensed to sell life 
insurance.  Most agents' efforts are directed toward selling supplemental 
health insurance.  The 1996 monthly average number of U.S. agents actively 
producing business was 6,665, compared with 6,121 in 1995 and 5,489 in 1994. 



                                     I-12

     Agents' activities are principally limited to sales, with policyholder 
service functions, including issuance of policies, premium collection, 
payment notices and claims handled by the staff at headquarters. Agents are 
paid commissions based on first-year and renewal premiums from their sales 
of health and life insurance products.  AFLAC's state, regional and district 
sales coordinators, who are independent contractors, are compensated by 
override commissions.  

     AFLAC has concentrated on the development of "payroll marketing" in 
marketing its policies.  Payroll marketing offers policies to individuals 
through common media such as trade and other associations or at the work 
site.  This manner of marketing is distinct from "group" insurance sales in 
that each individual insured is directly contacted by the sales associate.  
Policies are individually underwritten in the payroll market, with premiums 
generally paid by the employee.  Additionally, AFLAC supplemental policies 
are portable in that individuals may retain their full insurance coverage 
upon separation from employment or such affiliation, generally at the same 
premium.  A major portion of premiums on such sales are collected through 
payroll deduction or other forms of group billings.  Group-issued plans 
normally result in a lower average age of the insured at the time of policy 
issuance and also result in certain savings in administrative costs, a 
portion of which are passed on to the policyholder in the form of reduced 
premiums.  Management believes that payroll marketing enables the agency 
force to reach a greater number of prospective policyholders than individual 
solicitation and that this method lowers distribution costs.  

     Another valuable marketing and sales tool is the flexible benefits 
program, or cafeteria plan, which allows an employee to pay for medical 
insurance using pretax dollars.  These programs help achieve increased 
penetration as agents are required to present the program to all employees. 
They also help improve overall persistency levels due to the limited changes 
allowed during the plan year.

     During 1996 and 1995, AFLAC continued to develop marketing arrangements 
with insurance brokers.  Insurance brokers generally have better access to 
larger payroll groups than independent agents.  The core of the Company's 
distribution network will remain independent agents.

     In 1996, AFLAC's U.S. premiums collected were $934.5 million, 7.0% of 
which was collected in Georgia, 6.8% in Texas, 6.7% in Florida, 5.6% in 
North Carolina and 5.0% in Tennessee.  Premiums collected in all other 
states were individually less than 5% of AFLAC's U.S. premiums.


COMPETITION - U.S.

     The accident and health and life insurance industry in the United 
States is highly competitive.  AFLAC competes with a large number of other 
insurers, some of which have been in business for a longer period of time or 
have greater financial resources.  In the United States, there are more than 
2,000 life and accident and health insurance companies, most of which 
operate in the states AFLAC conducts business.

     Private insurers and voluntary and cooperative plans, such as Blue 
Cross and Blue Shield, provide insurance for meeting basic hospitalization 
and medical expenses.  Much of this insurance is sold on a group basis.  The 
federal and state governments also pay substantial costs of medical 

                                     I-13

treatment through Medicare and Medicaid programs.  Such major medical 
insurance generally covers a substantial amount of the medical (but not 
nonmedical) expenses incurred by an insured as a result of cancer or other 
major illnesses.  AFLAC's policies are designed to provide coverage that is 
supplemental to coverage provided by major medical insurance.  AFLAC's 
benefits may also be used to defray nonmedical expenses.

     Since other insurers generally do not provide full coverage of medical 
expenses or any coverage of nonmedical expenses, AFLAC's supplemental 
insurance is not an alternative to major medical insurance, but is sold to 
complement (supplement) major medical insurance by helping cover the gap 
between major medical insurance reimbursements and the total costs of an 
individual's health care. AFLAC thus competes only indirectly with major 
medical insurers in terms of premium rates and similar factors.  However, 
the scope of the major medical coverage offered by other insurers does 
represent a limitation on the market for AFLAC's products.  Accordingly, 
expansion of coverage by other insurers or governmental programs could 
adversely affect AFLAC's business opportunities.  Conversely, any reduction 
of coverages, such as increased deductibles and copayments, by other 
insurers or governmental programs could favorably affect AFLAC's business 
opportunities.

     AFLAC competes directly with other insurers offering supplemental 
health insurance and believes that its current policies and premium rates 
are generally competitive with those offered by other companies selling 
similar types of insurance.  

     For additional information regarding U.S. insurance operations, see 
Exhibit 13, page 13-13 to 13-15 (AFLAC U.S. section of MD&A), which is 
incorporated herein by reference.


REGULATION - U.S.

     The Parent Company and its insurance subsidiaries are subject to state 
regulations in the United States as an insurance holding company system.  
Such regulations generally provide that transactions between companies 
within the holding company system must be fair and equitable.  In addition, 
transfer of assets among such affiliated companies, certain dividend 
payments from insurance subsidiaries and material transactions between 
companies within the system are subject to prior notice to, or approval by, 
state regulatory authorities.

     AFLAC and its insurance subsidiaries, in common with all U.S. insurance 
companies, are subject to regulation and supervision in the states and other 
jurisdictions in which they do business.  In general, the insurance laws of 
the various jurisdictions establish supervisory agencies with broad 
administrative powers relating to, among other things: granting and revoking 
licenses to transact business, regulating trade practices, licensing agents, 
prior approval of forms of policies and premium rate increases, standards of 
solvency and maintenance of specified policy benefit reserves and minimum 
loss ratio requirements, capital for the protection of policyholders, 
limitations on dividends to shareholders, the nature of and limitations on 
investments, deposits of securities for the benefit of policyholders, filing 
of annual reports and financial statements prepared in accordance with 
statutory insurance accounting practices prescribed or permitted by the 
regulatory authorities, and periodic examinations of the 

                                     I-14

financial, market conduct, and other affairs of insurance companies.  In 
addition, the National Association of Insurance Commissioners (NAIC) is 
currently working on regulatory initiatives relating to investments, 
reinsurance, dividend restrictions, revision of the risk-based capital 
formula and other matters.

     Currently, prescribed or permitted statutory accounting principles 
(SAP) may vary between states and between companies.  The NAIC is in the 
process of recodifying SAP to promote standardization throughout the 
industry.  Completion of this project will result in changes in statutory 
accounting practices for the Company.  The impact on the Company's statutory 
capital and surplus is not presently determinable.

     For further information concerning state regulatory and dividend 
restrictions, see Exhibit 13, page 13-57 (Note 10 - Statutory Accounting and 
Dividend Restrictions of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements), 
incorporated herein by reference.

     The NAIC risk-based capital formula for U.S. life insurance companies 
established capital requirements relating to insurance risk, business risk, 
asset risk and interest rate risk.  These requirements are intended to 
facilitate identification by insurance regulators of inadequately 
capitalized insurance companies based upon the types and mixtures of risks 
inherent in the insurer's operations.  The formulas for determining the 
amount of risk-based capital specify various weighting factors that are 
applied to financial balances or various levels of activity based on the 
perceived degree of risk.  Regulatory compliance is determined by a ratio of 
the company's regulatory total adjusted capital to its authorized control 
level risk-based capital, as defined by the NAIC.  Companies below specific 
trigger points or ratios are classified within certain levels, each of which 
requires specified corrective action.  The levels are company action, 
regulatory action, authorized control and mandatory control.  AFLAC's NAIC 
risk-based capital ratio continues to reflect a very strong statutory 
capital and surplus position.

     Currently, three states have laws, regulations or regulatory practices 
that either prohibit the sale of specified disease insurance, such as 
AFLAC's cancer expense insurance, or make its sale impractical.  These 
states are Massachusetts, New Jersey and New York.  Regulations in 
Connecticut were recently changed to allow the sale of specified disease 
insurance beginning in June 1997.  The remainder of the states do not impose 
prohibitions or restrictions that prevent AFLAC from marketing cancer 
expense insurance.  AFLAC U.S. is marketing several of its other products in 
these states, directly or through a subsidiary.

     Under insurance guaranty fund laws in most U.S. states, insurance 
companies doing business therein can be assessed up to prescribed limits for 
policyholder losses incurred by insolvent companies with similar lines of 
business.  Such assessments have not been material to the Company in recent 
years.  The Company believes that future assessments relating to companies 
currently involved in insolvency proceedings will not materially impact the 
consolidated financial statements.






                                     I-15

EMPLOYEES - U.S.

     In its U.S. insurance operations, the Company employed 1,697 full-time 
and 32 part-time employees at December 31, 1996.  The Company considers its 
employee relations to be excellent.


RESERVES - JAPAN AND U.S.

     The reserves reported in the financial statements have been computed in 
accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP).  These 
reserves differ from those reflected in the various regulatory financial 
statements filed by the Company.  Such differences arise from the use of 
different mortality, morbidity, interest, lapse assumptions and actuarial 
reserving methods as required by the laws of the various states and Japan.


OTHER OPERATIONS

     The Company's other operations primarily include seven network-
affiliated television stations located in small to mid-size U.S. markets.  
Broadcast revenues increased 13.3% in 1996 and 5.1% in 1995 primarily due to 
increased advertising revenues from an improved U.S. economy and from the 
political elections in 1996.

     As previously mentioned, the Company entered into definitive agreements 
for the sale of its broadcast division business.  The sale of one station, 
WAFB-TV in Baton Rouge, Louisiana, closed on December 31, 1996.  Management 
expects the sale of the remaining six stations will close during the first 
half of 1997.

     The Broadcast Division employed 477 full-time and 87 part-time 
employees at December 31, 1996.  The Broadcast Division considers its 
employee relations to be excellent.  The Company's other operations, in 
addition to Broadcast, had 308 employees at December 31, 1996; employee 
relations are considered to be excellent.

     For additional information regarding other operations, see Exhibit 13, 
page 13-15 (Other Operations section of MD&A), which is incorporated herein 
by reference.



ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     AFLAC owns an 18-story office building, which is the worldwide 
headquarters of the Parent Company and AFLAC, along with a six-story parking 
garage.  These structures are located on approximately 14 acres of land in 
Columbus, Georgia.  The Company also owns two additional buildings located 
on the same property.  AFLAC also owns administrative office buildings 
located nearby.  AFLAC New York occupies leased office space in Albany, New 
York.

     In Tokyo, Japan, AFLAC owns an 11-story administrative office building, 
which was completed in April 1994.  AFLAC also leases office space in Tokyo 
along with regional sales offices located throughout the country, and owns a 
training facility in Tokyo.

                                    I-16

     The Broadcast Division owns land, buildings, transmission towers and 
other broadcast equipment in the cities where its six television stations 
are located.  These properties will be sold in conjunction with the sale of 
the Broadcast Division during the first half of 1997.



ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is a defendant in various litigation considered to be in 
the normal course of business.  Some of this litigation is pending in 
Alabama, where large punitive damages bearing little relation to the actual 
damages sustained by plaintiffs have been awarded against other companies, 
including insurers, in recent years.  During 1995, the Company settled 
certain litigation in Alabama related to an ancillary line of business.  
However, the settlement was not material to the Company's consolidated net 
earnings for the year.  Although the final results of any litigation cannot 
be predicted with certainty, the Company believes the outcome of the 
litigation still pending will not have a material adverse effect on the 
financial position of the Company.



ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     There were no matters submitted to the security holders for a vote in 
the fourth quarter ended December 31, 1996.































                                    I-17

ITEM 4A.  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
        NAME                   PRINCIPAL OCCUPATION (*)               AGE
- -------------------       -------------------------------------       ---

Daniel P. Amos            President; Chief Executive Officer of        45
                            AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC, Vice
                            Chairman of AFLAC Incorporated   


Paul S. Amos              Chairman of the Board of AFLAC               70
                            Incorporated and AFLAC


William J. Bugg, Jr.      Senior Vice President, Corporate             57
                            Actuary of AFLAC


Monthon Chuaychoo         Vice President, Financial Services, of       53
                            AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC since
                            September 1993; Second Vice President,
                            Assistant Controller of AFLAC 
                            Incorporated and AFLAC to
                            September 1993


Kriss Cloninger III       Executive Vice President, Chief              49
                            Financial Officer of AFLAC Incorporated
                            and AFLAC, and Treasurer of AFLAC
                            Incorporated since March 1993; Senior
                            Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
                            of AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC and
                            Treasurer of AFLAC Incorporated from
                            March 1992 until March 1993; Principal,
                            KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, Atlanta, GA until
                            March 1992                  


Martin A. Durant, III     Senior Vice President, Corporate Services,   48
                            of AFLAC Incorporated and AFLAC since
                            August 1993; Vice President and
                            Controller of AFLAC Incorporated and 
                            AFLAC to August 1993


Norman P. Foster          Executive Vice President, Corporate          62
                            Finance, of AFLAC Incorporated 
                            and AFLAC since March 1992; Senior Vice 
                            President, Chief Financial Officer  
                            of AFLAC Incorporated, and AFLAC and 
                            Treasurer of AFLAC Incorporated until
                            March 1992 







                                    I-18

David Halmrast            Senior Vice President, Director of           57
                            Corporate and Market Development of
                            AFLAC Incorporated since September
                            1996; Senior Vice President, Corporate 
                            Development, of AFLAC until  
                            September 1996; Senior Vice President,
                            Corporate Development of AFLAC
                            Incorporated until December 1993;
                            Senior Vice President and Chief
                            Financial Officer of Colonial
                            Companies, Inc. until July 1992


Kenneth S. Janke Jr.      Senior Vice President, Investor              38
                            Relations, of AFLAC Incorporated
                            since August 1993; Vice President,
                            Investor Relations, of AFLAC 
                            Incorporated until August 1993


Akitoshi Kan              Deputy Chief Financial Officer of AFLAC,     49
                            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,
                            Accounting, Information Systems, ABC
                            and Legal affairs since January 1997;
                            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan, 
                            Accounting, Corporate Planning, Audit,
                            and Legal Affairs until January 1997;
                            Vice President, AFLAC Japan Accounting 
                            Department until 1995


Kyoichi Kasuya            Vice President, Chief Actuary, AFLAC         59
                            Japan


Nobuo Kawamura            Senior Vice President, AFLAC Japan,          52
                            Underwriting, Policy Maintenance, 
                            Premium Accounting, Customer Service, 
                            Administration Support


Joseph P. Kuechenmeister  Senior Vice President, Director              55
                            of Marketing of AFLAC


Joey M. Loudermilk        Senior Vice President, General Counsel       43
                            and Corporate Secretary of AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC, and Director,
                            Legal and Governmental Relations of
                            AFLAC since May 1992; Senior Vice
                            President, Corporate Counsel and 
                            Assistant Secretary of AFLAC 
                            Incorporated and AFLAC and Director,
                            Legal and Governmental Affairs of AFLAC
                            until May 1992



                                    I-19


Hidefumi Matsui           President, AFLAC Japan, since January        52
                            1995, Executive Vice President of AFLAC
                            Japan until 1995


Minoru Nakai              President of AFLAC International, Inc.       55


Yoshiki Otake             Chairman, AFLAC Japan, since January         57
                            1995, Vice Chairman of AFLAC 
                            International Inc., President of 
                            AFLAC Japan until 1995


E. Stephen Purdom         Executive Vice President, U.S. Operations,   49
                            of AFLAC since October 1994; Senior Vice
                            President, Medical Director of AFLAC
                            until October 1994, and also Medical
                            Director, Columbus Clinic, Columbus,
                            GA until September 1994 


Joseph W. Smith, Jr.      Senior Vice President, Chief Investment      43
                            Officer of AFLAC 


Gary L. Stegman           Senior Vice President, Assistant Chief       47
                            Financial Officer of AFLAC
                            Incorporated and AFLAC; Treasurer
                            and Assistant Secretary of AFLAC 

  (*)  Unless specifically noted, the respective executive officer has held
       the occupation(s) set forth in the table for at least five years. 
       Each executive officer is appointed annually by the board of
       directors and serves until his successor is chosen and qualified,
       or until his death, resignation or removal.
                                   




















                                    I-20


                                 PART II       

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 5 through 8 are 
incorporated by reference from the Company's 1996 Annual Report to 
Shareholders, the appropriate sections of which are included herein as 
Exhibit 13.
                                               Exhibit 13   Annual Report
                                                  Pages         Pages  
                                               __________   _______________


ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE COMPANY'S COMMON      13-1; 13-2;  1; 50 (Note 10); 
          EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER         13-57        and 53-54
          MATTERS                               (Note 10)      


ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA              13-3; 13-4       26 - 27


ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND          13-5 to          28 - 36
          ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION       13-24
          AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 


ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND             13-25 to         37 - 52
          SUPPLEMENTARY DATA                    13-64


ITEM 9.   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS           None            None
          WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
          AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE             


























                                    II-1


                                  PART III 

     Pursuant to General Instruction G to Form 10-K, Items 10 through 13 are 
incorporated by reference from the Company's definitive Proxy Statement 
relating to the Company's 1997 Annual Meeting of Shareholders, which was 
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on March 14, 1997, 
pursuant to Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.  

                                      Refer to the Information  Refer to
                                      Contained in the Proxy    Printed
                                      Statement under Captions    Proxy
                                       (filed electronically)   Statement
                                                                  Pages
                                      ________________________  _________

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE     Security Ownership of       3 - 7
          OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY     Management.  1. Election
             Directors                of Directors
             Executive Officers -      
               see Part I, Item 4A
               herein  


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION      Board and Committee         8 - 19
                                      Meetings and Directors
                                      Compensation; Summary 
                                      Compensation Table; De-
                                      fined Benefit Pension
                                      Plan; Retirement Plans
                                      for Key Executives; 
                                      Employment Contracts and
                                      Termination of Employ-
                                      ment Arrangements


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF       Voting Securities and       2 - 7
          CERTAIN BENEFICIAL          Principal Holders 
          OWNERS AND                  Thereof. Security Owner-
          MANAGEMENT                  ship of Management.  
                                      1. Election of Directors


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS       Certain Transactions           19
          AND RELATED                 and Relationships
          TRANSACTIONS












                                    III-1


                                   PART IV 

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  1.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS                                   Page(s)
                                                              ----------- 
         Included in Part II of this report and
         incorporated by reference to the following
         pages of Exhibit 13:
           AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries:
             Consolidated Statements of Earnings, for            13-25
              each of the years in the three-year                 
              period ended December 31, 1996                   
             Consolidated Balance Sheets, at December            13-26
              31, 1996 and 1995                                   13-27
             Consolidated Statements of Shareholders'            13-28 -
              Equity, for each of the years in the                13-29
              three-year period ended December 31,
             Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows,              13-30 -
              for each of the years in the three-year             13-31
              period ended December 31, 1996             
             Notes to the Consolidated Financial                 13-32 to
              Statements                                          13-61
             Report of Independent Auditors                      13-63

     2.  FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

         Included in Part IV of this report:
           Auditors' Report on Financial Statement Schedules      IV-5
           Schedule I   -  Summary of Investments - Other         IV-6
                            Than Investments in Related 
                            Parties, at December 31, 1996         
           Schedule II  -  Condensed Financial Information of    IV-7 -
                            Registrant, at December 31, 1996      IV-11
                            and 1995 and for each of the 
                            years in the three-year period 
                            ended December 31, 1996         
           Schedule IV  -  Reinsurance, for each of the           IV-12
                            years in the three-year period 
                            ended December 31, 1996                

     Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are 
not required or are not applicable, or the required information is shown in 
the financial statements or notes thereto.  












                                     IV-1

     3.  EXHIBITS

         3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
                  reference from 1991 Form 10-K, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
                  amended - incorporated by reference from 
                  Form 10-Q for June 30, 1996, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-96-000012, Exhibit 3.0.
         4.0    - There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
                  amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total 
                  assets of AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries on a
                  consolidated basis.  The Company agrees to furnish a copy
                  of any of its long-term debt instruments to the Securities
                  and Exchange Commission upon request.
        10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
                  (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
                  Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the 
                  AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family 
                  Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and
                  Stock Option Plan (1985).
        10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
                  incorporated by reference from Registration Statement
                  No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC
                  Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
                  Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan
                  (1985).
        10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan - 
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy 
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 
                  0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
        10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
                  amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
                  Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
                  1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
        10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior 
                  Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.2.
        10.3*   - American Family Corporation Supplemental Executive 
                  Retirement Plan - incorporated by reference from 1989  
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.3.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement 
                  Plan, as amended, effective September 1, 1993 -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K, Commission
                  file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000006,
                  Exhibit 10.3.1.
        10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P. 
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
                  from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
                  Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
        10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  
                  Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
                  1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K,
                  Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
                  0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.


                                      IV-2

        10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss 
                  Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended 
                  November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.
        10.7*   - AFLAC Incorporated Management Incentive Plan -
                  incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy
                  Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession 
                  No. 0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit B.
        10.8*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Hidefumi Matsui, dated
                  January 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.8.
        10.9*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
                  Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
                  October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
                  Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
                  No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
        10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S.
                  Amos, dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference
                  from form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file
                  number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023,
                  Exhibit 10.1.
        13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
                  Report to Shareholders for 1996.
        21.0    - Subsidiaries.
        23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with
                  respect to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American
                  Family Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982)
                  and Stock Option Plan (1985).
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-41926 with
                  respect to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                  Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with
                  respect to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement
                  Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
                  to the AFL Stock Plan.
                - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                  Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect
                  to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
        27.0    - Financial Data Schedule (electronic filing only).

*Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.




                                      IV-3

(b)   REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

      There were no reports filed on Form 8-K for the quarter ended
      December 31, 1996.

(c)   EXHIBITS FILED WITH CURRENT FORM 10-K

      13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual 
                Report to Shareholders for 1996.
      21.0    - Subsidiaries.
      23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family  
                Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock 
                Option Plan (1985).
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-41926 with respect
                to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
                Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect
                to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(k) Retirement Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
                to the AFL Stock Plan.
              - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
                Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect
                to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
      27.0    - Financial Data Schedule (electronic filing only).
























                                     IV-4






INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT ON FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 


The Shareholders and Board of Directors  
AFLAC Incorporated:

Under date of January 29, 1997, we reported on the consolidated balance 
sheets of AFLAC Incorporated and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 
1995, and the related consolidated statements of earnings, shareholders' 
equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended 
December 31, 1996, as contained in the 1996 annual report to shareholders.  
These consolidated financial statements and our report thereon are 
incorporated by reference in the annual report on Form 10-K for the year 
1996.  In connection with our audits of the aforementioned consolidated 
financial statements, we also audited the related financial statement 
schedules as listed in Item 14.  These financial statement schedules are the 
responsibility of the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to 
express an opinion on these financial statement schedules based on our 
audits.

In our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in 
relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, 
present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.







                                               KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP


Atlanta, Georgia
January 29, 1997


















                                      IV-5

                                   SCHEDULE I
                       AFLAC INCORPORATED AND SUBSIDIARIES
     Summary of Investments - Other than Investments in Related Parties
                               December 31, 1996


(In thousands)                                                   Amount in
                                                     Fair         Balance 
      Type of Investment               Cost          Value         Sheet  
    -----------------------         -----------   -----------   ----------
Securities available for sale:
 Fixed maturities:
  Bonds:
   United States Government and 
     government agencies and
     authorities                    $   687,556   $   707,510   $   707,510
   States, municipalities and 
     political subdivisions               6,840         6,477         6,477
   Foreign governments                7,523,637     8,954,473     8,954,473
   Public utilities                   2,865,634     3,263,311     3,263,311
   Convertibles                          27,005        29,544        29,544
   All other corporate bonds          6,830,528     7,366,411     7,366,411
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total fixed maturities 
         available for sale          17,941,200    20,327,726    20,327,726
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
 Equity securities:
  Common stocks:
   Public utilities                       3,665         4,395         4,395
   Banks, trusts and insurance
     companies                            6,628        11,685        11,685
   Industrial, miscellaneous 
     and all other                       75,956       120,248       120,248
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total equity securities           86,249       136,328       136,328
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
       Total securities
         available for sale          18,027,449    20,464,054    20,464,054

Mortgage loans on real estate            17,802        21,151        17,802
Policy loans                              1,273         1,273         1,273
Other long-term investments               1,726         1,726         1,726
Short-term investments                  261,680       261,680       261,680
                                     ----------    ----------    ----------
      Total investments             $18,309,930   $20,749,884   $20,746,535
                                     ==========    ==========    ==========












                                     IV-6

                                 SCHEDULE II 
                 CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                           Condensed Balance Sheets
                       AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)
                              (In thousands)
                                                     December 31, 
                                                   1996         1995    
                                                ----------    ---------- 
ASSETS:
Investments:
  Investments in subsidiaries*               $ 2,677,304     $ 2,573,606 
  Other investments:
    Money market funds                            22,458          17,346 
    Mortgage loans and other                       2,350           2,548 
                                              ----------      ---------- 
      Total investments                        2,702,112       2,593,500 
Due from subsidiaries*                             3,947           3,910 
Other receivables                                  2,523           4,478 
Property and equipment, net                        8,428           9,231 
Other                                              3,288           1,291 
                                              ----------      ---------- 
      Total assets                             2,720,298       2,612,410 
                                              ==========      ========== 
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:
Liabilities:
  Cash overdraft                                     286             160
  Due to subsidiaries*                               869           1,237 
  Notes payable (note A)                         327,408         272,158 
  Employee and beneficiary benefit plans         183,807         147,319 
  Income taxes, primarily deferred                45,948          33,577 
  Other                                           36,411          23,818 
Commitments and contingencies (note B)                               
                                              ----------      ---------- 
      Total liabilities                          594,729         478,269 
                                              ----------      ---------- 
Shareholders' equity:
  Common stock of $.10 par value:
    Authorized 175,000; issued 157,239
    shares in 1996 and 156,358 shares
    in 1995                                       15,724          15,636 
  Additional paid-in capital                     208,994         196,928 
  Unrealized foreign currency
    translation gains                            229,782         213,319 
  Unrealized gains on securities
    available for sale                           280,154         482,787 
  Retained earnings (note D)                   1,917,794       1,577,605 
  Treasury stock, at average cost               (526,425)       (351,117)
  Notes receivable for stock purchases              (454)         (1,017)
                                              ----------      ---------- 
      Total shareholders' equity               2,125,569       2,134,141 
                                              ----------      ---------- 
      Total liabilities and
        shareholders' equity                 $ 2,720,298     $ 2,612,410 
                                              ==========      ========== 

* Eliminated in consolidation.
See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.
                                     IV-7

                                  SCHEDULE II 
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT 

                        Condensed Statements of Earnings 
                        AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only) 
                                 (In thousands)

                                           Years ended December 31,
                                         1996         1995         1994
                                      ----------   ----------   ---------- 
Revenues:
  Dividends from subsidiaries*        $  137,692   $   82,343   $  109,533 
  Management and service fees
    from subsidiaries*                    30,470       30,509       26,391 
  Other income from subsidiaries,
    principally rental and interest*           6          196          683 
  Other income                             4,041        1,069        1,327
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
      Total revenues                     172,209      114,117      137,934 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
Operating expenses:
  Interest expense - subsidiaries*            16           30           22 
  Interest expense - others               10,512        8,419        6,070 
  Capitalized interest                         -            -       (2,419)
  Other operating expenses                84,055       70,921       65,635 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
      Total operating expenses            94,583       79,370       69,308 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
   Earnings before income taxes and
     equity in undistributed earnings
     of subsidiaries                      77,626       34,747       68,626 

Income tax expense (note C)               12,410        8,583          874 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
   Earnings before equity in
     undistributed earnings of
     subsidiaries                         65,216       26,164       67,752 

Equity in undistributed earnings
  of subsidiaries                        329,147      322,893      225,038 
                                       ---------    ---------    --------- 
     Net earnings                     $  394,363   $  349,057   $  292,790 
                                       =========    =========    ========= 

* Eliminated in consolidation.
See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.












                                      IV-8

                                   SCHEDULE II
                  CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT
                       Condensed Statements of Cash Flows
                        AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only)
                                 (In thousands)
                                             Years ended December 31,
                                           1996        1995        1994
                                        ----------  ----------  ---------- 
Cash flows from operating activities:
  Net earnings                          $  394,363  $  349,057  $  292,790 
  Adjustments to reconcile net
    earnings to net cash provided
    from operating activities:
      Equity in undistributed
        earnings of subsidiaries          (329,147)   (322,893)   (225,038)
      Deferred income taxes                 12,371       8,178        (578)
      Employee and beneficiary  
        benefit plans                       36,488      30,174      32,700 
      Other, net                            14,814      17,017       4,307 
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
        Net cash provided by
          operating activities             128,889      81,533     104,181 
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
Cash flows from investing activities:
  Net (increase) decrease in
    other investments                       (4,914)    (14,325)     18,998
  Additional capitalization
    of subsidiaries                              -           -      (3,592)
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
       Net cash (used)/provided by
         investing activities               (4,914)    (14,325)     15,406
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
Cash flows from financing activities:
  Proceeds from borrowings                 135,914     198,250      84,000 
  Assumption of debt from affiliate         15,389           -           -
  Principal payments under debt
    obligations                            (57,671)    (11,507)    (26,541)
  Proceeds from exercise of
    stock options                            6,549       3,235       2,163 
  Dividends paid to shareholders           (54,174)    (48,939)    (44,928)
  Purchases of treasury stock             (204,169)   (224,204)   (131,734)
  Treasury stock reissued                   34,549       9,693       2,761 
  Net change in amount due 
    to/from subsidiaries                      (405)      6,186      (5,331)
  Other, net                                   (83)          -           -
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
       Net cash used by
         financing activities             (124,101)    (67,286)   (119,610)
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
       Net change in cash                     (126)        (78)        (23)
Cash (overdraft) at beginning of year         (160)        (82)        (59)
                                         ---------   ---------   --------- 
Cash (overdraft) at end of year         $     (286) $     (160) $      (82)
                                         =========   =========   ========= 

See the accompanying Notes to Condensed Financial Statements.


                                     IV-9

                               SCHEDULE II
                CONDENSED FINANCIAL INFORMATION OF REGISTRANT

                   Notes to Condensed Financial Statements 
                      AFLAC Incorporated (Parent Only) 


     The accompanying condensed financial statements should be read in 
conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto of 
AFLAC Incorporated and Subsidiaries (see Part II - Item 8).

(A)  NOTES PAYABLE 

     A summary of notes payable serviced by the Parent Company at
December 31, 1996 and 1995 follows:

(In thousands)                                          1996          1995 
                                                      --------      --------

2.74% unsecured, yen-denominated notes payable
  to banks under reducing revolving credit
  agreement, due annually through July 2001........  $ 284,238    $ 230,695
Unsecured, yen-denominated notes payable 
  to banks, due semiannually, through October
  1997, variable interest rate (.88% at
  December 31, 1996)...............................     17,453            -
9.60% to 10.72% unsecured notes payable to bank,
  due semiannually, through 1998, assumed from
  broadcast affiliates in 1996.....................     15,389            -
8.3% note payable, due monthly through March 1997,
  secured by equipment.............................        478        2,296 
5.965% unsecured notes payable to banks,         
  refinanced in 1996...............................          -       39,167
Short-term yen-denominated note payable to
  bank under unsecured line of credit, variable
  interest rate (.76% at December 31, 1996)........      9,850            -
                                                      --------     -------- 
    Total notes payable............................  $ 327,408    $ 272,158 
                                                      ========     ======== 


     The aggregate maturities of the notes payable for each of the five
years after December 31, 1996, are as follows:

     (In thousands)

         1997............................................  $ 93,074
         1998............................................    63,792
         1999............................................    56,848
         2000............................................    56,848
         2001............................................    56,846







                                     IV-10

(B)  CONTINGENCIES

     In prior years, the Parent Company executed promissory notes to banks 
and transferred the proceeds to its broadcast affiliates for the acquisition 
of television broadcasting stations.  On December 31, 1996, the Parent 
Company assumed the remaining debt from the broadcast affiliates.  The 
amount of such debt assumed was $15.4 million.


(C)  INCOME TAXES

     The Company and its eligible U.S. subsidiaries file a consolidated U.S. 
federal income tax return.  Income tax liabilities or benefits are recorded 
by each principal subsidiary based upon separate return calculations, and 
any difference between the consolidated provision and the aggregate amounts 
recorded by the subsidiaries is reflected in the Parent Company financial 
statements.  

     For further information on income taxes, see Exhibit 13, page 13-51, 
Note 8 of the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.


(D)  DIVIDEND RESTRICTIONS

     See Exhibit 13, pages 13-57 and 13-58 (Note 10, Statutory Accounting 
and Dividend Restrictions, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial 
Statements) for information regarding dividend restrictions.


(E)  SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURES OF CASH FLOW INFORMATION

     (In thousands)                           1996       1995       1994
                                            --------   --------   --------
     Cash payments during the year for:
       Interest on debt obligations        $  9,805   $  7,807   $  6,302
       Income taxes                               -        406        400



(F)  ACCOUNTING CHANGES

     For information concerning the cumulative effect of new accounting 
standards adopted in 1996, 1995, and 1994, see page 13-35 of Exhibit 13, 
Note 1, section on Accounting Changes Adopted, of Notes to the Consolidated 
Financial Statements.












                                     IV-11








                                SIGNATURES 

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be 
signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                            AFLAC Incorporated



Date   MARCH 26, 1997                 By    /s/ PAUL S. AMOS           
      ------------------------           ----------------------------------
                                               (Paul S. Amos)
                                         Chairman of the Board of Directors


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this 
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.



/s/ DANIEL P. AMOS           Chief Executive Officer,     MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------     President and Vice           -----------------
 (Daniel P. Amos)            Chairman of the Board 
                             of Directors 





/s/ KRISS CLONINGER, III     Executive Vice President,    MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------     Chief Financial Officer      -----------------
(Kriss Cloninger, III)        and Treasurer         





/s/ NORMAN P. FOSTER         Executive Vice President,    MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------     Corporate Finance            -----------------
(Norman P. Foster)           














                                     IV-13


    /s/ J. SHELBY AMOS, II            Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
       (J. Shelby Amos, II)




  /s/  MICHAEL H. ARMACOST            Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
    (Michael H. Armacost)




  /s/  M. DELMAR EDWARDS, M.D.        Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (M. Delmar Edwards, M.D.)




  /s/  GEORGE W. FORD, JR.            Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (George W. Ford, Jr.)




  /s/  JOE FRANK HARRIS               Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
      (Joe Frank Harris)




  /s/  ELIZABETH J. HUDSON            Director            MARCH 26, 1997  
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Elizabeth J. Hudson)




  /s/  KENNETH S. JANKE, SR.          Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Kenneth S. Janke, Sr.)




  /s/  CHARLES B. KNAPP               Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Charles B. Knapp)





                                     IV-14





  /s/  HISAO KOBAYASHI                Director            MARCH 26, 1997
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Hisao Kobayashi)




  /s/  YOSHIKI OTAKE                  Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Yoshiki Otake)



  /s/ E. STEPHEN PURDOM               Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (E. Stephen Purdom)



  /s/ BARBARA K. RIMER                Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Barbara K. Rimer)



/s/  HENRY C. SCHWOB                  Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (Henry C. Schwob)



  /s/  J. KYLE SPENCER                Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
     (J. Kyle Spencer)



  /s/  GLENN VAUGHN, JR.              Director            MARCH 26, 1997   
- ------------------------------                            -----------------
   (Glenn Vaughn, Jr.)














                                     IV-15

Exhibit Index


     3.0    - Articles of Incorporation, as amended - incorporated by
              reference from 1991 Form 10-K, Commission file number
              1-7434, Exhibit 3.0; and Bylaws of the Company, as
              amended - incorporated by reference from Form 10-Q for
              June 30, 1996, Commission file number 1-7434,
              Accession No. 0000004977-96-000012, Exhibit 3.0.
     4.0    - There are no long-term debt instruments in which the total
              amount of securities authorized exceeds 10% of the total
              assets of AFLAC Incorporated and its subsidiaries on a
              consolidated basis.  The Company agrees to furnish a copy
              of any of its long-term debt instruments to the Securities
              and Exchange Commission upon request.
    10.0*   - American Family Corporation Incentive Stock Option Plan
              (1982) - incorporated by reference from Registration
              Statement No. 33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the 
              AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation)
              Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan 
              (1985).
    10.1*   - American Family Corporation Stock Option Plan (1985) -
              incorporated by reference from Registration Statement No.
              33-44720 on Form S-8 with respect to the AFLAC
              Incorporated (Formerly American Family Corporation) 
              Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock Option Plan 
              (1985).
    10.1.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan - 
              incorporated by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy 
              Statement, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No. 
              0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit A.
    10.1.2* - AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan, as
              amended August 8, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
              Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
              1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.
    10.2*   - American Family Corporation Retirement Plan for Senior 
              Officers, as amended and restated October 1, 1989 -
              incorporated by reference from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission
              file number 1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006,
              Exhibit 10.2.
    10.3*   - American Family Corporation Supplemental Executive 
              Retirement Plan - incorporated by reference from 1989  
              Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Exhibit 10.9.
    10.3.1* - AFLAC Incorporated Supplemental Executive Retirement 
              Plan, as amended, effective September 1, 1993 - incorporated
              by reference from 1994 Form 10-K, Commission file number
              1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.3.1.
    10.4*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Daniel P. 
              Amos, dated August 1, 1993 - incorporated by reference
              from 1993 Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434,
              Accession No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.4.
    10.5*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus  
              Employment Agreement with Yoshiki Otake, dated January 1,
              1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994 Form 10-K, 
              Commission file number 1-7434, Accession No.
              0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.5.


                                      i

    10.6*   - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Kriss 
              Cloninger, III, dated February 14, 1992, and as amended 
              November 12, 1993 - incorporated by reference from 1993
              Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
              No. 0000004977-94-000006, Exhibit 10.6.
    10.7*   - AFLAC Incorporated Management Incentive Plan - incorporated
              by reference from 1994 Shareholders' Proxy Statement,
              Commission file number 1-7434, Accession 
              No. 0000004977-94-000003, Exhibit B.
    10.8*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
              Employment Agreement with Hidefumi Matsui, dated
              January 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from 1994
              Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
              No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.8.
    10.9*   - American Family Life Assurance Company of Columbus
              Employment Agreement with Dr. E. Stephen Purdom, dated
              October 25, 1994 - incorporated by reference from 1994
              Form 10-K, Commission file number 1-7434, Accession
              No. 0000004977-95-000006, Exhibit 10.9.
    10.10*  - AFLAC Incorporated Employment Agreement with Paul S. Amos,
              dated August 1, 1995 - incorporated by reference from
              Form 10-Q for September 30, 1995, Commission file number
              1-7434, Accession No. 0000004977-95-000023, Exhibit 10.1.
    13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual
              Report to Shareholders for 1996.
    21.0    - Subsidiaries.
    23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family 
              Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock
              Option Plan (1985).
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-41926 with respect 
              to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect 
              to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(K) Retirement Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
              to the AFL Stock Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect
              to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
    27.0    - Financial Data Schedule (electronic filing only).

*Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.






                                      ii

Exhibits Filed with Current Form 10-K:

    13.0    - Selected information from the AFLAC Incorporated Annual 
              Report to Shareholders for 1996.
    21.0    - Subsidiaries.
    23.0    - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-44720 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated (Formerly American Family  
              Corporation) Incentive Stock Option Plan (1982) and Stock 
              Option Plan (1985).
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-53737 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 333-01243 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated Amended 1985 Stock Option Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-41926 with respect
              to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to 
              Form S-8 Registration Statement No. 33-41552 with respect
              to the AFLAC Incorporated 401(K) Retirement Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 33-64535 with respect
              to the AFL Stock Plan.
            - Consent of independent auditor, KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, to
              Form S-3 Registration Statement No. 333-16533 with respect
              to the AFLAC Associate Stock Bonus Plan.
    27.0    - Financial Data Schedule (electronic filing only).





























                                     iii
 



 

 










