
10-K405
EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY



                                  UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

(Mark One)

[X]      ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998

                                       OR

[ ]      TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15 (d) OF THE SECURITIES
         EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

         For the transition period from              to
                                        ------------    ------------

                         Commission file number 1-12626


                            EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)


                    DELAWARE                            62-1539359
         (State or other jurisdiction of             (I.R.S. employer
         incorporation or organization)             identification no.)

               100 N. EASTMAN ROAD
              KINGSPORT, TENNESSEE                         37660
      (Address of principal executive offices)          (Zip Code)


Registrant's telephone number, including area code:  (423) 229-2000



Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:






Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                 PAGE 1 OF 116 TOTAL SEQUENTIALLY NUMBERED PAGES
                            EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGE 66





Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

Yes   X     No
   --------   --------

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value (based upon the closing price on the New York Stock
Exchange on January 29, 1999) of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates as of
December 31, 1998 was approximately $3,209,415,421, using beneficial ownership
rules adopted pursuant to Section 13 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 to
exclude stock that may be deemed beneficially owned as of December 31, 1998 by
directors, executive officers, or the Company's charitable foundation, some of
whom might not be held to be affiliates upon judicial determination. At December
31, 1998, 79,263,548 shares of Common Stock of the registrant were outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the registrant's definitive Proxy Statement relating to the 1999
Annual Meeting of Shareowners (the "1999 Proxy Statement"), to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, are incorporated by reference in Part III,
Items 10-12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K as indicated herein.

                           FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

Forward-looking statements appear throughout this report. These statements
relate to planned capacity increases and capital spending; expected tax rates
and depreciation; environmental matters; the year 2000 issue; legal proceedings;
global economic conditions; supply and demand, volume, prices, costs, margin,
and sales and earnings and cash flow expectations and strategies for individual
products, businesses, and segments as well as for the whole of Eastman Chemical
Company; cost reduction targets; and development, production, commercialization,
and acceptance of new products and technologies. These plans and expectations
are based upon certain underlying assumptions, including those mentioned within
the text of this report. Such assumptions are in turn based upon internal
estimates and analyses of current market conditions and trends, management plans
and strategies, economic conditions, and other factors. These plans and
expectations and the assumptions underlying them are necessarily subject to
risks and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions and results.
Actual results could differ materially from expectations expressed in the
forward-looking statements if one or more of the underlying assumptions and
expectations proves to be inaccurate or is unrealized.




























                                








                                     PART I

ITEM 1.      BUSINESS

GENERAL

Eastman Chemical Company ("Eastman" or the "Company") is a global chemical
company with a broad portfolio of plastic, chemical, and fiber products. The
Company manufactures and sells polyester plastics such as polyethylene
terephthalate ("PET") sold under the trademark EASTAPAK polymers, a plastic
widely used in beverage and food containers; coatings and paint raw materials;
industrial and fine chemicals; and acetate tow. The Company believes it has a
competitive advantage in several product areas due to its high level of
manufacturing integration, the use of state of the art process technologies and
its operating efficiencies due to its large-scale plants. In 1998 the Company
had sales of $4.481 billion, operating earnings of $434 million, net earnings of
$249 million, and earnings per share of $3.13 diluted.

The Company began business in 1920 for the purpose of producing chemicals for
Eastman Kodak Company's ("Kodak") photographic business. As of December 31,
1993, the Company became an independent entity when Eastman Kodak Company spun
off its chemical business. Today, the Company is one of the largest chemical
producers in the United States and a leader in the application of several
manufacturing technologies. The Company pioneered the application of coal
gasification technology for the production of chemicals (also referred to as
"chemicals from coal technology") and currently operates one of the largest coal
gasification facilities in the United States, thereby reducing the Company's
dependence on petrochemicals in the manufacture of acetate tow, certain
plastics, and other chemicals. The Company is also a leader in the manufacture
of oxo chemicals that are used in the production of numerous coatings and resin
intermediates, the manufacture of fine chemicals used in photographic and other
custom chemicals, and the application of advanced environmental waste management
practices for chemical manufacturing operations. The Company is a world leader
in production and recycling of a wide variety of polyester plastics, including
PET and other flexible packaging materials.

The Company categorizes its business into three segments, Specialty and
Performance, Core Plastics, and Chemical Intermediates. The Specialty and
Performance segment includes plastic, chemical, and fiber products that are
primarily sold to customers that base their buying decisions principally on a
product's performance attributes. The Core Plastics segment includes the
Company's major plastic product, EASTAPAK polymers for packaging applications,
as well as general purpose films. Core Plastics products share similar physical
characteristics and compete based on price and integrated manufacturing
capabilities. The Chemical Intermediates segment contains industrial
intermediate chemical products that are sold to customers operating in mature
markets in which multiple sources of supply exist. Proprietary products and
low-cost manufacturing positions are the foundation of the Chemical
Intermediates segment. Eastman manages this diverse product portfolio with a
bias towards products that can contribute to stable earnings growth and returns
of at least 5 percent above the cost of capital over the chemical industry
cycle. For 1999, the Company is focusing on utilizing capacity, maintaining and
enhancing its advantaged cost structure, rededicating the Company to quality
management, and generating cash flow. The Company's executive management
continuously examines the Company's product portfolio to determine which
products are contributing or can contribute to the achievement of its long-term
and short-term strategic objectives. The Company has the capability to produce a
wide range of products within its manufacturing plant capacities and to change
product mix depending on customer demand and the Company's strategy.

The following table summarizes the Company's recent financial performance and
identifiable assets by operating segment and geographic area:

SEGMENT FINANCIAL SUMMARY (1)












Revenues are attributed to countries based on customer location. No individual
foreign country is material with respect to revenues or long-lived assets.

(1) Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1998
    presentation, which is prepared in accordance with SFAS 131, "Disclosures
    about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information." See Part II--Item
    8--"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data"--Note 15 to Consolidated
    Financial Statements.

BUSINESS STRATEGY

Eastman's business strategy is to achieve consistent, profitable growth, with a
bias towards short-term value creation, as a highly integrated, international
supplier of a diversified portfolio of plastics, chemicals, and fibers.
Specifically, the Company's strategic intent is "To Be The World's Preferred
Chemical Company." The following are the key elements the Company employs to
achieve this strategy:

Proprietary Products and Core Competencies

The Company has developed its broad chemical product line through the
application of three major areas of technical strength referred to by the
Company as technology core competencies: polymer technology, organic chemistry
technology, and cellulose technology. The polymer core competency includes
polyester, polyolefin, and other polymer technologies, and forms the technical
basis of the Company's polyester and polyethylene product lines. The organic
chemistry core competency includes coal gasification for chemicals, oxo
chemistry and complex organic chemistry technologies, and forms the basis of
the Company's fine chemical and intermediate chemical product lines. The
cellulose core competency includes cellulose conversion to acetate fibers and
plastic manufacturing technologies, and forms the basis of the Company's acetate
fibers and cellulose plastic product lines. The Company has developed or
acquired proprietary technologies and know-how with respect to each of these
core competencies. The Company's ongoing product development strategy is to
build on existing technology core competencies and develop new technology core
competencies.









Manufacturing Integration and Scale

The Company's strategy is to continue to use integration of its manufacturing
plants to develop a competitive advantage, while exploring innovative ways to
reduce capital intensity. This integration provides the Company with cost
efficient and flexible manufacturing operations. The Company's major
manufacturing plants are highly integrated. Intermediate chemicals produced at
one plant are frequently distributed between plants to produce other plastics
and chemicals. Starting with a limited number of basic raw materials, primarily
coal, ethane and propane, cellulose, ethylene glycol, paraxylene and other basic
chemicals, the Company uses its integrated manufacturing capabilities to produce
more than 400 major products. Through its development of highly integrated
manufacturing, Eastman has the capability to safely and efficiently operate
large-scale chemical plants, including one of the world's largest integrated
chemical plants in Kingsport, Tennessee. The Company's development efforts
include the continual improvement of these operations to achieve capacity
increases and other earnings enhancement projects with relatively low capital
expenditures.

Quality Management

Quality Management is a fundamental set of operating and management principles
that are an extension of the philosophy of the Company's founder, George
Eastman. During the last fifteen years, the Company has further developed these
principles into its current Quality Policy. This policy states the Company's
goal to be the leader in quality and value of products and services, by focusing
on customers, process control, continual improvement, and innovation. The
Company's highly integrated manufacturing operations support the Company's total
quality policy by providing internal control of intermediate raw material
processes. The Company's success in fostering this total quality policy is
evidenced by the U.S. Commerce Department's selection of the Company as the
recipient of the 1993 Malcolm Baldrige National Quality Award in the large
manufacturing category.

The Company has 13 quality system registrations to the international quality
standard, ISO 9000. Nine of these are in North America, two are in the United
Kingdom, and one each are in Spain and Mexico. Approximately 80% of 1998 sales
were from products manufactured in ISO 9000 registered quality systems.

Expansion in International Markets

Approximately 43% of the Company's customers representing 38% of the Company's
sales were outside the United States in 1998. The Company's strategy is to
produce long-term value-creating growth as it continues to globalize. The
Company has facilities in Hartlepool and Workington, England, for the
manufacture of polyester, used to produce film, bottles, and other packaging.
The Workington site also produces acetate tow. In addition, the Company's
operations include a polyester manufacturing facility in Toronto, Canada;
EASTAPAK polymers plants in Cosoleacaque, Veracruz, Mexico and San Roque, Spain;
and facilities in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong for the manufacture of fine
chemicals.

Several new international manufacturing facilities were started up in 1998,
increasing the Company's international presence. In 1998 EASTAPAK polymers
plants were completed in the Netherlands and Argentina. Other additions during
1998 include a facility in the Netherlands to produce purified terephthalic acid
("PTA"), a key raw material for the production of EASTAPAK polymers, and a new
plant in Kuantan, Malaysia, with capacity to produce 30,000 metric tons of
copolyester. In addition, limited production is underway at a new oxo chemicals
manufacturing complex in Singapore, with the facility expected to be fully
operational in early 1999. During 1998, the Company also announced that it had
acquired a German manufacturer of specialty polymers used by formulators of
architectural and industrial coatings, printing inks, adhesives, sealants and
floor care products. Additionally, during 1998 the Company announced its
agreement to form a joint venture in the People's Republic of China to produce
hydrocarbon tackifying resins for adhesive manufacturers. Plant construction is
expected to begin in mid-1999 and to be completed by late 2000.

The Company has increased its international sales and distribution
infrastructure during the past several years to position it for worldwide sales
growth. In particular, from 1990 through 1998, the Company increased personnel
outside the United States from approximately 500 to over 2,000 employees. During
the same time period, the number of Company sales offices outside the United
States increased from 25 to 36 in 32 countries.










The Company's current and future business expansions in international markets
are dependent on projected regional economic conditions. Generally, the Company
uses its international marketing organizations to sell into international
markets. After achieving sufficient sales levels and developing an understanding
of the markets and earnings potential, the Company may invest in manufacturing
capacity appropriate to serve the region, taking into account the projected
future business conditions in the region. See Part II--Item 7--"Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations-Results
of Operations--Summary by Customer Location" for a discussion of certain risks
to which the Company is subject as a result of its operating in international
markets.

Strategic Market Orientation

The Company's organization is aligned to focus on end use markets. The Company
believes that this emphasis helps mitigate the impact of economic downturns and
allows it to focus on growth.

Employee Ownership and Incentives

The Company believes that employee stock ownership will be a significant factor
in achieving its goal of consistent, profitable growth. The Eastman Employee
Stock Ownership Plan ("ESOP") is intended to foster employee ownership
throughout the Company, and stock ownership guidelines have been established for
the Company's directors and approximately 600 key Company managers. All Eastman
employees have placed at risk approximately 5% of their overall pay under the
Eastman Performance Plan, an annual incentive plan that rewards employees based
on the Company's achieved return on capital in relation to its cost of capital.
A certain portion of the incentive pay (approximately 5% of eligible employees'
annual pay in 1998, 1997, and 1996) has been made in the form of a contribution
by the Company of Eastman common stock under the ESOP. An additional portion of
management compensation is tied to Company performance under the Eastman Annual
Performance Plan. For further information concerning the Company's ESOP and
incentive pay plans, see Part II--Item 8--"Financial Statements and
Supplementary Data"--Note 9 to Consolidated Financial Statements and Part
III--Item 11--"Executive Compensation."


OPERATING SEGMENTS

Adoption of SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information" at yearend 1998 resulted in no material changes in the
products comprising the Company's existing segments. Prior periods have been
restated to conform to the 1998 presentation.

SPECIALTY AND PERFORMANCE SEGMENT

Specialty plastics are produced by the Company for value-added end uses, such as
toothbrushes, eyeglass frames, medical devices, electrical connectors, tools,
appliance housings, food and medical packaging, heavy gauge sheeting, fabricated
boxes, specialty packaging, films, extrusion coating, fibers, tape, industrial
strapping, and injection molding. The plastics supplied for these end uses
include polyesters, copolyesters, cellulosics, polyethylene, and alloys of two
or more plastics combined to provide specific performance characteristics. The
Company's strategy for these products is to identify and serve selected niche
markets that offer the potential for attractive returns. The Company's strong
core competency in cellulose esters, polyesters/copolyesters, and polyethylene
allows it to offer a wide range of differentiated high performance polymers in
selected markets. SPECTAR copolyester is the Company's fastest growing specialty
plastic. Heavy gauge sheet made of SPECTAR is used in supermarket bins, greeting
card and jewelry displays, indoor and outdoor signs, and vending machine fronts.
TENITE HIFOR and MXSTEN specialty polyethylene products have been introduced to
the market and are experiencing strong growth. The Company believes it has a
competitive advantage due to product performance, reliability of supply, product
differentiation, integrated manufacturing capabilities, and customer service.
Specialty plastics accounted for approximately 28% of 1998 Specialty and
Performance segment sales.

The Company is one of the world's largest suppliers of cellulose acetate tow, a
product developed by the Company in the 1950's that is used by customers
primarily in the manufacture of cigarette filters. With approximately 400 







million pounds of annual capacity at its plants in Kingsport, Tennessee, and
Workington, England, the Company accounts for approximately 28% of the annual
worldwide production of acetate tow, and sells to all major cigarette producers
throughout the world. The two primary raw materials used in the manufacture of
acetate tow are cellulose (from wood pulp) and acetic anhydride. The Company has
developed the world's only commercial coal gasification facility to produce the
latter. This facility reduces the Company's dependency on petrochemicals
otherwise required for the manufacture of acetate tow.

Competition for sales of acetate tow is based on price, product quality, and
reliability of supply. The Company believes that it enjoys a low-cost position
for raw materials as a result of its coal gasification technology, efficient
integrated manufacturing processes, and overall size.

Growth in the acetate tow market is directly related to the level of filtered
cigarette consumption, which continues to increase worldwide despite declining
levels of cigarette consumption in North America. Historically, worldwide
industry sales volume growth has averaged 3% per year. In 1995 and 1996
worldwide growth in the market for acetate tow, led primarily by sales to China,
resulted in higher levels of capacity utilization for both the Company and the
industry. During 1997 and 1998, industry capacity utilization declined somewhat
due to new domestic production facilities beginning operation in China,
resulting in lower sales of and lower operating earnings for acetate tow. The
Company expects little growth in worldwide demand for acetate tow over the long
term.

Acetate yarn is produced by the Company for the textile industry. Product price,
quality, and service are the primary factors influencing customer-purchasing
decisions. This product line utilizes the Company's basic cellulose technology
core competence along with its large cellulose acetate manufacturing position to
compete effectively. The market for acetate yarn has experienced essentially no
growth during recent years, and, in fact, declined slightly during 1998. The
Company has focused its efforts on improving its operating efficiencies to
maintain its product quality and cost position. Fibers accounted for
approximately 25% of 1998 Specialty and Performance segment sales.

The Company supplies a wide variety of raw materials and intermediate products
to the coatings, inks, and resins markets, including solvents, alcohols,
glycols, and resins. All of the Company's coatings, inks, and resins products
are currently produced in the United States with a majority of 1998 sales being
in the United States. Most of the products in this area are olefin or cellulose
derivatives and utilize the Company's proprietary oxo chemistry technology or
chemicals-from-coal technology. Products include mixed cellulose esters, of
which the Company is the world's only manufacturer. Competitive suppliers of
products into the coatings, inks, and resins markets compete based on price,
breadth of product line, reliability of supply, and customer service. The
Company believes it has a competitive advantage due to the efficiency of its
proprietary oxo chemistry technology and chemicals-from-coal technology, the
breadth of its product line, and its system of distribution. Coatings, inks and
resins accounted for approximately 22% of 1998 Specialty and Performance segment
sales.

Fine chemicals produced by Eastman are used in the manufacture of a wide variety
of products such as photographic products, home care products, agricultural
chemicals, and ethical pharmaceuticals. Many of these are custom chemicals
manufactured to precise customer specifications. Technical competence and
efficiency are major competitive elements in the fine chemicals industry. The
Company believes it has a competitive advantage because of its competency in
complex multi-step organic chemistry and the breadth of services, such as
regulatory compliance and process design and optimization, offered in custom
manufacturing from a global manufacturing base. Fine chemicals accounted for
approximately 14% of 1998 Specialty and Performance segment sales.

Eastman produces a variety of additives for fibers and plastics, raw materials
for adhesives and sealants, food and beverage ingredients, and other performance
products. Fiber and plastic additives are used to impart specialized processing
and performance characteristics to polymers used in the production of a range of
fibers and plastics products. The Company produces raw materials for adhesives
that are used in hot-melt and pressure-sensitive applications. Eastman is a
manufacturer of natural and synthetic food-grade antioxidants that are used to
enhance the stability and extend the shelf life of many products containing oils
and fats. The Company also manufactures many other performance products for use
in nutrition, cosmetic, textile and construction applications.









The Company believes it has a competitive advantage in many of the markets in
which these performance products are sold. Many proprietary products with highly
recognized trade names deliver to customers high quality and unique performance
attributes. Competitors and competitive conditions vary depending on the market.
Performance chemicals accounted for approximately 11% of 1998 Specialty and
Performance segment sales.

CORE PLASTICS SEGMENT

The Company is the world's leading supplier of polyester plastics, including
EASTAPAK polymers ("PET"), for packaging applications, with the majority of its
sales concentrated in North America, Europe, and Latin America. The market for
polyester plastics has grown significantly in recent years due to the
substitution of these plastics for other packaging materials used in soft drink,
food, and water containers. Industry estimates indicate that PET consumption
grew worldwide from 2.3 billion pounds per year in 1989 to approximately 10
billion pounds per year in 1998. Eastman capital expansion projects in the
Netherlands and Argentina added approximately 500 million pounds of additional
PET capacity in 1998. Overcapacity worldwide continues to pressure PET selling
prices; however, continued high growth rates should significantly improve the
supply/demand balance in the future.

Competition for the large volume PET market is based largely on price and
service. Management believes that the Company's large-scale operations, vertical
integration, and manufacturing expertise provide it with a competitive advantage
by allowing the Company to position itself as a price-competitive, consistently
reliable source of supply across a broad product line. In addition, the Company
has developed proprietary polyester polymers that enable it to respond to
specific customer design and performance requirements, and is a leader in the
manufacture of recycled-content PET. Container plastics accounted for
approximately 82% of 1998 Core Plastics segment sales.

The Company manufactures low density polyethylene ("LDPE") and linear low
density polyethylene ("LLDPE") polymers for general purpose film applications.
The markets for these polyethylene products are characterized generally as large
volume with a large number of customers and suppliers. The Company competes
based on its integrated manufacturing capabilities. Most of the Company's
competitors are larger, with some having a higher degree of vertical
integration. Flexible plastics accounted for approximately 18% of 1998 Core
Plastics segment sales.

CHEMICAL INTERMEDIATES SEGMENT

Industrial intermediate chemicals are produced based on the Company's oxo
chemistry technology and chemicals-from-coal technology. These products include
basic acetyl, oxo chemicals, and plasticizers, and are marketed to customers
producing esters, polymers, industrial additives, agricultural chemicals,
industrial intermediates, monomers and polymers, medical delivery equipment, and
pharmaceuticals. In 1998 approximately 79% of these products were sold in the
United States. Volume growth rates of these chemicals tend to follow the growth
in the world economy.

Competition in the market for industrial intermediate chemicals is based on
price, customer relationships, and reliability of supply. The Company's
large-scale integrated manufacturing provides the Company with a low-cost
position in several of these products. In addition, the Company is able to
provide its customers with a reliable source of supply through an extensive
distribution network.

RAW MATERIALS

The Company purchases substantially all of its key raw materials under long-term
contracts, generally of three to five years initial duration with renewal
provisions. Most of those agreements do not require the Company to buy materials
if its operations are shut down. Key raw materials purchased include cellulose,
ethylene glycol, paraxylene, purified terephthalic acid ("PTA"), coal, ethane,
and propane. The Company has multiple suppliers for most key raw materials and
uses quality management principles, such as the establishment of long-term
relationships with suppliers and ongoing performance assessment and
benchmarking, as part of the total supplier selection process.






CAPITAL EXPENDITURES

Total capital expenditures were $500 million in 1998, $749 million in 1997, and
$789 million in 1996. For 1999 the Company estimates that capital expenditures
will be equal to or less than depreciation. Efficiency of capital utilization is
a key initiative of the Company. The Company uses alliances and joint ventures,
where appropriate, to provide additional capital expansion.

During 1998, 1997, and 1996, the Company made capital expenditures of $29
million, $70 million, and $51 million, respectively, related to environmental
improvements. The Company estimates that such capital expenditures will
approximate $49 million and $83 million for 1999 and 2000, respectively. Future
expenditures will be dependent in part upon implementation of government
environmental regulations.

DISPOSITIONS

The Company ceased production of pigmented inks in 1996, and sold the food-grade
distilled monoglycerides, powder coatings, and adhesives businesses in 1996 and
its polyols business in 1997. The effect of these divestitures and product
discontinuances on financial position and results of operations has not been
material.

ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS

In September 1998 and February 1999, respectively, Eastman purchased for cash a
European manufacturer of specialty polymers and a North American textile
chemicals business. These acquisitions have not had, and are not expected to
have, a material effect on financial position or results of operations of the
Company.

EMPLOYEE RELATIONS

The Company employs approximately 16,000 men and women worldwide. None of the
employees in the United States and approximately 3% of the total worldwide labor
force are represented by labor unions. The Company believes that its employee
relations are excellent.

CUSTOMER RELATIONS

Eastman has an extensive customer base and, while it is not dependent on any one
customer or group of customers, loss of certain top customers could adversely
affect the Company until such business is replaced. The Company has
approximately 7,400 customers worldwide and the top 100 customers account for
approximately 60% of the Company's business.

The Company has received numerous preferred-supplier awards and is the sole
supplier to several major customers. The Company strives to be the preferred
supplier to customers in the markets it serves.

COMPETITION

The Company's competitive environment varies among markets. Some of the
Company's competitors are larger in size and capital base than the Company.
Major competitors of the Company for its key products are summarized as follows:












RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT

The Company directs its research and development programs toward four
objectives: 1) continually improving product quality by improvement in
manufacturing technology and processes; 2) lowering manufacturing costs through
process improvement; 3) conducting exploratory research to develop new product
lines and markets; and 4) developing new products and processes that are
compatible with the Company's commitment to RESPONSIBLE CARE (see
"Environmental" section).

Major achievements in research and development during the last several years
include the chemicals-from-coal technology, enhancements of the oxo chemistry
technology, and polyester application development and manufacturing technology.
The Company has developed wastewater treatment technology and technology to
improve PET recycling. Eastman has developed technology that provides a faster,
lower-cost route to production of EpB oxirane, a building block chemical used in
many other chemicals. In addition, the Company has commercialized a group of
new, higher-value polyolefins with increased tear strength and impact
performance--MXSTEN and TENITE HIFOR.

The Company's research and development expenditures during the past five years
have averaged approximately 4% of sales annually, with 1998, 1997, and 1996
expenditures totaling $185 million, $191 million, and $184 million,
respectively. Expenditures are anticipated to be at the same level during 1999.

PATENTS AND TRADEMARKS

The Company owns or licenses a large number of U.S. and non-U.S. patents that
relate to a wide variety of products and processes. Company patents expire at
various times during the next several years. The Company also owns or licenses
trademarks in the U.S. and in foreign countries on major products. While these
patents, licenses, and trademarks are considered important, the Company does not
consider its business as a whole to be materially dependent upon any one
particular patent, patent license, or trademark.

SEASONALITY

Seasonality is not a significant factor for the Company, although the Specialty
and Performance segment experiences some seasonal effects during the winter
months because of reduced demand for paint products, and the Core Plastics
segment experiences reduced demand for soft-drink containers during the first
and third quarters.

MARKETING AND DISTRIBUTION

The Company markets products through a worldwide sales organization with 36
sales offices outside the United States in 32 countries. A majority of sales are
direct; however, some sales are made through indirect selling channels. Products
are shipped to customers directly from the Company's plants as well as from
distribution centers, with the method of shipment generally determined by the
customer.












ENVIRONMENTAL

The Company is actively engaged in the ongoing development and enhancement of
products that are environmentally responsible, such as waterborne products and
recyclable plastics. In addition, the Company is an active participant in
RESPONSIBLE CARE, a chemical industry initiative that focuses on improving
performance in areas including community awareness and emergency response,
pollution prevention, process safety, distribution, employee health and safety,
and product stewardship.

Health, safety, and environmental considerations are a priority in the Company's
planning for all existing and new products and processes. The Health, Safety &
Environmental and Public Policy Committee of Eastman's Board of Directors
reviews the Company's policies and practices concerning health, safety, and the
environment, and its processes for complying with related laws and regulations,
and monitors significant related matters. The Company's policy is to operate its
plants and facilities in a manner that protects the environment and the health
and safety of its employees and the public. The Company has made and intends to
continue to make expenditures for environmental protection and improvement in a
timely manner consistent with the foregoing policies and with the technology
available. In some cases, applicable environmental regulations, such as those
adopted under the federal Clean Air Act and the Resource Conservation and
Recovery Act, and related actions of regulatory agencies, determine the timing
and amount of environmental costs incurred by the Company.

The Company's commitment to environmental stewardship has earned favorable
recognition. Since the Chemical Manufacturers Association ("CMA") began its
Energy Efficiency Award Program in 1994, Eastman has won awards each year for
its energy efficiency efforts. In 1998, three of the Company's U.S. plants
received a total of five awards from the CMA. Eastman was also the 1998
recipient of the Chemical Education Foundation's Vanguard Award, which
recognizes outstanding chemical product stewardship practices within the
industry. In 1996, Tennessee Eastman Division's wastewater treatment facility
received the Operational Excellence Award from the Kentucky-Tennessee Water
Environment Association and the national George F. Burke, Jr. Award from the
Water Environment Association for operation safety.

Certain of the Company's manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous
wastes, of which the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal are
regulated by various governmental agencies. In connection with the cleanup of
various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has
been designated a potentially responsible party ("PRP") by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and
several liability for such cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be
required to incur costs relating to environmental remediation and
closure/postclosure pursuant to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act. Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal defenses,
and the Company's preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, the
Company does not believe its liability for these environmental matters,
individually or in the aggregate, will be material to Eastman's consolidated
financial position, results of operations, or competitive position. The
Company's policy is to record such liabilities when loss amounts are probable
and can be reasonably estimated.

The Company's environmental protection and improvement cash expenditures were
approximately $190 million, $220 million, and $175 million in 1998, 1997, and
1996, respectively, including investments in construction, operations, and
development. The Company does not expect future environmental capital
expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental
laws and regulations to materially increase the Company's planned level of
capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.

BACKLOG

During 1998, the Company's backlog of firm orders averaged between $175 million
and $350 million, representing approximately two to four weeks' sales. The
Company adjusts its inventory policy to control the backlog of products
dependent on customers' needs. In areas where the Company is the single source
of supply, or competitive forces or customers' needs dictate, the Company may
carry additional inventory to reduce backlog. Backlog is also affected by
utilization of a given product manufacturing capacity.











EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

Certain information about the Company's executive officers is provided below:

Earnest W. Deavenport, Jr., age 60, is Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of the Company. He joined the Company in 1960. Mr. Deavenport was named
President of the Company in 1989 and also served as Group Vice President of
Kodak from 1989 through 1993.

R. Wiley Bourne, Jr., age 61, is Vice Chairman of the Board and Executive Vice
President of the Company, responsible for all business organizations. He joined
the Company in 1959, was named Executive Vice President in 1989, and also served
as a Vice President of Kodak from 1986 through 1993.

Dr. James L. Chitwood, age 55, is Senior Vice President of the Company,
responsible for operations outside North America. Dr. Chitwood joined the
Company in 1968, was named Senior Vice President of the Company in 1989, and
Group Vice President, Specialty Business Group in 1991. Dr. Chitwood was
appointed Senior Vice President with responsibility for Company business
organizations in October 1994 and assumed his current responsibilities in 1996.
He also served as a Vice President of Kodak from 1984 through 1993.

Harold L. Henderson, age 63, joined the Company in 1997 as Senior Vice President
and General Counsel. Mr. Henderson served previously as chief legal officer of
The Firestone Tire & Rubber Company from 1980 to 1985 and of RJR Nabisco, Inc.
from 1985 to 1989. He was a consultant, commercial real estate developer, and
private investor from 1989 through 1996.

Allan R. Rothwell, age 51, is Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer
of the Company. Mr. Rothwell joined the Company in 1969 and was appointed
Business Director, Industrial Intermediates in 1993. In 1994, he became Vice
President and General Manager, Container Plastics, was appointed Vice President,
Corporate Development and Strategy in 1997, and assumed his current position in
1998.

Darryl K. Williams, age 56, is Senior Vice President, Technology and Quality of
the Company. Mr. Williams joined the Company in 1965. He was appointed President
of Eastman Chemical Japan Ltd., in 1992, was named Vice President, Asia Pacific
Regional Support Services in 1993, was appointed Vice President, Asia Pacific
Sales in 1994, and was named Senior Vice President, Technology in 1996. He
assumed his current position in 1998.

Betty W. DeVinney, age 54, is Vice President, Communications and Public Affairs
of the Company. Mrs. DeVinney joined the Company in 1973. In 1991, she became
Manager, Employment, was named Manager, Community Relations in 1995 and was
appointed Manager, Corporate Relations in 1997. She assumed her current position
in 1998.

Patrick R. Kinsey, age 53, is Vice President and Comptroller of the Company. 
Mr. Kinsey joined the Company in 1967, was named Director, Internal Auditing in 
1993 and became Director, Corporate Financial Reporting in 1996. He assumed his
current position in 1998.

Roger K. Mowen, Jr., age 53, is Vice President, Customer Demand Chain of the
Company. Mr. Mowen joined the Company in 1971. He was named Vice President and
General Manager, Polymer Modifiers, in 1991, was named Superintendent of the
Polymers Division in 1994, and was appointed President, Carolina Eastman
Division, in 1996. Mr. Mowen assumed his current position in 1998.

B. Fielding Rolston, age 57, is Vice President, Human Resources and Health,
Safety, Environment, and Security of the Company. Mr. Rolston joined the Company
in 1964 and was appointed Vice President, Customer Service and Materials
Management of the Company in 1987. He assumed his current position in 1998.

Garland S. Williamson, age 54, is Vice President, Worldwide Manufacturing of the
Company. Mr. Williamson joined the Company in 1967. He was named Vice President,
Asia Pacific Manufacturing, in 1992, and was appointed President, Texas Eastman
Division, in 1996. Mr. Williamson assumed his current position in 1998.









ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

PROPERTIES

A summary of the Company's principal manufacturing sites and the operating
segment(s) for which products are produced at each site is shown in the table
below. Eastman's plants generally are well maintained, are in good operating
condition, and are suitable and adequate for their use. Utilization of these
facilities may vary with product mix and economic, seasonal, and other business
conditions, but none of the principal plants are substantially idle.

The Company's plants, including approved expansions, generally have sufficient
capacity for existing needs and expected near-term growth.







*Limited production began in 1998.  Full operations are expected in 1999.











The Company has a 50% interest in Primester, a joint venture which manufactures
cellulose ester at its Kingsport, Tennessee plant. The production of cellulose
ester is an intermediate step in the manufacture of acetate tow and other
cellulose-based products.

The Company also has a 50% interest in Genencor International, a joint venture
which develops, manufactures and markets industrial enzymes and other fine and
specialty chemicals at numerous international locations.

The Company has distribution facilities at all of its plant sites. In addition,
the Company conducts manufacturing operations at three other sites and owns or
leases over 90 stand-alone distribution facilities in the United States and 18
other countries. Corporate headquarters are in Kingsport, Tennessee. The
Company's regional headquarters are in Coral Gables, Florida; The Hague,
Netherlands; Singapore; and Kingsport, Tennessee. Technical service is provided
to the Company's customers from technical service centers in Kingsport,
Tennessee; Kirkby, England; Osaka, Japan; and Singapore. Customer service
centers are located in Kingsport, Tennessee; Rotterdam, Netherlands; Coral
Gables, Florida; and Singapore.

ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

GENERAL

The Company's operations are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims,
investigations, and proceedings, including product liability, personal injury,
patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract, environmental,
antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters, which are being handled
and defended in the ordinary course of business. While the Company is unable to
predict the outcome of these matters, it does not believe, based upon currently
available facts, that the ultimate resolution of any of such pending matters,
including those described in the following paragraphs, will have a material
adverse effect on the Company's overall financial position or results of
operations. However, adverse developments could negatively impact earnings in a
particular period.

SORBATES LITIGATION

As previously reported, on September 30, 1998, Eastman entered into a voluntary
plea agreement with the Department of Justice and agreed to pay an $11 million
fine to resolve a charge brought against the Company for violation of Section
One of the Sherman Act. Under the agreement, Eastman entered a plea of guilty to
one count of price-fixing for sorbates, a class of food preservatives, from
January 1995 through June 1997. The plea agreement was approved by the United
States District Court for the Northern District of California on October 21,
1998. The Company recognized the entire fine in third quarter 1998 and will pay
the fine in installments over a period of five years.

In addition, the Company, along with other companies, has been named as a
defendant in seven antitrust lawsuits brought subsequent to the Company's plea
agreement as putative class actions on behalf of certain purchasers of sorbates.
In each case, the plaintiffs allege that the defendants engaged in a conspiracy
to fix the price of sorbates and that the class members paid more for sorbates
than they would have paid absent the defendants' conspiracy. Three of the suits
were filed in Superior Court for the State of California under various state
antitrust and consumer protection laws on behalf of classes of indirect
purchasers of sorbates; two of the proceedings are pending in United States
District Court for the Northern District of California, one under federal
antitrust laws on behalf of a class of all direct purchasers of sorbates and one
under California's antitrust and consumer protection laws on behalf of a class
of all indirect purchasers of sorbates; and two cases were filed in Circuit
Courts in the state of Tennessee under the antitrust and consumer protection
laws of various states, including Tennessee, on behalf of a class of all
indirect purchasers of sorbates in those states. The plaintiffs in each case
seek treble damages of unspecified amounts, attorneys' fees and costs, and other
unspecified relief; in addition, certain of the actions claim restitution,
injunction against alleged illegal conduct, and other equitable relief. Each
proceeding is in preliminary pretrial motion and discovery stage, and none of
the proposed classes has been certified.










The Company intends vigorously to defend these actions unless they can be
settled on terms acceptable to the parties. These matters could result in the
Company being subject to monetary damages and expenses. The Company recognized a
charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 1998 of $8 million for the estimated
costs, including legal fees, related to the pending sorbates litigation
described above. Because of the early stage of these putative class action
lawsuits, however, the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot presently be
determined, and they may result in greater or lesser liability than that
currently provided for in the Company's financial statements.

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTER

As previously reported, in May 1997 the Company received notice from the
Tennessee Department of Environment and Conservation ("TDEC") alleging that the
manner in which hazardous waste was fed into certain boilers at the Tennessee
Eastman facility in Kingsport, Tennessee violated provisions of the Tennessee
Hazardous Waste Management Act. Based upon subsequent communications with the
TDEC and the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency, the Company believes that
these agencies may be contemplating enforcement proceedings which, if commenced,
could result in monetary sanctions in excess of the $100,000 threshold of
Regulation S-K, Item 103, Instruction 5.C. under the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 for reporting such contemplated proceedings in this Report.

ITEM 4.    SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

There were no matters submitted to a vote of the Company's shareowners during
the fourth quarter of 1998.






- --------------------------------
RESPONSIBLE CARE is a registered service mark of the chemical industry.
EASTAPAK, EASTOTAC, EpB, MXSTEN, SPECTAR, TENITE, and TENITE HIFOR are
trademarks of Eastman Chemical Company.



































                                     PART II

ITEM 5.    MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED
           SHAREOWNER MATTERS

The Company's Common Stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (the "NYSE")
under the symbol "EMN." The following table presents the high and low sales
prices of the Common Stock on the NYSE and the cash dividends per share declared
by the Company's Board of Directors for each quarterly period of 1997 and 1998.




- --------------------------------

As of December 31, 1998 there were 79,263,548 shares of the Company's Common
Stock issued and outstanding, which shares were held by 79,994 shareowners of
record. These shares include 158,424 shares held by the Company's charitable
foundation. The Company has declared a cash dividend of $0.44 per share during
the first quarter of 1999, and currently anticipates continuing to pay quarterly
cash dividends. Quarterly dividends on Common Stock, if declared by the
Company's Board of Directors, are usually paid on or about the first business
day of the month following the end of each quarter. The payment of dividends is
a business decision to be made by the Board of Directors from time to time based
on the Company's earnings, financial position and prospects, and such other
considerations as the Board considers relevant. Accordingly, the Company's
dividend policy may change at any time.

The Company did not sell any equity securities during the fourth quarter of 1998
in transactions not registered under the Securities Act of 1933. For information
concerning issuance of shares and option grants in 1998 under compensation and
benefit plans and shares held by the Company's charitable foundation, see Part
II--Item 8--"Financial Statements and Supplementary Data" -- Notes 7 and 9 to
Consolidated Financial Statements.





















ITEM 6.      SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA









































ITEM 7.      MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
             RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

This Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations should be read in conjunction with the Company's consolidated
financial statements included elsewhere in this report. All references to
earnings per share contained in this report are diluted earnings per share
unless otherwise noted.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

EARNINGS



1998 COMPARED WITH 1997

Results for 1998 were significantly impacted by global economic conditions that
produced extreme pressure on selling prices. For the year, downward pressure on
selling prices was particularly evident for fibers, flexible plastics,
industrial intermediates, coatings, inks and resins. Average selling prices for
EASTAPAK polymers ("PET") for the year were level with 1997 but declined
significantly in fourth quarter due to competitive activity. Sales volumes
improved slightly for the year and were higher in all three segments, partially
offsetting the overall decline in selling prices. The Company recognized volume
improvements in part due to the 1998 startup of new manufacturing facilities.

The Company's 1998 net earnings reflect returns of 14% on equity and 9% on
capital. Net earnings for 1998 were impacted by nonrecurring items recorded in
the third and fourth quarters, including charges for violation of the Sherman
Act and related civil litigation, charges related to certain underperforming
assets and discontinued projects, and the effect of a lower tax rate. Net
earnings for 1997 were impacted by nonrecurring items, including a gain from
damages awarded for patent infringement and a charge for partial settlement and
curtailment of pension and other postemployment benefit liabilities arising from
a large number of employee retirements. For additional information see Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements.


Costs for most major raw materials, including propane feedstock, paraxylene,
purified terephthalic acid ("PTA"), ethylene glycol and natural gas, were below
1997 levels but the effect of the decline in selling prices generally offset the
effect of lower raw materials costs. Unit costs were unfavorably impacted by
unused available manufacturing capacity resulting from lower demand and
inventory reductions occurring primarily in fourth quarter. Higher net interest
costs resulted from lower capitalized interest following the completion of
several substantial capital projects in 1998. Depreciation also increased as a
result of capital projects completed in 1998 and 1997. Selling and general
administrative expenses were positively impacted by a reduction in labor hours
and lower incentive compensation expense. The Company continued to achieve
productivity gains and cost structure improvements as a result of the Advantaged
Cost 2000 initiative.

The U.S. dollar produced an unfavorable effect on sales denominated in
currencies other than U.S. dollars, although the earnings impact was generally
offset by gains realized on currency hedging transactions.










SUMMARY BY OPERATING SEGMENT

SPECIALTY AND PERFORMANCE SEGMENT (1)



(1) Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1998
    presentation, which is prepared in accordance with SFAS No. 131, 
    "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."

1998 COMPARED WITH 1997

Sales volume increased for the year but revenue declined, reflecting the effect
of lower selling prices caused by global economic conditions, industry
overcapacities and competitive market conditions. Strong volume growth for
SPECTAR copolymer and growing market acceptance of new specialty plastics such
as MXSTEN and TENITE HIFOR were partially offset by a decline in sales volumes
for cellulosic plastics. Sales volumes for coatings, inks and resins improved
slightly from 1997, but prices reflected industry oversupply, particularly for
neopentyl glycols ("NPG"). Sales volumes for fibers for the year were lower than
1997. Performance chemicals volumes for the year were negatively affected by
competitive market conditions, including the effect of industry oversupply of
sorbates. Fine chemicals sales volumes declined for the year, reflecting
decreased sales into photographic markets and customer delays of custom
manufacturing projects.

Operating earnings were significantly decreased by nonrecurring charges which
included recognition of an impairment loss related to the CHDA plant in
Kingsport, Tennessee and costs related to abandonment of certain capital
projects (see Note 8 to Consolidated Financial Statements), and charges for
violation of the Sherman Act and related civil litigation (see Note 19 to
Consolidated Financial Statements). Operating earnings were also negatively
impacted by operational and maintenance problems which occurred primarily in
fourth quarter 1998, including a power outage at the Kingsport, Tennessee
manufacturing site. Operating earnings for the segment overall were positively
impacted by lower costs for raw materials, energy, selling and general
administrative expenses, and cost structure improvements resulting from the
Company's Advantaged Cost 2000 initiative.

CORE PLASTICS SEGMENT (1)



(1) Prior period amounts have been reclassified to conform to the 1998
    presentation, which is prepared in accordance with SFAS No. 131,  
    "Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information."

1998 COMPARED WITH 1997

Sales revenue for the segment overall was relatively unchanged as global
economic conditions pressured selling prices, effectively offsetting higher
sales volume. The effect of higher selling prices for EASTAPAK polymers achieved
earlier in the year was mitigated by a significant downturn in pricing late in
the year. Sales volumes for commodity grade polyethylenes were higher but
selling prices were lower, reflecting competitive market conditions.

Operating losses reflect lower selling prices and operational and maintenance
problems which occurred primarily in the fourth quarter including a power
outage at the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing site, offset somewhat by lower
raw materials costs. Operating earnings were positively impacted by lower
selling and general administrative expenses and cost structure improvements
resulting from the Company's Advantaged Cost 2000 initiative.









CHEMICAL INTERMEDIATES SEGMENT



1998 COMPARED WITH 1997

Sales volumes for chemical intermediates increased slightly for the year but
excess industry capacity, strong competitive activity, and overall global
economic conditions negatively impacted revenues and earnings. Earnings were
also impacted by operational and maintenance problems which occurred primarily
in fourth quarter, including a power outage at the Kingsport, Tennessee
manufacturing site, and preproduction costs related to new manufacturing
facilities in Singapore. Lower raw materials costs positively affected results.
Operating earnings were positively impacted by lower selling and general
administrative expenses and cost structure improvements resulting from the
Company's Advantaged Cost 2000 initiative.

(For supplemental analysis of Specialty and Performance, Core Plastics, and
Chemical Intermediates segment results, see Exhibit 99.01 to this Form 10-K.)

SUMMARY BY CUSTOMER LOCATION

SALES BY REGION



1998 COMPARED WITH 1997

Sales in the United States for 1998 were $2.764 billion, down 4% from 1997 sales
of $2.875 billion. Although sales volume was up slightly, selling prices
declined as a result of global economic conditions, particularly for
polyethylenes and oxo products.

Sales to customers outside the United States for 1998 were $1.717 billion, down
5% from 1997 sales of $1.803 billion. Sales outside the United States were 38%
of total sales in 1998 compared with 39% for 1997. Decreased sales volumes and
prices for fibers were experienced in Asia Pacific and Middle Eastern regions,
although sales volumes in Asia Pacific improved during fourth quarter. Latin
American sales revenue improvement primarily reflected increased manufacturing
capacity in Argentina and growth in customer demand for EASTAPAK polymers.

With a substantial portion of 1998 sales to customers outside the United States
and approximately 12% of its products manufactured outside the United States in
1998 based on sales volume, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with
operating in international markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the
Company frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars. In
addition, where it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign
currency hedging transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for
shipments where its assessment of individual customer and country risks
indicates their use is appropriate. A strong U.S. dollar against foreign
currencies resulted in unfavorable currency exchange effects, primarily in
Europe and Asia Pacific. See Note 11 to Consolidated Financial Statements and
Part II--Item 7A--"Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk."












SUMMARY OF CONSOLIDATED RESULTS



Sales volumes were slightly higher in all three segments for the year, but
revenues declined as a result of lower selling prices attributable to global
economic conditions. Sales were negatively affected by the strength of the U.S.
dollar against foreign currencies, primarily in Europe and Asia Pacific.



Gross profit declined primarily as a result of significantly lower selling
prices. In addition, gross profit was negatively affected by recognition of
nonrecurring charges including an impairment loss related to the CHDA plant in
Kingsport, Tennessee, costs related to abandonment of certain capital projects,
costs related to a power outage at the Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing site,
and charges for violation of the Sherman Act and related civil litigation. Lower
costs for raw materials, cost structure improvements and productivity gains
partially offset the decline in selling prices and nonrecurring charges.



Selling and general administrative expenses and research and development costs
were positively impacted by a reduction in labor hours and lower incentive
compensation expense.



Capitalized interest peaked in 1997 and declined in 1998 as several substantial
projects in the Company's major capital investment program were completed during
1998.




Other income and other charges include interest income, royalty income, gains
and losses on asset sales, results from equity investments, foreign exchange
transactions, and other items. Included in 1997 is a gain from damages awarded
for patent infringement. In 1996 the Company recognized a gain from the sale of
the Company's food emulsifier business.















The Company recorded an income tax benefit of $15 million in 1998 attributable
to amended returns reflecting redetermined foreign sales corporation results and
the results of the completed Internal Revenue Service examination for the years
1994 to 1996.

1997 COMPARED WITH 1996

The Company's 1997 net earnings reflect returns of 17% on equity and 10% on
capital. Sales volumes improved 6% overall due to good demand and new capacity.
However, earnings reflect the significant negative impact of lower EASTAPAK
polymers prices which resulted from excess industry capacity, and substantially
lower acetate tow volume caused by excess industry capacity and customer
inventory reductions, mainly in China. Lower costs were experienced for major
raw materials including paraxylene, purified terephthalic acid ("PTA"), and
propane feedstock. Productivity gains realized from the Company's Advantaged
Cost 2000 program and a gain from damages awarded for patent infringement
positively impacted net earnings. Operating earnings for 1997 reflect a $62
million ($40 million after tax) charge for partial settlement and curtailment of
pension and other postemployment benefit liabilities arising from the retirement
of approximately 1,700 employees. The large number of retirements was not the
result of special payments or incentives. Preproduction costs related to
start-up of new manufacturing facilities had a moderately negative effect on
earnings. The Company's financial results were not materially affected by the
Asian financial crisis in 1997.

The effect of strong volume improvement for specialty plastics and moderately
higher volume for fine chemicals, coatings, inks, and resins products was offset
by overall lower selling prices, a shift in the mix of products sold, and
declines in unit volumes for performance chemicals and fibers. Improved volumes
for plastic esters were driven by good demand for auto coatings, particularly in
developing international regions. Increased sales volumes for specialty
plastics, including TENITE cellulosics and SPECTAR copolymer, reflected new
customer applications and regional growth. Performance chemicals results
reflected lower unit volumes due to divestiture of several product lines in
1996. Demand for acetate tow declined due to new industry capacity and customer
reductions in inventories, mainly in China. The primary factors affecting
operating earnings were significantly lower volumes for acetate tow, overall
lower selling prices, unfavorable foreign currency effects, and the effect of
the early retirement charge, partially offset by lower raw materials costs,
lower variable-incentive pay, and productivity gains.

The decline in container plastics selling prices, which began in 1996 as a
result of industry overcapacity, moderated somewhat by the end of 1997 as prices
showed some recovery and stabilization. Volumes for container plastics showed
significant improvement, primarily as a result of new capacities in Spain and
Mexico and continued strong demand. Lower volumes for flexible plastics
reflected limited availability of ethylene supply prior to the midyear
completion of a new ethylene pipeline. Improved selling prices for flexible
plastics resulted from strong market demand. Operating earnings declined
primarily due to substantially lower selling prices for EASTAPAK polymers,
start-up costs for new manufacturing sites, unfavorable currency effects, and
the effect of the early retirement charge, partially offset by improved selling
prices for flexible plastics, an increase in overall unit volumes, lower raw
materials costs, lower variable-incentive pay, and productivity improvements.

Sales in the Chemical Intermediates segment were slightly higher than 1996, with
increased sales volume partially offset by overall lower selling prices and
unfavorable currency exchange rates. Operating earnings reflect lower raw
materials costs and lower variable-incentive pay, offset partially by overall
lower selling prices, unfavorable currency exchange rates, and the effect of the
early retirement charge.

Sales in the United States for 1997 were $2.875 billion, down 4% from 1996 sales
of $2.990 billion. Decreased sales were attributable to lower selling prices,
primarily for EASTAPAK polymers. Sales outside the United States in 1997 were
relatively unchanged from 1996 and were 39% of total sales compared to 37% of









total sales in 1996. Higher sales volume driven by new capacities in Mexico and
Spain was mostly offset by unfavorable currency effects and overall lower
selling prices. Decreased sales in Asia Pacific reflect a decline in sales of
acetate tow.

With a substantial portion of 1997 sales to customers outside the United States
and approximately 11% of its products manufactured outside the United States
based on sales volume, Eastman is subject to the risks associated with operating
in international markets. To mitigate its exchange rate risks, the Company
frequently seeks to negotiate payment terms in U.S. dollars. In addition, where
it deems such actions advisable, the Company engages in foreign currency hedging
transactions and requires letters of credit and prepayment for shipments where
its assessment of individual customer and country risks indicates their use is
appropriate. Foreign currency hedging transactions mitigated the impact of
foreign currency transaction and remeasurement losses. However, the change in
exchange rates when compared to 1996 negatively impacted net earnings by
approximately $35 million.



















































LIQUIDITY, CAPITAL RESOURCES, AND OTHER FINANCIAL DATA



- -------------
(1) At end of year.



Cash provided by operating activities includes the effect of lower net earnings
over the periods presented resulting from business conditions previously
discussed. Other changes in cash provided by operating activities resulted from
changes in receivables, inventories and timing of expenditures, related
primarily to international expansion activities and working capital management.
Cash provided by operating activities was also impacted by timing of
expenditures related to pension funding. Cash used in investing activities
peaked in 1996 due to significant global expansion activities underway at that
time, and declined in 1997 and 1998 as projects were completed. Cash used in
financing activities in 1998 reflects a decrease in commercial paper borrowings
and proceeds received from a $23 million issuance of tax-exempt bonds. Cash
provided by financing activities in 1997 reflects treasury stock purchases and
proceeds received from a $300 million issuance of 7.60% debentures due February
1, 2027 which were used to repay commercial paper borrowings outstanding at that
time. Cash used in financing activities in 1996 reflect treasury stock purchases
and an increase in commercial paper borrowings. Also reflected in cash flows
from financing activities is the payment of dividends in all years presented.

CAPITAL EXPENDITURES AND OTHER COMMITMENTS

For 1999 the Company estimates that depreciation will be $360 million and that
capital expenditures will be equal to or less than depreciation. Long-term
commitments related to planned capital expenditures are not material. The
Company had various purchase commitments at the end of 1998 for materials,
supplies, and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of business. These
commitments approximate $2 billion over 15 years. Eastman has other long-term
commitments relating to joint venture agreements as described in Note 4 to
Consolidated Financial Statements.

LIQUIDITY

Eastman has access to an $800 million revolving credit facility (the "Credit
Facility") expiring in December 2000. Although the Company does not have any
amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility, any such borrowings would be
subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted market rates, principally
LIBOR. The Credit Facility also requires a facility fee on the total commitment
that varies based on Eastman's credit rating. The annual rate for such fee was
 .075% in 1998, 1997, and 1996. The Credit Facility contains a number of
covenants and events of default, including the maintenance of certain financial
ratios. Eastman was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods.

Eastman utilizes commercial paper, generally with maturities of 90 days or less,
to meet its liquidity needs. The Company's commercial paper, supported by the
Credit Facility, is classified as long-term borrowings because the Company has
the ability and intent to refinance such borrowings long-term. As of









December 31, 1998, the Company's commercial paper outstanding balance was $123
million, at interest rates ranging between 5.25% and 5.81%. At December 31,
1997, a total of $213 million of commercial paper was outstanding, at interest
rates ranging between 6.10% and 6.90%. In 1997 Eastman issued $300 million of
7.60% debentures due February 1, 2027, and used the proceeds to repay commercial
paper borrowings outstanding at that time.

During 1998 the Securities and Exchange Commission declared effective the
Company's registration statement to issue up to $1 billion of debt or equity
securities. No securities have been sold from this shelf registration.

Also during 1998 the Company issued $23 million tax-exempt bonds at variable
interest rates, the proceeds of which are to be used for the construction of
certain solid waste disposal facilities in Kingsport, Tennessee. The proceeds
from this issuance are held in trust and become available to the Company as
expenditures are made for construction of the designated solid waste disposal
facilities. Approximately $4 million of qualifying expenditures related to these
projects had been made as of December 31, 1998.

The Company repurchased a total of 5,935,301 shares of its common stock during
1995, 1996, and 1997 at a cost of $369 million, and is currently authorized to
purchase up to an additional $400 million of its common stock. In first quarter
1999 the Company announced its intention to resume stock repurchases.
Repurchased shares may be used to meet common stock requirements for
compensation and benefit plans and other corporate purposes.

Existing sources of capital, together with cash flows from operations, are
expected to be sufficient to meet foreseeable cash flow requirements.



ENVIRONMENTAL

Certain of the Company's manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous
wastes, of which the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal are
regulated by various governmental agencies. In connection with the cleanup of
various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many other entities, has
been designated a potentially responsible party ("PRP") by the U.S.
Environmental Protection Agency under the Comprehensive Environmental Response,
Compensation and Liability Act, which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and
several liability for such cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be
required to incur costs relating to environmental remediation and
closure/postclosure pursuant to the federal Resource Conservation and Recovery
Act. Because of expected sharing of costs, the availability of legal defenses,
and the Company's preliminary assessment of actions that may be required, the
Company does not believe its liability for these environmental matters,
individually or in the aggregate, will be material to Eastman's consolidated
financial position, results of operations, or competitive position. The
Company's policy is to record such liabilities when loss amounts are probable
and can be reasonably estimated.

The Company's environmental protection and improvement cash expenditures were
approximately $190 million, $220 million, and $175 million in 1998, 1997, and
1996, respectively, including investments in construction, operations, and
development. The Company does not expect future environmental capital
expenditures arising from requirements of recently promulgated environmental
laws and regulations to materially increase the Company's planned level of
capital expenditures for environmental control facilities.

INFLATION

In recent years inflation has not had a material adverse impact on Eastman's
costs, primarily because of price competition among suppliers of raw materials.
However, significant changes in raw materials prices, particularly petroleum
derivatives, could have a significant impact on costs, which the Company may or
may not be able to reflect fully in its pricing structure.












YEAR 2000 ISSUE

The year 2000 issue is the result of computer programs written using two digits
rather than four to define the applicable year. Without corrective action,
programs with date-sensitive software could potentially recognize a date ending
in "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000, causing many computer
applications to fail or create erroneous results. This is a significant issue
for most, if not all, companies, with far reaching implications, some of which
cannot be anticipated or predicted with any degree of certainty. Year 2000
problems could affect many of the Company's processes, including production,
distribution, research and development, financial, administrative and
communications operations.

The Company's date dependent systems can be summarized in three categories:
computerized business systems; computerized distributed control systems for
manufacturing; and other devices using embedded chips.

Internal identification of all business systems, manufacturing systems and
embedded chip devices for year 2000 compliance is complete. An outside
consultant has evaluated the Company's identification, assessment, and testing
process related to manufacturing and embedded equipment and concluded that the
results of the internal processes are reliable.

The Company considers its key enterprise business computer systems capable of
accurately handling year 2000 dates. Final integrated acceptance testing of the
Company's existing key enterprise business computer systems was completed
successfully by December 31, 1998. Very few problems were encountered in this
area, primarily because of the Company's aggressive implementation of enterprise
software and standardized desktop/office software earlier this decade. The
Company will continue its year 2000 assessment and testing efforts for new or
modified business computer systems throughout 1999.

Parallel assessment and remediation of date dependent manufacturing control
systems and devices are proceeding. Manufacturers of these products are being
contacted to ascertain year 2000 compliance and product compliancy responses
have been received for more than ninety percent of identified products. A
minimal number of devices have been determined to be non-compliant, with most
requiring software upgrades at minimal cost. A testing plan approved by senior
management is being used to evaluate all manufacturing control systems for date
sensitive issues and to test a representative sample of these control systems.
The Company's current plan for manufacturing control systems is to complete
assessment, testing and most of the remediation or workaround solutions on
critical control systems by June 1999. This plan is on schedule. However,
because of plant scheduling and equipment lead times, some upgrade work may not
occur until the second half of 1999. Additionally, some lower priority embedded
devices may not be tested or remediated but will be managed by contingency
plans. Although some risk is inherent with this plan, the Company believes the
risk is controllable with contingency plans being developed and that this plan
does not pose significant problems for the Company's various manufacturing
control systems.

As a result of assessments, modifications, upgrades, or replacements planned,
ongoing or already completed, the Company believes the year 2000 issue as it
relates to the Company's own date dependent systems will not pose significant
problems for the Company's business, processes and operations. The Company
believes that the costs of modifications, upgrades, or replacements of software,
hardware, or capital equipment which would not be incurred but for year 2000
compatibility requirements have not and will not have a material impact on the
Company's financial position or results of operations. Overall costs
attributable to the Company's year 2000 efforts, incurred over a period of
several years, are expected to be less than $20 million.

The Company has identified and is communicating with key suppliers and other
service providers to determine if entities with which the Company transacts
business have an effective plan in place to address the year 2000 issue, and to
determine the extent of the Company's vulnerability to the failure of third
parties to remediate their own year 2000 issue. While all customers have not
been surveyed directly, the Company has exchanged information with certain
customers as they contact Eastman about its year 2000 compliance. In addition,
the Company is currently identifying key customers with whom more detailed
information will be exchanged. The Company has received year 2000 disclosure
statements from ninety-nine percent of raw materials suppliers surveyed,










ninety-two percent of mechanical suppliers surveyed and eighty-five percent of
other service providers surveyed. The Company is proceeding with a more detailed
assessment of selected critical suppliers, service providers and key customers
to further assess the Company's risk. The Company expects to complete these
assessments by June 1999. Assessment of suppliers, service providers and
customers is entirely dependent upon the accuracy and validity of their year
2000 disclosure statements.

A business contingency planning team composed of key business managers has been
assigned to develop company-wide contingency plans. This team is actively
assessing the internal and external risks posed by the year 2000 issue, such as
power, energy, telecommunications, transportation and material supply
disruptions, and will be using existing business continuity plans while taking
into account issues unique to the year 2000 issue. Major elements of the plan
will be completed by June 1999 with refinement and execution continuing up to
and through the year 2000 rollover.

Based on current plans and efforts to date, the Company does not anticipate that
the year 2000 issue will have a material effect on results of operations or
financial condition. However, the above expectations are subject to
uncertainties. For example, if the Company is unsuccessful in identifying or
remediating all year 2000 problems in its critical operations, or if it is
affected by the inability of suppliers or major customers to continue operations
due to such a problem, then the Company's results of operations or financial
condition could be materially impacted.

HOLSTON DEFENSE CORPORATION

Holston Defense Corporation ("Holston"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the
Company, managed the government-owned Holston Army Ammunition Plant in
Kingsport, Tennessee (the "Facility") under contract with the Department of Army
("DOA") from 1949 until expiration of the contract (the "Contract") on 
December 31, 1998. The DOA awarded a contract to manage the Facility to a third
party effective January 1, 1999.

The Contract provides for reimbursement of allowable costs incurred by Holston.
The Company has recognized liabilities associated with Holston's curtailment of
pension, other postretirement benefits and other termination costs in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles and expects the DOA to reimburse
substantially all such costs and payments. The recording during second quarter
1998 of previously unrecognized liabilities for pension and other termination
costs had no effect on earnings because the Company also recorded a receivable
from the DOA for reimbursement of such amounts. Reimbursement of certain
previously recognized pension and postretirement benefit costs will be credited
to earnings at the time of receipt of reimbursement from the DOA. A delay in
reimbursement by the DOA resulted in the Company advancing funds in early 1999
to pay a portion of such costs. The Company will likely be required to advance
additional funds to pay pension benefit liabilities, as well as other
postretirement and termination costs, if there are further delays in payment or
reimbursement by the DOA. The Company expects no significant impact on financial
position or results of operations related to expiration of the Contract. See
Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

THE EURO

The Treaty on European Union provided that an economic and monetary union
("EMU") be established in Europe whereby a single European currency, the euro,
was introduced to replace the currencies of participating member states. The
euro was introduced on January 1, 1999, at which time the value of participating
member state currencies were irrevocably fixed against the euro and the European
Currency Unit ("ECU"). For the three year transitional period ending 
December 31, 2001, the national currencies of member states will continue to
circulate but be subunits of the euro. New public debt will be issued in euro
and existing debt may be denominated into euro. At the end of the transitional
period, euro banknotes and coins will be issued, and the national currencies of
the member states will cease to be legal tender no later than June 30, 2002.
The countries that adopted the euro on January 1, 1999 were Austria, Belgium,
Finland, France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Luxembourg, The Netherlands, Portugal,
and Spain. Other countries are expected to join following the transition period.











The Company has operations in many of the euro participating countries. The
introduction of the euro is expected to exert a general downward pressure on
prices as comparability of prices among countries becomes easier. This price
transparency is not expected to have a material impact on the Company. Currency
exchange and hedging costs are expected to be lower. The functional currency of
the Company's operations in affected countries will remain unchanged until
yearend 2000, when it will switch to the euro. The Company has reviewed and is
making changes required for euro readiness in areas such as marketing,
purchasing, pricing, treasury, cash management, systems, taxes, accounting,
contracts, and payroll. The systems costs associated with implementing the euro
are projected to be less than $500,000 through utilization of existing
enterprise software functionality.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In June 1998 the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities," which standardizes the accounting for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts, by requiring that an entity recognize those items as assets or
liabilities in the statement of financial position and measure them at fair
value. The Company is evaluating the effect of this standard on its financial
statements and will comply with requirements of the new standard which become
effective for the Company's 2000 financial reporting cycle. Given current
activities, the Company expects no material effect on net earnings, but the
standard will likely have an impact on other comprehensive income.

Statement of Position ("SOP") 98-1, "Accounting for the Costs of Computer
Software Developed or Obtained for Internal Use," was issued by the American
Institute of Certified Public Accountants in March 1998 and requires
capitalization of certain internal-use computer software costs which will
subsequently be amortized over a three year period. The Company will comply with
the requirements of this SOP effective for the Company's 1999 financial
reporting. The Company's current practice has been to expense such costs as
incurred. The standard will have an immaterial effect on earnings during 1999.

OUTLOOK

Given the current economic environment and continued pressure on selling prices,
the Company anticipates that it will be a challenge to improve earnings in 1999
over those of 1998. Current global economic conditions and industry
overcapacities are expected to continue to negatively impact selling prices for
many products. First quarter 1999 results, however, are expected to improve over
fourth quarter 1998 due to volume gains from increased capacity utilization,
improved plant operations, and continuing cost reduction efforts.

The Company expects Asia Pacific sales volume will improve due to new available
capacities, although selling prices in the region will likely be depressed.
Given the current Brazilian economic situation and its impact on the region, the
Company anticipates it will be a challenge to improve sales and earnings for
Latin America. Growth in Europe is expected to moderate following the startup in
1998 of new manufacturing facilities in Rotterdam. The Company anticipates that
sales prices and volumes in North America will be pressured.

Demand for EASTAPAK polymers is expected to continue to grow although pricing
will remain under pressure due to excess capacity worldwide. SPECTAR copolymer
volume growth is expected to continue due to strong demand for heavy gauge sheet
and display applications. Sales volumes for new polyethylene performance
polymers, MXSTEN and TENITE HIFOR, are expected to grow, although customer
qualification time has taken longer than originally anticipated. Although
improvement is expected in fine chemicals volumes as a result of converting
existing manufacturing facilities to cGMP status and new cGMP facilities to be
constructed at the Batesville, Arkansas plant site, declining volume in the
photographic market may precede anticipated growth in the pharmaceutical and
agricultural chemical areas. Fibers volumes are expected to improve slightly,
but pricing is expected to be level to slightly down. Continued price pressure
on solvents is expected, but volumes should improve with the startup in early
1999 of the Singapore oxo facility, assuming current levels of demand.

The Company will continue to pursue alternatives to diminish the impact of the
container plastics business on its portfolio, while improving cash flow from
this business.











The Company estimates that depreciation in 1999 will be approximately $360
million and plans capital expenditures equal to or less than depreciation.
Interest cost is expected to remain level with 1998, but capitalized interest is
expected to decrease as capital expenditures decline and capital improvements
now underway are completed.

In 1999, the Company will place an increased priority on cash flow through
increased sales volumes, reduced capital expenditures, working capital reduction
efforts, continued emphasis on cost structure improvements and productivity
gains through its Advantaged Cost 2000 initiative, reinforced by basing annual
incentive payments for senior management on free cash flow.

The above-stated expectations, other forward-looking statements in this report,
and other statements of the Company relating to matters such as cost reduction
targets; additional available manufacturing capacity; capital spending and
depreciation; the year 2000 issue; global economic conditions; and supply and
demand, volumes, prices, costs, margins, and sales and earnings and cash flow
expectations and strategies for individual products, businesses, and segments,
as well as for the whole of the Company, are based upon certain underlying
assumptions. These underlying assumptions are in turn based upon internal
estimates and analyses of current market conditions and trends, management plans
and strategies, economic conditions, and other factors and are subject to risks
and uncertainties inherent in projecting future conditions and results.

The forward-looking statements in this Management's Discussion and Analysis are
based upon the following assumptions and those mentioned in the context of the
specific statements: continued pressure on selling prices from global economic
conditions and industry overcapacities; continued good demand overall for the
Company's products; continued demand growth worldwide for EASTAPAK polymers;
continued capacity additions within the PET industry worldwide; capacity
additions within the ethylene industry worldwide; stabilization of acetate tow
demand and selling prices; availability of key purchased raw materials with
stabilization of or no significant increase in costs; continued market reception
of new polyethylene products and continued shift of polyethylene product mix to
less commodity products; availability of recent or planned manufacturing
capacity increases for container plastics, SPECTAR, coatings, and oxo products;
improved manufacturing plant operations and maintenance; and labor and material
productivity gains sufficient to meet targeted cost structure reductions.







- ----------------------------
EASTAPAK, EASTOTAC, EpB, SPECTAR, MXSTEN, TENITE and TENITE HIFOR are trademarks
of Eastman Chemical Company.

























ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

The Company is exposed to changes in financial market conditions in the normal
course of its business due to its use of certain financial instruments as well
as transacting in various foreign currencies and funding of foreign operations.
To mitigate the Company's exposure to these market risks, Eastman has
established policies, procedures, and internal processes governing its
management of financial market risks and the use of financial instruments to
manage its exposure to such risks.

The Company is exposed to changes in interest rates primarily as a result of its
borrowing activities, which include short-term commercial paper and long-term
borrowings used to maintain liquidity and fund its business operations. The
Company continues to utilize U.S. dollar-denominated commercial paper to fund
seasonal working capital requirements. The nature and amount of the Company's
long-term and short-term debt may vary as a result of future business
requirements, market conditions, and other factors.

The Company's operating cash flows denominated in foreign currencies are exposed
to changes in foreign exchange rates. The Company continually evaluates its
foreign currency exposure based on current market conditions and the locations
in which the Company conducts business. In order to mitigate the effect of
foreign currency risk, the Company enters into forward exchange contracts to
hedge certain firm commitments denominated in foreign currencies and currency
options to hedge probable anticipated but not yet committed export sales and
purchase transactions expected within no more than 5 years and denominated in
foreign currencies. The gains and losses on these contracts offset changes in
the value of related exposures. It is the Company's policy to enter into foreign
currency transactions only to the extent considered necessary to meet its
objectives as stated above. The Company does not enter into foreign currency
transactions for speculative purposes.

The Company determines its market risk utilizing sensitivity analysis, which
measures the potential losses in fair value resulting from one or more selected
hypothetical changes in interest rates and/or foreign currency exchange rates.
The market risk associated with the fair value of interest-rate-sensitive
instruments assuming an instantaneous parallel shift in interest rates of 10% is
approximately $92 million and an additional $10 million for each one percentage
point change in interest rates thereafter. This exposure is primarily related to
long-term debt with fixed interest rates. The market risk associated with
foreign currency-sensitive instruments utilizing a modified Black-Scholes option
pricing model and a 10% adverse move in the U.S. dollar relative to each foreign
currency hedged by the Company is approximately $37 million and an additional $3
million for an additional one percentage point adverse change in foreign
currency exchange rates. Further adverse movements in foreign currencies would
create losses in fair value; however, such losses would not be linear to that
disclosed above. This exposure, which is primarily related to foreign currency
options purchased by the Company to manage fluctuations in foreign currencies,
is limited to the dollar value of option premiums payable by the Company for the
related financial instruments. Furthermore, since the Company utilizes
currency-sensitive derivative instruments for hedging anticipated foreign
currency transactions, a loss in fair value for those instruments is generally
offset by increases in the value of the underlying anticipated transactions.





















ITEM 8.       FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
















































         MANAGEMENT'S RESPONSIBILITY FOR FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

         Management is responsible for the preparation and integrity of the
         accompanying consolidated financial statements of Eastman Chemical
         Company and subsidiaries appearing on pages 35 through 60. Eastman has
         prepared these consolidated financial statements in accordance with
         generally accepted accounting principles, and the statements of
         necessity include some amounts that are based on management's best
         estimates and judgments.

         Eastman's accounting systems include extensive internal controls
         designed to provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of its
         financial records and the proper safeguarding and use of its assets.
         Such controls are based on established policies and procedures, are
         implemented by trained, skilled personnel with an appropriate
         segregation of duties, and are monitored through a comprehensive
         internal audit program. The Company's policies and procedures prescribe
         that the Company and all employees are to maintain the highest ethical
         standards and that its business practices throughout the world are to
         be conducted in a manner that is above reproach.

         The consolidated financial statements have been audited by
         PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, independent accountants, who were
         responsible for conducting their audits in accordance with generally
         accepted auditing standards. Their report is included herein.

         The Board of Directors exercises its responsibility for these financial
         statements through its Audit Committee, which consists entirely of
         nonmanagement Board members. The independent accountants and internal
         auditors have full and free access to the Audit Committee. The Audit
         Committee meets periodically with PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP and
         Eastman's director of internal auditing, both privately and with
         management present, to discuss accounting, auditing, policies and
         procedures, internal controls, and financial reporting matters.



         /s/ Earnest W. Deavenport, Jr.         /s/ Allan R. Rothwell
         ---------------------------------      ----------------------------
         Earnest W. Deavenport, Jr.             Allan R. Rothwell
         Chairman of the Board and              Senior Vice President and
             Chief Executive Officer               Chief Financial Officer

         January 29, 1999




























         REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


         To the Board of Directors and Shareowners of
         Eastman Chemical Company

         In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated financial statements
         listed in the index appearing under Item 14(a)(1) on page 63 present
         fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Eastman
         Chemical Company and subsidiaries at December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
         the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
         three years in the period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with
         generally accepted accounting principles. These financial statements
         are the responsibility of the Company's management; our responsibility
         is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our
         audits. We conducted our audits of these statements in accordance with
         generally accepted auditing standards which require that we plan and
         perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
         financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit
         includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts
         and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting
         principles used and significant estimates made by management, and
         evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
         that our audits provide a reasonable basis for the opinion expressed
         above.





         /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP
         ----------------------------------------
         PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP
         New York, New York
         January 29, 1999






































                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS, COMPREHENSIVE
                          INCOME, AND RETAINED EARNINGS
                 (Dollars in Millions, Except Per Share Amounts)















The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.












                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF FINANCIAL POSITION
                              (Dollars in Millions)








The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.










                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                              (Dollars in Millions)






The accompanying notes are an integral part of these financial statements.












                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.     SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       FINANCIAL STATEMENT PRESENTATION

       The consolidated financial statements of Eastman Chemical Company and
       subsidiaries ("Eastman" or the "Company") are prepared in conformity with
       generally accepted accounting principles and of necessity include some
       amounts that are based upon management estimates and judgments. Future
       actual results could differ from such current estimates. The consolidated
       financial statements include assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses
       of all wholly owned subsidiaries. Eastman accounts for joint ventures and
       investments in minority-owned companies where it exercises significant
       influence on the equity basis. Intercompany transactions and balances are
       eliminated in consolidation.

       TRANSLATION OF NON-U.S. CURRENCIES

       Eastman uses the local currency as the "functional currency" to translate
       the accounts of all consolidated entities outside the United States where
       cash flows are primarily denominated in local currencies. The effects of
       translating those operations that use the local currency as the
       functional currency are included as a component of comprehensive income
       and shareowners' equity. The effects of remeasuring those operations
       where the U.S. dollar is used as the functional currency and all
       transaction gains and losses are reflected in current earnings.

       REVENUE RECOGNITION

       Sales are recognized when products are shipped and the earnings process
       is complete. Appropriate accruals for discounts, volume incentives, and
       other allowances are recorded as reductions in sales.

       CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

       Cash and cash equivalents include cash, time deposits, and readily
       marketable securities with original maturities of 3 months or less.

       INVENTORIES

       Inventories are valued at cost, which is not in excess of market. The
       Company determines the cost of most raw materials, work in process, and
       finished goods inventories in the United States by the last-in, first-out
       ("LIFO") method. The cost of all other inventories, including inventories
       outside the United States, is determined by the first-in, first-out
       ("FIFO") or average cost method.

       PROPERTIES

       The Company records properties at cost. Maintenance and repairs are
       charged to earnings; replacements and betterments are capitalized. When
       Eastman retires or otherwise disposes of assets, it removes the cost of
       such assets and related accumulated depreciation from the accounts. The
       Company records any profit or loss on retirement or other disposition in
       earnings.

       DEPRECIATION

       Depreciation expense is calculated based on historical cost and the
       estimated useful lives of the assets (buildings and building equipment 20
       to 50 years; machinery and equipment 3 to 33 years), generally using the
       straight-line method. For U.S. assets acquired before January 1, 1992,
       the Company generally uses accelerated methods to calculate the provision
       for depreciation.









                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       IMPAIRED ASSETS

       The Company reviews the carrying values of long-lived assets and
       intangibles for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances
       indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.
       Measurement of any impairment would include a comparison of discounted
       estimated future operating cash flows to the net carrying value of the
       related assets.

       DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

       Derivative financial instruments are used by the Company in the
       management of its foreign currency exposures. The purpose of the
       Company's foreign currency hedging activities is to protect the Company
       from the risk that changes in exchange rates will adversely affect the
       eventual dollar cash flows resulting from such transactions. The Company
       enters into forward exchange contracts to hedge certain firm commitments
       denominated in foreign currencies and currency options to hedge probable
       anticipated but not yet committed export sales and purchase transactions
       expected within no more than 5 years and denominated in foreign
       currencies (principally the British pound, French franc, German mark,
       Italian lira, and Japanese yen). The Company's forward and option
       contracts are accounted for as hedges because the derivative instruments
       are designated and effective as hedges and reduce the Company's exposure
       to foreign currency risks. Gains and losses resulting from effective
       hedges of existing assets, liabilities, firm commitments, or anticipated
       transactions are deferred and recognized when the offsetting gains and
       losses are recognized on the related hedged items and are reported as a
       component of operating earnings. Deferred premiums are generally included
       in other noncurrent assets and are amortized over the life of the
       contract. The related obligation for payment is generally included in
       other liabilities and is paid in the period in which the options are
       exercised or expire and forward exchange contracts mature.

       INVESTMENTS

       The Company includes in other noncurrent assets its investments in joint
       ventures, which are managed as integral parts of the Company's operations
       and accounted for on the equity basis. Eastman carries certain
       investments at negative values, based on its intention to fund its share
       of deficits in such investments, and includes such negative carrying
       values in other long-term liabilities. The Company includes its share of
       earnings and losses of such joint ventures in other income and charges.

       EARNINGS PER SHARE

       Basic earnings per share reflect reported earnings divided by the
       weighted average number of common shares outstanding. Diluted earnings
       per share include the effect of dilutive stock options outstanding during
       the year.

       INCOME TAXES

       Deferred income taxes, reflecting the impact of temporary differences
       between the assets and liabilities recognized for financial reporting
       purposes and amounts recognized for tax purposes, are based on tax laws
       currently enacted.

       STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION

       Compensation cost attributable to stock option and similar plans is
       recognized based on the difference, if any, between the quoted market
       price of the stock on the date of grant over the amount the employee is
       required to pay to acquire the stock (intrinsic value method). Such
       amount, if any, is accrued over the related vesting period, as
       appropriate.










                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       COMPENSATED ABSENCES

       The Company accrues compensated absences and related benefits as current
       charges to earnings.

       ENVIRONMENTAL COSTS

       The Company accrues environmental costs when it is probable that the
       Company has incurred a liability and the amount can be reasonably
       estimated. Estimated costs associated with closure/postclosure are
       accrued over the facilities' estimated remaining useful lives. Accruals
       for environmental liabilities are included in other long-term liabilities
       at undiscounted amounts and exclude claims for recoveries from insurance
       companies or other third parties. Environmental costs are capitalized if
       they extend the life of the related property, increase its capacity,
       and/or mitigate or prevent future contamination. The cost of operating
       and maintaining environmental control facilities is charged to expense.

       COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

       Components of other comprehensive income (loss) are cumulative
       translation adjustments and additional minimum pension liabilities.
       Amounts of other comprehensive income (loss) are presented net of
       applicable taxes. Because cumulative translation adjustments are
       considered a component of permanently invested unremitted earnings of
       subsidiaries outside the United States, no taxes are provided on such
       amounts.

       RECLASSIFICATIONS

       The Company has reclassified certain 1997 and 1996 amounts to conform to
       the 1998 presentation.

2.     INVENTORIES


       Inventories valued on the LIFO method were approximately 70-75% of total
       inventories in 1998 and 1997.

3.     PROPERTIES AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

       PROPERTIES AT COST













                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



       Construction-period interest of $325 million, $295 million, and $257
       million, reduced by accumulated depreciation of $141 million, $125
       million, and $111 million, is included in cost of properties at
       December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

4.     EQUITY INVESTMENTS AND OTHER NONCURRENT ASSETS AND LIABILITIES

       Eastman has a 50% interest in Genencor International, a joint venture
       engaged in developing, manufacturing, and marketing industrial enzymes
       and other fine and specialty chemicals, accounted for under the equity
       method and included in other noncurrent assets. At December 31, 1998 and
       1997, Eastman's equity in the joint venture was $148 million and $142
       million, respectively. The Company guarantees a portion of the joint
       venture's third-party borrowings. Such guarantees are not considered
       material to Eastman. Management believes, based on current facts and
       circumstances and the joint venture's financial position, that the
       likelihood of a payment pursuant to such guarantee is remote.

       Eastman has a 50% interest in and serves as the operating partner in
       Primester, a joint venture engaged in the manufacture of cellulose esters
       at its Kingsport, Tennessee plant, accounted for under the equity method.
       The Company guarantees a portion of the principal amount of the joint
       venture's third-party borrowings; however, management believes, based on
       current facts and circumstances and the structure of the venture, that
       the likelihood of a payment pursuant to such guarantee is remote. At
       December 31, 1998 and 1997, Eastman had a negative investment in the
       joint venture of $41 million and $42 million, respectively, representing
       the recognized portion of the venture's accumulated deficits and the debt
       guarantee that it has a commitment to fund, as necessary. Such amounts
       are included in other long-term liabilities. The Company provides certain
       utilities and general plant services to the joint venture. In return for
       Eastman providing those services, the joint venture paid Eastman a total
       of $39 million in three equal installments in 1991, 1992, and 1993.
       Eastman is amortizing the deferred credit to earnings over a 10-year
       period.

       Eastman has entered into an agreement with a supplier that guarantees the
       Company's right to buy a specified quantity of a certain raw material
       annually through 2007 at prices determined by the pricing formula
       specified in the agreement. In return, the Company will pay a total of
       $239 million to the supplier through 1999 ($218 million and $196 million
       of which have been paid through December 31, 1998 and 1997,
       respectively). The Company defers and amortizes those costs over the
       15-year period during which the product is received. The Company began
       amortizing those costs in 1993 and has recorded accumulated amortization
       of $96 million and $79 million at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
       respectively.







                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       During 1998 the Company issued $23 million tax-exempt bonds at variable
       interest rates, the proceeds of which are to be used for the construction
       of certain solid waste disposal facilities in Kingsport, Tennessee. The
       proceeds from this issuance are held in trust and become available to the
       Company as expenditures are made for construction of the designated solid
       waste disposal facilities. The remaining available proceeds are included
       in other noncurrent assets in the Consolidated Statements of Financial
       Position.

5.     PAYABLES AND OTHER CURRENT LIABILITIES


6.     LONG-TERM BORROWINGS


       Eastman has access to an $800 million revolving credit facility (the
       "Credit Facility") expiring in December 2000. Although the Company does
       not have any amounts outstanding under the Credit Facility, any such
       borrowings would be subject to interest at varying spreads above quoted
       market rates, principally LIBOR. The Credit Facility also requires a
       facility fee on the total commitment that varies based on Eastman's
       credit rating. The annual rate for such fee was .075% in 1998, 1997, and
       1996. The Credit Facility contains a number of covenants and events of
       default, including the maintenance of certain financial ratios. Eastman
       was in compliance with all such covenants for all periods.

       Eastman utilizes commercial paper, generally with maturities of 90 days
       or less, to meet its liquidity needs. The Company's commercial paper,
       supported by the Credit Facility, is classified as long-term borrowings
       because the Company has the ability and intent to refinance such
       borrowings long-term. As of December 31, 1998, the Company's commercial
       paper outstanding balance was $123 million, at interest rates ranging
       between 5.25% and 5.81%. At December 31, 1997, a total of $213 million of
       commercial paper was outstanding, at interest rates ranging between 6.10%
       and 6.90%. The 7 5/8% debentures may be redeemed June 15, 2006, at the
       option of their registered holders, at 100% of the principal amount plus
       accrued interest to that date. During 1998 the Company issued $23 million
       tax-exempt bonds at variable interest rates, the proceeds of which are to
       be used for the construction of certain solid waste disposal facilities
       in Kingsport, Tennessee. The remaining available proceeds from this
       issuance are included in other noncurrent assets and are held in trust
       until such time as needed to fund the qualifying projects. Approximately
       $4 million of qualifying expenditures related to these projects had been
       made as of December 31, 1998. During 1997 the Company issued $300 million
       of 7.60% debentures due February 1, 2027, and used the proceeds to repay
       previously outstanding commercial paper borrowings outstanding at that
       time.




                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

7.     SHAREOWNERS' EQUITY



       (1)  Includes shares held in treasury.

       The Company has authority to issue 400 million shares of all classes of
       stock, of which 50 million may be preferred stock, par value $0.01 per
       share, and 350 million may be common stock, par value $0.01 per share.
       Eastman has issued no shares of preferred stock. The Company declared
       dividends of $1.76 per share in 1998, $1.76 per share in 1997, and $1.72
       per share in 1996.

       The Company established a benefit security trust in 1997 to provide a
       degree of financial security for unfunded obligations under certain
       plans. The Company has contributed to the trust a warrant to purchase up
       to one million shares of common stock of the Company for par value. The
       warrant is exercisable by the trustee if the Company does not meet
       certain funding obligations, which obligations would be triggered by
       certain occurrences, including a change in control or potential change in
       control, as defined, or failure by the Company to meet its payment
       obligations under covered unfunded plans. Such warrant is excluded from
       the computation of diluted earnings per share because the conditions upon
       which the warrant is exercisable have not been met.

       The additions to paid-in capital for the three years are the result of
       exercises of stock options by employees and the issuance of shares to the
       Employee Stock Ownership Plan to settle Eastman Performance Plan
       obligations.










                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      The Company repurchased 140,801 shares of Eastman common stock at a cost
      of $8 million and 2,486,300 shares at a cost of $161 million in 1997 and
      1996, respectively. Repurchased common shares may be used to meet common
      stock requirements for benefit plans and other corporate purposes.
      Treasury stock at a cost of approximately $33 million (536,188 shares), $1
      million (18,018 shares) and $2 million (27,972 shares) was reissued in
      1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. The Company's charitable foundation
      held 158,424 shares, 184,557 shares, and 202,575 shares of Eastman common
      stock at December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

      For 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively, the weighted average number of
      common shares outstanding used to compute basic earnings per share was
      78.9 million, 78.1 million, and 78.5 million and for diluted earnings per
      share was 79.5 million, 78.8 million, and 79.3 million, reflecting the
      effect of dilutive options outstanding. Certain options outstanding at the
      end of 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively, were excluded in the
      computation of diluted earnings per share because the options' exercise
      prices were greater than average market price of the common shares.
      Excluded were options to purchase 994,503 shares of common stock at a
      range of prices from $56.875 to $74.25; 790,324 shares of common stock at
      a range of prices from $59.00 to $74.25; and 566,490 shares of common
      stock at a range of prices from $57.125 to $74.25, outstanding at the end
      of 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

8.    IMPAIRMENT OF ASSETS

      In fourth quarter 1998 the Company recorded a pretax charge to earnings of
      $20.3 million ($14.1 million after tax) for the write-down of property,
      plant and equipment used in the production of CHDA, a product sold in the
      Specialty and Performance segment. Based on responses from customers
      surveyed in the fourth quarter 1998, market outlook and estimated future
      cash flows for this product declined significantly. The carrying values of
      assets related to CHDA production were written down to fair market value
      based on estimated discounted future cash flows. The charge was recorded
      in Cost of Sales for the Specialty and Performance segment.

      The Company also recorded in fourth quarter 1998 a pretax charge to
      earnings of $12.4 million ($8.6 million after tax) for the write-off of
      construction in progress related to an EASTOTAC expansion project and an
      epoxybutene ("EpB") plant project. Process improvements leading to
      increased EASTOTAC manufacturing capacity at the existing Longview, Texas
      plant and a planned joint venture in China lead to cancellation of the
      EASTOTAC expansion project. A portion of work done to date on an EpB plant
      project had no future value. The EASTOTAC expansion project and EpB plant
      project costs were written off and recorded in Cost of Sales for the
      Specialty and Performance segment.

9.    STOCK OPTION AND COMPENSATION PLANS

      OMNIBUS PLAN

      Eastman's 1997 Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "1997 Omnibus
      Plan"), which is substantially similar to and intended to replace the 1994
      Omnibus Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "1994 Omnibus Plan"), provides
      for grants to employees of nonqualified stock options, incentive stock
      options, tandem and freestanding stock appreciation rights, performance
      shares, and various other stock and stock-based awards. Certain of these
      awards may be based on criteria relating to Eastman performance as
      established by the Compensation and Management Development Committee of
      the Board of Directors. No new awards have been made under the 1994
      Omnibus Plan following the effectiveness of the 1997 Omnibus Plan.
      Outstanding grants and awards under the 1994 Omnibus Plan are unaffected
      by the replacement of the 1994 Omnibus Plan with the 1997 Omnibus Plan.
      The 1997 Omnibus Plan provides that options can be granted through April
      30, 2002, for the purchase of Eastman common stock at an option price









                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      not less than 50% of the per share fair market value on the date of the
      stock option's grant. Substantially all grants awarded under the 1994
      Omnibus Plan and under the 1997 Omnibus Plan have been at option prices
      equal to the fair market value on the date of grant. Options typically
      become exercisable 50% one year after grant and 100% after two years and
      expire ten years after grant. There is a maximum of 7 million shares of
      common stock available for option grants and other awards during the term
      of the 1997 Omnibus Plan. The maximum number of shares of common stock
      with respect to one or more options and/or SARs that may be granted during
      any one calendar year under the 1997 Omnibus Plan to the Chief Executive
      Officer or to any of the next four most highly compensated executive
      officers (each, a "Covered Employee") is 200,000. The maximum fair market
      value of any awards (other than options and SARs) that may be received by
      a Covered Employee during any one calendar year under the 1997 Omnibus
      Plan is equal to the fair market value of 100,000 shares of common stock
      as of December 31 of the preceding year.

      DIRECTOR LONG-TERM COMPENSATION PLAN

      Eastman's 1994 Director Long-Term Compensation Plan (the "Director Plan")
      provides for grants of nonqualified stock options and restricted shares to
      nonemployee members of the Board of Directors upon the first day of the
      directors' initial term of service. The Director Plan provides that
      options can be granted through December 31, 1998, for the purchase of
      Eastman common stock at an option price not less than the stock's fair
      market value on the date of the grant. The options vest in 50% increments
      on the first two anniversaries of the grant date.

      NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTOR STOCK OPTION PLAN

      Eastman's 1996 Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan provides for grants
      of nonqualified stock options to nonemployee members of the Board of
      Directors in lieu of all or a portion of each member's annual retainer.
      The Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan provides that options may be
      granted for the purchase of Eastman common stock at an option price not
      less than the stock's fair market value on the date of grant. The options
      become exercisable 6 months after the grant date. The maximum number of
      shares of Eastman common stock available for grant under the Plan is
      150,000.

      STOCK OPTION BALANCES AND ACTIVITY

      The Company applies intrinsic value accounting for its stock option plans.
      If the Company had elected to recognize compensation expense based upon
      the fair value at the grant dates for awards under these plans, the
      Company's net earnings and basic earnings per share would be reduced to
      the unaudited pro forma amounts indicated below.




       The fair value of each option is estimated on the grant date using the
       Black-Scholes option-pricing model, which requires input of highly
       subjective assumptions. Some of these assumptions used for grants in
       1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively, include: average expected volatility
       of 20.87%, 21.61%, and 25.23%; average expected dividend yield of





                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       3.07%, 2.92%, and 2.56%; and average risk-free interest rates of 5.48%,
       6.14%, and 5.76%. An expected option term of 5.9 years for all periods
       was developed based on historical experience information. The expected
       term for reloads was considered as part of this calculation and is
       equivalent to the remaining term of the original grant at the time of
       reload.

       Because the Company's stock had been traded for a period less than the
       baseline expected term assumption, 1996 calculations used monthly
       volatility factors for five peer companies. The Company's volatility is
       now considered consistent with the peer group; therefore, for 1997 and
       subsequent years, the Company's volatility factors will be utilized. For
       valuation purposes, an average volatility factor based on the
       calendar-year quarter in which the options were granted was utilized.

       Because the Company's employee stock options have characteristics
       significantly different from those of traded options, and because changes
       in the subjective input assumptions can materially affect the fair value
       estimate, in management's opinion, the existing models do not necessarily
       provide a reliable single measure of the fair value of its employee stock
       options.

       A summary of the status of the Company's stock option plans is presented
       below:



       The following table summarizes information about stock options
       outstanding at December 31, 1998:










                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


       EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN

       The Company sponsors a defined contribution employee stock ownership plan
       (the "ESOP"), which is a qualified plan under Section 401(a) of the
       Internal Revenue Code. Eastman anticipates that it will direct a portion
       of the compensation of substantially all U.S. employees to the ESOP. The
       Company also sponsors an employee stock ownership plan, which is
       substantially similar to the ESOP, for its international employees.
       Allocated shares in the ESOP totaled 2,626,880, 2,289,826, and 1,887,003
       as of December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.

       Compensation expense is measured based on the fair value of the shares
       contributed to or committed to be contributed to the ESOP. The shares are
       allocated to participant accounts and held by the ESOP until distributed
       to the employees at a future date, such as on the date of termination or
       retirement. Dividends on shares held by the ESOP are charged to retained
       earnings. All shares held by the ESOP are treated as outstanding in
       computing earnings per share.

       EASTMAN PERFORMANCE PLAN

       The Eastman Performance Plan (the "EPP") places a portion of each
       employee's annual compensation at risk and provides a lump-sum payment to
       plan participants based on the Company's financial performance. Certain
       portions of such payments, which are approved annually by Eastman's Board
       of Directors, are directed to the Company's ESOP. Charges under the EPP
       were $66 million, $81 million, and $131 million for 1998, 1997, and 1996,
       respectively. Of these amounts, approximately $36 million in each year
       was directed to the Company's ESOP.

       ANNUAL PERFORMANCE PLAN

       Eastman's managers and executive officers participate in an Annual
       Performance Plan (the "APP"), which places a portion of annual cash
       compensation at risk based upon Company performance as measured by
       specified annual goals. Charges under the APP for 1998, 1997, and 1996
       were $8 million, $11 million, and $6 million, respectively.

10.    INCOME TAXES

       Components of earnings before income taxes and the provision for U.S. and
       other income taxes follow:









                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       Differences between the provision for income taxes and income taxes
       computed using the U.S. federal statutory income tax rate follow:



       The 1998 foreign sales corporation benefit includes $12 million
       attributable to amended returns reflecting redetermined foreign sales
       corporation results for the years prior to 1998.

       The significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities follow:



       Unremitted earnings of subsidiaries outside the United States totaling
       $26 million at December 31, 1998, are considered to be reinvested
       indefinitely. If remitted, they would be substantially free of additional
       tax. It is not practicable to determine the deferred tax liability for
       temporary differences related to those unremitted earnings.

       Current income taxes payable totaling $16 million and $53 million are
       included in current liabilities at December 31, 1998 and 1997,
       respectively.

11.    FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS












                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       Eastman uses the following methods and assumptions in estimating its
       fair-value disclosures for financial instruments:

       Long-term borrowings

       The Company has based the fair value for fixed-rate borrowings on current
       interest rates for comparable securities. The Company's floating-rate
       borrowings approximate fair value.

       Foreign exchange contracts

       The Company estimates the fair value of its foreign exchange contracts
       based on dealer-quoted market prices of comparable instruments.

       Other financial instruments

       Because of the nature of all other financial instruments, recorded
       amounts approximate fair value. In the judgment of management, exposure
       to third-party guarantees is remote and the potential earnings impact
       pursuant to such guarantees is insignificant.

       DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS HELD OR ISSUED FOR PURPOSES OTHER THAN
       TRADING

       Eastman had currency options with maturities of not more than 5 years to
       exchange various foreign currencies for U.S. dollars in the aggregate
       notional amount of $960 million and $1.275 billion at December 31, 1998
       and 1997, respectively. The net unrealized gain (loss) deferred on such
       options was $31 million and $87 million as of December 31, 1998 and 1997,
       respectively. Those amounts, based on dealer-quoted prices, represent the
       estimated gain (loss) that would have been recognized had those hedges
       been liquidated at estimated market value on the last day of each year
       presented.

       The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
       counterparties on foreign exchange contracts but anticipates no such
       nonperformance. The Company minimizes such risk exposure by limiting the
       counterparties to major international banks and financial institutions.
       Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade accounts receivable
       are generally diversified because of the large number of entities
       constituting the Company's customer base and their dispersion across many
       different industries and geographies.

12.    COMMITMENTS

       LEASE COMMITMENTS

       Eastman leases facilities, principally property, machinery, and
       equipment, under cancelable, noncancelable, and month-to-month operating
       leases. Future lease payments, reduced by sublease income, follow:

       (Dollars in millions)









                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       If certain operating leases are terminated by the Company, it guarantees
       a portion of the residual value loss, if any, incurred by the lessors in
       disposing of the related assets. Management believes, based on current
       facts and circumstances and current values of such equipment, that a
       material payment pursuant to such guarantees is remote.




       OTHER COMMITMENTS

       The Company had various purchase commitments at the end of 1998 for
       materials, supplies, and energy incident to the ordinary conduct of
       business. These commitments approximate $2 billion over 15 years. Eastman
       has other long-term commitments relating to joint venture agreements as
       described in Note 4 to Consolidated Financial Statements.

13.    RETIREMENT PLANS

       Eastman maintains defined benefit plans that provide eligible employees
       with retirement benefits calculated based on years of service and
       generally on the employees' final average compensation as defined in the
       plans. Benefits are paid to employees by insurance companies or from
       trust funds. Plan contributions are made as permitted by laws and
       regulations.

       Pension coverage for employees of Eastman's international operations is
       provided, to the extent deemed appropriate, through separate plans. The
       Company systematically provides for obligations under such plans by
       depositing funds with trustees, under insurance policies, or by book
       reserves.

       Eastman participated in Kodak's U.S. defined benefit pension plans
       covering substantially all U.S. employees prior to the spin-off of the
       Company from Kodak as of midnight December 31, 1993. In connection with
       the spin-off Eastman assumed the share of Kodak's U.S. defined benefit
       pension plan obligations relating primarily to active employees as of the
       date of the spin-off, while Kodak retained responsibility for pension
       obligations of substantially all retired U.S. employees.

       A summary balance sheet of the change in plan assets during 1998 and
       1997, the funded status of the plans, amount recognized in the statement
       of financial position, and the assumptions used to develop the projected
       benefit obligation for the Company's U.S. defined pension plans are
       provided in the following tables. Non-U.S. plans are not material.



















                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


       SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET




       Eastman's worldwide net pension cost was $93 million, $59 million, and
       $57 million in 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively.





















                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       A summary of the components of net periodic benefit cost recognized for
       Eastman's U.S. defined benefit pension plans follow:

       SUMMARY OF BENEFIT COSTS




       A partial settlement and curtailment of pension and other postemployment
       benefit liabilities in 1998 resulted from the expiration of the Holston
       Defense Corporation contract. This resulted in recognition of
       approximately $35 million of previously unrecognized liabilities, but had
       no effect on earnings because the Company also recorded a receivable from
       the Department of Army for expected reimbursement of such amounts (see
       Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements). In 1997, the Company
       recorded a $62 million charge ($40 million after tax) for the partial
       settlement and curtailment of pension and other postemployment benefit
       liabilities resulting from a large number of employee retirements.

14.    POST RETIREMENT WELFARE PLANS

       Eastman provides life insurance and health care benefits for eligible
       retirees, and health care benefits for retirees' eligible survivors. In
       general, Eastman provides those benefits to retirees eligible under the
       Company's U.S. pension plans.

       Eastman and Kodak agreed that Kodak would retain the postretirement
       health and life insurance benefit obligations of substantially all U.S.
       retirees at the date of the spin-off. As a result, Eastman has no
       liability recorded for expected postretirement health and life insurance
       benefit costs for substantially all of its employees who retired through
       yearend 1993 while Eastman was a wholly owned business of Kodak.

       A few of the Company's non-U.S. operations have supplemental health
       benefit plans for certain retirees, the cost of which is not significant
       to the Company.

       The following tables set forth the status of the Company's U.S. plans at
       December 31, 1998 and 1997:












                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       SUMMARY BALANCE SHEET




      A 1% increase in health care trend would increase the 1998 service and
      interest costs by $2.5 million, and the 1998 benefit obligation by $35.8
      million. A 1% decrease in health care trend would decrease the 1998
      service and interest costs by $2.2 million, and the 1998 benefit
      obligation by $30.4 million.
























                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       The net periodic postretirement benefit cost follows:



       A partial settlement and curtailment of pension and other postemployment
       benefit liabilities in 1998 resulted from the expiration of the Holston
       Defense Corporation contract. This resulted in recognition of
       approximately $35 million of previously unrecognized liabilities, but had
       no effect on earnings because the Company also recorded a receivable from
       the Department of Army for expected reimbursement of such amounts (see
       Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements). In 1997, the Company
       recorded a $62 million charge ($40 million after tax) for the partial
       settlement and curtailment of pension and other postemployment benefit
       liabilities resulting from a large number of employee retirements.

15.    SEGMENT INFORMATION

       Eastman is an international chemical company that manufactures and sells
       a broad range of products. The Company believes its businesses operate in
       three segments: Specialty and Performance, Core Plastics, and Chemical
       Intermediates. Segments are based on how senior management strategically
       directs and manages the business, including resource allocation and
       performance assessment.

       The Specialty and Performance segment contains products that are sold to
       customers that base their buying decisions principally on product
       performance attributes. The major products in this segment include
       specialty plastics, coatings and paint raw materials, fine chemicals,
       performance chemicals, and fibers. Targeted markets for this segment are
       diverse and include medical, electronics, pharmaceutical, agricultural,
       recreation, consumer durables, photographic, additives for fibers and
       plastics, adhesives, sealants, food and beverages, nutrition, cosmetics,
       textiles, construction, coatings, inks, paints, filters, and specialty
       plastics and specialty packaging applications. Competitive factors for
       this segment include price, reliability of supply, customer service,
       environmental responsibility, and technical competence. Specialty
       plastics are sold to selected niche markets primarily in North America
       for value-added end uses. Coatings and paint raw materials are sold
       primarily to North American industrial concerns. The principal markets







                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       for Eastman's fine chemicals are largely U.S. photographic, agricultural,
       and pharmaceutical companies. Performance chemicals are sold primarily to
       North American industries as additives for fibers and plastics, raw
       materials for adhesives and sealants, food and beverage ingredients and
       other performance products. Acetate tow is sold worldwide to the tobacco
       industry for use in cigarette filters. The operations of Holston Defense
       Corporation are included in the Specialty and Performance segment and do
       not have a significant impact on the financial position or results of
       operations of the Company (see Note 17 to Consolidated Financial
       Statements).

       The Core Plastics segment includes the Company's major plastics products,
       EASTAPAK polymers and TENITE polyethylene. These container and general
       film products share similar physical characteristics and compete based on
       price and integrated manufacturing capabilities. Polyester plastics are
       sold to soft-drink and other packaging manufacturers principally in North
       America, Europe, and Latin America. Polyethylene is sold generally to
       North American industries.

       The Chemical Intermediates segment contains industrial intermediate
       chemicals that are produced based on the Company's oxo chemistry
       technology and chemicals-from-coal technology and are sold to customers
       operating in mature markets in which multiple sources of supply exist.
       They are sold generally in large volume mostly to North American
       industries, with increasing focus in Southeast Asia. These products are
       targeted at markets for industrial additives, agricultural chemicals,
       esters, pharmaceuticals, and vinyl compounding. Competitive factors
       include price, reliability of supply, and integrated manufacturing
       capability. Favorable cost position, proprietary products, and improving
       standards of living worldwide are key value drivers for this segment.

       Certain specialty plastics previously reported in the Core Plastics
       segment were moved to the Specialty and Performance segment in 1998 to
       appropriately reflect the way the business is managed. Prior periods have
       been restated to conform with the 1998 presentation.

       The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described
       in the summary of significant accounting policies. Corporate and certain
       other costs are allocated to operating segments using systematic
       allocation methods consistently applied. Senior management believes
       presenting the operating segments' performance with these costs allocated
       is appropriate in the circumstances. Non-operating income and expense,
       including interest cost, are not allocated to operating segments.











                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



        Revenues are attributed to countries based on customer location. No
        individual foreign country is material with respect to revenues or
        long-lived assets.





















                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

16.    SUPPLEMENTAL CASH FLOW INFORMATION

       Cash paid for interest and income taxes is as follows:



       Cash flows from operating activities include gains (losses) from equity
       investments of $12 million, $11 million, and $(3) million for 1998, 1997,
       and 1996, respectively. Derivative financial instruments and related
       gains and losses are included in cash flows from operating activities.
       The effect on cash of foreign currency transactions and exchange rate
       changes for all years presented was insignificant.

       In March 1998 and 1997, the Company issued 536,188 and 611,962 shares of
       its common stock with a market value of $33 million and $34 million to
       its Employee Stock Ownership Plan as partial settlement of the Company's
       Eastman Performance Plan payout. This noncash transaction is not
       reflected in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 

17.    HOLSTON DEFENSE CORPORATION

       Holston Defense Corporation ("Holston"), a wholly owned subsidiary of the
       Company, managed, as its primary business, the government-owned Holston
       Army Ammunition Plant in Kingsport, Tennessee (the "Facility") under a
       series of contracts with the Department of Army (the "DOA") from 1949
       until expiration of the Contract (the "Contract") on December 31, 1998.
       The DOA awarded a contract to manage the Facility to a third party
       commencing January 1, 1999.

       The Contract provides for payment of a management fee to Holston and
       reimbursement by the DOA of allowable costs incurred for the operation of
       the Facility. Holston's operating results historically have been
       insignificant to the Company's consolidated sales and earnings.

       Pension and other postretirement benefits have been provided to Holston's
       present and past employees under the terms of Holston's employee benefit
       plans. Prior to the expiration of the Contract, the Company had
       recognized, in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles,
       pension and other postretirement benefit obligations related to Holston
       of approximately $93 million. The Company expects that the DOA will
       reimburse these pension and other postretirement benefit obligations and
       such amounts will be credited to earnings at the time of receipt of
       reimbursement from the DOA. The reimbursement may or may not occur in a
       single payment.

       The ending of Holston's operation of the Facility results in obligations
       for severance pay to eligible Holston employees (the amount based on
       length of service) and will require additional funding for the
       acceleration of obligations under the pension and other postretirement
       benefit plans. During 1998, the Company recognized additional liabilities
       of approximately $35 million for termination and pension curtailment. The
       recognition of these liabilities had no effect on earnings because the
       Company recorded a receivable from the DOA for the reimbursement of such
       amounts.

       Holston terminated its pension plan in a standard termination as of
       January 1, 1999. In order to terminate the pension plan in a standard
       termination, the assets of the plan had to be sufficient to provide all
       benefit liabilities with respect to each participant. A delay in
       reimbursement by the DOA resulted in the Company advancing approximately
       $35 million in January 1999 toward the funding of these liabilities.








                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       The Company will likely be required to advance additional funds to pay
       pension benefit liabilities, as well as other termination costs, if there
       are further delays in payment or reimbursement by the DOA.

       As previously reported, the Company is negotiating with the DOA the
       settlement of certain postretirement benefit obligations. The Company's
       potential obligation for these postretirement benefit obligations, if
       any, in excess of the negotiated amount will be recognized as a liability
       at such time that it is probable and reasonably estimable that projected
       benefit obligations exceed assets provided by the DOA. The Company
       expects that the DOA will reimburse the Company for all costs associated
       with operation of the Facility and expiration of the Contract.

       Although the DOA's position with respect to similar contracts is that it
       has no legal liability for unfunded postretirement benefit costs, other
       than pension obligations, and the DOA may disagree with the specific
       amount of other postretirement obligations, it is the opinion of the
       Company, based on the Contract terms, applicable law, and legal and
       equitable precedents, that substantially all of the other postretirement
       benefit costs will be paid by the DOA or recovered from the government in
       related proceedings, and that the amounts, if any, not paid or recovered,
       or the advancement of funds by the Company pending such reimbursement or
       recovery, should not have a material adverse effect on the consolidated
       financial position or results of operations of the Company.

18.    ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

       Certain Eastman manufacturing sites generate hazardous and nonhazardous
       wastes, of which the treatment, storage, transportation, and disposal are
       regulated by various governmental agencies. In connection with the
       cleanup of various hazardous waste sites, the Company, along with many
       other entities, has been designated a potentially responsible party
       ("PRP") by the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency under the
       Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act,
       which potentially subjects PRPs to joint and several liability for such
       cleanup costs. In addition, the Company will be required to incur costs
       for environmental remediation and closure/postclosure under the federal
       Resource Conservation and Recovery Act. Because of expected sharing of
       costs, the availability of legal defenses, and the Company's preliminary
       assessment of actions that may be required, the Company does not believe
       its liability for these environmental matters, individually or in the
       aggregate, will be material to Eastman's consolidated financial position,
       results of operations, or competitive position.

       The Company's environmental protection and improvement cash expenditures
       were approximately $190 million, $220 million, and $175 million in 1998,
       1997, and 1996, respectively, including investments in construction,
       operations, and development.

19.    LEGAL MATTERS

       The Company's operations are parties to or targets of lawsuits, claims,
       investigations, and proceedings, including product liability, personal
       injury, patent and intellectual property, commercial, contract,
       environmental, antitrust, health and safety, and employment matters,
       which are being handled and defended in the ordinary course of business.
       While the Company is unable to predict the outcome of these matters, it
       does not believe, based upon currently available facts, that the ultimate
       resolution of any of such pending matters, including those described in
       the following paragraph, will have a material adverse effect on the
       Company's overall financial position or results of operations. However,
       adverse developments could negatively impact earnings in a particular
       period.










                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

       As previously reported, on September 30, 1998, Eastman entered into a
       voluntary plea agreement with the Department of Justice and agreed to pay
       an $11 million fine to resolve a charge brought against the Company for
       violation of Section One of the Sherman Act. Under the agreement, Eastman
       entered a plea of guilty to one count of price-fixing for sorbates, a
       class of food preservatives, from January 1995 through June 1997. The
       plea agreement was approved by the United States District Court for the
       Northern District of California on October 21, 1998. The Company
       recognized the entire fine in third quarter 1998 and will pay the fine in
       installments over a period of five years. In addition, the Company, along
       with other companies, has been named as a defendant in seven antitrust
       lawsuits brought subsequent to the Company's plea agreement as putative
       class actions on behalf of certain purchasers of sorbates. The Company
       recognized a charge to earnings in the fourth quarter of 1998 of $8
       million for the estimated costs, including legal fees, related to the
       pending sorbates litigation.














































                    EASTMAN CHEMICAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


20.    QUARTERLY SALES AND EARNINGS DATA - UNAUDITED

       (Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)





       -------------------------
       (1) Each quarter is calculated as a discrete period; the sum of the four
           quarters may not equal the calculated full-year amount.

       (2) Fourth quarter 1998 includes charges related to certain
           underperforming assets, discontinued projects, a power outage at the
           Kingsport, Tennessee manufacturing site, reserve for sorbates civil
           litigation, and other items, partially offset by the effect of a
           lower tax rate which favorably affected net earnings.

       (3) Fourth quarter 1997 includes a charge for partial settlement and
           curtailment of pension and other postemployment benefit liabilities
           due to a large number of employee retirements.





















ITEM 9.    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
           AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.




























































                                    PART III

ITEM 10.      DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The material under the heading "Election of Directors -- General" in the 1999
Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein in response to this Item.
Certain information concerning executive officers of the Company is set forth
under the heading "Executive Officers of the Company" in Part I of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.


ITEM 11.      EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The material under the headings "Election of Directors -- Compensation of
Directors" in the 1999 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein in
response to this Item. In addition, the material under the heading "Executive
Compensation and Benefits" in the 1999 Proxy Statement is incorporated by
reference herein in response to this Item, except for the material under the
subheadings " -- Compensation and Management Development Committee Report on
Executive Compensation" and " -- Performance Graph," which are not incorporated
by reference herein.


ITEM 12.      SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND
              MANAGEMENT

The material under the headings "Stock Ownership of Directors and Executive
Officers--Common Stock" and "Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners" in
the 1999 Proxy Statement is incorporated by reference herein in response to this
Item.


ITEM 13.      CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

There are no transactions or relationships since the beginning of the last
completed fiscal year required to be reported in response to this Item.



























                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K



           2.  Financial statement schedules

               All schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable
               or because the required information is shown in the financial
               statements or notes thereto.

           3.  Exhibits filed as part of this report are listed in the Exhibit
               Index appearing on page 66.

       (b) Reports on Form 8-K

           During the quarter ended December 31, 1998, no reports on Form 8-K
           were filed.

       (c) The Exhibit Index and required Exhibits to this report are included
           beginning at page 66.

       (d) There are no applicable financial statement schedules required to be
           filed as part of this report.






























                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                           Eastman Chemical Company



                                           By: /s/ Earnest W. Deavenport, Jr.
                                               --------------------------------
                                                   Earnest W. Deavenport, Jr.
                                                   Chairman of the Board and
                                                   Chief Executive Officer

Date:  March 5, 1999

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the date indicated.


































                                 EXHIBIT INDEX












                                 EXHIBIT INDEX












                                 EXHIBIT INDEX








                                 EXHIBIT INDEX









- ------------------------------
*    Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement filed pursuant to
     Item 601(b)(10)(iii) of Regulation S-K.


















