
10-K405
FIFTH THIRD BANKCORP                  10-K405





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             Washington, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For fiscal year ended December 31, 1998            Commission File Number 0-8076

                               FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

             Ohio                                              31-0854434
(State or other jurisdiction of                              (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                            Identification Number)

                            38 Fountain Square Plaza
                             Cincinnati, Ohio 45263
               (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip Code)

       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (513) 579-5300

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                         Common Stock Without Par Value

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes: /X/   No: / /

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/

The Aggregate Market Value of the Voting Stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant was $12,846,228,056 as of February 1, 1999. (1)

There were 267,147,048 shares of the Registrant's Common Stock, without par
value, outstanding as of February 1, 1999.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

1998 Annual Report to Shareholders:                           Parts I, II and IV
Proxy Statement for 1999 Annual Meeting of Shareholders:      Parts III and IV

(1) In calculating the market value of securities held by non-affiliates of
Registrant as disclosed on the cover page of this Form 10-K, Registrant has
treated as securities held by affiliates as of December 31, 1998, voting stock
owned of record by its directors and principal executive officers, shareholders
owning greater than 10% of the voting stock and voting stock held by
Registrant's trust departments in a fiduciary capacity.





                               FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
                          1998 FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT

                                

                                     PART I






                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
- -----------------

                                  ORGANIZATION

Fifth Third Bancorp (the "Company") is an Ohio corporation organized in 1975 as
a bank holding company registered under the Bank Holding Company Act of 1956, as
amended (the "Act"), and subject to regulation by the Federal Reserve Board. The
Company, with its principal office located in Cincinnati, is a multi-bank
holding company as defined in the Act and is registered as such with the Board
of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and has 17 wholly-owned subsidiaries:
Fifth Third Bank; Fifth Third Bank, Central Ohio; Fifth Third Bank, Northwestern
Ohio, N.A.; Fifth Third Bank, Ohio Valley; Fifth Third Bank, Western Ohio; Fifth
Third Bank, Florida; Fifth Third Bank, Northern Kentucky, Inc.; Fifth Third
Bank, Kentucky, Inc.; Fifth Third Bank, Indiana; Fifth Third Bank, Southwest,
F.S.B.; Fifth Third Community Development Company; Fifth Third Investment
Company; Fountain Square Insurance Company; Calvin Hotel Co.; Fifth Third/The
Ohio Company; State Savings Mortgage Company and Heartland Capital Management,
Inc.

At December 31, 1998, the Company, its affiliated banks and other subsidiaries
had consolidated total assets of $28.9 billion, consolidated total deposits of
$18.8 billion and consolidated total shareholders' equity of $3.2 billion.

The Company, through its subsidiaries, engages primarily in commercial, retail
and trust banking, investment services and leasing activities and also provides
credit life, accident and health insurance, discount brokerage services and
property management for its properties. Those subsidiaries consist of The Fifth
Third Company, Fifth Third Securities, Inc., The Fifth Third Leasing Company,
Midwest Payment Systems, Inc. ("MPS"), Fifth Third International Company and
Fifth Third/W. Lyman Case & Company. Fifth Third's affiliates provide a full
range of financial products and services to the retail, commercial, financial,
governmental, educational and medical sectors, including a wide variety of
checking, savings and money market accounts, and credit products such as credit
cards, installment loans, mortgage loans and leasing. Each of the banking
affiliates has deposit insurance provided by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation ("FDIC") through the Bank Insurance Fund ("BIF") and the Savings
Association Insurance Fund ("SAIF").

The Company, through its banking subsidiaries, operates for itself and other
financial institutions a proprietary automated teller machine ("ATM") network,
Jeanie(R). The Jeanie system participates in a shared ATM network called "Money
Station(R)," which includes several Ohio bank holding companies and over 5,000
ATM's. The "Money Station" network participates in another shared ATM network
called "PLUS System(R)," which is a nationwide network with over 170,000
participating ATM's. Fifth Third Bank, through its wholly-owned subsidiary, MPS,
also provides electronic switch services for several regional banks and bank
holding companies in Ohio, Kentucky and Illinois.



Fifth Third International Company has a 99.9 percent owned subsidiary: Fifth
Third Trade Services Limited. Fifth Third Investment Company owns the remaining
 .01 percent.

The Fifth Third Leasing Company has a 100 percent owned subsidiary: Fifth Third
Auto Leasing Trust.

                                  ACQUISITIONS

The Company is the result of mergers and acquisitions over the years involving
financial institutions throughout Ohio, Indiana, Kentucky, Arizona and Florida.
The Company made the following acquisitions during 1998:

On April 9, 1998, the Company acquired W. Lyman Case & Company, a commercial
mortgage banking company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio, for $15 million. W.
Lyman Case & Company originated more than $680 million in financing and equity
transactions since acquisition and has a loan servicing portfolio of $2 billion
at year-end 1998. On June 12, 1998, the Company acquired The Ohio Company, a
full-service broker-dealer for retail and institutional clients headquartered in
Columbus, Ohio, for consideration consisting of 1,862,765 shares of the
Company's common stock. These transactions were accounted for as purchases.

On June 19, 1998, the Company acquired State Savings Company ("State"), a
privately-owned thrift holding company headquartered in Columbus, Ohio with $2.7
billion in assets. On June 26, 1998, the Company acquired CitFed Bancorp, Inc.
("CitFed"), a publicly-traded savings and loan holding company headquartered in
Dayton, Ohio with $3.1 billion in assets. These transactions were tax-free,
stock-for-stock exchanges accounted for as poolings-of-interests. The Company
exchanged 16,625,271 shares of the Company's common stock for all outstanding
shares of State. The Company exchanged 13,222,869 shares of the Company's common
stock for each outstanding share of CitFed.

Financial data for all prior periods has been restated to reflect the second
quarter 1998 mergers with CitFed and State. Cash dividends per common share are
those of the Company declared prior to the mergers with CitFed and State.

The restatement of the CitFed merger was accomplished by combining CitFed's
March 31, 1998 fiscal year financial information with the Company's December 31,
1997 calendar year financial information. In 1998, CitFed's fiscal year was
conformed to the Company's calendar year. As a result of conforming fiscal
periods, the Company's Consolidated Statements of Income for the fourth quarter
of 1997 and the first quarter of 1998 include CitFed's net income for the three
months ended March 31, 1998 of $7.8 million. An adjustment to shareholders'
equity removes the effect of including CitFed's financial results in both
periods.

                                   COMPETITION

There are hundreds of commercial banks, savings and loans and other financial
services providers in Ohio, Kentucky, Indiana, Arizona and Florida and
nationally, which provide strong 




competition to the Company's banking subsidiaries. As providers of a full range
of financial services, these subsidiaries compete with national and state banks,
savings and loan associations, securities dealers, brokers, mortgage bankers,
finance and insurance companies, and other financial service companies. With
respect to data processing services, the Bank's data processing subsidiary,
Midwest Payment Systems, Inc., competes with other electronic fund transfer
(EFT) service providers such as Electronic Payment Systems, Deluxe Corporation
and Electronic Data Systems and other merchant processing providers such as
First Data Corporation, National Processing, Inc. and First USA Paymentech, Inc.

The earnings of the Company are affected by general economic conditions as well
as by the monetary policies of the Federal Reserve Board. Such policies, which
include regulating the national supply of bank reserves and bank credit, can
have a major effect upon the source and cost of funds and the rates of return
earned on loans and investments. The Federal Reserve influences the size and
distribution of bank reserves through its open market operations and changes in
cash reserve requirements against member bank deposits.



                           REGULATION AND SUPERVISION

The Company, as a bank holding company, is subject to the restrictions of the
Act. The Act provides that the acquisition of control of a bank is subject to
the prior approval of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. The
Company is required to obtain the prior approval of the Federal Reserve Board
before it can acquire control of more than 5 percent of the voting shares of
another bank. The Act does not permit the Federal Reserve Board to approve an
acquisition by the Company, or any of its subsidiaries, of any bank located in a
state other than Ohio, unless the acquisition is specifically authorized by the
law of the state in which such bank is located.

On September 29, 1994, the Act was amended by The Interstate Banking and Branch
Efficiency Act of 1994 which authorizes interstate bank acquisitions anywhere in
the country effective one year after the date of enactment, and interstate
branching by acquisition and consolidation effective June 1, 1997, in those
states that have not opted out by that date.

The Company's subsidiary state banks are primarily subject to the laws of the
state in which each is located, the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve
System and/or the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. The subsidiary bank
which is organized under the laws of the United States is primarily subject to
regulation by the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation. The Company's savings and loan subsidiary is subject to regulation
by the Office of Thrift Supervision.

The Company and its subsidiaries are subject to certain restrictions on
intercompany loans and investments. The Company and its subsidiaries are also
subject to certain restrictions with respect to engaging in the underwriting and
public sale and distribution of securities. In addition, 



the Company and its subsidiaries are subject to examination at the discretion of
supervisory authorities.

The Act limits the activities which may be engaged in by the Company and its
subsidiaries to ownership of banks and those activities which the Federal
Reserve Board has deemed or may in the future find to be so closely related to
banking as to be a proper incident thereto.

The Financial Reform, Recovery and Enforcement Act of 1989 (FIRREA) provides
that a holding company's controlled insured depository institutions are liable
for any loss incurred by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in connection
with the default of, or any FDIC-assisted transaction involving, an affiliated
insured bank or savings association.

The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation Improvement Act of 1991 (the "FDIC
Improvement Act") covers a wide expanse of banking regulatory issues. The FDIC
Improvement Act deals with the recapitalization of the Bank Insurance Fund, with
deposit insurance reform, including requiring the FDIC to establish a risk-based
premium assessment system, and with a number of other regulatory and supervisory
matters.


                                    EMPLOYEES

As of December 31, 1998, there were no employees of the Company. Subsidiaries of
the Company employed 8,761 employees -- 1,383 were officers and 1,568 were
part-time employees. There were 8,330 full-time equivalent employees as of
December 31, 1998.

                             STATISTICAL INFORMATION

Pages 6 to 13 contain statistical information on the Company and its
subsidiaries. Information about the Company's business segments is incorporated
herein by reference to pages 28 and 29 of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders attached to this filing as Exhibit 13.



                              SECURITIES PORTFOLIO

The securities portfolio as of December 31 for each of the last five years, and
the maturity distribution and weighted average yield of securities as of
December 31, 1998, are incorporated herein by reference to the securities tables
on page 36 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to this
filing as Exhibit 13.

The weighted average yields for the securities portfolio are yields to maturity
weighted by the par values of the securities. The weighted average yields on
securities exempt from income taxes are computed on a taxable-equivalent basis.
The taxable-equivalent yields are net after-tax yields to maturity divided by
the complement of the full corporate tax rate (35 percent). In order to express
yields on a taxable-equivalent basis, yields on obligations of states and
political subdivisions (municipal securities) have been increased as follows:


                             AVERAGE BALANCE SHEETS

The average balance sheets are incorporated herein by reference to Table 1 on
pages 30 and 31 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to
this filing as Exhibit 13.

         ANALYSIS OF NET INTEREST INCOME AND NET INTEREST INCOME CHANGES

The analysis of net interest income and the analysis of net interest income
changes are incorporated herein by reference to Table 1 and Table 2 and the
related discussion on pages 30 through 32 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders attached to this filing as Exhibit 13.



TYPES OF LOANS AND LEASES

A summary of loans and leases by major category as of December 31 ($000's):


MATURITIES AND SENSITIVITY OF LOANS TO CHANGES IN INTEREST RATES

The remaining maturities of the loan portfolio distributed to reflect cash flows
(excluding residential mortgage and consumer loans) at December 31, 1998, based
on scheduled repayments and the sensitivity of loans to interest rate changes
for loans due after one year ($000's):



RISK ELEMENTS

Interest on loans is normally accrued at the rate agreed upon at the time each
loan was negotiated. It is the Company's policy to discontinue accrual of
interest on commercial, construction and mortgage loans when there is a clear
indication the borrower's cash flow may not be sufficient to meet payments as
they become due. Such loans, other than consumer loans, are also placed on
nonaccrual status when principal or interest is past due ninety days or more,
unless the loan is well secured and in the process of collection. The following
table presents data concerning loans and leases at risk at December 31 ($000's):



As of December 31, 1998, there were $46,742,000 of loans and leases currently
performing in accordance with contractual terms where there are serious doubts
as to the ability of the borrower to comply with such terms.

For the years 1998, 1997 and 1996, interest income of $789,000, $714,000 and
$807,000, respectively was recorded on nonaccrual and renegotiated loans and
leases. Additional interest income of $2,837,000, $5,482,000 and $6,329,000
would have been recorded if the nonaccrual and renegotiated loans and leases had
been current in accordance with their original terms. 


SUMMARY OF CREDIT LOSS EXPERIENCE


A summary of the activity in the reserve for credit losses arising from
provisions charged to operations, losses charged off and recoveries of losses
previously charged off ($000's):




SUMMARY OF CREDIT LOSS EXPERIENCE, CONTINUED



The analysis above is for analytical purposes. The reserve for credit losses is
general in nature and is available to absorb losses from any portion of the loan
and lease portfolio.

The distribution of loans and leases by type and the ratio of net charge-offs to
average loans and leases outstanding:




RESERVE FOR CREDIT LOSSES

The reserve is maintained at a level management considers to be adequate to
absorb probable loan and lease losses inherent in the portfolio. Credit losses
are charged and recoveries are credited to the reserve. Provisions for credit
losses are based on management's review of the historical credit loss experience
and such other factors which, in management's judgment, deserve consideration
under existing economic conditions in estimating potential credit losses. Based
on the procedures discussed below, management is of the opinion the reserve of
$266,860,000 at December 31, 1998 was adequate.

In determining the adequacy of the reserve for credit losses, management of each
affiliate bank, on a quarterly basis, specifically evaluates the necessity of a
reserve for individual loans classified by management. The specifically
allocated reserve for a classified loan is determined based on management's
estimate of the borrower's ability to repay the loan given the availability of
collateral, other sources of cash flow, and legal options available to the
Company. Once a review is completed, the need for a specific reserve is
determined by senior management and allocated to the loan. Other loans not
specifically reviewed by management are evaluated using a rolling five-year
average historical charge-off experience ratio calculated by type of loan. The
historical charge-off ratio factors into account the homogeneous nature of the
loans, the geographical lending areas involved, regulatory examination findings,
specific grading systems applied and any other known factors which may impact
the ratios used. Specific reserves on individual loans and historical ratios are
reviewed quarterly and adjusted as necessary based on subsequent collections,
loan upgrades or downgrades, nonperforming trends or actual principal
charge-offs. The Company's primary market area for lending is Ohio, Kentucky and
Indiana. When evaluating the adequacy of reserves, consideration is given to
this regional geographic concentration and the closely-associated effect
changing economic conditions has on the Company's customers.


MATURITY DISTRIBUTION OF DOMESTIC CERTIFICATES OF DEPOSIT OF
$100,000 AND OVER AT DECEMBER 31, 1998 ($000'S)



Foreign office deposits totaling $353,824 are denominated in amounts greater
than $100,000.


RETURN ON EQUITY AND ASSETS

The following table presents certain operating ratios:


- ---------------------------------------------------------------
(a) net income divided by average assets

(b) net income divided by average equity

(c) dividends declared per share divided by diluted earnings per share, as
    originally reported

(d) average equity divided by average assets


(1) Certain 1998 ratios and statistics include merger-related items of $106.4
    million pretax ($75.6 million after tax or $.28 per share). For
    comparability, excluding the merger-related items, return on average assets,
    return on average equity and the dividend payout ratio for 1998 would have
    been 1.93%, 18.7% and 34.8%, respectively.

(2) Certain 1996 ratios include the special SAIF assessment of $37.9 million
    pretax ($24.6 million after tax or $.09 per share). For comparability,
    excluding the impact of this assessment, return on average assets, return on
    average equity and the dividend payout ratio for 1996 would have been 1.64%,
    17.4% and 33.8%, respectively.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
- -------------------

The Company's executive offices and the main office of the Bank are located on
Fountain Square Plaza in downtown Cincinnati, Ohio, located in a 32-story office
tower and a 5-story office building and parking garage known as the Fifth Third
Center and the William S. Rowe Building, respectively. One of the Bank's
subsidiaries owns 100 percent of these buildings.

At December 31, 1998, the Company, through its subsidiary banks, five located in
Ohio, two in Kentucky, one in Indiana, one in Arizona and one in Florida,
operated 468 banking centers, of which 253 were owned and 215 were leased. The
properties owned are free from mortgages and encumbrances.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- --------------------------

The Company and its subsidiaries are not parties to any material legal
proceedings other than routine litigation incidental to its business.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- ------------------------------------------------------------

None.

                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
                      ------------------------------------

The names, ages and positions of the Executive Officers of the Company as of
February 1, 1999 are listed below along with their business experience during
the past 5 years. Officers are appointed annually by the Board of Directors at
the meeting of Directors immediately following the Annual Meeting of
Shareholders.

                              CURRENT POSITION AND
NAME AND AGE                  BUSINESS EXPERIENCE DURING PAST 5 YEARS
- ------------                  ---------------------------------------

George A. Schaefer, Jr., 53   PRESIDENT AND CEO. President and Chief Executive 
                              Officer of the Company and the Bank.

Neal E. Arnold, 38            EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, CHIEF FINANCIAL
                              OFFICER AND TREASURER. Executive Vice President of
                              the Company and the Bank since December, 1998.
                              Chief Financial Officer of the Company and the
                              Bank since June, 1997. Mr. Arnold has been the
                              Treasurer of the Company and the Bank. Previously,
                              Mr. Arnold was Treasurer and Senior Vice President
                              of the Bank.



                              CURRENT POSITION AND
NAME AND AGE                  BUSINESS EXPERIENCE DURING PAST 5 YEARS
- ------------                  ---------------------------------------

Michael D. Baker, 48          EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT. Executive Vice President
                              of the Company and the Bank since August, 1995.
                              Previously, Mr. Baker was Senior Vice President of
                              the Company since March, 1993, and of the Bank.

P. Michael Brumm, 51          EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT. Executive Vice President
                              of the Company and the Bank since August, 1995.
                              Until June, 1997, Mr. Brumm was Chief Financial
                              Officer of the Company and the Bank. Previously,
                              Mr. Brumm was Senior Vice President and CFO of the
                              Company and the Bank.

James J. Hudepohl, 46         EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT. Executive Vice President
                              of the Company and the Bank since January, 1997.
                              Previously, Mr. Hudepohl was Senior Vice President
                              of the Bank.

Michael K. Keating, 43        EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT, GENERAL COUNSEL AND
                              SECRETARY. Executive Vice President of the Company
                              and the Bank since August, 1995 and Secretary of
                              the Company and the Bank since January, 1994.
                              Previously, Mr. Keating was Senior Vice President
                              and General Counsel of the Company since March,
                              1993, and Senior Vice President and Counsel of the
                              Bank.

Robert P. Niehaus, 52         EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT. Executive Vice President
                              of the Company and the Bank since August, 1995.
                              Previously, Mr. Niehaus was Senior Vice President
                              of the Company since March, 1993, and Senior Vice
                              President of the Bank.

Stephen J. Schrantz, 49       EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT. Executive Vice President
                              of the Company and the Bank.

Gerald L. Wissel, 42          EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT. Executive Vice President
                              of the Bank since January, 1997. Auditor of the
                              Company and the Bank. Previously, Mr. Wissel was
                              Senior Vice President of the Bank.




                              CURRENT POSITION AND
NAME AND AGE                  BUSINESS EXPERIENCE DURING PAST 5 YEARS
- ------------                  ---------------------------------------

Robert J. King, Jr., 43       EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT. Executive Vice President
                              of the Company since June, 1997. Vice Chairman of
                              Fifth Third Bank, Northwestern Ohio, N.A.
                              Previously, Mr. King was President and CEO of
                              Fifth Third Bank, Northwestern Ohio, N.A. Mr. King
                              was Senior Vice President of the Company since
                              March, 1995.

James R. Gaunt, 53            EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT. Executive Vice President
                              of the Company since June, 1997. Senior Vice
                              President of the Company since March, 1994, and
                              President and CEO of Fifth Third Bank of Kentucky,
                              Inc. since August, 1994. Previously, Mr. Gaunt was
                              Senior Vice President of the Company and the Bank.

Roger W. Dean, 36             CONTROLLER. Senior Vice President of the Company  
                              and of the Bank since March, 1997. Controller of  
                              the Company and the Bank since June 1993.
                              Previously,  Mr. Dean was Vice President of the
                              Company and the Bank. Prior to June 1993, Mr. Dean
                              was with Deloitte & Touche LLP, independent
                              public accountants.

Paul L. Reynolds, 37          ASSISTANT SECRETARY. Senior Vice President of the
                              Company and the Bank since March, 1997. Assistant
                              Secretary of the Company since March, 1995,
                              General Counsel and Assistant Secretary of the
                              Bank since January, 1995. Previously, Mr. Reynolds
                              was Vice President, Counsel and Assistant
                              Secretary of the Bank since 1990.

Regina G. Livers, 41          COMMUNITY AFFAIRS OFFICER. Community Affairs 
                              Officer of the Company since March 1997.
                              Previously, Ms. Livers was Vice President and
                              Community Affairs Officer of the Bank.







                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED SHAREHOLDER MATTERS
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
Page 1 of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to this
filing as Exhibit 13.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- --------------------------------

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
page 39 of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to this
filing as Exhibit 13.

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
- ---------------------

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
pages 30 through 39 of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders attached
to this filing as Exhibit 13.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- --------------------------------------------------------------------

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
pages 37 and 38 of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to Shareholders attached to
this filing as Exhibit 13.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- ----------------------------------------------------

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to
pages 13 through 29 and page 39 of Registrant's 1998 Annual Report to
Shareholders attached to this filing as Exhibit 13.

ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
- --------------------

None.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
- ------------------------------------------------------------

The information required by this item concerning Directors is incorporated
herein by reference under the caption "ELECTION OF DIRECTORS" of the
Registrant's 1998 Proxy Statement.




ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
- --------------------------------

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under
the caption "EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION" of the Registrant's 1999 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under
the captions "CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS, ELECTION OF DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE
COMPENSATION" of the Registrant's 1999 Proxy Statement.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
- --------------------------------------------------------

The information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference under
the caption "CERTAIN TRANSACTIONS" of the Registrant's 1999 Proxy Statement.

                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------




               The schedules for Registrant and its subsidiaries are omitted
               because of the absence of conditions under which they are
               required, or because the information is set forth in the
               consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto.

        3.     Exhibits

               Exhibit No.
               -----------

               3              Amended Articles of Incorporation and Code of 
                              Regulations (a)

               4(a)           Junior  Subordinated  Indenture, dated as of March
                              20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp and
                              Wilmington Trust Company, as Debenture Trustee (b)

               4(b)           Certificate Representing the 8.136% Junior 
                              Subordinated Deferrable Interest Debentures,
                              Series A, of Fifth Third Bancorp (b)

               4(c)           Amended and Restated Trust Agreement, dated as of
                              March 20, 1997 of Fifth Third Capital Trust II,
                              among Fifth Third Bancorp, as Depositor, 
                              Wilmington Trust Company, as Property Trustee, and
                              the Administrative Trustees name therein (b)

               4(d)           Certificate Representing the 8.136% Capital 
                              Securities, Series A, of Fifth Third Capital Trust
                              I (b)

               4(e)           Guarantee Agreement, dated as of March 20, 1997
                              between Fifth Third Bancorp, as Guarantor, and
                              Wilmington Trust Company, as Guarantee Trustee (b)

               4(f)           Agreement as to Expense and Liabilities, dated as
                              of March 20, 1997 between Fifth Third Bancorp, as
                              the holder of the Common Securities of Fifth Third
                              Capital Trust I and Fifth Third Capital Trust II
                              (b)

               10(a)          Fifth Third Bancorp Unfunded Deferred Compensation
                              Plan for Non-Employee Directors (c)

               10(b)          Fifth Third Bancorp 1990 Stock Option Plan (d)

               10(c)          Fifth Third Bancorp 1987 Stock Option Plan (e)



                    10(d)     Indenture effective November 19, 1992 between
                              Fifth Third Bancorp, Issuer and NBD Bank, N.A.,
                              Trustee (f)

                    10(e)     Fifth Third Bancorp 1993 Discount Stock Purchase
                              Plan (g)

                    10(f)     Fifth Third Bancorp Amended and Restated Stock
                              Incentive Plan for selected Executive Officers,
                              Employees and Directors of The Cumberland Federal
                              Bancorporation, Inc. (h)

                    10(g)     Fifth Third Bancorp Master Profit Sharing Plan (i)

                    10(h)     Fifth Third Bancorp Amended and Restated Stock
                              Option and Incentive Plan for Selected Executive
                              Officers, Employees and Directors of Falls
                              Financial, Inc. (j)

                    10(i)     Fifth Third Bancorp Amended 1993 Discount Stock
                              Purchase Plan (k)

                    10(j)     Fifth Third Bancorp 1998 Long-Term Incentive Stock
                              Plan (l)

                    10(k)     Fifth Third Bancorp Variable Compensation Plan (m)

                    10(l)     CitFed Bancorp, Inc. Amended and Restated 1991
                              Stock Option and Incentive Plan (n)

                    11        Computation of Consolidated Earnings Per Share for
                              the Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997, 1996,
                              1995 and 1994

                    13        Fifth Third Bancorp 1998 Annual Report to
                              Shareholders

                    21        Fifth Third Bancorp Subsidiaries

                    23        Independent Auditors' Consent

                    27        Financial Data Schedules for the Years Ended
                              December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

                    27.1      Financial Data Schedules for the Three Months
                              Ended March 31, 1998, Six Months Ended June 30,
                              1998 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 1998

                    27.2      Financial Data Schedules for the Three Months
                              Ended March 31, 1997, Six Months Ended June 30,
                              1997 and Nine Months Ended September 30, 1997



b)      Reports on Form 8-K

        None.
- ------------------------

(a)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Registration Statement,
          Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2, on Form S-4, Registration No. 33-19965.

(b)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission on March 26, 1997, a Form 8-K Current Report.

(c)       Incorporated in this Form 10-K Annual Report by reference to Form 10-K
          filed for fiscal year ended December 31, 1985.

(d)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on
          Form S-8, Registration No. 33-34075.

(e)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on
          Form S-8, Registration No. 33-13252.

(f)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission on November 18, 1992, a Form 8-K Current
          Report dated November 16, 1992 and as Exhibit 4.1 to a Registration
          Statement on Form S-3, Registration No. 33-54134.

(g)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on
          Form S-8, Registration No. 33-60474.

(h)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on
          Form S-8, Registration No. 33-55223.

(i)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on
          Form S-8, Registration No. 33-55553.

(j)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on
          Form S-8, Registration No. 33-61149.

(k)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as Exhibit 10 to the Quarterly Report on Form
          10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1996.



(l)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on
          Form S-8, Registration No. 333-58249.

(m)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's Proxy Statement dated
          February 9, 1998.

(n)       Incorporated by reference to Registrant's filing with the Securities
          and Exchange Commission as an exhibit to a Registration Statement on
          Form S-8, Registration No. 333-48049 and by reference to CitFed
          Bancorp's Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended March 31, 1996.








                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

FIFTH THIRD BANCORP
(Registrant)

/s/George A. Schaefer, Jr.                                     February 12, 1999
- -------------------------
George A. Schaefer, Jr.
President and CEO
(Principal Executive Officer)

Pursuant to requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has
been signed on February 12, 1999 by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities indicated.







/s/Dennis J. Sullivan, Jr.
- --------------------------------
Dennis J. Sullivan, Jr.
Director

/s/Dudley S. Taft
- --------------------------------
Dudley S. Taft
Director


