
10-K405
FORM 10-K 405



 
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

[ X ]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1995

Commission file number: 0-13253
                        -------

                         UNITED HEALTHCARE CORPORATION
                         -----------------------------
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

           MINNESOTA                                             41-1321939
- -------------------------------                              -------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                               (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                               Identification No.)

            300 OPUS CENTER
          9900 BREN ROAD EAST
         MINNETONKA, MINNESOTA                                      55343
- ----------------------------------------                     -------------------
(Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (612) 936-1300
                                                    --------------
 
Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

  COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE                     NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE, INC.
  ----------------------------                     -----------------------------
     (Title of Each Class)                         (Name of Each Exchange
                                                    on which Registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was 
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing 
requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  X   No
                                        ---     ---

Indicate by checkmark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of
Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best 
of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements 
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [x]

The aggregate market value of voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
registrant as of March 11, 1996, was approximately $9,519,185,876* (based on the
last reported sale price of $63.50 per share on March 11, 1996, on the New York
Stock Exchange).

As of March 11, 1996, 175,520,725 shares of the registrant's Common Stock, par
value $.01 per share, were issued and outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders of Registrant to be held 
on May 8, 1996. Certain information therein is incorporated by reference into 
Part III hereof.


- ----------
*Only shares of common stock held beneficially by directors and executive 
officers of the Company and persons or entities filing Schedules 13G and 
received by the Company have been excluded in determining this number.


 
                                    PART I

                               ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
                               -----------------

     United HealthCare Corporation(SM) is a national leader in offering health
care coverage and related services through a broad continuum of products and
services. United served over 40 million covered lives at December 31, 1995.
United's products and services utilize a number of core capabilities, including
medical information management, health care delivery management, health benefit
administration, risk assessment and pricing, health benefit design and provider
contracting and risk sharing. With these capabilities, United is able to provide
comprehensive managed care services, such as health maintenance organization
("HMO"), insurance and self-funded health care coverage products, as well as
unbundled health care management and cost containment products such as mental
health and substance abuse services, utilization review services, specialized
provider networks and employee assistance programs. As part of its ongoing
acquisition program, United acquired The MetraHealth Companies, Inc.
("MetraHealth") on October 2, 1995. MetraHealth is a managed health care
coverage company and health insurer with over ten million covered lives at the
time of the acquisition. As a result of the MetraHealth acquisition, United
increased the geographic and product scope of its health care coverage business
and now has relationships with many of the country's largest companies.

     United HealthCare Corporation is a Minnesota corporation, incorporated in
January 1977. Unless the context otherwise requires, the terms "United", "United
HealthCare" or the "Company" refer to United HealthCare Corporation and its
subsidiaries. United's executive offices are located at 300 Opus Center, 9900
Bren Road East, Minnetonka, Minnesota 55343; telephone (612) 936-1300.


HEALTH PLANS, INSURANCE AND RELATED OPERATIONS

     Health Plans. As of December 31, 1995, United had a majority ownership
interest in health plans in 24 states and Puerto Rico. With respect to these
owned health plan operations, United assumes the risk for health care and
administrative costs in return for the premium revenue it receives. United's
owned health plans are usually licensed as HMOs or insurers and provide
comprehensive health care coverage for a fixed fee or premium that usually does
not vary with the extent of medical services received by the member. In
addition, these health plans enter into contractual arrangements with
independent providers of health care services to help manage medical and
hospital utilization, quality and costs. A few of the health plans employ health
care providers and directly deliver health care services to members. These plans
achieve cost-effective delivery of health care services by assuring appropriate
use of health care services, emphasizing preventive health services and
encouraging the reduction of unnecessary hospitalization and other medical
services. United also provides administrative and other management services to a
few health plans in which United has no ownership interest. With respect to
these managed health plan operations, United receives an administrative fee for
providing its services and generally assumes no responsibility for health care
costs.

     Health Plan Point-of-Service Products.   Point-of-service plans are one of
United's most popular and fastest growing health plan coverage options. Unlike
traditional closed-panel HMO products, which cover non-emergency services only
when rendered by contracted providers, the point-of-service plans also provide
coverage, usually at a lower level, for services received from non-contracting
providers. This out-of-network coverage is sometimes offered directly by the
health plan, but more often is provided by an insurance policy


 
"wrapped around" the health plan benefit contract.  The insurance policy is
usually sold by one of United's insurance subsidiaries.

     Health Plan Self-Funded Products.  United has developed HMO-like self-
funded products for employers who desire the cost containment aspects of an HMO
product and want to self-insure the health care cost risk.  United uses the
provider networks it has developed in connection with its HMO products for these
self-funded products.  Many of these self-funded products include a point-of-
service feature.  The provider contracts for these products are with individual
physicians or groups of physicians as well as health care facilities and are
generally on a standardized fee-for-service basis.  These self-funded products
offer employers and other sponsoring groups access to a provider network and the
administrative and utilization review services associated with an HMO product,
but the risks of health care utilization generally are borne by the sponsoring
group.

     Health Plan Medicare Products.  Several of United's owned health plans
contract with the federal Health Care Financing Administration ("HCFA") to
provide coverage for Medicare-eligible individuals.  Under these contracts the
plans receive a fixed payment each month from HCFA for each enrolled individual.
Several of United's health plans which do not currently have such a contract are
in the process of seeking one.  Under these contracts, the health plans must
provide at least the benefits which would be covered under traditional Medicare
and typically provide a significantly higher level of coverage. The plans may,
but often do not, charge an additional premium to the members for the additional
benefits. The health plans generally use a subset of their commercial product
provider network as the provider network for the Medicare products. Any 
Medicare-eligible person in a plan's service area may enroll in the Medicare
product without underwriting or health screening.

     Some of United's health plans may also offer these Medicare products to or
through employer groups as a method of providing retiree health care coverage.
In addition, certain health plans may market Medicare Select products which do
not substitute for traditional Medicare, but provide additional benefits for a
premium charged directly to the member.

     Health Plan Medicaid Products.  Several of United's health plans offer
coverage to Medicaid-eligible individuals.  These plans typically contract with
a state agency to provide such coverage and are paid a fixed monthly payment for
each enrolled individual.  The level of benefits is generally set by contract
and few additional benefits are offered.  Enrollment must usually be offered to
all eligible individuals, without underwriting or health screening.  Generally,
the same provider network as for commercial products is utilized, but some
providers may refuse to participate in the Medicaid product and the network may
otherwise have a different number or set of providers.

     PPO and Indemnity Insurance and Self-Funded Products. Primarily through its
insurance and third-party administrator subsidiaries, United offers a variety of
health insurance and self-funded plan products and services, covering
approximately ten million persons. Many of the insurance and self-funded
products are marketed as point-of-service products or include a preferred
provider organization ("PPO") feature, under which a higher level of coverage is
available if certain providers are utilized. The insurance products are often
sold on an experience-rated basis, which means that the premiums may be adjusted
in the future based on actual past health care costs or that premiums may be
adjusted at the end of a specific time period (usually one year) with premium
returned to the customer or additional premium paid to United based on health
care costs in that time period. Much of the insurance business is sold to small
employers. This type of business has often been subject to sudden and
unpredictable changes in health care costs and generally has high administrative
and marketing expenses. This business is also usually sold for a fixed premium,
with no experience adjustments and is subject to extensive state regulation.
United's self-funded products are usually sold on an administrative fee basis
and in some cases United may agree to penalties or rewards related to
administrative service standards and/or health care costs.

     Ancillary Insurance Products. Through its insurance subsidiaries, United
offers several health insurance products in conjunction with health plan
products. These products permit employers to replace multiple health care
policies and vendors with a single health care plan. These


 
subsidiaries also offer reinsurance and other insured products on a selective
basis to most of United's health plans and to employers and other sponsoring
groups offering self-funded health care benefit plans.  United's insurance
subsidiaries are licensed to sell group life, accidental death and
dismemberment, short-term disability and health insurance products in all 50
states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the Virgin Islands.  In
connection with the MetraHealth acquisition, United entered into an agreement
with Metropolitan Life Insurance Company ("MetLife") under which United offers
MetLife's life, accidental death and dismemberment and short-term disability
products to United customers and MetLife offers United's health care coverage
products to MetLife customers. This agreement with MetLife also contains certain
mutual exclusivity and non-competition provisions.

     The following tables provide information with respect to the enrollment in
the Company's various health plan and insurance products.  The enrollment
numbers are provided as of December 31, 1995 and January 31, 1996 since a number
of the contracts for the Company's health care coverage products commence,
expire or renew, as the case may be, as of January 1 of each year.


 
                           ENROLLMENT BY PRODUCT TYPE
                           --------------------------


(1)  Includes various HMO and HMO point-of-service products as well as self-
     funded programs utilizing a health plan network of providers.
(2)  Includes insurance-based and self-funded PPO and point-of-service products.


 
                ENROLLMENT BY FUNDING MECHANISM AND PRODUCT TYPE
                ------------------------------------------------


SPECIALTY MANAGED CARE SERVICES

     Through its experience in providing comprehensive health care management
products and in response to increasing market demand for greater choice and
flexibility in the design of health care coverage products and funding
arrangements, United has utilized its core capabilities to create and sell
specialized products to facilitate the efficient delivery of health care
services.  These products are offered through United's specialty managed care
services business units and independently of United's owned and managed health
plans and insurance operations.  United also makes these products available to
or in connection with the products of its owned and managed health plans and
insurance operations where feasible.

     With respect to its specialty managed care services, United receives fees
for the provision of services, primarily administrative in nature, and generally
assumes no responsibility for health care costs except in the case of its
behavioral health products.  In connection with those products, United assumes
some responsibility for health care costs for the provision of mental
health/substance abuse services and thus recognizes premium-like revenue and
medical services expense.

     United's specialty managed care products were available to a total of
approximately 40 million participant lives at December 31, 1995, many of whom
were not enrolled in one of United's owned health plans.  One person may be
covered by more than one specialty managed care service and therefore may
account for more than one of these participant lives.  United offers the
following specialty managed care services to HMOs, PPOs, insurers, providers,
Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans, third-party administrators, employers, labor
unions and/or government agencies.

     Care Management and Benefit Administration Services.  United's care
management programs offer customers unbundled cost and utilization review and
case management services.  These services include prior, concurrent and
retrospective review of hospital admissions and certain ambulatory services,
second opinion programs, case management, specialist referrals and discharge
planning.  These services emphasize patient and provider education as a means of
assisting clients in managing their health care costs.

     United's Total Care Management programs offer those customers who may not
have geographic access to United's health plans an alternative to bundled
managed care services.  These services include utilization management, medical
information and education, claims payment, provider networks, mental
health/substance abuse services and other related services.  Use of these
services can provide health plan-like results to those clients who have members
outside health plan service areas.

     Transplant Network.  United's transplant network services programs offer
clients access to a network of health care facilities for transplant-related
services and transplant case management services.


 
United negotiates fixed, competitive rates for high-cost, low-frequency health
care services such as organ and tissue transplants.

     Workers Compensation and Disability Management Services.  United's workers
compensation and disability management services tailor United's broad managed
care resources into products and services intended to apply managed care
concepts, such as utilization review and use of specialized preferred provider
networks, to workers compensation and casualty insurance cases.  These products
and services include hospitalization and outpatient surgery pre-certification
and case management, access to provider networks, specialized programs such as
carpal tunnel and back injury case management, and review of imaging (CAT scans
and MRI) services. United has recently agreed to sell one of its subsidiaries 
engaged in this business.

     Demand Management Programs.    United's demand management programs help
consumers make informed choices about their health and well-being by focusing on
preventive care, self-care, smart lifestyle options, and consumer education.
United's OPTUM(R) 24-hour nurseline and employee assistance programs provide
customers the opportunity to reduce the cost of medical care by early
identification of medical and human risks and the subsequent development of
problem-specific solutions that change behavior and reduce those risks.  In
addition, these programs issue various publications to members as supplementary
tools for managing demand for services.

     Geriatric Care Management Services.  United also develops and provides
products and services for cost control and the management of health care for the
elderly.  LinkAge(R) identifies for hospitals high-cost, high-risk patients upon
admission and provides the hospital with tools to perform focused case
management throughout the patient's hospital stay.  United's EverCare(R) program
arranges for the provision of a broad spectrum of health care services to
institutionalized elderly individuals in nursing homes through contracts with a
physician-nurse practitioner team.  EverCare is participating in a
demonstration project with HCFA to offer health care services to the
institutionalized elderly in nine separate locations throughout the country.

     Through its Government Operations division, United provides administrative
services in regard to certain government health care programs.  Most of this
business is Medicare Part B claims processing.  One of United's insurance
subsidiaries is the sole carrier for the states of Minnesota, Virginia,
Mississippi and Connecticut.  That subsidiary also serves as the fiscal
intermediary for Medicare Part A in Connecticut, Michigan and New York, and
handles all Medicare durable medical equipment claims for the 10 states in
HCFA's northeast region.

     Behavioral Health Services.  The specialty operations in United's
behavioral health services business unit include mental health and substance
abuse-related services.  United's behavioral health subsidiaries provide
specialized provider networks and behavioral health care case management
services to certain of United's owned or managed health plans and to other
customers.  Such services are provided by employed behavioral health care
professionals and by a network of contracted providers.  Certain of these
services are sold on a capitated basis.

     Third Party Administration Services.  United provides third party
administrator ("TPA") services to employers who choose to utilize self-funding
to control health care costs and also desire customized health care plans and
administration.  United's TPA services are available to employers of all sizes
in both single and multiple locations and include a fully integrated portfolio
of products.

     International Business.  United has begun exploring opportunities to sell
its products and services in foreign countries and anticipates utilizing various
arrangements such as joint ventures, as well as direct contracting.  United has
entered into a joint venture to create a health plan in the Republic of South
Africa and has entered into an agreement to provide certain managed care
consulting services in Germany.


 
     The Center for Health Care Policy and Evaluation.  As the research and
performance evaluation arm of United, the Center for Health Care
Policy and Evaluation (the "Center") studies the operations and populations of
enrolled health care systems.  The Center's research studies and analytical
tools evaluate cost and quality of health care delivery -- illuminating common
problems such as uneven access to care, variations in treatment, patient non-
compliance with preventive care and other differences in the health care
characteristics of the studied population.  United's health plans and
specialty organizations across the country use Center-developed tools and
methods to monitor and assess health care delivery to their members and clients.
The Center also works on behalf of other external organizations and clients to
provide research services and analytic software tools.

     One of the Center's major software services EPIS(TM) is a specialized
medical management software system that provides clients with an integrated
picture of a health care system in many dimensions, replacing piecemeal reports
with a common reference point on cost, utilization, quality, access and
satisfaction.

EXPANSION AND DIVESTITURE OF OPERATIONS

     United continually evaluates opportunities to expand its business and
considers whether to divest or cease offering the products of certain of its
businesses. These opportunities may include acquisitions or dispositions of a
specialty managed care services program or of insurance and health plan
operations. United also devotes significant attention to internal development of
new products and techniques for the containment of health care costs, the
measurement of the outcomes and efficiency of health care delivered and the
management of health care delivery systems.

     United has engaged in an extensive acquisition program over the last few
years.  The intensive acquisition program may affect United's ability to
integrate and manage its overall business effectively, which may increase costs,
affect membership, revenue and earnings growth and adversely affect United's
financial results.  United's recent acquisition of MetraHealth poses significant
integration challenges, particularly since MetraHealth itself was the product of
a merger of businesses that were not yet fully integrated.  Failure to
integrate MetraHealth successfully would likely materially adversely affect
United's financial results.

     The acquisition of MetraHealth also may make United's revenues more
sensitive to fluctuations in overall health care cost trends, because the
proportion of the former MetraHealth revenues derived from indemnity insurance
business, which may have a lesser degree of health care cost control, is
relatively high, and because former MetraHealth revenues will constitute a
substantial portion of United's revenues.

     On March 29, 1996, the Company acquired PHP, Inc., a North Carolina based
health plan to which United had previously provided administrative services. On
January 15, 1996, United executed an agreement to acquire the owner of the
remaining 51% equity interest in its Louisiana-based health plan, Community
Health Network. On February 1, 1996, the Company agreed to acquire HealthWise of
America, Inc. and its related health plan operations in Arkansas, Tennessee,
Maryland and Kentucky. On February 21, 1996, United executed an agreement to
purchase the owner of the remaining minority equity interest in its St. Louis,
Missouri-based health plans.

     On March 1, 1996, United sold MetraHealth Care Plan of St. Louis, Inc., a
St. Louis, Missouri-based HMO acquired in October as part of MetraHealth
acquisition and which had 33,600 enrollees at January 31, 1996.

     On March 1, 1996, the Company executed an Agreement and Plan of Merger,
with ActaMed Corporation, a Georgia corporation in which United has a minority
interest, pursuant to which ActaMed would acquire United's EDI Services
division.


 
     On March 19, 1996, the Company executed a stock purchase agreement to sell
its FOCUS Healthcare Management, Inc. subsidiary.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     United's primary business, offering health care coverage and health care
management services, is heavily regulated at both the federal and state level.
United believes that it is in compliance in all material respects with the
various federal and state regulations applicable to its current operations.  To
maintain such compliance, it may be necessary for United or a subsidiary to make
changes from time to time in its services, products, structure or marketing
methods.

     Government regulation of health care coverage products and services is a
changing area of law that varies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction. Changes in
applicable laws and regulations are continually being considered and the
interpretation of existing laws and rules may also change from time to time.
Regulatory agencies generally have broad discretion in promulgating regulations
and in interpreting and enforcing laws and rules. While United is unable to
predict what regulatory changes may occur or the impact on United of any
particular change, United's operations and financial results could be negatively
affected by regulatory revisions. Certain proposed changes in Medicare and
Medicaid programs may increase the opportunities for United to enroll persons
under products developed for the Medicare and Medicaid eligible populations, but
other proposed changes also may limit the reimbursement available to United and
increase competition in those programs, which could adversely affect United's
financial results. The continued consideration and enactment of "anti-managed
care" laws and regulations, such as "any willing provider" laws and limits on
utilization management, by federal and state bodies may make it more difficult
for United to control medical costs and may adversely affect financial results.

     A number of jurisdictions have enacted small group insurance and rating
reforms which generally limit the ability of insurer and health plans to use
risk selection as a method of controlling costs for small group business.  These
laws may generally limit or eliminate use of preexisting conditions exclusions,
experience rating and industry class rating and may limit the amount of rate
increases from year to year.  Under these laws, cost control through provider
contracting and managing care may become more important and United currently
believes its experience in these areas will allow it to compete effectively.

     In addition to changes in applicable laws and rules, United is potentially
subject to governmental investigations and enforcement actions.  These include
possible government actions relating to the federal Employee Retirement Income
Security Act ("ERISA"), which regulates insured and self-insured health coverage
plans offered by employers and United's services to such plans and employers,
the Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan ("FEHBP"), federal and state fraud and
abuse laws and laws relating to utilization management and the delivery of
health care.  Any such government action could result in assessment of damages,
civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions,  including exclusion
from participation in government programs.  Although United is currently
involved in various government audits, such as under the FEHBP or relating to
services for ERISA plans, United does not believe the results of such current
audits will, individually or in the aggregate, have a material adverse effect on
United's financial results.

     HMOs.  All of the states in which United's health plans offer HMO products
have enacted statutes regulating the activities of those health plans.  Most
states require periodic financial reports from HMOs licensed to operate in their
states and impose minimum capital or reserve requirements.  Certain of United's
subsidiaries are required to retain for their own use cash generated from their
operations.  In addition, certain of United's subsidiaries are required by state
regulatory agencies to maintain restricted cash reserves represented by
interest-bearing instruments which are held by trustees or state regulatory
agencies to ensure that adequate financial reserves are maintained.  Some state
regulations enable agencies to review all contracts entered into by HMOs,
including management contracts, for reasonableness of fees charged


 
and other provisions.

     United's health plans which have Medicare risk contracts are subject to
regulation by HCFA.  HCFA has the right to audit health plans operating under
Medicare risk contracts to determine each health plan's compliance with HCFA's
contracts and regulations and the quality of care being rendered to the health
plan's members.  To enter into Medicare risk contracts, a health plan must
either be federally qualified or be considered a Competitive Medical Plan under
HCFA's requirements.  Health plans which offer a Medicare risk product also must
comply with requirements established by peer review organizations ("PROs"),
which are organizations under contract with HCFA to monitor the quality of
health care received by Medicare beneficiaries.  PRO requirements relate to
quality assurance and utilization review procedures.  United's health plans
which have Medicare cost contracts are subject to similar regulatory
requirements.  In addition, these health plans are required to file certain cost
reimbursement reports with HCFA which are subject to audit and revision.

     United's health plans which have Medicaid contracts are subject to both
federal and state regulation regarding services to be provided to Medicaid
enrollees, payment for those services and other aspects of the Medicaid program.
Both Medicare and Medicaid have in force or have proposed regulations relating
to fraud and abuse, physician incentive plans and provider referrals which may
affect United's operations.

     Many of United's health plans have contracts with FEHBP.  These
contracts are subject to extensive regulation, including complex rules relating
to the premiums charged.  FEHBP has the authority to retroactively audit the
rates charged and frequently seeks premium refunds and other sanctions against
health plans participating in the program.  United's health plans which have
contracted with FEHBP are subject to such audits and may be requested to make
such refunds.

     Insurance Regulation.  United's insurance subsidiaries are subject to
regulation by the Department of Insurance in each state in which the entity is
licensed.  Regulatory authorities exercise extensive supervisory power over
insurance companies in regard to licensing; the amount of reserves which must be
maintained; the approval of forms of insurance policies used; the nature of, and
limitation on, an insurance company's investments; periodic examination of the
operations of insurance companies; the form and content of annual statements and
other reports required to be filed on the financial condition of insurance
companies; and the establishment of capital requirements for insurance
companies.  United's insurance company subsidiaries are required to file
periodic statutory financial statements in each jurisdiction in which they are
licensed.  Additionally, such companies are periodically examined by the
insurance departments of the jurisdiction in which they are licensed to do
business.

     Insurance Holding Company Regulations.  Certain of United's health plans
and each of United's insurance subsidiaries are subject to regulation under
state insurance holding company regulations.  Such insurance holding company
laws and regulations generally require registration with the state Department of
Insurance and the filing of certain reports describing capital structure,
ownership, financial condition, certain intercompany transactions and general
business operations.  Various notice and reporting requirements generally apply
to transactions between companies within an insurance holding company system,
depending on the size and nature of the transactions.  Certain state insurance
holding company laws and regulations require prior regulatory approval or, in
certain circumstances, prior notice of, certain material intercompany transfers
of assets as well as certain transactions between the regulated companies, their
parent holding companies and affiliates, and acquisitions.

     TPAs.  Certain subsidiaries of United are also licensed as third-party
administrators ("TPAs") in states where such licensing is required for their
activities.  TPA regulations, although differing greatly from state to state,
generally contain certain required administrative procedures, periodic reporting
obligations and minimum financial requirements.


 
     PPOs.  Certain of United's subsidiaries' operations may be subject to PPO
regulation in a particular state.  PPO regulations generally contain certain
network, contracting, financial and reporting requirements which vary from state
to state.

     Utilization Review Regulations.  A number of states have enacted laws
and/or adopted regulations governing the provision of utilization review
activities and these laws may apply to certain of United's operations.
Generally, these laws and regulations require compliance with specific standards
for the delivery of services, confidentiality, staffing, and policies and
procedures of private review entities, including the credentials required of
personnel.

     MCOs.  In recent years a number of states have enacted laws enabling self-
insured employers and/or insurance carriers to apply medical management and
other managed care techniques to the medical benefit portion of workers
compensation if such managed care is performed by a state certified managed
care organization ("MCO").  United, by itself or with its HMOs, has generally
sought MCO certification in the states where it is available and where it
markets managed care workers compensation products.  MCO laws differ
significantly from state to state, but generally address network and utilization
review activities.

     ERISA.  The provision of goods and services to or through certain types of
employee health benefit plans is subject to ERISA.  ERISA is a complex set of
laws and regulations that is subject to periodic interpretation by the United
States Department of Labor.  ERISA places controls on how United's business
units may do business with employers covered by ERISA, particularly employers
that maintain self-funded plans.  The Department of Labor is engaged in an
ongoing ERISA enforcement program which may result in additional constraints on
how ERISA-governed benefit plans conduct their activities.  There recently have
been legislative attempts to limit ERISA's preemptive effect on state laws.  If
such limitations were to be enacted, they might increase United's liability
exposure under state law-based suits relating to employee health benefits
offered by United's health plans and specialty businesses and may permit greater
state regulation of other aspects of those businesses' operations.

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEMS

     The Company's health plans, insurance, self-funded and specialty managed
care products use computer-based management information systems for various
purposes, including claims processing, billing, utilization management,
underwriting, marketing and sales tracking, general accounting, medical cost
trending, managed care reporting and financial planning.  These systems also
support member, group and provider service functions, including on-line access
to membership verification, claims and referral status and information regarding
hospital admissions and lengths of stay.  In addition, these systems support
extensive analysis of cost and outcome data.

     The Company continually evaluates, upgrades and enhances the computer
information systems which support its operations. System development efforts
relating to increased efficiency, capacity and flexibility are ongoing.  The
Company's computer processing capabilities support multiple product delivery
systems with attendant tracking and processing for such systems, an integrated
database of information for increased reporting and research capabilities, and
use automated entry and edit capabilities to speed the capture and processing of
information.  Over the past several years, the Company has upgraded its
mainframe computers, enhanced its existing software functionality and migrated
to various software database environments.  This approach allows the Company to
preserve its investment in existing systems while, at the same time, enabling it
to exploit new technologies that help improve either the cost effectiveness of
the services provided, or allow for the introduction of new product
capabilities.  Following the MetraHealth acquisition, the Company has begun an
extensive review of its information systems, including integration of multiple
systems.  The Company has also agreed to outsource operation of a substantial
portion of its computer operations centers to a third party.  Simplification and
integration of the many different systems now servicing the Company's business
is an important component of controlling


 
administrative expenses and effectively managing United's operations.  To the
extent that these integration efforts are not successful, the Company's
financial results may be adversely affected.

MARKETING

     The Company's marketing strategy and implementation for its health plan,
insurance, self-funded and specialty and managed care products are defined and
coordinated by UHC's corporate marketing staff.  Primary marketing
responsibility for each of the Company's health plans and specialty managed care
products resides with a marketing director and a direct sales force.  In
addition, the Company's health plan, insurance, self-funded and specialty
managed care products are sold through independent insurance agents and brokers.
Marketing efforts are supported by ongoing market research that identifies and
grades prospective customers and establishes specific enrollment goals by
territory and employer.  Marketing efforts are also supported by public
relations efforts and advertising programs that may employ television, radio,
newspapers, billboards, direct mail and telemarketing.

COMPETITION

     The managed health care industry evolved primarily as a result of health
care buyers' concerns regarding rising health care costs.  The industry's goal
is to infuse greater cost effectiveness and accountability into the health care
system through the development of managed care products, including health plans,
PPOs, and specialized services such as mental health or pharmacy benefit
programs, while increasing the accessibility and quality of health care
services.  The industry in which United operates is highly competitive and
significant consolidation has occurred within the industry, creating stronger
competitors.   At the same time, there are a number of new entrants to the
industry, which may also increase competitive pressures.  The current
competitive markets in certain areas may limit United's ability to price its
products at levels United believes appropriate.  These competitive factors could
adversely affect United's financial results.

     As HMO and PPO penetration of the health care market and the effects of
health care reforms increase nationwide, the Company expects that obtaining new
contracts for its HMO and PPO products with large employer and government groups
may increasingly become more difficult and that competition for smaller employer
groups will intensify.  In addition, employers may increasingly choose to self-
insure the health care risk while seeking benefit administration and utilization
review services from third parties to assist them in controlling and reporting
health care costs.

     The Company's health plan, insurance, self-funded and specialty managed
care coverage products compete for group and individual membership with other
health insurance plans, Blue Cross/Blue Shield plans, other health plans, HMOs,
PPOs, third party administrators and health care management companies, and
employers or groups which elect to self-insure.  The Company also faces
competition  from hospitals, health care facilities and other health care
providers who have combined and formed their own networks to contract directly
with employer groups and other prospective customers for the delivery of health
care services.  The Company's ability to increase the number of persons covered
by its products or services or to increase its premiums and fees can be affected
by the number and strength of the Company's competitors in any particular area.
The Company believes that the principal competitive factors affecting the
Company and its products include price, the level and quality of products and
service, provider network capabilities, market share, the offering of innovative
products, product distribution systems, financial strength, and marketplace
reputation.

       Further, the Company currently believes that factors that generally help
it in regard to competitors are the breadth of its product line, its geographic
scope and diversity, the strength of its underwriting and pricing practices and
staff, its significant market position in certain geographic areas, the strength
of its distribution network, its financial strength, its generally large
provider networks, which provide more member


 
choice, its point-of-service products and experience and its generally favorable
marketplace reputation.  In a number of markets the Company may be at a
disadvantage in regard to competitors with larger market shares, broader
networks, narrower networks (which may allow greater cost control and lower
prices) or a more-established marketplace name and reputation.

EMPLOYEES

     As of December 31, 1995, the Company employed approximately 28,500 persons;
approximately 200 of which  were represented by a union.  The Company believes
its employee relations are good.



                             CAUTIONARY STATEMENTS

     The following discussion contains certain cautionary statements regarding
United's business and results of operations which should be considered by
investors and others.  These statements discuss matters which may in part be
discussed elsewhere in this Form 10-K and which may have been discussed in other
documents prepared by the Company pursuant to federal or state securities laws.
This discussion is intended to take advantage of the "safe harbor" provisions of
the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  The following factors
should be considered in conjunction with any discussion of operations or results
by the Company or its representatives, including any forward-looking discussion,
as well as comments contained in press releases, presentations to securities
analysts or investors, or other communications by the Company.

     In making these statements, the Company is not undertaking to address or
update each factor in future filings or communications regarding the Company's
business or results, and is not undertaking to address how any of these factors
may have caused changes to discussions or information contained in previous
filings or communications.  In addition, any of the matters discussed below may
have affected United's past results and may affect future results, so that the
Company's actual results for first quarter 1996 and beyond may differ materially
from those expressed in prior communications.

     Health Care Costs. A large portion of the revenue received by United is
expended to pay the costs of health care services or supplies delivered to its
members. The total health care costs incurred by United are affected by the
number of individual services rendered and the cost of each service. Much of the
Company's premium revenue is set in advance of the actual delivery of services
and the related incurring of the cost, usually on a prospective annual basis.
While United attempts to base the premiums it charges at least in part on its
estimate of expected health care costs over the fixed premium period,
competition, regulations and other circumstances may limit United's ability to
fully base premiums on estimated costs. In addition, many factors may and often
do cause actual health care costs to exceed that estimated and reflected in
premiums. These factors may include increased utilization of services, increased
cost of individual services, catastrophes, epidemics, seasonality, general
inflation, new mandated benefits or other regulatory changes and insured
population characteristics.

     Marketing.  The Company markets its products and services through both
employed sales people and independent sales agents.  Although the Company has a
number of such sales employees and agents, if certain key sales employees or
agents or a large subset of such individuals were to leave the Company, its
ability to retain existing customers and members could be impaired.  In
addition, certain of the Company's customers or potential customers consider
rating, accreditation or certification of the Company by various private or
governmental bodies or rating agencies necessary or important.  Certain of the
Company's health plans or other business units may not have obtained or may not
desire or be able to obtain or maintain such accreditation or certification
which could adversely affect the Company's ability to obtain or retain business
with such customers.

     The managed care industry has recently received significant amounts of
negative publicity.  Such general publicity, or any negative publicity regarding
United in particular, could adversely affect the Company's ability to sell its
products or services or could create regulatory problems for the Company.

     Competition. In any of its geographic or product markets the Company
competes with a number of other entities, some of which may have certain
characteristics or capabilities which give them an advantage in competing with
the Company. The Company believes there are few barriers to entry in these
markets, so that the addition of new competitors can occur relatively easily.
Certain of the Company's customers may decide to perform for themselves
functions or services formerly provided by the Company, which would result in a
decrease in the Company's revenues. Certain of the Company's providers may
decide to market products and services to Company customers in competition with
the Company. In addition, significant merger and acquisition activity has
occurred in the industry in which the Company operates as well as in industries
which act as suppliers to the Company such as the hospital, physician,
pharmaceutical and medical device industries. This activity may create stronger
competitors and/or result in higher health care costs. To the extent that there
is strong competition or that competition intensifies in any market, the
Company's ability to retain or increase customers, its revenue growth, its
pricing flexibility, its control over medical cost trends and its marketing
expenses may all be adversely affected.

     Provider Relations.  One of the significant techniques United uses to
manage health care costs and utilization and monitor the quality of care being
delivered is contracting with physicians, hospitals and other providers.
Because of the geographic diversity of its health plans and the large number of
providers with which most of those health plans contract, United currently
believes it has a limited exposure to provider relations issues.  In any
particular market, however, providers could refuse to contract with United,
demand higher payments or take other actions which could result in higher health
care costs, less desirable products for customers and members or difficulty
meeting regulatory or accreditation requirements.

     In some markets, certain providers, particularly hospitals,
physician/hospital organizations or multi-specialty physician groups, may have
significant market positions or even monopolies.  Many of these providers may
compete directly with the Company.  If such providers refuse to contract with
United or utilize their market position to negotiate favorable contracts or
place United at a competitive disadvantage, United's ability to market products
or to be profitable in those areas could be adversely affected.



     Administration and Management. The level of administrative expense is a
partial determinant of United's profitability. While United attempts to
effectively manage such expenses, increases in staff-related and other
administrative expenses may occur from time-to-time due to business or product
start-ups or expansions, growth or changes in business, acquisitions, regulatory
requirements or other reasons. Such expense increases are not clearly
predictable and increases in administrative expenses may adversely affect
results.

     United's business is significantly dependent on effective information
systems. United has many different information systems for its various
businesses. United is in the process of attempting to reduce the number of
systems and also upgrade and expand its information systems capabilities.
Failure to maintain an effective and efficient information system could result
in loss of existing customers and difficulty in attracting new customers,
customer and provider disputes, regulatory problems, increases in administrative
expenses or other adverse consequences. In addition, the Company may, from time-
to-time, obtain significant portions of its systems-related or other services or
facilities from independent third parties which may make the Company's
operations vulnerable to such third party's failure to perform adequately.

     United currently believes it has a relatively experienced, capable
management staff. Loss of certain managers or a number of such managers could
adversely affect United's ability to administer and manage its business. The
Company has made several large acquisitions in recent years, and has an active
ongoing acquisition program. Failure to effectively integrate acquired
operations could result in increased administrative costs or customer confusion
or dissatisfaction.

     Government Programs and Regulation.  The Company's business is heavily
regulated.  The laws and rules governing the Company's business and
interpretations of those laws and rules are subject to frequent change.
Existing or future laws and rules could force United to change how it does
business and may restrict United's revenue and/or enrollment growth and/or
increase its health care and administrative costs.  Regulatory approvals must be
obtained and maintained to market many of United's products and services. Delays
in obtaining or failure to obtain or maintain such approvals could adversely
affect United's revenue or the number of its members, or could increase costs.

     A significant portion of United's revenues relate to federal, state and
local government health care coverage programs.  These types of programs, such
as the federal Medicare program and the federal and state Medicaid program, are
generally subject to frequent change including changes which may reduce the
number of persons enrolled or eligible, reduce the revenue received by United or
increase the Company's administrative or health care costs under such programs.
Such changes have in the past and may in the future adversely affect United's
results and its willingness to participate in such programs.

     The Company is also subject to various governmental audits and
investigations.  Such activities could result in the loss of licensure or the
right to participate in certain programs, or the imposition of fines, penalties
and other sanctions.  In addition, disclosure of any adverse investigation or
audit results or sanctions could negatively affect the Company's reputation in
various markets and make it more difficult for the Company to sell its products
and services.

     Litigation and Insurance.  United is subject to a variety of legal actions
to which any corporation may be subject, including employment and employment
discrimination-related suits, employee benefit claims, breach of contract
actions, tort claims, shareholder suits, including for securities fraud, and
intellectual property related litigation.  In addition, because of the nature of
its business, United incurs and likely will continue to incur potential
liability for claims related to its business, such as failure to pay for or
provide health care, poor outcomes for care delivered or arranged, provider
disputes, including disputes over withheld compensation, claims related to self-
funded business and improper copayment calculations.  In some cases, substantial
non-economic or punitive damages may be sought.  While United currently has
insurance coverage for some of these potential liabilities, others may not be
covered by insurance, the insurers may dispute coverage or the amount of
insurance may not be enough to cover the damages awarded.  In addition, certain
types of damages, such as punitive damages, may not be covered by insurance and
insurance coverage for all or certain forms of liability may become unavailable
or prohibitively expensive in the future.

     Stock Market.  Recently, the market prices of the securities of certain of
the publicly-held companies in the industry in which United operates have shown
volatility and sensitivity in response to many factors, including public
communications regarding managed care, legislative or regulatory actions, health
care cost trends, pricing trends, competition, earnings or membership reports of
particular industry participants, and acquisition activity.  There can be no
assurances regarding the level or stability of United's share price at any time
or of the impact of these or any other factors on the share price.



                      EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
                      ------------------------------------


Executive officers of the Company are elected annually by the Board of Directors
and serve until their successors are duly elected and qualified.

     Dr. McGuire became a director of the Company in February 1989 and the
Chairman of the Board in May 1991.  Dr. McGuire became an Executive Vice
President of United in November 1988, was appointed the Company's Chief
Operating Officer in May 1989, the Company's President in November 1989 and the
Company's Chief Executive Officer in February 1991.

     Mr. Carlson became United's Executive Vice President in October 1995.  From
March to October 1995, Mr. Carlson was Executive Vice President of The
MetraHealth Companies, Inc.  Mr. Carlson was President and Chief Executive
Officer of HealthSpring, Inc., a developer of primary care physician practices,
from July 1992 to March 1995.  From April 1975 to July 1992, Mr. Carlson was an
employee of Prudential Insurance Company.  Mr. Carlson's last position with
Prudential Insurance Company was Vice President of Group Insurance.

     Mr. Conto has been employed by the Company since 1985 and has served in his
present capacity since 1991. From 1985 to 1987, he was the Assistant Director of
HMO Financial Research, from 1987 to 1990, he was the Director of Internal Audit
and from 1990 to 1991 he was the Company's Director of Development.

     Mr. Gerson became an Executive Vice President of United in October 1995.
Mr. Gerson was an Executive Vice President of The MetraHealth Companies, Inc.
from January 1995 to October 1995. Prior to joining The MetraHealth Companies,
Inc. Mr. Gerson held various executive positions with The Travelers Insurance
Group in Hartford, Connecticut, from 1991 to 1995, including President of The
Travelers Insurance Company, President of the Managed Care and Employee Benefits
Operations Division of The Travelers Corporation, Senior Vice President of the
Financial Services Department and Senior Vice President Agency Operations
Department for The Travelers Corporation.

     Mr. Koppe became the Company's Chief Financial Officer in December 1994.
He has been employed by the Company since June 1983 and served as the Company's
Vice President and Treasurer from May 1989 to January 1996.  Mr. Koppe also
served as the Company's Controller from May 1989 until October 1994.

     Ms. Leatherman currently serves as an Executive Vice President of United. 
Ms. Leatherman joined the Company in 1989 and served as its Vice
President of Research and Development until June 1992 when she became President
of United's Center for Health Care Policy and Evaluation.



 
     Mr. Mooney has been employed by the Company since February 1985 and became
an Executive Vice President of United in January 1996.  Prior to January 1996,
Mr. Mooney served in various capacities in United's underwriting department
including, most recently, Vice President, Underwriting.  

     Ms. Rivet has been employed by United since June 1990.  She became an
Executive Vice President of the Company in October 1994.  She served as the
Company's Senior Vice President, Health Plan Operations from September 1993 to
September 1994 and the Company's Vice President of Health Service Operations
from June 1990 to September 1993.
 
     Mr. Roche' has served as the Secretary and General Counsel of the Company
since May 1989 when he joined the Company.

     Mr. Wills has been employed by the Company since November 1992.  From
November 1992 until June 1995, he served as United's Senior Vice President,
Specialty Operations.  He has been the Company's Chief Operating Officer since
June 1995.  From 1968 to 1992, Mr. Wills was employed by CIGNA Corporation, a
multi-line insurance company, in various capacities, most recently as President
of MCC Companies, a mental health/substance abuse subsidiary of CIGNA.

     Mr. Wise became an Executive Vice President of United in October 1995. From
October 1994 to October 1995, Mr. Wise was Executive Vice President of The
MetraHealth Companies, Inc. He was employed by Independence Blue Cross, a
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania-based HMO and Keystone Health Plan, a Philadelphia,
Pennsylvania-based HMO, as Chief Operating Officer and Director from 1991 to
1994.

                              ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
                              -------------------

     As of December 31, 1995, the Company leased approximately 1.4 million
aggregate square feet of space for its principal administrative offices in
Hartford, Connecticut and the greater Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota area.   In
connection with its operations outside of the Minneapolis/St. Paul, Minnesota
and Hartford, Connecticut areas, as of December 31, 1995,  the Company leased
approximately 4.2 million aggregate square feet for office space or space for
computer facilities and claims processing centers nationwide.  Such space
corresponds to areas in which its health plans or managed care services
specialty programs operate or where it has a satellite administrative office.
The Company's leases expire at various dates through 2011.   As of December 31,
1995, the Company owned approximately 333,000 aggregate square feet of space for
administrative offices in various states and its staff model clinic operations
in Florida.

                           ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
                           --------------------------

     Because of the nature of its business, United is subject to suits relating
to the failure to provide or pay for health care or other benefits, poor
outcomes for care delivered or arranged under United's programs, nonacceptance
or termination of providers, failure to return withheld amounts from provider
compensation, failure of a self-funded plan serviced by United to pay benefits,
improper copayment calculations and other forms of legal actions. Some of these
suits may include claims for substantial non-economic or punitive damages. While
United does not believe that any such actions, or any other types of actions,
currently threatened or pending will, individually or in the aggregate, have a
material adverse effect on United's financial results, the likelihood or outcome
of such current or future suits cannot be accurately predicted and they could
adversely affect United's financial results.

          ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
          ------------------------------------------------------------

     None.


 
                                    PART II

              ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
              --------------------------------------------------
                          RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
                          ---------------------------

STOCK LISTING AND PRICES

        United's common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange under the
symbol UNH. The following table shows the range of high and low sales prices for
the Company's common stock as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite
Tape for the calendar periods indicated through February 29, 1996. These
quotations represent prices between dealers and do not include retail markups,
markdowns or commissions and may not represent actual transactions.



As of February 29, 1996, the Company had 5,537 shareholders of record.


DIVIDEND POLICY

     The Company's dividend policy, established by its Board of Directors in
August 1990, requires the Board to review the Company's audited consolidated
financial statements following the end of each fiscal year and make a
determination as to the advisability of declaring a dividend on the Company's
outstanding shares of common stock.   Shareholders of record on April 1, 1994,
received an annual dividend for 1994 of $0.03 per share, and shareholders of
record on April 3, 1995, received an annual dividend for 1995 of $0.03 per
share. On February 13, 1996, the Company's Board of Directors approved an annual
dividend for 1996 of $0.03 per share to holders of the Company's common stock.
This dividend will be paid on April 15, 1996 to shareholders of record at the
close of business on April 3, 1996.


 
                       ITEM. 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                       ---------------------------------

Financial Highlights

Financial Highlights should be read in conjunction with Item 7 and Consolidated
Financial Statements and notes thereto included in this Form 10-K.
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
/1/ Excluding merger costs of $35.9 million ($22.3 million after income taxes,
    or $0.13 per common share) incurred in connection with the Company's May
    1994 acquisitions of Complete Health Services, Inc. and Ramsay-HMO, Inc.,
    1994 net earnings before extraordinary gain would have been $310.4 million,
    or $1.77 per common share.

/2/ Excluding fourth quarter restructuring charges of $153.8 million ($96.9
    million after tax, or $0.55 per common share) associated with The
    MetraHealth Companies, Inc. acquisition, 1995 earnings from operations and
    net earnings would have been $614.6 million and $382.9 million, or $2.12 per
    common share.

                 

                 ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
                 ---------------------------------------------
                OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION
                -----------------------------------------------

Financial Review

The Company has completed several recent significant transactions which affect
the year-to-year comparability of its consolidated financial position and
results of operations. On May 27, 1994, the Company sold Diversified
Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. (Diversified), then a wholly owned subsidiary, to
SmithKline Beecham Corporation for $2.3 billion in cash. In connection with this
transaction, the Company recognized an extraordinary gain after transaction
costs and income tax effects of $1.38 billion. The results of Diversified
subsequent to the sale are not included in the consolidated financial results of
the Company.

  On January 3, 1995, the Company acquired GenCare Health Systems, Inc.
(GenCare), a health plan based in St. Louis, Missouri, serving 230,000 members
at the time of acquisition. On February 28, 1995, the Company acquired Group
Sales and Services of Puerto Rico, Inc. (Group Sales), a health plan based in
San Juan, Puerto Rico, serving 135,000 members at the time of acquisition. On
October 2, 1995, the Company acquired The MetraHealth Companies, Inc.
(MetraHealth). MetraHealth was formed in January 1995 by combining the group
health care operations of Metropolitan Life Insurance Company and The Travelers
Insurance Group. At the time of acquisition, MetraHealth served over 10 million
individuals, including 5.9 million in network-based care programs, 469,000 of
whom were health plan members. Each of these acquisitions was accounted for as a
purchase transaction. Accordingly, only the post-acquisition results of GenCare,
Group Sales and MetraHealth are included in the Company's consolidated financial
results.

  In connection with its acquisition of MetraHealth, the Company developed a
comprehensive plan to integrate the business activities of the combined
companies. The plan encompasses, among other matters, the disposition,
discontinuance and restructuring of certain businesses and product lines, and
the recognition of certain asset impairments. In the fourth quarter of 1995, the
Company recorded $153.8 million in restructuring charges associated with the
plan.

This Financial Review should be read in conjunction with the accompanying
Consolidated Financial Statements and notes thereto.

Summary Operating Information



/1/ Amounts include post-acquisition operating results of GenCare Health
    Systems, Inc. acquired on January 3, 1995, Group Sales and Services of
    Puerto Rico, Inc. acquired on February 28, 1995, and The MetraHealth
    Companies, Inc. acquired on October 2, 1995. Excludes fourth quarter 1995
    restructuring charges of $153.8 million ($96.9 million after tax) associated
    with the MetraHealth acquisition.

/2/ Amounts exclude post-disposition results of Diversified Pharmaceutical
    Services, Inc., a subsidiary of the Company sold in May 1994, and the
    associated extraordinary gain of $1.38 billion. Amounts also exclude merger
    costs of $35.9 million ($22.3 million after tax) associated with the May
    1994 acquisitions of Complete Health Services, Inc. and Ramsay-HMO, Inc. The
    results of Complete Health and Ramsay are included in all periods presented
    in accordance with pooling-of-interests accounting.

/3/ Amounts include both fully insured and self-funded enrollment. End of year
    self-funded enrollment was as follows: Commercial Health Plan Product --
    243,000 in 1995, 123,000 in 1994, and 62,000 in 1993; Other Network-Based
    Products -- 5,038,000 in 1995 and 67,000 in 1994; Indemnity Products --



    3,385,000 in 1995.
























 
Results of Operations
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company again achieved record operating results in 1995. Net operating
earnings (excluding restructuring charges in 1995 and merger costs and gains on
the sale of subsidiaries in 1994 and 1993) were $382.9 million in 1995, $310.4
million in 1994 and $212.0 million in 1993. Total revenues of $5.67 billion in
1995 were also a record, up from $3.77 billion in 1994 and $3.12 billion in
1993.

Revenues

Premium revenues in 1995 of $4.93 billion increased $1.55 billion, or 46%,
compared to 1994. Excluding the effects of the Company's 1995 acquisitions of
GenCare, Group Sales and MetraHealth, the increase in 1995 premium revenues over
1994 was 19%, reflecting year-over-year enrollment growth of 21% and an average
premium rate increase on renewing commercial groups of approximately 1% to 2%.

  The Company's year-over-year enrollment growth (excluding the effects of the
1995 acquisitions) slightly exceeded the corresponding growth in premium
revenues due to changes in customer mix. Much of the new commercial enrollment
growth has been in the small group product which is generally characterized as
having lower benefits (and therefore lower premiums) than the Company's other
commercial products.

  Premium revenues in 1994 were $3.38 billion, a 21% increase over 1993,
reflecting year-over-year enrollment growth of 18% and an average premium rate
increase on renewing commercial groups of approximately 4%.

  Commercial premium rates are established by the Company based on anticipated
health care costs. The Company has been able to effectively manage health care
costs and maintain the effective rate at which its health care costs have grown
within the commercial line of business to low single-digit percentage increases.
Following this strategy, the Company currently expects premium rate increases on
renewing commercial groups in 1996 to increase slightly over those realized in
1995.

  Competition for commercial enrollment in certain of the Company's health plan
markets has increased in recent years. However, the Company has continued to
follow its strategy of pricing its commercial products in accordance with
anticipated health care costs. Depending on the level of future competition or
other external factors beyond the Company's control, there can be no assurance
that the Company's recent enrollment growth trends will continue or that the
Company will be able to maintain pricing consistent with health care cost
trends.

  As a result of its acquisition of MetraHealth, the Company had approximately
983,000 enrollees at December 31, 1995, in fully insured non-network-based
indemnity products, primarily from small group employers. These products do not
have similar health care cost containment measures as the Company's network-
based products and, accordingly, are priced differently. In response to
increased medical costs associated with these products in early 1995, the
Company instituted rate increases ranging from 15% to 25% during the second half
of 1995. As a result, the Company expects enrollment in the non-network-based
products to decrease during 1996. To the extent practicable, the Company will
attempt to convert these enrollees to its network-based managed care products.
While the 1995 rate increases were based on the Company's estimate of health
care cost trends within the non-network-based products, there can be no
assurance that these rate increases will be consistent with future health care
cost experience.

  Management services and fee revenues in 1995 of $579.7 million more than
doubled over 1994 comparable revenues. Prior to the MetraHealth acquisition,
these revenues were primarily comprised of administrative fees relating to
services performed on behalf of the Company's managed health plans and fees
generated by the Company's specialty managed care services.

  The Company had approximately 8,666,000 enrollees in self-funded products at
December 31, 1995, most of which related to the former MetraHealth business.
Under these funding arrangements, the Company receives a fee for the provision
of administrative services and generally assumes no financial responsibility for
health care costs associated with these products. The Company recorded $216.2
million in management services and fee revenues in the fourth quarter of 1995
related to the former MetraHealth self-funded products.

  Investment and other income was $159.8 million in 1995, $118.0 million in
1994, and $62.8 million in 1993. Investment and other income increased each year
primarily due to the investment of cash generated from operations and, from May
1994, the investment of the net proceeds from the Diversified sale.

Operating Expenses

The combination of the Company's pricing strategy and its medical management
efforts are reflected in its medical expense ratio (the percent of premium
revenues expensed as medical costs). The medical expense ratio improved from
80.4% in 1993 to 78.3% in 1994, and then increased slightly to 78.6% through the
first nine months of 1995. This increase in the medical expense ratio is largely
a reflection of declines in Medicaid premium rates in certain markets and the
Company's strategic decision to selectively increase Medicaid provider
reimbursements. For the full year 1995, the medical expense ratio increased to
79.7%, due primarily to the Company's acquisition of MetraHealth in October. The
former MetraHealth products have a higher medical expense ratio as compared to
the Company's previous products.



 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percent of total revenues
(the SG&A ratio) followed a similar trend. The SG&A ratio improved from 15.8% in
1993 to 14.7% in 1994, and then increased to 18.2% in 1995. The SG&A ratio
actually decreased through the first nine months of 1995 to 14.4% from 15.2% for
the comparable 1994 period. Contributing to this decrease from the 1994 period
was a change in the terms of the Company's management agreement with the
Minneapolis, Minnesota, based Medica health plan in August 1994. Under the new
Medica agreement, the Company transferred cost responsibility for certain
management contract expenses and employees to Medica. The Company's selling,
general and administrative expenses decreased accordingly, matched with a
corresponding decrease in management services revenues. With the MetraHealth
acquisition, the SG&A ratio substantially increased in the fourth quarter of
1995 because a greater proportion of the former MetraHealth business consists of
fee-based, self-funded products rather than products which generate full premium
revenue.

  Depreciation and amortization was $94.5 million in 1995, $64.1 million in
1994, and $50.6 million in 1993. Depreciation and amortization increased each
year due to higher levels of capital expenditures in support of the growth in
business and, in 1995, amortization of goodwill and other intangible assets
related to the acquisition of GenCare, Group Sales and MetraHealth.

  Restructuring charges of $153.8 million recorded in the fourth quarter of 1995
include $102.3 million for activities under the Company's integration plan and
$51.5 million for asset impairment. The restructuring charges do not cover
certain aspects of the plan, including new information systems, anticipated
operating losses from businesses to be discontinued, employee relocation, and
training. These costs will be recognized in future periods as incurred.

  The charges reflect management's best estimates of the cost to be incurred in
executing the restructuring plan. These estimates will continue to be refined
until the plan is complete.

Government Regulation
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company's primary business, offering health care coverage and health care
management services, is heavily regulated at both the federal and state level.
Changes in applicable laws and regulations are continually being considered.
While the Company is unable to predict what regulatory changes may occur or the
impact on the Company of any particular change, the Company's operations and
financial results could be negatively affected by regulatory revisions. Certain
proposed changes in Medicare and Medicaid programs may increase the
opportunities for the Company to enroll persons under products developed for the
Medicare and Medicaid eligible populations, but proposed changes also may limit
the reimbursement available to the Company and increase competition in those
programs, which could adversely affect the Company's financial results. The
continued consideration and enactment of "anti-managed care" laws and
regulations, such as "any willing provider" laws and limits on utilization
management, by federal and state bodies may make it more difficult for the
Company to control medical costs and may adversely affect financial results.

  In addition to changes in applicable laws and rules, the Company is
potentially subject to governmental investigations and enforcement actions.
These include possible government actions relating to the federal Employee
Retirement Income Security Act (ERISA), which regulates health coverage plans
offered by employers, and the Company's dealings with self-funded employer
health plans, the Federal Employees Health Benefit Plan (FEHBP), federal and
state fraud and abuse laws, and laws relating to utilization management and the
delivery of health care. Any such government action could result in assessment
of damages, civil or criminal fines or penalties, or other sanctions, including
exclusion from participation in government programs. Although the Company is
currently involved in various government audits, such as under the FEHBP or
relating to services for ERISA plans, the Company believes that it is in
compliance in all material respects with the various federal and state
regulations applicable to its current operations and does not believe the
results of such audits will have a material adverse effect on the Company's
financial positon or results of operations.



 
Inflation
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Although the general rate of inflation has remained relatively stable and health
care cost inflation has declined in recent years, the total health care cost
inflation rate still exceeds the general inflation rate. The Company uses
various strategies to mitigate the negative effects of health care cost
inflation, including setting commercial premiums based on its anticipated health
care costs, risk-sharing arrangements with the Company's various health care
providers, and other health care cost containment measures. Specifically, the
Company's health plans attempt to control medical and hospital costs through
contractual arrangements primarily with independent providers of health care
services. Cost-effective delivery of health care services by such health care
providers is achieved by the reduction of unnecessary hospitalizations,
appropriate use of specialty referral services, and emphasizing preventive
health services. While the Company currently believes its strategies to mitigate
health care cost inflation will continue to be successful, competitive
pressures, demands from providers and customers, applicable regulations or other
factors may adversely affect the Company's ability to control the impact of
health care cost increases. In addition, certain non-network-based products of
the former MetraHealth business do not have similar health care cost containment
measures as the Company's network-based managed care products. As a result, the
Company is subject to more health care cost inflation risk with these products.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Financial Condition and Liquidity
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company's cash and investments increased from $2.77 billion at December 31,
1994, to $3.08 billion at December 31, 1995. The increase in cash and
investments is primarily the result of cash generated from operations of $434.3
million, offset by cash used for the purchases of GenCare ($515.4 million),
Group Sales ($22.0 million) and MetraHealth ($1.09 billion), net of cash and
investments of $1.49 billion assumed with these acquisitions.

  The Company generally invests a large portion of its cash resources in high
quality, long-term investments. At December 31, 1994, the Company had working
capital of $1.24 billion, a current ratio of 2.9, as a substantial portion of
the Diversified proceeds remained invested in short-term instruments while the
Company evaluated longer-term investment opportunities. As a result of the 1995
acquisitions and the application of the Company's investment strategy, the
Company's working capital decreased to $433.1 million at December 31, 1995, a
current ratio of 1.2.

  Under applicable state regulations, certain of the Company's subsidiaries are
required to retain cash generated from their operations. After giving effect to
these restrictions, the Company had approximately $745.2 million in cash and
investments available for general corporate use at December 31, 1995.

  In connection with the Company's acquisition of MetraHealth, the former owners
of MetraHealth are eligible to receive up to an additional $350.0 million if
MetraHealth achieves certain 1995 operating results, as defined. Any
consideration payable for this 1995 earnout may, at the Company's sole
discretion, be in the form of cash, convertible debt, convertible preferred
stock, or straight debt. Moreover, if the Company's post-acquisition combined
net earnings for 1996 and 1997 reaches certain specified levels, certain of
MetraHealth's former owners will be eligible to receive up to an additional
$175.0 million in cash for each of those years.

  As described more fully in Note 3 to the consolidated financial statements,
the Company has agreed to acquire in separate transactions PHP, Inc. (PHP) and
HealthWise of America, Inc. (HealthWise). These transactions will be effected
through the exchange of shares of the Company's common stock for all the
outstanding shares of PHP and HealthWise and, with the exception of transaction
costs, will not require the use of cash.

  The Company currently believes its available cash resources will be sufficient
to meet its current operating requirements and internal development and
integration initiatives. There currently are no other material definitive
commitments for future use of the Company's available cash resources; however,
management continually evaluates opportunities to expand its operations, which
includes internal development of new products and programs and may include
additional acquisitions.



 
              ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
              ----------------------------------------------------

Consolidated Statements of Operations



See notes to consolidated financial statements



 

Consolidated Balance Sheets


See notes to consolidated financial statements




 
Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity



    See notes to consolidated financial statements



 
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows



See notes to consolidated financial statements

/1/  Does not include the reclassification of the current maturities of 
     long-term investments to short-term investments of $126.6 million 
     in 1993, which are non cash transactions. Also does not include the
     reclassification of $11.0 million of long-term investments to
     restricted investments in 1993.



 
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1 Description of Business
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

United HealthCare Corporation (the Company) is a national leader in offering
health care management services. The Company serves over 40 million covered
lives through a broad continuum of health care coverage products and services in
all 50 states and Puerto Rico. The Company utilizes a number of core
capabilities, including medical information management, health benefit
administration, risk assessment and pricing, health benefit design, provider
contracting and risk sharing and health care delivery management. The Company
provides both comprehensive managed care services, such as health maintenance
organizations, insurance and self-funded health care coverage products, and
unbundled health care management and cost containment products such as
behavioral health services, utilization review services, specialized provider
networks and employee assistance programs. On October 2, 1995, the Company
completed its acquisition of the MetraHealth Companies, Inc. (MetraHealth), a
managed health care coverage company and health insurer (see Note 3). As a
result of the MetraHealth acquisition, the Company increased the national scope
of its health care coverage business and now has relationships with many of the
country's largest companies. The acquisition of MetraHealth enhanced the
Company's ability to offer a full range of health care coverage products to all
types of customers.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
2 Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Basis of Presentation

The consolidated financial statements have been prepared in accordance with
generally accepted accounting principles and include the accounts of the Company
and its subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated.

  These financial statements include some amounts that are based on management's
best estimates and judgments. The most significant estimates relate to medical
costs payable and other policy liabilities, intangible asset valuations and
integration and restructuring reserves relating to the Company's recent
acquisitions. These estimates are subject to adjustment as more accurate
information becomes available and any such adjustment could be significant.

Revenue Recognition

Premium revenues are recognized in the period in which enrolled members are
entitled to receive health care services. Premiums received prior to such period
are recorded as unearned premiums. Management services and fee revenues are
recognized in the period the related services are performed.

Medical Costs

Medical costs includes claims paid, claims in process and pending, and estimated
unreported claims and charges by physicians, hospitals and other health care
providers for services rendered to enrolled members during the period. Medical
cost adjustments to prior period estimates are reflected in the current period.

Cash and Cash Equivalents and Investments

Cash and cash equivalents are highly liquid investments with an original
maturity of three months or less. The fair value of cash and cash equivalents
approximates carrying value because of the short maturity of the instruments.
Investments with a maturity of less than one year are classified as short-term.

  Effective January 1, 1994, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and
Equity Securities" (SFAS No.115). The cumulative effect of adopting this
statement was not significant.

  Following the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 115, the Company classifies
investments held by trustees or agencies pursuant to state regulatory
requirements as held to maturity based on the Company's ability and intent to
hold these investments to maturity. Such investments are presented at amortized
cost. All other investments are classified as available for sale and are
reported at fair value based on quoted market prices, with unrealized gains and
losses excluded from earnings and reported as a separate component of
shareholders' equity, net of income tax effects. For purposes of calculating
realized gains and losses on the sale of investments available for sale, the
amortized cost of each investment sold is used. The Company has no investments
it classifies as trading securities.


 
Assets Under Management

In connection with its 1995 acquisition of MetraHealth, the Company is
administering certain aspects of the health care operations of MetraHealth's
predecessor companies related to business expected to be conveyed to the Company
during 1996 pursuant to agreements effected in conjunction with the initial
formation of MetraHealth. Upon conveyance to the Company, the associated assets
will be invested in marketable securities in accordance with the Company's
investment policy.

Other Policy Liabilities

Other policy liabilities principally relate to experience-rated indemnity
products written by MetraHealth or its predecessor companies and are primarily
comprised of retrospective rate credit reserves and customer balances.

  Retrospective rate credit reserves represent premiums received in excess of
claims and expenses charged under eligible contracts. Reserves established for
closed policy years are based on actual experience while reserves for open years
are based on estimates of premiums, claims and expenses incurred.

  Customer balances consist principally of deposit accounts and reserves which
have accumulated under certain experience-rated contracts. At the customer's
option, these balances may be returned to the customer or may be used to pay
future premiums or claims under certain eligible contracts.

Long-Lived Assets

Effective December 31, 1995, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of" (SFAS No. 121). Following
the criteria set forth in SFAS No. 121, long-lived assets to be held are
reviewed by the Company for events or changes in circumstances which would
indicate that the carrying value may not be recoverable. In making this
determination, the Company considers a number of factors, including estimated
future undiscounted cash flows associated with the long-lived asset. Assets held
for sale are recorded at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value, less
any costs associated with its disposition. The principles of SFAS No. 121 were
applied in determining the restructuring charges recorded in the fourth quarter
of 1995 (see Note 4).

Goodwill

Goodwill represents costs in excess of net assets of businesses acquired which
are amortized on a straight-line basis over periods not exceeding 40 years. The
Company periodically evaluates whether events and circumstances have occurred
which may affect the estimated useful life or the recoverability of the
remaining balance of its goodwill.

Property and Equipment

Property and equipment is stated at cost. Depreciation is provided using the
straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the respective assets
ranging from 3 to 30 years.

Intangible and Other Assets

Intangible and other assets consist principally of costs incurred in connection
with the development of computer software applications to support the management
services provided by the Company. These costs are amortized using the straight-
line method over their estimated useful lives or five years, whichever is
shorter.

Income Taxes

Deferred income tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the differences
between financial and income tax reporting basis of assets and liabilities based
on enacted tax rates and laws. The deferred income tax provision or benefit
generally reflects the net change in deferred income tax assets and liabilities
during the year. The current income tax provision reflects the tax consequences
of revenues and expenses currently taxable or deductible on the Company's
various income tax returns for the year reported.

  Effective January 1, 1993, the Company adopted Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No.109, "Accounting for Income Taxes." The cumulative
effect of adopting this statement and its impact on the Company's consolidated
results of operations was not significant.

Net Earnings Per Common Share

Net earnings per common share is determined using the weighted average number of
common shares outstanding during the period, adjusted for the dilutive effect of
outstanding stock options. The convertible preferred stock is not considered a
common stock equivalent for purposes of determining primary earnings per share.

Reclassifications

Certain 1994 and 1993 amounts in the consolidated financial statements have been
reclassified to conform with the 1995 presentation. These reclassifications had
no effect on net earnings or shareholders' equity as previously reported.



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
3 Acquisitions and Dispositions
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Acquisitions

On February 1, 1996, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire
HealthWise of America, Inc. (HealthWise), a health care management company based
in Nashville, Tennessee, currently serving 144,000 members in several states.
Terms of the agreement call for the Company to issue approximately 4.3 million
shares of common stock in exchange for all the outstanding shares of HealthWise.
Completion of the merger, which is subject to regulatory and other approvals, is
expected in the second quarter of 1996. At such time, the transaction will be
accounted for as a pooling of interests.

  On November 28, 1995, the Company signed a definitive agreement to acquire
PHP, Inc. (PHP), a health plan based in Greensboro, North Carolina, currently
serving 117,000 members. Terms of the agreement call for the Company to issue
approximately 2.4 million shares of common stock in exchange for all the
outstanding shares of PHP. Completion of the merger, which is subject to
regulatory and other approvals, is expected in the first quarter of 1996. At
such time, the transaction will be accounted for as a purchase.

  The Company acquired MetraHealth on October 2, 1995. MetraHealth was formed in
January 1995 by combining the group health care operations of Metropolitan Life
Insurance Company and The Travelers Insurance Group. At the time of acquisition,
MetraHealth served over 10 million individuals, including 5.9 million in
network-based care programs, 469,000 of whom were health plan members. The
acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting, whereby
the purchase price has been allocated to assets and liabilities based on their
estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The purchase price and costs
associated with the acquisition exceeded the estimated fair value of net assets
acquired by $992.2 million which have been allocated to certain identified
intangible assets and goodwill. These identified intangible assets and goodwill
are being amortized on a straight-line basis over useful lives deemed
appropriate by management based on their best current judgment. The purchase
price allocation and the useful lives assigned to intangible assets and goodwill
may be adjusted upon completion of the final valuations of MetraHealth's assets
and liabilities and the effect of any such adjustment could be significant.

  The total purchase price of the acquisition was $1.09 billion in cash and
$500.0 million of convertible preferred stock, for a total consideration at
closing of $1.59 billion. In addition, the former owners of MetraHealth are
eligible to receive up to an additional $350.0 million if MetraHealth achieves
certain 1995 operating results, as defined. Any consideration payable for this
1995 earnout in excess of the initial $1.59 billion may, at the Company's sole
discretion, be in the form of cash, convertible debt, convertible preferred
stock, or straight debt. Moreover, if the Company's post-acquisition combined
net earnings for 1996 and 1997 reaches certain specified levels, certain of
MetraHealth's former owners will be eligible to receive up to an additional
$175.0 million in cash for each of those years. Any additional consideration
paid pursuant to these arrangements will be reflected as additional goodwill.

  On January 3, 1995, the Company completed its acquisition of GenCare Health
Systems, Inc. (GenCare), a health plan based in St. Louis, Missouri, which
served 230,000 members at the time of acquisition. The total purchase price of
the acquisition was $515.4 million in cash. The acquisition was accounted for
using the purchase method of accounting. The purchase price and costs associated
with the acquisition exceeded the estimated fair value of net assets acquired by
$476.0 million.

  Had the MetraHealth and GenCare acquisitions occurred on January 1, 1994,
combined unaudited pro forma results for the years ended December 31, 1995 and
1994, would have been: revenues -- $8.71 and $8.21 billion; net earnings before
restructuring charges and extraordinary gain -- $449.6 and $399.9 million and
net earnings per common share before restructuring charges and extraordinary
gain -- $2.53 and $2.28.

  On May 31, 1994, the Company's acquisition of Complete Health Services, Inc.
(Complete Health) was completed. Complete Health, based in Birmingham, Alabama,
owned or operated health plans in Alabama, Louisiana, Tennessee, Arkansas,
Georgia, Mississippi and Florida which served 272,000 members at the time of
acquisition. In connection with the transaction, the Company issued 5,038,000
shares of common stock in exchange for all the outstanding common and preferred
shares of Complete Health.

  Also on May 31, 1994, the Company's acquisition of Ramsay-HMO, Inc. (Ramsay)
was completed. Ramsay, based in Coral Gables, Florida, owned and operated a
predominantly staff model health plan serving 177,000 members in South and
Central Florida at the time of acquisition. In connection with the transaction,
the Company issued 11,176,000 shares of common stock in exchange for all the
outstanding common shares of Ramsay.

  In connection with the Complete Health and Ramsay acquisitions, the Company
incurred nonrecurring, non-operating merger costs of $35.9 million. Each
acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests and, accordingly, the
Company's consolidated financial statements and notes thereto include the
results of Complete Health and Ramsay for all periods presented.


 
  On August 31, 1993, the Company acquired HMO America, Inc. (HMOA), the parent
company of a health plan in Chicago, Illinois, which served 290,000 members at
the time of acquisition. In connection with the transaction, the Company issued
13,128,000 shares of common stock in exchange for all the outstanding common and
preferred shares of HMOA and incurred nonrecurring, non-operating merger costs
of $14.9 million. The acquisition was accounted for as a pooling of interests
and, accordingly, the Company's consolidated financial statements and notes
thereto include the results of HMOA for all periods presented.

  Effective January 29, 1993, the Company acquired all of the issued and
outstanding common stock of Western Ohio Health Care Corporation, a health plan
in Dayton, Ohio, which served 182,600 members at the time of acquisition. The
total purchase price of the acquisition was $100.1 million in cash. The
acquisition was accounted for using the purchase method of accounting and
resulted in cost in excess of net assets acquired of $76.3 million.

Dispositions

On May 27, 1994, the Company completed the sale of 100% of the outstanding
common stock of Diversified Pharmaceutical Services, Inc. (Diversified), then a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company, to SmithKline Beecham Corporation
(SmithKline), the U.S. operating subsidiary of London-based SmithKline Beecham
plc., a pharmaceutical manufacturer. In connection with the sale, the Company
received $2.3 billion in cash and recognized a $1.38 billion extraordinary gain
after transaction costs and income taxes. Under a six-year management services
agreement, SmithKline will pay the Company a management fee for certain
administrative and management services to be provided by the Company to
Diversified and for exclusive rights among pharmaceutical and medical diagnostic
companies to access certain data utilized in Diversified's ongoing business.
During the same six-year period, Diversified and SmithKline also will provide
the Company, subject to competitive cost and quality considerations, the
Diversified drug benefit management services that the Company requires in its
health plan and other operations. At the end of the six-year period, the parties
will consider continuation of the contract.

  Had the Diversified sale occurred on January 1, 1993, combined unaudited pro
forma results for the years ended December31, 1994 and 1993, excluding the
extraordinary gain on such sale, would have been: revenues -- $3.74 billion and
$3.08 billion; net earnings -- $275.5 million and $192.5 million; net earnings
per common share -- $1.57 and $1.12. These pro forma results include the
estimated effects on the Company's operations of the management services
agreement between the Company and SmithKline but do not take into consideration
any reinvestment of the net proceeds from the sale. These pro forma results also
include non-operating merger costs related to the Complete Health and Ramsay
acquisitions.

  On July 30, 1993, the Company completed the sale of its 26,800 member United
HealthCare of Iowa, Inc. subsidiary, for which it received $19.8 million. As a
result of the transaction, a one time, non-operating gain of $15.0 million was
recognized in 1993.

- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4 Restructuring Charges
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

In connection with its acquisition of MetraHealth, the Company developed a
comprehensive plan to integrate the business activities of the combined
companies (the Plan). The Plan encompasses, among other matters, the
disposition, discontinuance and restructuring of certain businesses and product
lines, and the recognition of certain asset impairments. In the fourth quarter
of 1995, the Company recorded $153.8 million in restructuring charges associated
with the Plan.

  The restructuring charges include $102.3 million for activities under the Plan
which are expected to be completed through 1996 and $51.5 million for asset
impairment. The restructuring charges do not cover certain aspects of the Plan,
including new information systems, anticipated operating losses from businesses
to be discontinued, employee relocation and training. These costs will be
recognized in future periods as incurred.

  The charges included $24.0 million for severance and outplacement costs which
are based on the projected impact of the Plan on employment levels. The Company
expects approximately 800 positions to be eliminated over the next 12 months
under the restructuring efforts. During the fourth quarter of 1995, 96 positions
were eliminated which resulted in severance and outplacement payments of $2.4
million.

  Also included in the restructuring charges is a $58.1 million provision
representing costs associated with the termination of certain contracts and the
elimination of certain products, networks and systems related to changes in
strategies resulting from the MetraHealth acquisition. Expenditures related to
these activities of $8.7 million were incurred during the fourth quarter of
1995.

  The restructuring charges also included a $20.2 million provision for property
and lease discontinuances at certain office locations, resulting primarily from
various exit strategies and payment of portions of non-cancelable lease
obligations. During the fourth quarter of 1995, the Company paid $1.5 million
related to the closing of three office locations.

  The restructuring charges reflect management's best estimates of the costs to
be incurred in executing the Plan. These estimates will continue to be refined
until the Plan is complete.



5 Cash and Investments

As of December 31, 1995 and 1994, the amortized cost, gross unrealized holding
gains and losses, and fair value of the Company's cash and investments were as
follows (in thousands):





As of December 31, 1995, the contractual maturities of the Company's cash and
investments were as follows (in thousands):



  Mortgage backed securities which do not have a single maturity date have been
presented in the above tables based on their estimated maturity dates.

At December 31, 1995, approximately $2.29 billion of the Company's cash and
investments were restricted under various state regulations which require
certain of the Company's subsidiaries to retain cash generated from their
operations. In addition, investments of $44.6 million at December 31, 1995, were
held by trustees or state regulatory agencies to ensure adequate financial
reserves exist as required by state regulatory agencies. Investment income
earned on these investments accrues to the Company.


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
6 Convertible Preferred Stock
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Company has 10,000,000 shares of $0.001 par value preferred stock authorized
for issuance. In conjunction with its acquisition of MetraHealth, the Company
designated a series of 500,000 shares as 5.75% Series A Convertible Preferred
Stock ("Preferred Stock"). This Preferred Stock was issued to certain former
shareholders of MetraHealth as a portion of the total consideration of the
MetraHealth acquisition (see Note 3).

  Preferred Stock dividends are fully cumulative and are payable quarterly at
the rate of 5.75% per annum from available funds. The dividends related to 1995
were paid in January 1996.

  At the option of the shareholders, the Preferred Stock may be redeemed anytime
after October 1, 1998, at certain defined redemption rates. Each shareholder has
the right to convert the Preferred Stock into shares of the Company's common
stock at predetermined conversion prices at any time. The Preferred Stock is
subject to mandatory redemption no later than October 1, 2005.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7 Shareholders' Equity
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Dividends

On February 13, 1996, the Company's Board of Directors approved an annual
dividend for 1996 of $0.03 per share to holders of the Company's common stock.
This dividend will be paid on April 15, 1996, to shareholders of record at the
close of business on April 3, 1996.

Regulatory Requirements

The Company's regulated subsidiaries must comply with certain minimum capital or
tangible net equity requirements in each of  the states in which they operate.
As of December 31, 1995, all of the Company's regulated subsidiaries were in
compliance with these requirements.

Stock Grants and Options

The Company has stock and incentive plans (Stock Plans) for the benefit of all
eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. As of December 31, 1995,
the Stock Plans allow for the future granting of up to 1,032,000 shares as
incentive or non-qualified stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted
stock awards and performance awards to employees of the Company.

  In 1995 the Company adopted the Non-Employee Director Stock Option Plan (the
1995 Plan) to benefit individuals on the Company's Board of Directors who are
not employees of the Company. Up to 350,000 shares of the Company's common stock
may be issued under the terms of the 1995 Plan. As of December 31, 1995, up to
245,000 non-qualified stock options were available for future grants under the
1995 Plan.



Stock Option Transactions


  The Company recorded $28.6 million, $44.5 million and $30.3 million in 1995,
1994 and 1993, respectively, to additional paid-in capital to reflect the tax
benefit received by the Company upon the exercise of non-qualified stock options
and the vesting of restricted stock.

Employee Stock Ownership Plan

The Company has an unleveraged Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP) for the
benefit of all eligible employees of the Company and its subsidiaries. Company
contributions to the ESOP are made at the discretion of the Board of Directors.
Contributions of $1.25 million, $2.0 million and $1.0 million in the years ended
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively, have been made to the ESOP.

Employee Stock Purchase Plan

The Company's Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) enables employees of the
Company to subscribe for shares of common stock on semiannual offering dates at
a purchase price which is the lesser of 85% of the fair market value of the
shares on the first day or the last day of the semiannual period. Employee
contributions to the ESPP were $7.0 million, $5.8 million and $3.3 million for
1995, 1994 and 1993. Pursuant to the ESPP, 216,000, 145,000 and 67,000 shares
were issued to employees during 1995, 1994 and 1993. As of December 31, 1995,
39,000 shares are available for future issuances. The Company's Board of
Directors has approved the reservation of 4 million additional shares to be
issued under the ESPP, subject to shareholder approval at the Company's annual
meeting in May 1996.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
8 Income Taxes
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Components of the Provision for Income Taxes

 

Reconciliation of Statutory to
Effective Income Tax Rate

 




Components of Deferred Income Tax
Assets and Liabilities
 
 
  Deferred income tax assets, net of the valuation allowance, are included in
other current assets and deferred income tax liabilities are included in other
long-term obligations in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The
change in net deferred income taxes is primarily the result of the deferred
income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 1995, the income tax effects
of net unrealized holding gains on investments available for sale and net
deferred income taxes assumed with the Company's 1995 acquisitions.

  Income taxes paid were $189.7 million, $935.0 million ($801.7 million
attributable to the sale of Diversified), and $90.8 million in 1995, 1994 and
1993.

  The Company's consolidated income tax returns for fiscal years 1993, 1992 and
1991 are currently under examination by the Internal Revenue Service. The
Company believes any adjustments which may result from this examination would
not have a significant impact on its consolidated operating results or financial
position.
 


- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
9 Commitments and Contingencies
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Leases

The Company leases facilities, computer hardware and other equipment under 
long-term operating leases which are noncancellable and expire on various dates
through 2011. Rent expense under all operating leases was $61.0 million, $41.4
million and $33.0 million for 1995, 1994 and 1993.

  At December 31, 1995, future minimum annual lease payments under all
noncancellable operating leases are as follows (in thousands):
 

Service Agreements

On November 16, 1995, a subsidiary of the Company signed a 10-year contract with
a third party for information technology services. Under terms of the contract
the third party will assume responsibility for the subsidiary's data center
operations and support. Future payments under the contract are estimated to be
$540.0 million; however, the actual timing and amount of payments will vary
based on usage.

Legal Proceedings

The Company is involved in legal actions which arise in the ordinary course of
its business. Although the outcomes of any such legal actions cannot be
predicted, in the opinion of management, the resolution of any currently pending
or threatened actions will not have a material adverse effect upon the
consolidated financial position or results of operations of the Company.

Business Risks

Certain factors relating to the industry in which the Company operates and the
Company's business should be carefully considered. The Company's primary
business, offering health care coverage and health care management services, is
heavily regulated at both the federal and state levels. While the Company is
unable to predict what regulatory changes may occur or the impact on the Company
of any particular change, the Company's operations and financial results could
be negatively affected.

  Recent trends in health care prices and utilization have moderated, but there
can be no assurance that they will not again increase at a more rapid pace. If
health care costs do begin to increases more rapidly, there can be no assurance
that the Company will be able to meet its goal of maintaining price increases at
least sufficient to cover increases in health care costs.

  Also, the Company operates in a highly competitive industry which has seen
significant consolidation over the past few years. The current competitive
markets in certain areas may limit the Company's ability to price its products
at levels the Company believes appropriate. These competitive factors could
adversely affect the Company's financial results.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to concentrations of
credit risk consist primarily of investments in marketable securities and
commercial premiums receivable. The Company's investments in marketable
securities are managed by professional investment managers within guidelines
established by the board of directors which, as a matter of policy, limit the
amounts which may be invested in any one issuer. Concentrations of credit risk
with respect to commercial premiums receivable are limited due to the large
number of employer groups comprising the Company's customer base. As of December
31, 1995, the Company had no significant concentrations of credit risk.



- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
10 Recently Issued Accounting Standards
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

Financial Accounting Standards Board Statement No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-
Based Compensation" (SFAS No. 123), effective for fiscal years beginning after
December 15, 1995, encourages, but does not require, companies to adopt a fair
value based method of accounting for employee stock options. It also allows
companies to continue to measure compensation cost under Accounting Principles
Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees" (APB No. 25),
and present pro forma disclosures of net earnings and earnings per share as if a
fair value based method of accounting had been applied. The Company will adopt
SFAS No. 123 in 1996 and expects to elect to continue to measure compensation
cost under APB No. 25 and comply with the pro forma disclosure requirements. As
a result, SFAS No. 123 will not have a material impact on the Company's results
of operations or financial position. The Company's stock option plans are
generally fixed plans, as defined under APB No. 25, and accordingly, stock
options issued under the Company's plans have no intrinsic value at the grant
date.

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 
11 Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 

The following is a summary of unaudited quarterly results of operations (in
thousands, except per share data) for the years ended December 31, 1995 and
1994:



/1/ Excluding merger costs of $35.9 million ($22.3 million after income taxes,
    or $0.13 per common share) incurred in connection with the Company's May
    1994 acquisitions of Complete Health Services, Inc. and Ramsay-HMO, Inc.,
    1994 net earnings per share before extraordinary gain would have been $74.9
    million, or $0.43 per common share.

/2/ Excluding fourth quarter restructuring charges of $153.8 million ($96.9
    million after tax, or $0.54 per common share) associated with The
    MetraHealth Companies, Inc. acquisition, net earnings for the three month
    period ending December 31, 1995 would have been $109.9 million, or $0.57 per
    common share.

- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------- 


 
REPORT OF INDEPENDENT
PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS

To the Shareholders and Directors of
United HealthCare Corporation:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of United
HealthCare Corporation (a Minnesota Corporation) and Subsidiaries as of December
31, 1995 and 1994, and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period
ended December 31, 1995. These financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements based on our audits. We did not audit the 1993 financial
statements of Complete Health Services, Inc. or Ramsay-HMO, Inc., companies
acquired during 1994, in transactions accounted for as poolings of interests, as
discussed in Note 3. Such statements are included in the consolidated financial
statements of United HealthCare Corporation and reflect total revenues of 18.9
percent in 1993, of the related consolidated total. The aforementioned financial
statements were audited by other auditors whose reports have been furnished to
us and our opinion, insofar as it relates to amounts included for those
entities, is based soley upon the reports of the other auditors.

  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

  In our opinion, based on our audits and the reports of other auditors, the
financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of United HealthCare Corporation and Subsidiaries as of
December 31, 1995 and 1994, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1995, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.

                                                     Arthur Andersen LLP
Minneapolis, Minnesota
February 29, 1996



REPORT OF MANAGEMENT

The management of United HealthCare Corporation is responsible for the integrity
and objectivity of the consolidated financial statements and other financial
information contained in this annual report. The consolidated financial
statements and related information were prepared in accordance with generally
accepted accounting principles and include some amounts that are based on
management's best estimates and judgments.

  To meet its responsibility, management depends on its accounting systems and
related internal accounting controls. These systems are designed to provide
reasonable assurance, at an appropriate cost, that financial records are
reliable for use in preparing financial statements and that assets are
safeguarded. Qualified personnel throughout the organization maintain and
monitor these internal accounting controls on an ongoing basis. Internal
auditors review the accounting practices, systems of internal control, and
compliance therewith.

  The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, composed entirely of directors
who are not employees of the Company, meets periodically and privately with the
Company's independent public accountants and its internal auditors, as well as
management, to review accounting, auditing, internal control, financial
reporting and other matters.

William W. McGuire, M.D.
President, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer

David P. Koppe
Chief Financial Officer


- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


 

           ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON
           ---------------------------------------------------------
                      ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
                      -----------------------------------
     None.

                                   PART III

         ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
         ------------------------------------------------------------

     The information included under the headings "Election of Directors" and
"Compliance with Section 16(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held May 8, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.

     Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) to Form 10-K and Instruction 3 to Item
401(b) of Regulation S-K, information as to executive officers of the Company is
set forth in Part I of this Form 10-K under separate caption.


                        ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
                        --------------------------------

     The information included under the heading "Executive Compensation" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held May 8, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.

           ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS
           ---------------------------------------------------------
                                 AND MANAGEMENT
                                 --------------

     The Information included under the heading "Security Ownership of Certain
Beneficial Owners and Management" in the Company's definitive Proxy Statement
for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 8, 1996, is incorporated
herein by reference.

            ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
            --------------------------------------------------------

     Information with respect to certain relationships and related transactions
appearing under the heading "Certain Relationships and Transactions" in the
Company's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Shareholders to
be held May 8, 1996, is incorporated herein by reference.


 
                                    PART IV

               ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES
               -------------------------------------------------
                            AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
                            -----------------------

(a)  1.   Financial Statements
          --------------------

     The following consolidated financial statements of the Company are
     included:

     Consolidated Statements of Operations for the Three Years Ended 
     December 31, 1995.

     Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1995 and 1994.

     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Shareholders' Equity for the 
     Three Years Ended December 31, 1995.

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the Three Years Ended 
     December 31, 1995.

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     Report of Independent Public Accountants.

(a)  2.   Financial Statement  Schedules
          ------------------------------

     None
 
(a)  3.   Exhibits
          --------



3(a)      Copy of the Company's Second Restated Articles of Incorporation.

3(b)      Copy of the Company's Restated Bylaws, as amended. (Incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 3 to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
          for the quarter ended June 30, 1991).

4         Certificate of Designations for 5.75% Series A Convertible Preferred
          Stock (See Exhibit 3(a)).

*10(a)    Employment Agreement dated as of January 1, 1993, between United
          HealthCare Corporation and William W. McGuire, M.D. (Incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the year ended December 31, 1993).

*10(b)    Employment Agreement dated as of January 6, 1996 between United
          HealthCare Corporation and William W. McGuire, M.D.

*10(c)    United HealthCare Corporation 1985 Stock Option Plan, as amended.
          (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).

*10(d)    United HealthCare Corporation 1987 Supplemental Stock Option Plan.
          (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(d) to the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993).


 
*10(e)    United HealthCare Corporation 1988 Stock Option Plan, as amended.
          (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(e) to the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992).

*10(f)    United HealthCare Corporation 1990 Stock and Incentive Plan, as
          amended. (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(f) to the Company's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K  for the year ended December 31, 1992).

*10(g)    United HealthCare Corporation Amended and Restated 1991 Stock and
          Incentive Plan (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99 to the
          Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q  for the quarter ended June
          30, 1993).

*10(h)    United HealthCare Corporation 1996 Executive Savings Plan.

*10(i)    United HealthCare Corporation 1996 Management Incentive Compensation
          Plan.

10(j)     Employment Agreement, dated as of November 1, 1994, between United
          HealthCare Corporation and Jeannine Rivet.  (Incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10(k) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          year-ended December 31, 1994).

*10(k)    Restated Employment Agreement dated as of May 27, 1994, between United
          HealthCare Corporation and Travers H. Wills. (Incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 99.1 to the Company's Interim  Report on Form 8-K
          dated May 27, 1994).

10(l)     Employment Agreement dated as of November 1, 1994, between United
          HealthCare Corporation and Kevin H. Roche. (Incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10(n) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1994).

10(m)     Employment Agreement dated as of November 1, 1994, between United
          HealthCare Corporation and Michael Mooney.

*10(n)    Employment Agreement dated as of December 1, 1994, between United
          HealthCare Corporation and David P. Koppe.  (Incorporated be reference
          to Exhibit 10(q) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          year ended December 31, 1994).

10(o)     Employment Agreement dated as of November 1, 1994 between United
          HealthCare Corporation and Sheila T. Leatherman.  (Incorporated by
          reference to Exhibit 10(r) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the year ended December 31, 1994).

10(p)     Employment Agreement dated as of November 1, 1994, between United
          HealthCare Corporation and James Conto.  (Incorporated by reference to
          Exhibit 10(s) to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
          ended December 31, 1994).

*10(q)    Employment Agreement effective as of October 2, 1995 between United
          HealthCare Corporation and James G. Carlson (Incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10(a) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
          the quarter ended September 30, 1995).

10(r)     Employment Agreement effective as of October 2, 1995 between United
          HealthCare Corporation and Elliot Gerson  (Incorporated by reference
          to Exhibit 10(b) to the Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
          the quarter ended September 30, 1995).

*10(s)    Employment Agreement effective as of October 2, 1995 between United
          HealthCare Corporation


 
          and Allen Wise (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(c) to the
          Company's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          September 30, 1995).

+10(t)    Information Technology Services Agreement between The MetraHealth
          Companies, Inc. and Integrated Systems Solutions Corporation dated as
          of November 1, 1995.

10(u)     Agreement and Plan of Merger By and Among United HealthCare
          Corporation, UHC Blue Acquisition, Inc., GenCare Health Systems, Inc.
          and General American Life Insurance Company dated as of September 11,
          1994.  (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 2 to Company's Schedule
          13-D in connection with issuer GenCare Health Systems, Inc., filed
          September 21, 1994).

*10(v)    United HealthCare Corporation Nonemployee Director Stock Option Plan.
          (Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10(x) to the Company's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 1994).

10(w)     Letter Agreement between The MetraHealth Companies, Inc. and Kennett
          L. Simmons dated as of October 2, 1995.

*10(x)    Consulting Agreement between The MetraHealth Companies, Inc. and
          Kennett L. Simmons dated as of October 2, 1995.

11        Statement regarding computation of per share earnings.

21        Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

23        Consent of Independent Public Accountants.

24        Powers of Attorney.

27        Financial Data Schedule. (E.D.G.A.R. version only)


+Pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended,
 confidential portions of Exhibit 10(t) have been deleted and filed separately
 with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for
 confidential treatment.


 
Exhibit Number                      Description
- --------------                      -----------


*  Denotes compensation plans in which certain directors and named executive
officers participate and which are being filed pursuant to Item
601(b)(10)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K
     -------------------

     The following reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of
     1995 and through March 29, 1996:

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 2, 1995. The
     items reported on this filing were Items 2 and 7 concerning the Company's
     acquisition of The MetraHealth Companies, Inc.

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 2, 1995.
     The only item reported on this filing was Item 5 concerning the Company's
     announcement of its financial results for the quarter ended September 30,
     1995.

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 1, 1996.  The
     only item reported on this filing was Item 5 concerning the Company's
     acquisition of HealthWise of America, Inc.

     The Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 29, 1996.
     The only item reported on this filing was Item 5 concerning the Company's
     announcement of its financial results for the quarter and year ended
     December 31, 1995.


(c)  See Exhibits listed in Item 14 hereof and the Exhibits attached as a
     separate section of this Report.


 
                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Dated:  March 29, 1996

                                    UNITED HEALTHCARE CORPORATION

                                    By: /s/ William W. McGuire, M.D.
                                        ----------------------------
                                        William W. McGuire, M.D.
                                        Chief Executive Officer


Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


By  /s/ William W. McGuire, M.D.                Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
      William W. McGuire, M.D.
    Director, Chief Executive Officer
    (principal executive officer)


By  /s/ David P. Koppe                          Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    David P. Koppe
    Chief Financial Officer
    (principal financial and 
      accounting officer)


By               *                              Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    William C. Ballard, Jr.
    Director


By               *                              Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    Richard T. Burke
    Director
 

By               *                              Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    James A. Johnson
    Director


By               *                              Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    Thomas H. Kean
    Director


 
By              *                               Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    Douglas W. Leatherdale
    Director
 

By              *                               Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    Elizabeth J. McCormack
    Director
 

By              *                               Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    James L. Seiberlich
    Director
 

By              *                               Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    William G. Spears
    Director

By              *                               Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    Kennett L. Simmons
    Director

By              *                               Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                             
    Gail R. Wilensky
    Director


*By /s/ William W. McGuire, M.D.                Dated:  March 29, 1996
    ----------------------------                            
    William W. McGuire, M.D.
    As Attorney-in-Fact


 

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------

 

                                      

 





                                      

 




+Pursuant to Rule 24b-2 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, 
 confidential portions of Exhibit 10(t) have been deleted and filed separately
 with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to a request for
 confidential treatment.
                                      

