
10-K
WISCONSIN ENERGY CORP.







                         WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION

       FORM 10-K ANNUAL REPORT TO THE SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
       -----------------------------------------------------------------

                                                              -----------------

ITEM                                                               PAGE

                                    PART I
                                    ------

1. Business . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .  4
2. Properties . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 23
3. Legal Proceedings  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24
4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders. . . . . . . 29
   Executive Officers of the Registrant . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 29


                                    PART II
                                    -------

5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity
     and Related Stockholder Matters  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31
6. Selected Financial Data  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 32
   Electric Revenue, Kilowatt-Hour Sales and
     Customer Statistics  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 33
   Gas Revenue, Therms Delivered and Customer Statistics  . . . . . 33
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
     Condition and Results of Operations  . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34
8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. . . . . . . . . . . 46
   Report of Independent Accountants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 65
9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants
     on Accounting and Financial Disclosure . . . . . . . . . . . . 66


                                   PART III
                                   --------


10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant  . . . . . . 66
11. Executive Compensation  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners
      and Management  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  . . . . . . . . 66


                                    PART IV
                                    -------

14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and
      Reports on Form 8-K . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 66
    Consent of Independent Accountants  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 75
    Signatures  . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 76



                                     -2-




                                    PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

Wisconsin Energy Corporation ("Wisconsin Energy"), incorporated in the State
of Wisconsin in 1981, became a holding company in 1986 whose principal
subsidiaries are Wisconsin Electric Power Company ("Wisconsin Electric") and
Wisconsin Natural Gas Company ("Wisconsin Natural").  Wisconsin Energy also
has certain non-utility subsidiaries.  The operations of Wisconsin Energy and
its subsidiaries are conducted in four business segments, the primary
operations of which are as follows:


 Business Segment                             Operations
 ----------------                             ----------

Electric Operations             Wisconsin Electric generates, transmits,
                                distributes and sells electric energy in a
                                territory of approximately 12,000 square
                                miles with a population estimated at over
                                2,200,000 in southeastern (including the
                                Milwaukee area), east central and northern
                                Wisconsin and in the Upper Peninsula of
                                Michigan.

Gas Operations                  Wisconsin Natural purchases, distributes and
                                sells natural gas to retail customers and
                                transports customer-owned gas in three
                                distinct service areas in Wisconsin: west and
                                south of the City of Milwaukee; the Appleton
                                area and the Prairie du Chien area.  The gas
                                service territory, which has an estimated
                                population of over 1,100,000, is largely
                                within the electric service area of Wisconsin
                                Electric.

Steam Operations                Wisconsin Electric distributes and sells
                                steam supplied by its Valley Power Plant
                                to space heating and processing customers
                                in downtown and near southside Milwaukee.

Non-Utility Operations          For information on non-utility subsidiaries
                                see Item 1. BUSINESS - "Non-Utility
                                Operations."  Non-utility operations were
                                not significant in 1994.

For financial information about business segments, see Note M to the Financial
Statements in Item 8 of this report.


ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS

Electric energy sales by Wisconsin Electric in 1994, to all classes of
customers, totaled 26.9 billion kilowatt-hours, a 4.8% increase over 1993.  On
June 17, 1994, Wisconsin Electric experienced a new record peak demand of
4,950 megawatts during a period of unusually hot and humid summer weather. 
The previous record of 4,797 megawatts occurred on August 27, 1991.  Sales of
the electric utility are impacted by seasonal factors and varying weather
conditions from year-to-year.


                                     - 4 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Electric Utility Operations (Cont'd)

There were 944,855 electric customers at December 31, 1994, an increase of 1.3
percent since December 31, 1993.  For further information on revenues,
kilowatt-hour sales, and customer statistics by class, see "Electric Revenue,
Kilowatt-Hour Sales and Customer Statistics" on page 33 of this report.

In 1994, Wisconsin Electric's net generation amounted to 26.4 billion
kilowatt-hours.  Generation was supplemented with 2.0 billion kilowatt-hours
purchased from neighboring utilities and, to a minor extent, from other
sources.  The dependable capability of Wisconsin Electric's generating
stations was 5,288 megawatts in August, 1994 as more fully described in
Item 2. PROPERTIES.

The Public Service Commission of Wisconsin ("PSCW") is conducting an
investigation into the state of the electric utility industry in Wisconsin,
particularly its institutional structure and regulatory regime, in order to
evaluate what changes would be beneficial for Wisconsin.  The PSCW stated that
this investigation may result in profound and fundamental changes to the
nature and regulation of the electric utility industry in Wisconsin.  For
additional information and related matters, see Item 1.  BUSINESS -
"REGULATION".

In January 1994, Wisconsin Electric filed with the PSCW its long-term load and
supply plan as part of the Advance Plan 7 Docket.  In the Advance Plan
process, the regulated electric utilities located in Wisconsin are required to
file, for planning purposes, long-term forecasts of future resource
requirements along with plans to meet those requirements, including the
planned implementation of energy management and conservation programs
("demand-side savings").  In addition to specifying the expectations of
conservation and load management programs, the plan filed with the PSCW
demonstrates Wisconsin Electric's need to add peaking and intermediate load
capacity during the 20-year planning period.  Wisconsin Electric's next base
load power plant is not expected to be placed in-service until after 2010. 
The PSCW began technical hearings on Advance Plan 7 in November 1994.  An
order is expected later in 1995.  For additional information regarding Advance
Plans, see Item 1. BUSINESS - "REGULATION", Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - "OTHER
LITIGATION" and Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES".

Wisconsin Electric currently estimates peak demand in the year 2004 to be
about 5,200 megawatts assuming moderate growth in the economy and normal
weather.  This estimate does not, however, reflect any potential modifications
to the current regulatory environment.  Investments in demand-side management
("DSM") programs have reduced and delayed the need to add new generating
capacity but have not eliminated the need entirely.  Purchases of power from
other utilities and transmission system upgrades will also combine to help
delay the need to install some new generating capacity in the future.  To
partially meet the anticipated growth in peak demand requirements, Wisconsin
Electric is constructing a four unit, approximately 300 megawatt, peaking
power plant at its Paris Generating Station expected to be placed in service
by the summer of 1995, as described below.  Wisconsin Electric also plans to
make additional investments in conservation-related programs during this
period.

Wisconsin Electric has completed renovation of units 1-4 at its Port
Washington Power Plant at a cost of $107 million.  The project, which began in
1991, included the installation of additional emission control equipment.  


                                     - 5 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Electric Utility Operations (Cont'd)

During the second quarter of 1994, two units, approximately 150 megawatts of
peaking capacity, were placed in service marking the completion of the new
Concord Generating Station.  During 1993 two units, or approximately 150
megawatts of peaking capacity, had been placed in service at this facility. 
Total capital costs of the four unit facility were approximately $107 million. 
The 300 megawatt natural gas-fired combustion turbine peaking facility,
located near Watertown, Wisconsin is expected to run approximately 5% of the
time helping meet electric peak demand requirements.

During 1994, Wisconsin Electric continued construction of the Paris Generating
Station, a four unit, approximately 300 megawatt, gas-fired combustion turbine
power plant, to be placed in service during the summer of 1995.  The cost of
this facility, located near Union Grove, Wisconsin, is currently estimated at
$104 million.  

The supply of natural gas to operate the Concord and Paris units is to be
provided by Wisconsin Natural, an affiliated company, but may be purchased
from other suppliers with Wisconsin Natural providing gas transportation
services.

Wisconsin Electric and the Milwaukee Regional Medical Center ("MRMC"),
received preliminary approval from Milwaukee County on September 22, 1994, for
the purchase of the Milwaukee County Power Plant.  The 11 megawatt power plant
in Wauwatosa, Wisconsin provides steam, chilled water and electricity for the
MRMC facilities.   Under the terms of the agreement, Wisconsin Electric is
expected to pay $7 million to $8 million for the electric generation and
distribution facilities.  The MRMC will purchase the plant's steam and water-
chilling facilities.  Wisconsin Electric will manage and operate the facility,
and collect a management fee from the MRMC.  Electric revenues of about $3
million annually will be generated from the investment.  It is anticipated
that this transaction will be finalized in 1995.

Approvals from various regulatory agencies including the PSCW, the U. S.
Environmental Protection Agency ("EPA") and the Wisconsin Department of
Natural Resources ("DNR") are required prior to constructing new generation
capacity.  All proposed generating facilities will meet or exceed the
applicable federal and state environmental requirements.

For further information regarding future capacity additions, see Item 1.
BUSINESS - "REGULATION".

For information regarding estimated costs of Wisconsin Energy's utility
subsidiaries' construction program and projected investments in conservation
programs for the five years ending December 31, 1999, see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -
"LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES".  All estimates of construction expenditures
exclude Allowance For Funds Used During Construction.  For additional
information regarding matters related to Allowance for Funds Used During
Construction, see Note F to the Financial Statements in Item 8.

In accordance with a PSCW order issued in November 1993, after completing a
capacity-related competitive bidding process, Wisconsin Electric signed a
long-term agreement to purchase the electricity that would be generated from a
215 megawatt cogeneration facility planned to be constructed by an
unaffiliated independent power producer ("IPP"), LSP-Whitewater Limited
Partnership.  The agreement is contingent upon the facility being completed
and going into operation, which at this time is planned for mid-1996.  On
March 9, 1995, the PSCW approved the IPP's application to construct a 
                                     - 6 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Electric Utility Operations (Cont'd)

cogeneration plant in Whitewater, Wisconsin.  For additional information, see
Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - "OTHER LITIGATION - PSCW Two-Stage CPCN Order" and
Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "Capital Requirements 1995-1999".

In response to increasing competitive pressures in the markets for electricity
and natural gas, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural are implementing a
revitalization process to increase efficiencies and improve customer service
by reengineering and restructuring their organizations.  The new structures
consolidate many business functions and simplify work processes.  Due to
productivity improvements, staffing levels at Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin
Natural have been reduced; 403 employees elected to retire under an early
retirement option and 651 employees have enrolled in severance packages.  For
additional information, see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "Wisconsin Electric and
Wisconsin Natural Revitalization".


SOURCES OF GENERATION

The table below indicates sources of energy generation by Wisconsin Electric:

                                                   Year Ended December 31
                                                   ----------------------      
                                                     1994         1995*
                                                     ----         -----
     Coal                                            69.0%        69.8%
     Nuclear                                         29.0         27.9
     Hydro-electric                                   1.4          1.6
     Gas                                              0.5          0.6
     Oil                                              0.1          0.1
                                                    ------       ------        
                                     TOTAL          100.0%       100.0%
     ------------------
     *Estimated assuming that there are no unforeseen contingencies such as
      unscheduled maintenance or repairs.

COAL:  Wisconsin Electric diversifies its coal sources by purchasing from
Northern Appalachia, the Southern Powder River Basin (Wyoming) and the Raton
Basin (New Mexico) mining districts for the power plants in Wisconsin, and
from central Appalachia and western mines for the Presque Isle Power Plant in
Michigan. 

Approximately 75 percent of Wisconsin Electric's 1995 coal requirements are
expected to be delivered by Wisconsin Electric-owned unit trains.  The unit
trains will transport coal for the Oak Creek and Pleasant Prairie Power Plants
from New Mexico and Wyoming mines.  Coal from Pennsylvania mines is
transported via rail to Lake Erie transfer docks and delivered to the Valley
and Port Washington Power Plants by lake vessels.  Montana coal for Presque
Isle is transported via rail to Superior, Wisconsin, placed in dock storage
and reloaded into lake vessels for plant delivery.  The Presque Isle central
Appalachian origin and Colorado origin coal is shipped via rail to Lake Erie
and Lake Michigan (Chicago) coal transfer docks, respectively, for lake vessel
delivery to the plant.  Wisconsin Electric's 1995 coal requirements, projected
to be 10.0 million tons, are 98 percent under contract.  Wisconsin Electric
does not anticipate any problem in procuring its remaining 1995 requirements
through short-term or spot purchases and inventory adjustments.

                                     - 7 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Sources of Generation (Cont'd)

Pleasant Prairie Power Plant:  All of the estimated 1995 coal requirements at
this plant are presently covered by three long-term contracts.  

Oak Creek Power Plant:  All of the estimated 1995 coal requirements for this
plant are covered by long-term contract.  Contract provisions permit Wisconsin
Electric to increase/decrease the annual volume to match burn requirements.

Presque Isle Power Plant:  This plant has six generating units designed to
burn bituminous coal and three other units designed to burn sub-bituminous
coal.  The units burning sub-bituminous coal are supplied by three long-term
contracts the annual volumes of which are anticipated to be adequate to cover
coal requirements through 1996.  Bituminous coal is generally purchased
through one-year contracts from central Appalachia and under a 5 year contract
for the Colorado origin coal.

Edgewater 5 Generating Unit:  Coal for this unit, in which Wisconsin Electric
has a 25 percent interest, is purchased by Wisconsin Power and Light Company,
a non-affiliated utility, which is the majority owner of the facility.

Valley and Port Washington Power Plants:  These plants are both supplied
through a long-term contract that, in combination with coal supplied to
Wisconsin Electric's other Wisconsin plants, allows the plants to meet the
requirements of the Wisconsin acid rain law.  In the event of further air
quality emission requirements affecting these plants, the contract can be
terminated without liability.

The periods and annual tonnage amounts for Wisconsin Electric's principal coal
contracts are as follows:

                   Contract Period              Annual Tonnage
                   ---------------              --------------
               Jan. 1977 to Dec.  1996              240,000
               Nov. 1987 to Dec.  1997              500,000(A)
               Jan. 1980 to Dec.  2006            2,000,000
               Jul. 1983 to Dec.  2002            1,000,000
               Apr. 1990 to Nov.  1996              375,000(B)
               Jan. 1992 to Dec.  2005            1,200,000(C)(1995)
               Oct. 1992 to Sep.  2007            2,000,000
               Sep. 1994 to Aug.  1999              500,000

-------------------
  (A) The contract can be extended if the total volume has not been
      purchased by the respective termination dates.

  (B) Annual volume can be increased to meet requirements for the Port
      Washington and Valley Power Plants above the 375,000 ton volume
      indicated herein.

  (C) Subsequent years may be of greater tonnage as allowed under certain
      provisions of the contract.

For information regarding emission restrictions, see Item 1. BUSINESS -
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE - "Air Quality - Acid Rain Legislation". 

NUCLEAR:  Wisconsin Electric purchases uranium concentrates ("yellowcake") and
contracts for its conversion, enrichment and fabrication.  Wisconsin Electric
maintains title to the nuclear fuel until the fabricated fuel assemblies are 

                                     - 8 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Sources of Generation  (Cont'd)

delivered to the Point Beach Nuclear Plant ("Point Beach"), whereupon it is
sold to and leased back from the Wisconsin Electric Fuel Trust ("Trust").  See
Note E to the Financial Statements in Item 8.

Uranium Requirements:  Wisconsin Electric requires approximately 450,000
pounds of yellowcake annually for its two units at Point Beach.  Uranium
requirements through 1997 will be provided from a combination of existing
contracts with Malapai Resources Company (of Arizona); Energy Resources of
Australia, Ltd.; and Nukem Inc. (U.S.).  Wisconsin Electric may exercise
flexibilities in these contracts and purchase certain quantities of uranium on
the spot-market, should market conditions prove favorable.  Wisconsin Electric
believes that adequate supplies of uranium concentrates will be available to
satisfy current and future operating requirements.

Under a contract with Nuexco Trading Corporation, Wisconsin Electric was to
receive 200,000 pounds of uranium concentrates on specified delivery dates in
1995 at conversion facilities in the United States or Canada in exchange for
the transfer to Nuexco of an identical quantity of concentrates held by
Wisconsin Electric at the conversion facilities of Comurhex in France. 
However, Nuexco is in default under the contract and has filed for bankruptcy
law protection.  Wisconsin Electric is reviewing various options that might be
available for use of its concentrates located at Comurhex.

Conversion:  Wisconsin Electric has a contract with Sequoyah Fuels
Corporation, a subsidiary of General Atomics, to provide conversion services
for the Point Beach reactors through 1995.  Due to operating difficulties
encountered in 1992, Sequoyah Fuels has decided to place its Gore, Oklahoma
conversion plant on indefinite stand-by.  In November 1992, Sequoyah Fuels
signed an agreement with Allied Signal Corporation which formed a partnership
called Converdyn Corporation.

Converdyn administers all existing Allied and Sequoyah contracts, with all
conversion services being performed at the existing Allied Signal conversion
facility in Metropolis, Illinois.  

Wisconsin Electric also has a conversion contract with the Cameco Corporation,
to provide for an alternate supply of up to approximately 30 percent of
conversion requirements through 1995 and up to 100 percent of conversion
requirements from 1996 through 1999.  Cameco is a Canadian based corporation
located in Saskatoon, Saskatchewan, and is a major producer of uranium
concentrates.

Enrichment:  Wisconsin Electric currently has a Utility Services Contract with
the U.S. Department of Energy ("DOE") for 70 percent of the enrichment
services required for the operation of both of the Point Beach units.  The
contract can provide enrichment services for the entire operating life of each
unit.  For a discussion of litigation involving the Utility Services Contract,
see Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - OTHER LITIGATION - "Uranium Enrichment
Charges".  Wisconsin Electric entered into a supplemental agreement with the
DOE to supply the remaining 30 percent of enrichment service requirements for
the period through 1995 at prices below those offered under the Utility
Services Contract.  Responsibility for administering these contracts and
agreements for enrichment services was transferred from DOE to the U.S.
Enrichment Corporation ("USEC") under the Energy Policy Act of 1992.  In March
1992, Wisconsin Electric entered into an agreement with Global Nuclear
Services and Supply Limited, an international supplier of enrichment services,
for the remaining 30 percent of enrichment service requirements after 1995.  

                                     - 9 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Sources of Generation  (Cont'd)

Fabrication:  Fabrication of fuel assemblies from enriched uranium for Point
Beach is covered under a contract with Westinghouse Electric Corporation for
the balance of the plant's current operating license.

Spent Fuel Storage and Disposal:  Wisconsin Electric currently has the
capability to store certain amounts of spent nuclear fuel at Point Beach. 
Previous modifications to the storage facilities at Point Beach have made it
possible to accommodate all spent fuel expected to be discharged from the
reactors through 1995 while maintaining the capability for one full core off-
load.  In accordance with the provisions of the Nuclear Waste Policy Act of
1982, which require the DOE to provide for the disposal of spent fuel from all
U.S. nuclear plants, Wisconsin Electric entered into a disposal contract
providing for deliveries of spent fuel to the DOE for ultimate disposal
commencing in January 1998.  It is anticipated that the DOE will be unable to
accept spent fuel by the 1998 timeframe as contracted.  In November of 1991,
Wisconsin Electric filed an application with the PSCW for authority to
construct and operate an Independent Spent Fuel Storage Installation
("ISFSI").  The ISFSI can provide additional interim dry cask storage until
the DOE begins to remove spent fuel from Point Beach in accordance with the
terms of the contract it has with Wisconsin Electric.  Public hearings on the
proposed project were held during October 1994.  On February 13, 1995,
Wisconsin Electric received a Certificate of Authority from the PSCW to
construct and operate the ISFSI.  Loading of the first storage unit of the
ISFSI is expected to take place in the summer of 1995.  In March 1995 separate
petitions were filed by intervenors in Dane County Circuit Court and Fond du
Lac County Circuit Court.  The Dane County petition seeks reversal of the
order and a remand to the PSCW directing it to deny Wisconsin Electric's
request for authorization to construct the dry cask facility, or in the
alternative, to correct the alleged errors in the PSCW's order.  No specific
relief is identified in the Fond du Lac County petition; however, numerous
grounds of error are alleged.  Wisconsin Electric intends to fully participate
in both judicial review proceedings and to vigorously oppose the petitions. 
For additional information, see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS
OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "Capital Requirements 1995-
1999".

Point Beach Nuclear Plant:  Point Beach provided 29 percent of Wisconsin
Electric's net generation in 1994.  The plant has two generating units which
had a combined dependable capability during December 1994 of 980 megawatts and
which together constituted 18.3 percent of Wisconsin Electric's dependable
generating capability in 1994.  The U.S. Nuclear Regulatory Commission ("NRC")
licenses for Point Beach Units 1 and 2 expire October 5, 2010 and March 8,
2013, respectively. 

The NRC has, at various times, directed that certain inspections,
modifications and changes in operating practices be made at all nuclear
plants.  At Point Beach, such inspections have been made and necessary changes
to equipment and in operating practices have either been completed or are
expected to be completed within the time schedules permitted by the NRC or
within approved extensions thereof.

Wisconsin Electric has initiated certain plant betterment projects at Point
Beach that are judged to be appropriate and beneficial.  Construction is
progressing on the addition of two safety-related emergency diesel powered
electrical generators with installation to be completed in 1996.  

                                    - 10 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Sources of Generation  (Cont'd)

On October 1, 1992, Wisconsin Electric filed an application with the PSCW for
the replacement of the Unit 2 steam generators, which would allow for the
unit's operation until the expiration of its operating license in 2013.  This
project is estimated to cost $119 million.  (In 1984 Wisconsin Electric
replaced the Unit 1 steam generators.)  The PSCW deferred the decision on the
steam generator replacements until after the next refueling outage in
September 1995.  In the Interim Order dated February 13, 1995, the PSCW
directed Wisconsin Electric to make suitable arrangements with the fabricator
of the new steam generators to allow the fabrication, delivery and replacement
to proceed promptly if authorized by the PSCW as a result of further
investigation.  The reasonable costs of such arrangements to maintain a place
in line with the fabricator will be afforded rate recovery.  It is anticipated
that the final order in this matter will be issued in early 1996.  Without the
replacement of the steam generators, it is believed the unit would not be able
to operate to the end of its current license.

Decommissioning Fund:  Pursuant to a 1985 PSCW order, amended in 1994,
Wisconsin Electric provides for costs associated with the eventual
decommissioning of Point Beach through the use of an external trust fund. 
Payments to this fund, together with investment earnings, brought the balance
in the trust fund on December 31, 1994 to approximately $227 million.  For
additional information regarding decommissioning see Note E to the Financial
Statements in Item 8. 

Nuclear Plant Insurance:  For information regarding matters pertaining to
nuclear plant insurance, see Note E to the Financial Statements in Item 8. 


NATURAL GAS (FOR ELECTRIC GENERATION):  Natural gas for boiler ignition and
flame stabilization purposes for the Pleasant Prairie, Oak Creek and Valley
Power Plants, is purchased under an agency agreement.  The agent purchases
natural gas and arranges for interstate pipeline transportation to the local
gas distribution utility.  Gas for the Pleasant Prairie and Oak Creek Power
Plants is delivered by Wisconsin Natural.  Gas for the Valley Power Plant is
delivered by Wisconsin Gas Company, a non-affiliated company.

The Concord Generation Station and the Oak Creek combustion turbine use
natural gas as their primary fuel, with Number 2 fuel oil as backup, as will
the Paris Generating Station, expected to go into commercial service in the
summer of 1995.  Gas for these plants may be purchased directly from Wisconsin
Natural on an interruptible basis.

OIL:  Oil is used for combustion turbines at the Germantown and Port
Washington Power Plants and at Point Beach.  Small amounts of oil are also
used for boiler ignition and flame stabilization at some coal-fired plants. 
Number 2 fuel oil requirements for 1995 at the Presque Isle Power Plant and
the Point Beach combustion turbine are provided under one-year contracts with
equitable price adjustment formulas.  All other oil requirements are purchased
as needed from local suppliers.  The Concord and Paris Generating Stations and
the Oak Creek combustion turbine use oil as a secondary fuel source.

HYDRO:  Wisconsin Electric has various licenses from the Federal Energy
Regulatory Commission ("FERC") for its hydroelectric generating facilities
that expire during the period 1998 to 2004.  Wisconsin Electric has begun the
licensing process for its largest hydro facility, Big Quinnesec Falls, which
has a license expiring in 1998.  Wisconsin Electric continues to support
FERC's efforts to complete the licensing process and issue licenses for four 

                                    - 11 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Sources of Generation  (Cont'd)

hydro projects with 1993 expiration dates.  These projects are currently being
operated by Wisconsin Electric under annual licenses issued by FERC.  The
three hydro facilities, with a total of 2.5 megawatts installed capacity, that
Wisconsin Electric decided not to relicense in 1993 are still being operated
by Wisconsin Electric under annual licenses until FERC determines their
disposition.  Wisconsin Electric continues to consult with the U.S. Fish and
Wildlife Service, DNR, Michigan Department of Natural Resources ("MDNR") and
the National Park Service in conjunction with the licensing process. 
Hydroelectric facilities provided 1.4% of Wisconsin Electric's total energy
generation in 1994.

INTERCONNECTIONS WITH OTHER UTILITIES:  Wisconsin Electric's system is
interconnected at various locations with the systems of Madison Gas and
Electric Company, Wisconsin Power and Light Company, Wisconsin Public Service
Corporation, Commonwealth Edison Company, Northern States Power Company and
Upper Peninsula Power Company.  These interconnections provide for interchange
of power to assure system reliability as well as facilitating access to
generating capacity and the transfer of energy for economic purposes.

Wisconsin Electric is a member of Wisconsin-Upper Michigan Systems ("WUMS"), a
coordinating group which includes four other electric companies in Wisconsin
and Upper Michigan.  WUMS, in turn, is a member of Mid-America Interconnected
Network, which is one of nine regional members of the North American Electric
Reliability Council.  Membership in these groups permits better utilization of
reserve generating capacity and coordination of long-range system planning and
day-to-day operations.

In March 1994, Wisconsin Electric executed a transmission service agreement
with Commonwealth Edison that will allow Wisconsin Electric to purchase energy
from southern Illinois and Indiana suppliers, using the Commonwealth Edison
transmission system to import such energy into Wisconsin.  

A transmission service agreement has been executed to allow Wisconsin Electric
to reserve capacity and import energy from members of the Mid-Continent Area
Power Pool ("MAPP"), a group consisting of electric utilities generally
located west of Wisconsin.  Considerable non-firm energy is expected to be
purchased from MAPP members over the next several years.

SALES TO WHOLESALE CUSTOMERS:  Wisconsin Electric currently provides wholesale
electric energy to five municipally owned systems, three rural cooperatives,
two municipal joint action agencies and one isolated system of an investor-
owned utility in Wisconsin, Illinois, and the Upper Peninsula of Michigan
under rates approved by the FERC.  Sales to these wholesale customers
accounted for 5.3 percent of total kilowatt-hour sales in 1994.  Under two
agreements, service is being provided subject to a seven-year notice of
cancellation from the Wisconsin Public Power Inc. SYSTEM ("WPPI").  Wisconsin
Electric also has an eight-year power supply agreement with the Badger Power
Marketing Authority.  Sales to the Badger Power Marketing Authority and WPPI
combined are expected to account for approximately one half of the wholesale
sales for 1995.

Service to UPPCO, under a 65 megawatt agreement which expires on December 31,
1997, is expected to account for 30 percent of 1995 wholesale sales.  In
October 1993, UPPCO announced that it had reached an agreement in principle
with NSP to purchase 90 megawatts of base-load electric energy beginning in
1998.  Wisconsin Electric expects to apply the 65 megawatts of capacity toward


                                    - 12 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Sources of Generation (Cont'd)

the electric energy needs of new customers and toward the overall increase in
system supply needs anticipated by 1998.  

Service to the remaining wholesale customers is provided under agreements
which require a three-year notice of cancellation from the customers.

During 1994, sales to wholesale customers declined 10.4 percent from 1993,
largely the result of reductions in sales to WPPI.  WPPI has been reducing its
purchases from Wisconsin Electric subsequent to acquiring generation capacity
in 1990.  Sales to WPPI during 1994, 1993 and 1992 were approximately 725,000
megawatt-hours ("MWh"), 944,000 MWh and 1,166,000 MWh, respectively.  Further
reductions are expected as WPPI installs additional capacity.  These sales
reductions are not expected to have a significant effect on future earnings. 
Under the provisions of a long-term agreement, Wisconsin Electric will
continue to provide transmission services to WPPI.

Wisconsin Electric's existing FERC tariffs also provide for transmission
service to its wholesale customers.  During 1994, Wisconsin Electric had three
customers taking transmission service.  For further information see Item 1. 
BUSINESS - "REGULATION".

In October 1992, the Energy Policy Act was signed into law.  Passage of this
law is expected to remove perceived encumbrances and facilitate the entry of
power producers into the already competitive bulk power market.  Notable among
its provisions are the creation of a new class of energy producer called
Exempt Wholesale Generators ("EWGs"), who are exempt from the requirements of
the Public Utility Holding Company Act of 1935, and the rights that the Energy
Policy Act provides them and utilities to request a FERC order directing the
provision of transmission service if denied transmission access from
utilities.  The transmission aspects of this law are expected to have little
impact on Wisconsin Electric since it has had open access transmission tariffs
on file with the FERC since 1980.

In September 1994 Wisconsin Electric, responding to WPPI's request and a PSCW
order in a transmission construction proceeding, filed an unexecuted Network
Transmission Service Agreement for service to WPPI at the FERC.  In November
1994 Wisconsin Electric made a second filing at the FERC to extend network
transmission service to non-WPPI wholesale customers.  The proposed Network
Transmission Service is firm service for the loads of wholesale customers
located in Wisconsin Electric's retail service area.  It is designed to be
comparable to service provided for the Company's native load.

The electric utility industry continues to become increasingly competitive. 
Some municipal utilities are approaching competing utilities in a search for
lower energy prices.  Additionally, some large industrial customers are
seeking regulatory changes that could permit retail wheeling to allow them to
seek proposals for energy from alternate suppliers.  IPPs are also exploring
cogeneration projects which would provide process steam to customers in
Wisconsin Electric's service territory and sell electricity to Wisconsin
Electric.  Consequently, electric wholesale and large retail customers of
Wisconsin Electric or other non-affiliated utilities may determine, from time
to time, to switch energy suppliers, purchase interests in existing power
plants or build new generating capacity, either directly or through joint
ventures with third parties.  The advent of EWGs can be expected to accelerate
this practice.  For additional information, see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -
"LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES".

                                    - 13 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - (Cont'd)

GAS UTILITY OPERATIONS

Effective January 1, 1994, Wisconsin Southern Gas Company, Inc. ("Wisconsin
Southern") was acquired by Wisconsin Energy through a statutory merger of
Wisconsin Southern into Wisconsin Natural.  Wisconsin Natural continues to use
the acquired facilities of Wisconsin Southern for the distribution and
transportation of natural gas.  During 1994, the administrative and operating
functions of the companies were combined.  For additional information, see
Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.  

On October 11, 1994, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural filed a joint
application with the PSCW to merge Wisconsin Natural into Wisconsin Electric. 
Wisconsin Electric also filed an application to obtain the Michigan Public
Service Commission's ("MPSC") consent to assume Wisconsin Natural's
liabilities in connection with the merger.  The merger, which was approved by
the stockholders of Wisconsin Electric in December 1994, is anticipated to be
effective by year-end 1995.  The merger of Wisconsin Natural into Wisconsin
Electric is expected to improve customer service and reduce future operating
costs.

Total gas therms delivered by Wisconsin Natural, including customer-owned gas
transported by Wisconsin Natural, increased 0.2 percent in 1994 compared to
1993, reflecting the offsetting effects of 5 percent warmer-than-normal
weather during 1994 and increased sales associated with a record number of new
customer additions. 

Approximately 30 percent of total 1994 deliveries were on interruptible rates. 
Wisconsin Natural's maximum daily send-out in 1994 was 651,643 Dths.  A
dekatherm ("Dth") is equivalent to ten therms or one million British Thermal
Units ("BTU").  Sales of the gas utility fluctuate with the heating cycle of
the year and are also impacted by varying weather conditions from year-to-
year.

On November 1, 1993, FERC Order 636 went into effect, unbundling the
interstate pipeline industry.  The unbundling forced Wisconsin Natural to take
on the responsibility of selecting and administering a complete portfolio of
gas supply contracts sufficient to supply sales customers.

Wisconsin Natural has entered into more than 50 gas service contracts for
supply, pipeline capacity, underground storage and balancing services.
Contracts vary in term from less than one year to ten years.  Gas supply
contracts contain pricing options that allow pricing at market rates or the
ability to fix future prices for varying terms which Wisconsin Natural can
exercise to manage the risk of substantial market price fluctuations.  The gas
from these contracts is used to meet customer requirements on a daily basis
and to fill storage during the warm months to be withdrawn from storage during
the heating season in order to meet system gas demands.

The use of storage increases the load factor of supply contracts and allows
Wisconsin Natural to take advantage of seasonal price differentials. 
Wisconsin Natural has 14 firm gas storage and associated firm transportation
agreements that allow daily withdrawals of 285,025 Dths and an annual capacity
of 22 million Dths.  The initial terms of these contracts vary, with the first
one expiring in March 1995, and the last in October 2003.  This storage
effectively replaces storage used by the pipeline companies to provide gas
sales service to Wisconsin Natural in the pre-FERC Order 636 environment.  Gas

                                    - 14 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Gas Utility Operations (Cont'd)

stored at these facilities is purchased by Wisconsin Natural from a number of
suppliers.

Wisconsin Natural has 11 transportation contracts not associated with storage. 
Seven contracts expire prior to 2002, one contract expires in 2002 and the
remaining three contracts expire in 2003.  In each case, subject to certain
provisions, Wisconsin Natural can extend the terms of these contracts at the
time the agreements would otherwise expire.

Wisconsin Natural transports gas for its customers who purchase gas directly
from other suppliers.  Transported gas accounted for approximately 30% of the
company's total therms delivered during 1994, 31% during 1993, and 33% during
1992.

Wisconsin Natural is the supplier of natural gas for Wisconsin Electric's
Concord Combustion Turbine Power Plant and Paris Combustion Turbine Power
Plant that will begin operation in 1995.  Delivery of the Paris facility's
fuel requirements is made possible by a pipeline extension completed in 1994.

On March 9, 1995, the PSCW issued Wisconsin Natural a certificate for
construction of a gas pipeline to provide gas transportation service to LSP -
Whitewater Limited Partnership's proposed Whitewater cogeneration facility. 
For additional information, see ELECTRIC UTILITY OPERATIONS above.

SALES TO LARGE CUSTOMERS

Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural provide utility service to a
diversified base of industrial customers.  Major industries served by
Wisconsin Electric include the iron ore mining industry, the paper industry,
the machinery production industry, the foundry industry and the food products
industry.  The Empire and Tilden iron ore mines, the two largest customers of
Wisconsin Electric, accounted for 4.6 percent and 4.0 percent, respectively,
of total electric kilowatt-hour sales in 1994.  Sales to the mines were 15.0
percent higher in 1994 compared to 1993, attributable to a five week strike in
1993.   For additional information see Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "Electric Sales
and Revenues".  Major industries served by Wisconsin Natural include the paper
industry, the food products industry and the machinery production industry. 
No single customer of Wisconsin Natural accounted for more than 3.2 percent of
total gas therms sold and transported in 1994.

STEAM UTILITY OPERATIONS

Wisconsin Electric operates a district steam system for space heating and
processing in downtown and near southside Milwaukee.  Sales of the steam
utility fluctuate with the heating cycle of the year and are impacted by
varying weather conditions from year-to-year.  The system consists of
approximately 28 miles of high and low pressure mains and related regulating
equipment.  Steam for the system is supplied by Wisconsin Electric's Valley
Power Plant.  At December 31, 1994, there were 471 customers on the system. 
Steam sales in 1994 were 2,395 million pounds, an increase of 0.8 percent from
the 2,376 million pounds sold in 1993.

NON-UTILITY OPERATIONS

Wisconsin Energy has five non-utility subsidiaries:

WISPARK Corporation develops and invests in real estate projects within
Wisconsin Energy's utility subsidiaries' service territories.  WISPARK is 
                                    - 15 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Non-Utility Operations (Cont'd)

currently developing several industrial/business parks in southeastern
Wisconsin.  WISPARK's primary development is LakeView Corporate Park, a 1,439
acre business park located near Kenosha, Wisconsin.  Thirty-nine companies
have purchased a total of 426 acres in this development during its first six
years.  WISPARK is also developing business parks in Pewaukee and New Berlin
(Waukesha County), Yorkville (Racine County) and Milwaukee, Wisconsin. 
WISPARK has also been involved in the development of East Pointe Commons, a
housing and retail complex in Milwaukee, Wisconsin.  A WISPARK subsidiary,
Syndesis Development Corporation, has developed Gaslight Pointe, a residential
complex, also featuring a hotel and restaurant, on 12 acres along the Lake
Michigan waterfront in Racine, Wisconsin.

WITECH Corporation is a venture capital company operating in Wisconsin and the
Upper Peninsula of Michigan.  At December 31, 1994, WITECH had investments in
19 companies and 3 funds totaling more than $52 million.  The companies
include, among others, an operator of a nationwide data communications network
for the agriculture industry, a specialty printing firm, a manufacturer of
motor drives and a manufacturer of customized furniture.  WITECH's subsidiary,
Minergy Corp., develops and markets technology involving lightweight aggregate
produced from fly ash, sludge and other waste by-products.  Minergy is
marketing this technology in areas outside Wisconsin Electric's service
territory.

Wisconsin Michigan Investment Corporation ("WMIC") engages in investing and
financing activities.  Activities include advances to affiliated companies and
investments in financial instruments and in partnerships developing low- and
moderate-income housing projects.  Other investments may be made from time to
time.  WMIC's subsidiary, WMF Corp., engages in financing activities; any
funds obtained by WMF Corp. through financing arrangements are advanced to
WMIC.

Badger Service Company holds coal rights in Indiana.  Estimates indicate that
40 million tons of coal could be recovered from this property with
conventional mining techniques; however, there are no current plans to develop
the property.  Badger Service Company may sell or develop these rights in the
future as conditions warrant.

WISVEST Corporation was formed to provide capital to help businesses expand in
Wisconsin and to help Wisconsin corporations avoid takeover bids by out-of-
state companies.

Wisconsin Energy is subject to certain restrictions which limit
diversification in non-utility activities.  Under Wisconsin law, the sum of
the assets of all non-utility affiliates may not exceed the sum of 25 percent
of the assets of Wisconsin Electric and a percentage as determined by the PSCW
(equal to 25 percent) of the assets of Wisconsin Natural.

REGULATION

Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural are subject to the regulation of the
PSCW as to retail electric, gas and steam rates in Wisconsin, standards of
service, issuance of securities, construction of new facilities, transactions
with affiliates, levels of short-term debt obligations, billing practices and
various other matters.  Wisconsin Electric is also subject to the regulation
of the MPSC as to the various matters associated with retail electric service
in Michigan as noted above except as to construction of certain new
facilities, levels of short-term debt obligations and advance approval of 


                                    - 16 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Regulation (Cont'd)

transactions with affiliates.  Wisconsin Electric, with respect to hydro-
electric facilities, wholesale rates and accounting, is subject to FERC
regulation.  Operation and construction relating to Wisconsin Electric's Point
Beach  facilities are subject to regulation by the NRC.  Wisconsin Electric's
operations are also subject to regulations of the EPA, the DNR and the MDNR.

The PSCW is authorized to direct expenditures for promoting conservation if it
determines that the programs are in the public interest.  Recent rate orders
have included provisions for substantial conservation programs initiated by
Wisconsin Electric.  For additional information, see Note A to the Financial
Statements in Item 8.

Wisconsin Energy is an exempt holding company by order of the Securities and
Exchange Commission under Section 3(a)(1) of the Public Utility Holding
Company Act of 1935, as amended, and accordingly is exempt from the provisions
of that act, other than with respect to certain acquisitions of securities of
a public utility.

Wisconsin Electric is subject to a power plant siting law in Wisconsin which
requires that electric utilities file updated long-term forecasts (called
"Advance Plans") for the location, size and type of future large generating
plants and high voltage transmission lines about every two years for PSCW
approval after public hearings.  Generally, the law provides that the PSCW may
not authorize the construction of any large generating plants or high voltage
transmission lines unless they are in substantial compliance with the most
recently approved plan.  The law also prohibits Wisconsin Electric from
acquiring any interest in land for such plants or transmission lines by
condemnation until construction authorization has been received.  Advance Plan
orders are based on a review of the utilities' long-term planning options. 
However, separate project-specific PSCW approval is required for the
construction of generating facilities and transmission lines.

Wisconsin Electric employs a least-cost integrated planning process, which
examines a full range of supply and demand side options to meet its customers'
electric needs, such as the renovation of existing power plants, promotion of
cost-effective conservation and load management options, development of
renewable energy sources, purchased power and construction of new company-
owned generation facilities.

For additional information regarding Advance Plans, see Item 3. LEGAL
PROCEEDINGS - "OTHER LITIGATION" and Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "LIQUIDITY AND
CAPITAL RESOURCES".

In 1992, the PSCW ordered that utilities should include a cost of $15 per ton
of carbon dioxide ("CO2") when comparing resource planning options (both
supply and demand-side) to account for the economic risk of future greenhouse
gas regulation.  Appeals through 1993 and 1994 did not substantially change
the order.  Recent supply and DSM plans included the greenhouse gas adder. 
There are only minor differences in supply and DSM plans prepared with and
without the greenhouse gas adder.

In 1994, the PSCW ordered the state's utilities to competitively bid all new
generation needs in excess of 12 megawatts to be built in Wisconsin.  The two
stage process established by the PSCW consists of: (1) an all-parties
(including utilities) bidding procedure for fossil-fueled and renewable


                                    - 17 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Regulation (Cont'd)

generation projects and (2) the conventional Certificate of Public Convenience
and Necessity ("CPCN") procedure for the winner or winners.  For additional
information regarding the CPCN process, see Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - OTHER
LITIGATION and Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL
CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "Capital Requirements 1995-1999."

The PSCW is conducting an investigation into the state of the electric utility
industry in Wisconsin, particularly its institutional structure and regulatory
regime, in order to evaluate what changes would be beneficial for Wisconsin. 
The PSCW stated that this investigation may result in profound and fundamental
changes to the nature and regulation of the electric utility industry in
Wisconsin.  About 50 interested parties, including Wisconsin Electric,
submitted comments as to appropriate objectives for regulation of the electric
utility industry and the utility structures and regulatory approaches likely
to provide the best balance of such objectives.  Initial question and answer
sessions were held in November, 1994.  The PSCW also scheduled meetings for
early 1995 for the purpose of narrowing the scope of the investigation and has
indicated it anticipates submitting a final report to the Wisconsin
Legislature in late 1995.  Copies of Wisconsin Electric's proposal are
available upon request.

Wisconsin Electric's view of industry restructuring separates various electric
utility functions into two major categories - natural monopolies and
competitive entities.  The natural monopolies are functions where a single
entity can provide the lowest cost.  The competitive entities are functions
where competition can provide the lowest cost.  The natural monopolies would
be re-regulated so the appropriate incentives exist to provide electricity at
reasonable prices.  The competitive entities would eventually see an
elimination of traditional regulation.

In Wisconsin Electric's plan, the re-regulated natural monopolies are the
transmission and distribution functions.  Re-regulation of these entities
should involve some form of price cap and performance-standard operation
rules.  In the new structure, the FERC would regulate the transmission systems
through a regional transmission group to ensure open access, comparable
pricing, comparable service and adequate cost recovery.  The PSCW would
regulate the distribution function for reasonable price, reliability, public
safety and customer satisfaction.  

The competitive entities in the Wisconsin Electric model are the generation,
customer service and energy merchant functions.  In the restructured electric
utility industry, utilities would unbundle costs into the individual
components of generation, transmission, distribution and service.  

Wisconsin Natural is also participating in a generic investigation, initiated
by the PSCW, addressing the extent to which traditional regulation of the
natural gas distribution function could be replaced.

RATE MATTERS

See Item 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - "RATE MATTERS" - for a discussion of rate
matters, including recent rate changes and a discussion of the tariffs and
procedures with respect to recovery of changes in the costs of fuel, purchased
power and gas purchased for resale.




                                    - 18 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - (Cont'd)

ENERGY EFFICIENCY

The management of Wisconsin Energy and its utility subsidiaries believes that
a strong and continuing emphasis must be placed on energy management and
efficient energy use.  Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural are continuing
to develop programs to inform and assist their customers with respect to
conservation options.  This policy is regarded by Wisconsin Energy and its
utility subsidiaries as in the best interests of their customers and security
holders.  

Efficient use of energy is not limited to reduced consumption.  Time-of-use
rates for certain electric customers promote the shifting of electricity usage
to those times when electric generating facilities are not fully utilized.  
Interruptible and curtailable rates, along with an energy cooperative managed
load curtailment program, are offered to certain industrial customers to
control peak demand.  Direct load control of some residential central air
conditioners continues as part of a pilot program which began in 1992.

To promote their energy management and conservation policies, Wisconsin
Electric and Wisconsin Natural offer various programs and services to their
customers.  For industrial and commercial customers, Wisconsin Electric offers
energy evaluations identifying cost-effective customer conservation
opportunities as well as financial assistance, including direct grants and
interest-free financing to purchase and maintain energy-efficient equipment. 
Additional financial incentives are also offered to residential electric
customers to encourage the purchase of energy-efficient appliances and the
removal of older inefficient appliances from the system.


ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE

Compliance with federal, state and local environmental protection requirements
resulted in capital expenditures by Wisconsin Energy's utility subsidiaries of
approximately $57 million in 1994, a decrease of $8 million from 1993. 
Expenditures incurred during 1994 included costs associated with the
replacement of the precipitators at Valley Power Plant, the installation of
pollution abatement facilities at Wisconsin Electric's power plants, the
installation of underground distribution lines and environmental studies
associated with power plants.  Such expenditures are budgeted at approximately
$35 million for 1995.

Operation, maintenance and depreciation expenses of Wisconsin Electric's fly
ash removal equipment and other environmental protection systems are estimated
to have been $47 million in 1994.  Other environmental costs, primarily for
environmental studies, amounted to $1 million in 1994.

Solid Waste Landfills

Wisconsin Energy's utility subsidiaries provide for the disposal of non-ash
related solid wastes and hazardous wastes through licensed independent
contractors, but federal statutory provisions impose joint and several
liability on the generators of waste for certain cleanup costs.  Remediation-
related activity pertaining to specific sites is discussed below.

Muskego Sanitary Landfill:  In 1992, Wisconsin Electric was informed by the
EPA that it was included in a group of approximately 50 potentially
responsible parties ("PRPs") against which the EPA will issue orders requiring
that the PRPs clean up the Muskego Sanitary Landfill (located in Southeastern 

                                    - 19 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Environmental Compliance (Cont'd)

Waukesha County, Wisconsin).  On January 14, 1993, Wisconsin Electric notified
EPA that it was proceeding, with other PRPs, to comply with the order.  The
first step toward remediation has been identified, with the Wisconsin Electric
portion of the $16.8 million dollar effort identified as $115,414 (paid in
1994).  Remedial actions for the second step (Groundwater Operable Unit
Remedy) are being evaluated, with EPA recommending a limited pump and treat
option, estimated to cost $7.4 million.  Costs would be allocated among the
PRPs based on their waste contribution to the site.  Wisconsin Electric has
been identified as one of the small waste contributors to the site.

Maxey Flats Nuclear Disposal Site: In 1986, Wisconsin Electric was advised by
EPA that it is one of a number of PRPs for cleanup at this low-level
radioactive waste site located in Morehead, Kentucky.  The amount of waste
contributed by Wisconsin Electric was significantly less than one percent of
the total.  Under the terms of a consent decree agreed to by all parties,
Wisconsin Electric will pay the amount of $163,830 (minus a small credit for
an amount previously paid) as its share of the settlement fund for site clean
up costs.

Lenz Oil: A request for information or PRP letter was received from EPA on
March 25, 1994.  Wisconsin Southern was identified as the PRP because of used
oil sent to the Lenz Oil facility.  Wisconsin Southern was acquired by
Wisconsin Energy on January 1, 1994.  A response was filed with EPA.  No known
cleanup schedule has been set or remediation costs identified.

Manistique River/Harbor Area: Wisconsin Electric received a request for
information or PRP letter from EPA on March 12, 1993.  The letter states that
the river/harbor has PCB contamination.  EPA has requested information
regarding company PCB and oil filled equipment management in the Manistique
River drainage basin.  Wisconsin Electric responded to this request on April
22, 1993.  Additional information requests from EPA have also been responded
to by Wisconsin Electric.  Wisconsin Electric has no reason to believe that
the company is responsible in total or in part for the PCB contamination in
the Manistique River/harbor area.  No known cleanup schedule has been set or
remediation costs identified.

Kenosha Iron and Metal: Wisconsin Electric received a request for information
or PRP letter from EPA on December 9, 1994.  The letter requested information
regarding any involvement Wisconsin Electric's Pleasant Prairie Power Plant
may have had with this operation.  A response to EPA was sent December 29,
1994 indicating that Wisconsin Electric had no reason to believe that the
power plant or Wisconsin Electric did any business with Kenosha Iron and
Metal.  No cleanup schedule has been set or remediation costs identified.

Marina Cliffs Barrel Dump Site: Wisconsin Electric received a special notice
letter and information request on March 25, 1994 from the DNR.  The letter
describes a release of hazardous substances at a former barrel reclamation
facility and landfill site, and requests information on any business dealings
Wisconsin Electric may have had with this former operation.  Wisconsin
Electric has no reason to believe that it is responsible for the contamination
problems at this site.  No known cleanup schedule has been set or remediation
costs identified.

ETSM Property: Iron cyanide bearing wastes were found both on property owned
by Wisconsin Electric (ETSM facility) and adjacent landowners.  The wastes
were removed and properly disposed, with Wisconsin Electric's share of the 


                                    - 20 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Environmental Compliance (Cont'd)

cleanup at about $100,000.  Adjacent landowners believe Wisconsin Electric to
be the source of the material, however, records do not support that
allegation.

Ash Landfills

Wisconsin Electric aggressively seeks environmentally acceptable, beneficial
uses of its combustion byproducts.  However, ash materials have been, and to
some degree, continue to be disposed of in company-owned, licensed landfills. 
Some early designed and constructed landfills may allow the release of low
levels of constituents resulting in the need for various levels of
remediation.  These costs are included in the environmental operating and
maintenance costs for Wisconsin Electric.  Sites currently undergoing
remediation include:

Presque Isle Landfill:  Wisconsin Electric entered into a settlement agreement
with the MDNR for conditions existing at an ash landfill site acquired by
Wisconsin Electric when it purchased the Presque Isle Power Plant in 1988. 
Wisconsin Electric's groundwater monitoring program at the site detected
elevated levels of certain substances at the oldest portion of the landfill. 
Wisconsin Electric has reconstructed and capped that portion of the landfill
to prevent further leachate from entering the groundwater at an approximate
cost of $2.6 million.  The cost to implement a remediation plan for the
cleanup of the current groundwater conditions, when approved by the MDNR, is
estimated to not exceed $1 million.

Highway 59 Landfill:  In 1989, a sulfate plume was detected in the groundwater
beneath a Wisconsin Electric-owned former ash landfill located in the town of
Waukesha, Wisconsin.  After notifying the DNR, Wisconsin Electric initiated a
five-year expanded monitoring program.  In response to a request from the DNR,
Wisconsin Electric is preparing an environmental contamination assessment of
the landfill, and will submit the report to the DNR in May, 1995.  Wisconsin
Electric believes that any remediation plan developed, approved and
implemented for this site would not have a material adverse effect on its
financial condition.  


Manufactured Gas Sites

As have other public utilities, the utility subsidiaries of Wisconsin Energy
and/or their predecessors, have operated manufactured gas plants.  Operations
at these manufactured gas sites ceased over 40 years ago with remediation
activities having been conducted at certain of these sites, while other sites
are scheduled for investigation.  A plan to investigate and remediate these
sites was presented to the DNR.  The plan, estimated to cost approximately $12
million over the next six years, will result in the majority of the sites
being restored to commercial use.  Costs associated with these types of
efforts, to the extent not covered by insurance, historically have been
allowed to be recovered in rates for utility service.  Wisconsin Energy's
utility subsidiaries believe any such future costs will continue to be
considered appropriate for inclusion in rates and therefore will not have a
material adverse impact on their financial condition.






                                    - 21 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Environmental Compliance (Cont'd)

Air Quality - Acid Rain Legislation

In 1986, the Wisconsin Legislature passed legislation establishing new sulfur
dioxide ("SO2") limitations applicable to Wisconsin's five major electric
utilities, including Wisconsin Electric.  The law requires each of the five
major electric utilities to meet a 1.20 lb SO2 per million BTU corporate
average annual emission rate limit beginning in 1993.  Prior to 1993,
Wisconsin law limited the total annual SO2 emissions from the five major
electric utilities to 500,000 tons per year.  During 1994, approximately
181,000 tons of SO2 were emitted by such utilities, equivalent to an annual
average emission rate of 0.97 lbs SO2 per million BTU.

Wisconsin Electric's compliance plan to meet the SO2 limitations under
Wisconsin's acid rain law includes the increased use of low-sulfur coal at
certain power plant units.  Some changes to existing power plant equipment
were made to accommodate the use of low-sulfur coals.

The 1990 amendments to the Federal Clean Air Act mandate significant nation-
wide reductions in air emissions.  Most significant to the country's electric
utility companies are the "acid rain" provisions of the amendments which are
scheduled to limit SO2 and nitrogen oxide ("NOX") emissions in phases which
take effect in 1995 and 2000.  Wisconsin Electric evaluated the potential
impact resulting from this legislation and concluded that minimal impact will
result from Phase I requirements because of actions taken to meet the above
mentioned Wisconsin acid rain law.  Phase II requirements, together with
separate ozone nonattainment provisions of the Clean Air Act which may call
for additional NOX reductions, however, will necessitate the implementation of
a compliance strategy which is not expected to impact rates.  Since a portion
of the regulations that have been issued by the EPA are not complete or are
not yet final, the rate impact is subject to change and will be reevaluated as
needed.

For additional information regarding the impact of the Clean Air Act
Amendments, including estimates of the cost of compliance, see Item 7.
MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS - "ENVIRONMENTAL ISSUES".


OTHER

Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural are authorized to provide electric
and gas service in designated territories in the state of Wisconsin, as
established by indeterminate permits, certificates of public convenience and
necessity, or boundary agreements with other utilities.  Wisconsin Electric
provides electric service in certain territories in the state of Michigan
pursuant to franchises granted by municipalities.

Research and development expenditures of Wisconsin Energy's utility
subsidiaries amounted to $8,063,000 in 1994, $8,629,000 in 1993, and
$7,885,000 in 1992.  Such expenditures were primarily for improvement of
service and abatement of air and water pollution.  The capitalized portion of
research and development costs amounted to $15,000 in 1993 and $55,000 in
1992; there were no such capitalized costs in 1994.  Research and development
activities include work done by employees, consultants and contractors, plus
sponsorship of research by industry associations.  In addition to the




                                    - 22 -


ITEM 1.  BUSINESS - Other (Cont'd)

foregoing amounts, Wisconsin Natural paid $766,000 in 1994, $1,300,000 in 1993
and $767,000 in 1992 for support of the Gas Research Institute ("GRI").  The
GRI surcharge, currently assessed on all gas deliveries, is calculated on
pipeline utilization.

At December 31, 1994, Wisconsin Energy and its subsidiaries employed 4,801
persons, of which 114 were part-time.


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES 

Wisconsin Electric owns the following generating stations with 1994
capabilities as indicated:
                                                           Dependable
                                                          Capability In
                                                          Megawatts (1)
                                                    -----------------------
                                        No. of
                                      Generating     August        December
Name                       Fuel         Units         1994           1994
----                       ----       ----------     -------       --------
Steam Plants:
     Point Beach           Nuclear         2            974             980
     Oak Creek             Coal            4          1,135           1,141
     Presque Isle (2)      Coal            9            612             612
     Pleasant Prairie      Coal            2          1,200           1,210
     Port Washington       Coal            4            322             324
     Valley                Coal            2            267             227
     Edgewater (3)         Coal            1             98              98
                                          --          -----           -----
TOTAL STEAM                               24          4,608           4,592
Hydro Plants (16 in number)               38             75              75

Germantown Combustion
 Turbines                  Oil             4            212             252
Other Combustion
 Turbines & Diesel(4)     Gas/Oil          6            393             450
                                          --          -----           -----
TOTAL SYSTEM                              72          5,288           5,369
                                          ==          =====           =====
-----------------------

(1) Dependable capability is the net power output under average operating
    conditions with equipment in an average state of repair as of a given
    month in a given year.  Changing seasonal conditions are responsible
    for the different capabilities reported for the winter and summer
    periods in the above table.  The values were established by test and
    may change slightly from year to year.

(2) UPPCO, a non-affiliated utility, staffs and operates the Presque Isle
    Power Plant under an operating agreement with Wisconsin Electric which
    extends through December 31, 1997.  

(3) Wisconsin Electric has a 25 percent interest in Edgewater 5 Generating
    Unit, which is operated by Wisconsin Power and Light Company, a non-
    affiliated utility.


                                    - 23 -


ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES - (Cont'd) 

(4) During the second quarter of 1994, two units, or approximately 150
    megawatts of additional peaking combustion turbine generation capacity,
    were placed in service at Wisconsin Electric's Concord Generating Station.

At December 31, 1994, the Wisconsin Electric system had 2,759 miles of
transmission circuits, of which 639 miles were operating at 345 kilovolts, 123
miles at 230 kilovolts, 1,603 miles at 138 kilovolts, and 394 miles at voltage
levels less than 138 kilovolts.  At December 31, 1994, Wisconsin Electric was
operating 22,327 pole miles of overhead distribution lines and 13,481 miles of
underground distribution cable, as well as 360 distribution substations and
216,973 line transformers.

As of December 31, 1994, the gas distribution system of Wisconsin Natural
includes approximately 6,786 miles of mains connected at 18 gate stations to
the pipeline transmission systems of: ANR Pipeline Company, ANR; Natural Gas
Pipeline Company of America, NGPL; and Northern Natural Pipeline Company,
Northern Natural.  Wisconsin Natural has a liquefied natural gas storage plant
which converts and stores in liquefied form natural gas received during
periods of low consumption.  The liquefied natural gas storage plant has a
send-out capability of 70,000 Dths per day.  Through the acquisition of
Wisconsin Southern, Wisconsin Natural acquired propane tanks for peaking
purposes.  These tanks will provide approximately 10,000 Dths of supply to the
system.  For additional information, see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND
ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "Acquisition of
Wisconsin Southern Gas Company, Inc.".

Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural own various office buildings and
service centers throughout their service areas.

WISPARK properties include the following commercial and industrial parks in
Wisconsin:  LakeView, located near Kenosha; Grandview, in Racine County;
RidgeView, in Pewaukee; and the industrial development of Westridge, in New
Berlin.  WISPARK also owns Gaslight Pointe, a residential and commercial
complex located in Racine, Wisconsin and other properties located in the
Wisconsin Energy's utility subsidiaries' service territories that are held for
future development.

Badger Service Company holds rights to coal in an area of 8,568 acres in Knox
County, Indiana.

The principal properties of Wisconsin Energy and its subsidiaries are owned in
fee except that the major portion of electric transmission and distribution
lines and steam distribution mains and gas distribution mains and services are
located, for the most part, on or in streets and highways and on land owned by
others.  Substantially all utility property is subject to first mortgage
liens.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS

Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural are subject to federal, state and
certain local laws and regulations governing the environmental aspects of
their operations.  Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural believe that, with
immaterial exceptions, their existing facilities are in compliance with
applicable environmental requirements.

                                    - 24 -


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - Environmental Matters (Cont'd)

Stephenson Building: Crown Life Insurance Company has sued Wisconsin Electric
in federal court, seeking contribution and damages from Wisconsin Electric for
the cost of removing asbestos from boilers and piping in a building owned by
Crown Life.  Wisconsin Electric sold that equipment and piping to a former
building owner in 1970.  Wisconsin Electric is defending this lawsuit.

See Item 1. BUSINESS - ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE for a discussion of matters
related to certain solid waste and ash landfills and manufactured gas plant
sites.


RATE MATTERS

Wisconsin Retail Electric Jurisdiction

Fuel Cost Adjustment Procedure:  Wisconsin Electric's retail rates in
Wisconsin do not contain an automatic fuel adjustment clause, but can be
adjusted by the PSCW if actual cumulative fuel and purchased power costs, when
compared to the costs projected in the retail electric rate proceeding,
deviate from a prescribed range and are expected to continue to be above or
below the authorized annual range of 3 percent.

1994 Fuel Cost Adjustment:  Effective August 4, 1994, the PSCW authorized
Wisconsin Electric to reduce Wisconsin retail electric rates, through the use
of a fuel adjustment credit, to reflect lower fuel and purchased power
expenses.  The adjustment reduced Wisconsin retail electric revenue by
approximately $6.8 million through December 31, 1994.  The level of fuel
expense currently included in rates will continue until either the actual
cumulative fuel and purchased power costs exceed the range in the fuel cost
adjustment procedure, at which time Wisconsin Electric can apply for a change
to the fuel adjustment factor, or rates are revised by the PSCW in a rate
case.

1994 Test Year: In April 1993, Wisconsin Electric filed with the PSCW required
data relating to the 1994 test year.  In support of its goal to become the
lowest cost energy provider in the region, Wisconsin Electric did not seek an
increase in retail electric rates for 1994 over those which were authorized on
February 17, 1993.  

1995 Test Year:  In 1993 the PSCW discontinued the practice of conducting
annual rate case proceedings, replacing it with a new schedule which calls for
future rate cases to be conducted once every two years.  As a result, no
filing was made with respect to the 1995 test year.

1996 Test Year:  Under the PSCW's biennial rate case schedule, Wisconsin
Electric would be scheduled to file in mid-1995 for rates to reflect a 1996
test year.  Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural may make a single
combined filing covering electric, steam and gas operations in May 1995 for
the test year beginning January 1, 1996.  On March 27, 1995, Wisconsin
Electric and Wisconsin Natural sent a letter to the PSCW proposing a one year
deferral of their upcoming rate case filing.  The matter is pending.  


Wholesale Electric Jurisdiction

Fuel and Purchased Power Adjustment Tariffs:  Wisconsin Electric's wholesale
rates contain an automatic fuel adjustment provision to reflect varying fuel
and purchased power costs.  Wholesale sales, to municipals and cooperatives,
represented approximately 5% of total electric sales in 1994.
                                    - 25 -


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - Rate Matters (Cont'd)

Michigan Retail Electric Jurisdiction

1993 Test Year:  Effective July 9, 1993, the MPSC authorized an annualized
rate increase of $1.4 million, or 4.3%, for Wisconsin Electric's non-mine
retail electric customers.  Excluding sales to the two mine customers, which
are separately regulated by the MPSC, retail electric sales in Michigan
account for approximately 2% of Wisconsin Electric's total kilowatt-hour
sales.

Power Supply Cost Recovery Clause:  Rates are adjusted to reflect varying fuel
and purchased power costs through a power supply cost recovery ("PSCR") clause
in Wisconsin Electric's tariffs.  Such PSCR clause provides for, among other
things, an annual filing of a PSCR plan and, after notice and an opportunity
for hearing, the development of PSCR factors to be applied to customers' bills
during the period covered by the PSCR plan to allow Wisconsin Electric to
recover its costs of fuel and purchased power transactions, as estimated in
its annual filing.  The amounts so collected are subject to a reconciliation
proceeding conducted by the MPSC at the end of the period covered by the plan
for recovery of any undercollections of actual costs or for refund or credit
of any amounts in excess of its actual costs in such period.  On November 30,
1994, the MPSC approved the proposed PSCR credit factor of $.00535 per
kilowatt-hour for the year 1995.  


Wisconsin Retail Gas Jurisdiction

1994/1995 Test Year:  In 1993, the PSCW adopted a biennial rate case schedule. 
As a result, no filing was made with respect to the 1994/1995 test year.

1996/1997 Test Year:  Wisconsin Natural received approval from the PSCW to
change its test year from a biennial period ending August 31 to a biennial
period ending December 31, which coincides with Wisconsin Electric's rate case
schedule.  Wisconsin Natural and Wisconsin Electric may make a single combined
filing covering electric, steam and gas operations in May 1995 for the test
year beginning January 1, 1996.  On March 27, 1995, Wisconsin Electric and
Wisconsin Natural sent a letter to the PSCW proposing a one year deferral of
their upcoming rate case filing.  The matter is pending.  

Purchased Gas Adjustment Tariffs:  Sales of natural gas are subject to
adjustment tariffs designed to pass on to gas customers increases or decreases
in the cost of natural gas purchased for resale.  For additional information,
see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "Rates and Regulatory Matters".


FERC Order 636 Transition Costs

As a result of FERC Order 636, pipeline companies are no longer in the
merchant business and have begun billing transition costs, such as Gas Supply
Realignment and stranded capacity costs, to their customers.  The transition
costs to be billed to Wisconsin Natural are currently estimated to be about
$7.5 million for 1995, $6.0 million annually during 1996-1997 and $2.0 million
each year thereafter until 2008.  These estimates include the components
attributable to Wisconsin Southern, which was merged into Wisconsin Natural
effective January 1, 1994.  The PSCW is allowing the local gas distribution
companies to pass these costs on to their customers through the purchased gas
adjustment mechanism.


                                    - 26 -


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - Rate Matters (Cont'd)

Wisconsin Retail Steam Jurisdiction

Fuel Adjustment:  Wisconsin Electric steam rates contain a provision to adjust
rates to reflect varying fuel costs for all customers except for a large
volume contract representing approximately 14 percent of steam sales in 1994.

1994 Test Year:  Consistent with the actions taken with respect to Wisconsin
Electric's Wisconsin Retail Electric Jurisdiction, Wisconsin Electric did not
seek an increase in retail steam rates for 1994 above those authorized in
February 1993.  

1995 Test Year:  In 1993 the PSCW discontinued the practice of conducting
annual rate case proceedings, replacing it with a new schedule which calls for
future rate cases to be conducted once every two years.  As a result, no
filing was made with respect to the 1995 test year.

1996 Test Year:  Under the PSCW's biennial rate case schedule, Wisconsin
Electric would be scheduled to file data in mid-1995 to reflect a 1996 test
year period.  Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural may make a single
combined filing covering electric, steam and gas operations in May 1995 for
the test year beginning January 1, 1996.  On March 27, 1995, Wisconsin
Electric and Wisconsin Natural sent a letter to the PSCW proposing a one year
deferral of their upcoming rate case filing.  The matter is pending.  

For additional information see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - "Rates and Regulatory
Matters".


OTHER LITIGATION

Advance Plan 6: In 1992, Wisconsin Electric joined with other state utilities
in a petition filed in Brown County Circuit Court requesting judicial review
of one aspect of the PSCW's Advance Plan 6 order.  The action involved the
Commission's authority to require the utilities to consider, in their
planning, monetized effects of so-called "greenhouse gases".

Also, in 1992, Wisconsin's Environmental Decade ("WED") filed a petition in
Dane County Circuit Court requesting judicial review of another aspect of the
PSCW's Advance Plan 6 order.  That proceeding involved the question of whether
the PSCW should have required the utilities to reflect, in their planning,
claimed beneficial employment impacts associated with demand-side management
activities and whether the PSCW's environmental assessment was sufficient.  A
group of utilities, including Wisconsin Electric, appeared in that proceeding
in opposition to WED.

The two petitions were consolidated for judicial review in Dane County Circuit
Court.  On September 2, 1994, the Court issued a decision that the PSCW (1)
has authority to require the utilities to monetize the economic risk of
potential future regulation of greenhouse gases for advance planning purposes,
and (2) was not required to direct utilities to include the economic impact of
employment benefits in their advance plans.  In addition, the Court held the
PSCW's environmental assessment was deficient.  The Court remanded the Advance
Plan order to the PSCW for the purpose of providing a factual basis for the
monetized values of greenhouse gases and correcting the environmental
assessment deficiencies.  On December 21, 1994, the PSCW issued a supplemental
order purporting to explain the factual basis for the monetized values.


                                    - 27 -


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - Other Litigation (Cont'd)

PSCW Two-Stage CPCN Order:  In January 1994, Wisconsin Electric filed an
action in Milwaukee County Circuit Court seeking judicial determination
concerning the PSCW's authority to adopt a new "two-stage" CPCN process and to
order utilities to enter into contracts to buy power from other entities. 
This action was in response to the PSCW's December 1993 order which detailed
the requirements of the new process to be implemented by the PSCW in making
the final selection from among competing alternatives to construct proposed
future capacity additions, including projects that would be owned and operated
by unaffiliated IPPs.  On June 27, 1994, this action was dismissed by
stipulation of the parties.  Wisconsin Electric is also an intervenor in a
similar action brought by an unaffiliated IPP in Dane County Circuit Court. 
The matter is pending.  For additional information see Item 7. MANAGEMENT'S
DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS -
"Capital Requirements 1995-1999".

Spent Fuel Storage and Disposal:  See Item 1. BUSINESS - SOURCES OF GENERATION
- NUCLEAR - "Spent Fuel Storage and Disposal" for information concerning the
PSCW's approval of Wisconsin Electric's application to utilize dry cask
storage for spent nuclear fuel generated at Point Beach, and pending petitions
for judicial review of the PSCW's decision.

Pittsburg & Midway Case:  In a matter brought before the FERC, in July 1993,
Wisconsin Electric filed an initial brief supporting its right to retain coal
reclamation costs collected through the wholesale fuel adjustment clause in
1986 that it believes were prudently incurred in a settlement with the
Pittsburg & Midway Coal Mining Company.  Of the total costs involved, the
portion recovered through the wholesale fuel clause amounts to approximately
$750,000.  This filing was made in response to a FERC audit staff
determination that Wisconsin Electric should have applied for a waiver of the
FERC's fuel clause regulations in order to attempt to pass through the
wholesale portion of the settlement costs.  In order for a final decision to
be made, the FERC must first await the initial decision expected from an
Administrative Law Judge.  The matter is pending.

In November 1993, the FERC rejected Wisconsin Electric's request to be allowed
to recover, in wholesale rates in the future, the amount which may have to be
refunded to customers in the event of an unfavorable ruling in the pending
fuel adjustment clause proceeding concerning the Pittsburg & Midway
reclamation charges.  In January 1994, Wisconsin Electric filed an appeal with
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit regarding this
rejection.  The matter is pending.

Electromagnetic Fields:  Claims are being made or threatened with increasing
frequency against electric utilities across the country for bodily injury,
disease or other damages allegedly caused or aggravated by exposure to
electromagnetic fields ("EMFs") associated with electric transmission and
distribution lines.  Results of scientific studies conducted to date do not
establish the existence of a causal connection between EMFs and any adverse
health effects.  Wisconsin Electric believes that its facilities are
constructed and operated in accordance with all applicable legal requirements
and standards.  Wisconsin Electric does not believe that any claims thus far
made or threatened against it in connection with EMFs will result in any
substantial liability on the part of Wisconsin Electric.

Uranium Enrichment Charges:  On February 9, 1995, Wisconsin Electric and ten
other utilities filed an action against the USEC in the U.S. Court of Federal
Claims challenging the final decision of the USEC contracting officer in 

                                    - 28 -


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS - Other Litigation (Cont'd)

November 1994 which denied claims of the utilities for damages by reason of
overcharges for uranium enrichment services provided under Utility Services
Contracts between July 1, 1993 and September 30, 1994.  The damages sought by
Wisconsin Electric total $3.3 million.  

Personal Injury Suit: On October 1, 1994 a jury returned a $2.85 million
verdict against Wisconsin Natural in a case in Circuit Court for Milwaukee
County, involving a gas pipe fire which injured the plaintiff.  On
December 23, 1994, Wisconsin Natural resolved the litigation between itself
and plaintiff with a payment of $2.55 million to plaintiff, of which $550,000
was covered by Wisconsin Natural's general liability insurer.  The contract
with the construction company that installed the gas pipe provides for
indemnification of Wisconsin Natural and notice has been given to the
construction company and its insurers that Wisconsin Natural intends to pursue
its indemnification rights.  The matter is pending.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

No matters were submitted to a vote of Wisconsin Energy's security holders
during the fourth quarter of the fiscal year covered by this report.


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The names, ages at December 31, 1994 and positions of the executive officers
of Wisconsin Energy, including certain officers of the utility subsidiaries,
are listed below along with their business experience during the past five
years.  All officers are elected for one year terms or until their respective
successors are duly chosen.  There are no family relationships among these
officers, nor is there any agreement or understanding between any officer and
any other person pursuant to which the officer was selected.

                                          Current Position(s) and
                                            Business Experience
    Name and Age                           During Past Five Years
----------------------                     ----------------------
Richard A. Abdoo, 50      Chairman of the Board, President and Chief Executive
                              Officer of Wisconsin Energy Corporation since
                              1991; Executive Vice President, 1990 to 1991;
                              Vice President, 1987 to 1990; Director of
                              Wisconsin Energy since 1988.
                          Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
                              of Wisconsin Electric Power Company, a
                              subsidiary of Wisconsin Energy, since 1990;
                              President and Chief Executive Officer, during
                              1990; President and Chief Operating Officer,
                              1989 to 1990; Director of Wisconsin Electric
                              since 1989.
                          Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
                              of Wisconsin Natural Gas Company, a subsidiary
                              of Wisconsin Energy, since 1990; Director of
                              Wisconsin Natural since 1989.







                                    - 29 -


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT - (Cont'd)

                                          Current Position(s) and
                                            Business Experience
    Name and Age                           During Past Five Years
----------------------                     ----------------------
John W. Boston, 61        Vice Chairman of the Board of Wisconsin Energy
                              since January 1995; Vice President of 
                              Wisconsin Energy, 1991 to 1994, Director of
                              Wisconsin Energy since 1991.
                          President and Chief Operating Officer of Wisconsin
                              Electric, 1990 to 1994; Executive Vice President
                              and Chief Operating Officer during 1990;
                              Senior Vice President, 1982 to 1990; Director
                              of Wisconsin Electric since 1988.
                          President and Chief Operating Officer of Wisconsin
                              Natural during 1994; Director of Wisconsin
                              Natural during 1994.

Richard R. Grigg, Jr., 46 Vice President of Wisconsin Energy since January
                              1995.
                          President and Chief Operating Officer of Wisconsin
                              Electric since January 1995; Group Executive
                              and Vice President, June to December 1994; Vice
                              President, 1990 to 1994; Director of Wisconsin
                              Electric since 1994.
                          President and Chief Operating Officer of Wisconsin
                              Natural since January 1995; Director of
                              Wisconsin Natural since January 1995.

Francis Brzezinski, 43    Vice President of Wisconsin Energy since 1990.
                          Vice President-Bulk Power of Wisconsin Electric
                              since 1994.
                          President and Chief Operating Officer of Wispark
                              Corp., Wisvest Corp., and Witech Corp.
                              since 1990.
                          Owner of Brzezinski Real Estate Advisors, 1989 to
                              1990.

Jerry G. Remmel, 63       Vice President of Wisconsin Energy since 1994;
                              Chief Financial Officer since 1989;
                              Treasurer since 1981.
                          Chief Financial Officer of Wisconsin Electric
                              since 1989; Senior Vice President,
                              1989 to 1994; Director of Wisconsin Electric
                              since 1989.
                          Chief Financial Officer of Wisconsin Natural
                              since 1989; Vice President-Finance, 1989 to
                              1994; Director of Wisconsin Natural since 1988.

David K. Porter, 51       Senior Vice President of Wisconsin Electric since
                              1989; Director of Wisconsin Electric since 1989.
                          Vice President of Wisconsin Natural since 1989;
                              Director of Wisconsin Natural since 1988.






                                    - 30 -


EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT - (Cont'd)

                                          Current Position(s) and
                                            Business Experience
    Name and Age                           During Past Five Years
----------------------                     ----------------------
John H. Goetsch, 61      Vice President of Wisconsin Energy since 
                              1994; Secretary since 1981.
                         Vice President of Wisconsin Electric,
                              1988 to 1994; Secretary, 1979 to 1994.
                         Secretary of Wisconsin Natural, 1979 to 1993.

Richard R. Piltz, 54     Controller of Wisconsin Energy since 1994.
                         Controller of Wisconsin Electric, 1977 to 
                              1994.

Anne K. Klisurich, 47    Controller of Wisconsin Electric since 1994.
                         Controller of Wisconsin Natural since 1994.
                         Accounting Manager of Wisconsin Energy, 1987 to 1994.

Certain executive officers in addition to Mr. Brzezinski also hold offices in
Wisconsin Energy's non-utility subsidiaries.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND
         RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS


NUMBER OF COMMON STOCKHOLDERS:

As of year-end 1994, based on the number of stockholder accounts, there were
85,255 stockholders.


COMMON STOCK LISTING AND TRADING:

Wisconsin Energy Corporation common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange.  The ticker symbol is WEC.  Daily trading prices and volume can be
found in the "NYSE Composite" section of most major newspapers, usually
abbreviated as WiscEn or WiscEngy.


DIVIDENDS:

Dividends on common stock, as declared by the Board of Directors, are normally
paid on or about the first day of March, June, September and December.


RANGE OF COMMON STOCK PRICES AND DIVIDENDS :

 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
|                        1994              |               1993              |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| Quarter      High      Low     Dividend  |     High      Low     Dividend  |
|------------------------------------------|---------------------------------|
| First      $27-1/2   $24        $ .33875 |   $28-3/8   $24-3/4    $ .325   |
| Second      26-3/8    23-1/8      .3525  |    28-1/8    25-3/8      .33875 |
| Third       26-3/8    23-3/8      .3525  |    29-3/8    27          .33875 |
| Fourth      27        24-1/2      .3525  |    29-3/8    25-7/8      .33875 |
|==========================================|=================================|
| Year       $27-1/2   $23-1/8    $1.39625 |   $29-3/8   $24-3/4    $1.34125 |
 ----------------------------------------------------------------------------
                                    - 31 -


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA






ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Earnings

Earnings per share of Wisconsin Energy's common stock in 1994 were $1.67
compared with $1.80 a share in 1993, a decrease of 7.2 percent.  Earnings for
the 12 months reflect a non-recurring charge of approximately $73.9 million
($45 million net of tax, or 42 cents a share) associated with the company's
organizational restructuring program.

The charge primarily reflects the costs of severance and early retirement
packages which are elements of a "revitalization" program designed to better
position Wisconsin Energy in a changing energy marketplace.  The company
anticipates that the one-time restructuring charge, which was taken in the
first quarter of 1994, will be offset by the end of 1995 through savings in
operation and maintenance costs.

Excluding the non-recurring charge, earnings per share of common stock were
$2.09 for the 12 months ended December 31, 1994 compared with $1.80 in 1993,
an increase of 16.1 percent.  Earnings reflect a 4.8 percent increase in
electric kilowatt-hour sales and a 5.7 percent reduction in non-fuel operation
and maintenance expenses.  Electric sales increased primarily due to warmer
weather during the summer of 1994 and additional economic activity in the
company's service area.  The reduction in non-fuel operation and maintenance
expenses reflects, among other things, payroll-related savings as a result of
workforce reductions, and lower expenditures made in connection with power
plant renovation work as maintenance programs were completed.


Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural Revitalization

In response to increasing competitive pressures in the markets for electricity
and natural gas, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural have developed and
are implementing a revitalization process to increase efficiencies and improve
customer service.

Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural are "reengineering" and restructuring
their organizations.  The new structures consolidate many business functions
and simplify work processes.  Due to productivity improvements, staffing
levels at Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural have been reduced; 403
employees elected to retire under an early retirement option and 651 employees
have enrolled in severance packages.  See Note J to the Financial Statements -
Benefits Other Than Pensions, for additional information.

As part of the revitalization effort, Wisconsin Energy intends to merge
Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural to form a single combined utility
subsidiary.  The proposed merger will improve customer service and reduce
operating costs.  The merger, which is anticipated to be effective by year-end
1995, is subject to a number of conditions, including requisite regulatory and
other approvals.  Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural filed a joint
application on October 11, 1994, to obtain the PSCW's approval of the merger. 
Wisconsin Electric also filed an application to obtain the MPSC consent to
assume Wisconsin Natural's liabilities in connection with the merger.  Both
approvals are expected by year-end 1995.



                                    - 34 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

Acquisition of Wisconsin Southern Gas Company, Inc.

Effective January 1, 1994, Wisconsin Southern was acquired by Wisconsin Energy
through a merger of Wisconsin Southern into Wisconsin Natural.  In the
transaction, structured as a tax-free reorganization, all outstanding shares
of Wisconsin Southern common stock were converted into 1,637,935 shares of
Wisconsin Energy common stock, with fractional interests paid in cash, based
on an exchange ratio of 1.6330 shares of Wisconsin Energy common stock for
each outstanding share of Wisconsin Southern common stock.  The merger was
structured to qualify as a pooling of interests for accounting and financial
reporting purposes.  Accordingly, financial and statistical information for
prior years has been restated to reflect the acquisition.  

Wisconsin Southern was a gas utility engaged in the purchase, distribution,
transportation and sale of natural gas for residential, commercial and
industrial consumption in a service territory contiguous to Wisconsin
Natural's service territory located in southeastern Wisconsin.  Wisconsin
Natural is Wisconsin's second largest gas distribution company.  


Electric Sales and Revenues

Total electric sales of Wisconsin Electric, the principal subsidiary of
Wisconsin Energy, detailed below by customer class, increased 4.8 percent in
1994 compared to 1993.  
                                                                              
Electric Sales - Megawatt Hours       1994             1993       % Change
-------------------------------    ----------       ----------    --------
Residential                         6,670,081        6,551,061       1.8 
Small Commercial and Industrial     6,699,073        6,357,510       5.4
Large Commercial and Industrial    10,471,869        9,771,383       7.2 
Other                               1,603,741        1,776,061      (9.7)
                                   ----------       ----------
Total Retail and Municipal         25,444,764       24,456,015       4.0
Resale-Utilities                    1,466,599        1,229,421      19.3
                                   ----------       ----------
Total Sales                        26,911,363       25,685,436       4.8
==========================================================================

Electric energy sales were positively impacted by warmer summer weather in
1994, which resulted in increased use of electricity for air conditioning and
other cooling purposes, and increased economic activity.  The increase in
electric sales also reflects colder winter weather during the first quarter of
1994 and increased sales to the Empire and Tilden iron ore mines.

Electric energy sales to the Empire and Tilden iron ore mines, Wisconsin
Electric's two largest customers, were 15.0 percent higher in 1994 compared to
1993.  The increase is attributable to a five-week long mine strike during the
third quarter of 1993 which reduced sales during 1993.  Wisconsin Electric's
contracts with the mines require the payment of a demand charge regardless of
power usage which partially offset the impact of lost sales on 1993 revenues. 
Excluding the mines, sales to large commercial and industrial customers
increased 5.1 percent in 1994.  Sales to the mines represented 8.6 percent,
7.8 percent and 9.0 percent of total electric sales during 1994, 1993 and
1992, respectively.


                                    - 35 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

The 19.3 percent increase in the resale of energy to other utilities is
attributable to the increased availability of Wisconsin Electric's power
plants.  This allowed Wisconsin Electric additional energy for external sales. 
The percentage change is not indicative of future sales growth in this
customer class.

The 9.7 percent reduction in sales to the Other customer class, referred to in
the table above, is largely the result of reductions in sales to WPPI,
Wisconsin Electric's largest municipal customer consortium.  WPPI has been
reducing its purchases from Wisconsin Electric subsequent to acquiring
generation capacity in 1990.  Since that time, WPPI has expanded the use of
its existing generation facilities and has installed additional capacity,
further reducing its reliance on energy purchases from Wisconsin Electric. 
These sales reductions did not have a significant effect on earnings. 

Total electric kilowatt-hour sales increased at a compound annual rate of 4.3
percent between the years 1992 and 1994, while electric revenues increased at
a compound annual rate of 4.0 percent during this period.  These increases
reflect among other things, more favorable weather conditions in 1994 compared
to 1992.  The warmer than normal summer in 1994 contrasted sharply with the
summer of 1992, the coolest since Wisconsin Electric began keeping records in
1948.


Electric Operation and Maintenance Expenses

Total electric operating expenses, excluding income taxes, depreciation and
the non-recurring revitalization charge, decreased $17 million in 1994
compared to 1993.  The decrease largely reflects the payroll-related savings
as a result of workforce reductions referred to above and lower expenditures
made in connection with power plant renovation work as maintenance programs
were completed.  These decreases were partially offset by expenses associated
with the implementation of the revitalization program and growth in
conservation-related expenses associated with improving the efficiency of
customers' electric energy usage.  Operating expenses, excluding income taxes,
depreciation and the non-recurring charge, have remained relatively flat over
the three-year period ended December 31, 1994.


Gas Sales and Revenues

Total gas therms delivered by the company's gas utility subsidiary, Wisconsin
Natural, were flat in 1994 compared to 1993.  Increased gas deliveries in the
first quarter of 1994, compared to the same period in 1993, due to colder
winter weather, were offset by a decline in deliveries in the fourth quarter
due to unseasonably mild weather.  Financial and statistical information has
been restated where appropriate to reflect the January 1, 1994, acquisition of
Wisconsin Southern.










                                    - 36 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)


Therms Delivered - Thousands          1994             1993       % Change
----------------------------       ----------       ----------    --------
Residential                           323,913          322,444       0.5 
Commercial and Industrial             199,206          202,549      (1.7)
Interruptible                          47,467           34,608      37.2 
                                   ----------       ----------
Total Sales                           570,586          559,601       2.0
Transported Customer Owned Gas        240,633          249,747      (3.6)
                                   ----------       ----------
Total Gas Delivered                   811,219          809,348       0.2
==========================================================================

Gas revenues decreased $7 million, or 2.1 percent, in 1994 compared to 1993. 
This reflects the flat gas deliveries and reduced purchased gas costs.  

Wisconsin Natural transports gas for its customers who purchase gas directly
from other suppliers, accounting for 29.7 percent of Wisconsin Natural's total
therms delivered during 1994, 30.9 percent during 1993 and 32.9 percent during
1992.  Rates charged for transportation services are designed to recover the
same margin as gas sold directly by Wisconsin Natural.  

As a result of FERC Order 636, the number of gas supply choices now available
to Wisconsin Natural has expanded, but the responsibility for the selection 
and administration of the proper mix and level of services has commensurately
increased.  Wisconsin Natural arranges for its own gas supply under contracts
with terms of various lengths.  Changes in the cost of natural gas purchased
at market prices are passed through to customers via Wisconsin Natural's
purchased gas adjustment clause.

Total gas therms delivered increased at a compound annual rate of 2.5 percent
from 1992 to 1994, with gas revenues increasing at a compound annual rate of
6.9 percent.  The increase in revenues reflects the recovery of increased
purchased gas costs, the impact of increased gas deliveries over this period
and small rate increases during 1992 and 1993.


Gas Operating Expenses

The $15 million decrease in the cost of gas sold during 1994 compared to 1993
reflects the slight increase in natural gas therm sales offset by the lower
average delivered cost of gas during 1994.  Other operation expenses were $3
million lower during 1994 compared to 1993 largely reflecting payroll related
savings as a result of workforce reductions.

Since 1992, the cost of gas sold increased at a compound annual rate of 5.9
percent.  This increase reflects higher therm sales, which increased at an
annual compound rate of 4.9 percent during this same period, and a 1.0 percent
compound annual increase in the average delivered cost of gas sold.








                                    - 37 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

Gas operating expenses, excluding income taxes, depreciation and the non-
recurring revitalization charge, increased at a compound annual rate of 5.5
percent since 1992, reflecting the aforementioned increases in the cost of gas
sold and a 5.5 percent compound annual increase in Other Operation expenses
during this period.  Other Operation expenses reflect an increase in
postretirement benefit costs associated with the adoption in 1993 of Statement
of Financial Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers' Accounting for
Postretirement Benefits Other than Pensions, and growth in conservation
related expenses associated with improving the efficiency of customers' use of
natural gas.


Other Items

Deferred Income Taxes decreased $38 million during 1994 compared to 1993, due
in part to tax matters related to the timing of payments made in connection
with the severance and early retirement packages associated with the company's
organizational restructuring program.  Deferred Income Taxes also reflect a
prior period reclassification between current and deferred income taxes.

Other Interest increased $5 million during 1994 compared to 1993 reflecting
increased short-term debt balances, primarily at Wisconsin Electric.  Interest
charges on long-term debt increased $13 million during 1993 compared to 1992
largely due to the additional debt issued by the utility subsidiaries to
finance their construction programs and the amortization of premiums
associated with the debt securities refinanced during 1992 and 1993.

With expectations of low-to-moderate inflation and future operating cost
reductions discussed above, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural do not
believe the impact of inflation will have a material effect on their future
results of operations.  


Electric and Gas Sales Outlook

Assuming moderate growth in the service territory economy and normal weather,
Wisconsin Electric presently anticipates electric kilowatt-hour sales to grow
at a compound annual rate of approximately 1.0 percent over the five-year
period ending December 31, 1999.  Including the sales projections of the
former Wisconsin Southern, which was acquired and merged into Wisconsin
Natural effective January 1, 1994 (see "Acquisition of Wisconsin Southern Gas
Company, Inc."), Wisconsin Natural forecasts therm deliveries of natural gas
to grow at a compound annual rate of approximately 2.2 percent over the same
five-year period.  These forecasts are subject to a number of variables,
including the economy and weather, which may affect the actual growth in
sales.


Rates and Regulatory Matters

The table below summarizes the projected annual revenue impact of recent rate
changes authorized by regulatory commissions for the electric and gas
subsidiaries of the company based on the sales projections utilized by those
commissions in setting rates.  The PSCW regulates Wisconsin retail electric,
steam and natural gas rates, while the FERC regulates wholesale electric



                                    - 38 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

rates.  The MPSC regulates retail electric rates in Michigan.  The PSCW has
discontinued the practice of conducting annual rate case proceedings,
replacing it with a new schedule which calls for future rate cases to be
conducted once every two years.

In support of its goal to become the lowest-cost energy provider in the region
and in light of the operating cost reductions expected from the reengineering
process discussed above, Wisconsin Electric did not seek an increase in rates
for 1994 or 1995.  

                                   Revenue           Percent
                                   Increase         Change in        Effective
Company/Service                   (Decrease)          Rates            Date
-------------------------        ------------       ---------        ---------
Wisconsin Electric
   Retail electric, WI           $ 26,655,000           2.3           02/17/93
   Steam heating                      505,000           3.5           02/17/93
   Wholesale electric               6,000,000          10.6           06/09/93
   Retail electric, MI              1,366,000           4.3           07/09/93
   Fuel electric, WI               (8,596,000)*        (0.9)          11/05/93
   Fuel electric, WI              (16,179,000)         (1.3)          08/04/94

Wisconsin Natural
   Natural gas                   $  9,172,000           3.3           09/02/93
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
* The 1993 fuel credit was eliminated 1/1/94 by PSCW Order.

Under the Wisconsin retail electric fuel adjustment procedure, retail electric
rates may be adjusted, on a prospective basis, if cumulative fuel and
purchased power costs, when compared to the costs projected in the retail
electric rate proceeding, deviate from a prescribed range and are expected to
continue to be above or below that range.  In the case of Wisconsin Natural,
differences between the test year estimate and the actual cost of purchased
gas are accounted for through a purchased gas adjustment clause.

On September 8, 1994, the PSCW issued a notice that it will conduct an
investigation into the state of the electric utility industry in Wisconsin,
particularly its institutional structure and regulatory regime, in order to
evaluate what changes would be beneficial for Wisconsin.  The notice states
that this investigation may result in profound and fundamental changes to the
nature and regulation of the electric utility industry in Wisconsin.  It is
the PSCW's stated intention that this proceeding will establish criteria and
direction for utilities to incorporate into any proposals involving structural
or regulatory changes they may put forward.  The PSCW also intends that the
proceeding reflect input from all those having a stake in Wisconsin's electric
utility industry, including large and small retail customers; wholesale
customers; utility management; utility securities holders; independent power
producers; purveyors of demand-side options and renewable resources;
representatives of the environmental, financial, academic, labor, small
business and governmental communities; and elected representatives.  The PSCW
invited interested persons to submit comments as to appropriate objectives for
regulation of the electric utility industry and the utility structures and
regulatory approaches likely to provide the best balance of such objectives.




                                    - 39 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

On November 1, 1994, Wisconsin Electric submitted its comments to the PSCW in
a paper describing a framework for a restructured industry.  Wisconsin
Electric's view of industry restructuring would seek to achieve the benefits
of competition while maintaining reliability of electric service, controlling
costs during the transition to the envisioned end-state, and protecting the
environment with increasing vigor.  Today's various electric utility functions
would be split into two major categories--natural monopolies and competitive
entities.  The natural monopolies are functions where a single entity can
provide the lowest cost.  The competitive entities would perform functions
where competition can provide the lowest cost.  The natural monopolies would
be re-regulated so the appropriate incentives exist to provide electricity at
reasonable prices.  The competitive entities would eventually see an
elimination of traditional regulation.

In Wisconsin Electric's plan, the re-regulated natural monopolies are the
transmission and distribution functions.  Re-regulation of these entities
should involve some form of price cap and performance-standard operation
rules.  In the new structure, the FERC would regulate the transmission systems
through a regional transmission group to ensure open access, comparable
pricing, comparable service and adequate cost recovery.  The PSCW would
regulate the distribution function for reasonable price, reliability, public
safety and customer satisfaction.  The competitive entities in the Wisconsin
Electric model are the generation, customer service and energy merchant
functions.

Initial question and answer sessions were held November 28-29, 1994.  At a
meeting on January 24, 1995, the PSCW approved the establishment of an
advisory committee that will examine all aspects of electrical service and the
electric utility industry and suggest which functions should be performed by a
competitive market.  The PSCW established a timetable which would have a final
committee report available to the Wisconsin Legislature by the end of 1995.

The PSCW also continued a generic investigation of the natural gas industry in
Wisconsin and addressed the extent to which traditional regulation should be
replaced with a different approach.  In conjunction with this generic
investigation, the PSCW staff is reviewing the use of the current purchased
gas adjustment ("PGA") mechanism which is designed to pass on to gas customers
increases or decreases in the cost of natural gas purchased for resale.  A
separate docket has been established to review the PGA.  Wisconsin Natural is
participating in these PSCW investigations.

Wisconsin Energy's principal subsidiaries, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin
Natural, operate under utility rates which are subject to the approval of the
PSCW, MPSC and FERC.  Such rates are designed to recover the cost of service
and provide a reasonable return to investors.  Developing competitive
pressures in the utility industry may result in future utility rates which are
based upon factors other than the traditional original cost of investment.  In
such a situation, continued deferral of certain regulatory asset and liability
amounts on the utilities' books may no longer be appropriate as allowed under
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, Accounting for the Effects
of Certain Types of Regulation.  At this time, Wisconsin Energy is unable to
predict whether any adjustments to regulatory assets and liabilities will
occur in the future.  See Note A to the Financial Statements - Summary of
Significant Accounting Policies - Deferred Regulatory Assets and Liabilities,
for further information.


                                    - 40 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Investing Activities

Wisconsin Energy invested $1,211 million in its businesses during the three
years ended December 31, 1994.  The investments made during this three-year
period include construction expenditures for new or improved facilities
totaling $984 million, net capitalized conservation expenditures of $87
million, purchases of nuclear fuel at $64 million and payments to an external
trust for the eventual decommissioning of Wisconsin Electric's Point Beach
Nuclear Plant totaling $42 million.

During the second quarter of 1994, Wisconsin Electric placed in service the
last two units, or approximately 150 megawatts of capacity, at its Concord
Generating Station, a four unit 300 megawatt natural gas-fired combustion
turbine facility designed to meet peak demand requirements.  The first two
units were completed in 1993.  Capital expenditures of $6 million, $35 million
and $47 million were made during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively, for
construction of this facility.  Total capital costs of the Concord facility
were approximately $107 million.

Additionally, during 1994, Wisconsin Electric continued construction of the
new Paris Generating Station, a four unit, approximately 300 megawatt natural
gas-fired combustion turbine facility intended to meet growing peak demand
requirements.  This generating station, which is expected to have all four
units in service during the summer of 1995, is currently estimated to cost
$104 million.  Capital expenditures of $54 million and $28 million were made
during 1994 and 1993, respectively, for construction of this facility.  

Wisconsin Electric completed the $107 million renovation project at its Port
Washington Power Plant in 1994.  Unit 4, the last of four units to be
renovated, returned to service in July.  The renovation work, which began in
September 1991, restored approximately 320 megawatts of capacity and included
the installation of additional emission control equipment.  Expenditures
totaling $12 million, $36 million and $43 million were made during 1994, 1993
and 1992, respectively.


Cash Provided by Operating and Financing Activities

During the three years ended December 31, 1994, cash provided by operating
activities totaled $1,203 million.  During this period, internal sources of
funds, after the payment of dividends, provided 64 percent of the company's
capital requirements.

Financing activities during the three-year period ended December 31, 1994,
included the issuance of $1,053 million of long-term debt, principally to
refinance higher coupon debt, the addition of $167 million of common equity
from the issuance of new shares through the company's stock plans and the
retirement of $73 million of preferred stock.  No preferred stock was issued
during this period.  Additionally, during the three-year period ended
December 31, 1994, the company retired a total of $920 million of long-term
debt and increased short-term debt by $155 million.  Dividends on the
company's common stock were $151 million, $141 million, and $132 million,
during 1994, 1993 and 1992, respectively.



                                    - 41 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

During 1993, Wisconsin Electric issued five new series of First Mortgage Bonds
aggregating $350 million in principal amount, the proceeds of which were used
to redeem $284.3 million principal amount of four outstanding series of First
Mortgage Bonds and 626,500 shares of Wisconsin Electric's 6.75% Series
Preferred Stock.

During 1992, Wisconsin Electric and Wisconsin Natural issued seven new series
of First Mortgage Bonds and two series of Debentures, the proceeds of which
provided $476 million principal amount to redeem 14 outstanding series of
higher coupon First Mortgage Bonds and $155 million of new capital for the
utility subsidiaries.

These refunding transactions are expected to result in approximately $194
million in savings over the lives of the new debt issues.  Depending on market
conditions and other factors, additional debt refundings may occur.

See Note A to the Financial Statements - Summary of Significant Accounting
Policies - Restrictions for a discussion of various limitations on the ability
of the company's utility subsidiaries to transfer funds to Wisconsin Energy.


Capital Structure

The company's capitalization at December 31 is shown as follows:

                                       1994          1993
                                      ------        ------

   Common Equity                       52.2%         51.6%
   Preferred Stock                      0.9           1.1
   Long-Term Debt
    (including current maturities)     39.4          40.9
   Short-Term Debt                      7.5           6.4
                                      ------        ------
                                      100.0%        100.0%

Compared to the electric utility industry generally, the company has
maintained a relatively high ratio of common equity to total capitalization
and low debt and preferred stock ratios.  This conservative capital structure,
along with strong bond ratings (Wisconsin Electric currently has ratings of
AA+ by Standard & Poor's Corporation, Aa2 by Moody's Investors Service and AA+
by Duff & Phelps Inc.) and internal cash generation has provided, and should
continue to provide, the company with access to the capital markets when
necessary to finance the anticipated growth in the company's utility
businesses.  At year-end 1994, the company had $209 million of unused lines of
bank credit, $9 million of cash and cash equivalents, $285 million of short-
term debt (including long-term debt due currently) and $21 million of
construction funds held by trustees.









                                    - 42 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

Capital Requirements 1995-1999

The estimated capital requirements for the company's utility subsidiaries for
the years 1995-1999 are outlined in the table below.  The construction
expenditures have decreased significantly from the estimates reported
previously in the 1993 Annual Report to Stockholders.  The primary reason for
the decrease is the revitalization initiative which will reduce the cost to
design, build and maintain company facilities.

                              1995       1996       1997       1998      1999
                              ----       ----       ----       ----      ----
                                            (Millions of Dollars)             

Construction                  $248       $225       $186       $176      $174
Conservation                    14         13         13         14        14
Bond Maturities and
 Refinancings                   11         31        166         61        92
Changes in Fuel
 Inventories                    (2)         8          1          5        (2)
Decommissioning Trust
 Payments                       20         30         32         35        37
                              ----       ----       ----       ----      ----
Total                         $291       $307       $398       $291      $315
==============================================================================

In January 1994, a coordinated state-wide plan for meeting future electricity
needs of Wisconsin customers was filed with the PSCW in the Advance Plan 7
Docket.  In the Advance Plan process, Wisconsin Electric, in conjunction with
the other regulated electric utilities located in Wisconsin, is required to
file long-term forecasts of resource requirements, such as the need for
generation and transmission facilities, along with plans to meet those
requirements, including the use of energy management and conservation.

In order to reliably meet its forecasted growth in demand, Wisconsin Electric
employs a least-cost integrated planning process which includes renovation of
existing power plants, promotion of cost-effective conservation and load
management options, development of renewable energy sources, purchases of
power and construction of new company-owned generation facilities.

Investments in demand-side management programs have reduced and delayed the
need to add new generating capacity but have not eliminated the need entirely. 
Purchases of power from other utilities and transmission system upgrades will
also combine to help delay the need to install some new generating capacity in
the future.  However, in order to serve the near-term growth in peak demand
requirements, Wisconsin Electric has received PSCW approval and is currently
in various stages of adding new capacity as previously described under
"Investing Activities".

Finally, Wisconsin Electric's Advance Plan 7 filing indicates a need for
additional peaking capacity after the turn of the century, along with an
anticipated need for additional intermediate-load capacity during the 2000 to
2010 time period.  Wisconsin Electric's next base load power plant is not
expected to be placed in service until after 2010.




                                    - 43 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

The addition of new generating units requires approval from various regulatory
agencies, including the PSCW, the EPA and the DNR.  All generating facilities
proposed by Wisconsin Electric will meet or exceed the applicable federal and
state environmental requirements.

In 1993, the PSCW, after conducting a competitive bidding process, issued an
order selecting a proposal submitted by an unaffiliated IPP to construct a
generation facility to meet a portion of Wisconsin Electric's anticipated
increase in system supply needs.  In accordance with the PSCW Order, Wisconsin
Electric subsequently signed a long-term agreement to purchase electricity
from the proposed facility.  The agreement is contingent upon the facility
being completed and going into operation, which at this time is planned for
mid-1996.  A number of parties have filed petitions for judicial review of
this PSCW Order, taking the position that the Order should be set aside on
various legal grounds.  In a decision dated March 17, 1995, the Dane County
Circuit Court affirmed the PSCW's selection of the LS Power project and the
PSCW's approval of the power purchase agreement entered into by Wisconsin
Electric and LSP-Whitewater L.P., the project's developer.  The Court remanded
to the PSCW for further proceedings the PSCW's selection of Wisconsin
Electric's Kimberly project as the conditional second place project to proceed
if the LS Power project does not.

Prior to the PSCW selection of the IPP's generation facility, Wisconsin
Electric had proposed to construct its own 220 megawatt cogeneration facility
in Kimberly, Wisconsin, which was intended to provide process steam to Repap
Wisconsin, Inc. ("Repap") starting in mid-1995.  Wisconsin Electric had made
expenditures toward the Kimberly facility amounting to approximately $70
million.  These expenditures were primarily associated with the procurement of
combustion turbines, the steam turbine and the heat recovery boiler in order
to achieve the in-service dates as agreed to in a steam service contract with
Repap.  Wisconsin Electric is currently evaluating its options regarding its
Kimberly Cogeneration Facility investment.  The equipment procured to date is
a technology of natural gas-fired combined cycle generation equipment that is
marketed worldwide.  Wisconsin Electric believes that a market for the
equipment exists and is investigating opportunities to sell the equipment or
to use it in another power project.  At this time, Wisconsin Electric does not
believe that the PSCW's selection of an IPP proposal will have a material
adverse effect on its financial condition.

The PSCW has approved Wisconsin Electric's application to utilize dry storage
for spent nuclear fuel generated at Point Beach.  The decision completed a
multi-year state review of the Wisconsin Electric proposal.  The storage
system to be used at Point Beach also has been certified by the NRC after a
four-year technical review.  Dry cask storage at Point Beach will use a two-
container system made of steel and reinforced concrete.  Capital costs
associated with this facility are estimated at $6.5 million and are included
in the above forecast.  In March 1995 separate petitions were filed by
intervenors in Dane County Circuit Court and Fond du Lac County Circuit Court. 
The Dane County petition seeks reversal of the order and a remand to the PSCW
directing it to deny Wisconsin Electric's request for authorization to
construct the dry cask facility, or in the alternative, to correct the alleged
errors in the PSCW's order.  No specific relief is identified in the Fond du
Lac County petition; however, numerous grounds of error are alleged. 
Wisconsin Electric intends to fully participate in both judicial review
proceedings and to vigorously oppose the petitions.  


                                    - 44 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

The temporary dry storage facility is necessary because the spent fuel pool
inside the plant is becoming full.  The plant would be forced to shut down by
1998 without additional on-site storage capacity.  The dry storage facility
will be used until the DOE takes ownership of the spent fuel.  While the DOE
and the operators of nuclear power facilities have a contract mandated by
federal law that calls for the DOE to begin accepting fuel in 1998, the
government is not in a position to meet its commitment.  If this commitment is
not met, Wisconsin Electric will need to construct additional casks and will
seek PSCW approval to do so.

In a related matter, Wisconsin Electric filed with the PSCW for a Certificate
of Authority to proceed with the planned 1996 replacement of the Unit 2 steam
generators at Point Beach.  In 1984, Wisconsin Electric replaced the Unit 1
steam generators.  Estimated at a cost of $119 million, which is also included
in the above forecast, the Unit 2 project would allow for its operation until
the expiration of its operating license in 2013.  Without the replacement of
the steam generators, it is believed the unit would not be able to operate to
the end of its current license.  The PSCW deferred a decision on Wisconsin
Electric's request to replace Unit 2 steam generators until early 1996, but
directed Wisconsin Electric to make arrangements with the fabricator of the
new steam generators to allow replacement to proceed promptly if authorized by
the PSCW.  


Capital Resources

During the five-year forecast period ending December 31, 1999, the utility
subsidiaries expect internal sources of funds from operations, after dividends
to the company, to provide about 79 percent of the utility capital
requirements.  The remaining utility cash requirements are expected to be met
through the reduction of existing cash investments and construction funds on
deposit with trustees, short-term borrowings, the issuance of long-term debt
and capital contributions from Wisconsin Energy.

Beginning June 1, 1992, Wisconsin Energy began issuing new shares of common
stock through the company's stock plans.  During the period of December 1,
1988 to June 1, 1992, shares required for these plans were purchased on the
open market.  Cash investments and reinvested dividends aggregating $50.5
million were used to purchase 1,981,602 new issue shares during 1994.  

Exclusive of debt refundings, utility debt issues of $130 million are
anticipated in 1995 and $140 million in 1997.


Environmental Issues

The 1990 Amendments to the Clean Air Act mandate significant nation-wide
reductions in SO2 and NOx emissions to address acid rain and ground level
ozone control requirements.

In 1994, Wisconsin Electric completed the installation of continuous emission
monitors at all of its facilities and installed low NOx burners on one boiler
at its Oak Creek Power Plant and two boilers at its Valley Power Plant.  These
actions, along with the burning of low sulfur coal and the installation of low
NOx burners on other boilers at Oak Creek and Valley Power Plants in early
1995, meet the requirements that became effective January 1, 1995.  To date,
approximately $31 million has been spent on Clean Air Act compliance.  

                                    - 45 -


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION
         AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (Cont'd)

Wisconsin Electric elected to voluntarily bring the Valley and Port Washington
Power Plants under jurisdiction of the NOx and SO2 requirements of the Clean
Air Act, five years earlier than mandated.  This was possible because these
units meet the more stringent phase II emissions standards today.

Wisconsin Electric projects a surplus of SO2 emission allowances and is
seeking additional allowances available as a result of energy conservation
programs.  As an integral component of its least-cost plan, Wisconsin Electric
is active in SO2 allowance trading.  Revenue from the sale of allowances is
being used to offset future potential rate increases.

Additional fuel switching and the installation of NOx controls at various
power plants will be required to meet the second phase of reduction
requirements that become effective January 1, 2000.  These costs, along with
additional operating expenses, are not expected to exceed $54 million based on
today's cost.

Like numerous other utilities, Wisconsin Natural is investigating the
remediation of a number of former manufactured gas plant sites.  Operations at
these manufactured gas sites ceased over 40 years ago with remediation
activities having been conducted at certain of these sites, while other sites
are scheduled for investigation.  With estimated remediation costs of
approximately $12 million during the next five-year period, based on today's
costs, remediation activities are not expected to have a material adverse
impact on Wisconsin Energy's financial condition.

Wisconsin Electric aggressively seeks environmentally acceptable, beneficial
uses of its combustion byproducts.  However, ash materials have been, and to
some degree, continue to be disposed in company-owned, licensed landfills. 
Some early designed and constructed landfills may allow the release of low
levels of constituents resulting in the need for various levels of
remediation.  These costs are included in the environmental operating and
maintenance costs for Wisconsin Electric.


Nonutility Investments

The company's nonutility assets amounted to $206 million at December 31, 1994. 
The company currently anticipates making additional nonutility investments
from time to time.  For additional information, see Note M - Information by
Segments of Business in the Notes to Financial Statements.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

The "Consolidated Quarterly Financial Data" in Item 6 on page 32 is
incorporated herein by reference.










                                    - 46 -













                         WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION

                         NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


A - Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
----------------------------------------------

General
-------

The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Wisconsin Energy
Corporation (WEC or the company) and its utility subsidiaries, Wisconsin
Electric Power Company (WE) and Wisconsin Natural Gas Company (WN), and its
nonutility subsidiaries, Wisconsin Michigan Investment Corporation, Badger
Service Company, Wispark Corporation, Wisvest Corporation, Witech Corporation,
and other nonutility companies.

The accounting records of the company's utility subsidiaries are kept as
prescribed by the Federal Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC), modified for
requirements of the Public Service Commission of Wisconsin (PSCW). 

Revenues
--------

Utility revenues are recognized on the accrual basis and include estimated
amounts for service rendered but not billed.

Fuel
----

Fossil fuel is stated at average cost on the balance sheet except for natural
gas which is accounted for primarily under the first-in, first-out basis.  The
cost of fuel is expensed in the period consumed.

Property
--------

Property is recorded at cost.  Additions to and significant replacements of
utility property are charged to utility plant at cost; minor items are charged
to maintenance expense.  Cost includes material, labor and allowance for funds
used during construction (see Note F).  The cost of depreciable utility
property, together with removal cost less salvage, is charged to accumulated
provision for depreciation when property is retired.

Deferred Regulatory Assets and Liabilities
------------------------------------------

Pursuant to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 71, Accounting for
the Effects of Certain Types of Regulation, the company capitalizes as
deferred regulatory assets incurred costs which are expected to be recovered
in future utility rates.  The company also records as deferred regulatory
liabilities the current recovery in utility rates of costs which are expected
to be paid in the future. A significant portion of the company's deferred
regulatory assets and liabilities relate to the amounts recorded due to the
adoption of Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, Accounting
for Income Taxes (FAS 109).  See Note C.




                                    - 53 -

Statement of Cash Flows
-----------------------

Cash and cash equivalents include marketable debt securities acquired three
months or less from maturity. 

Restrictions
------------

Various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements impose certain
restrictions on the ability of WEC's utility subsidiaries to transfer funds to
WEC in the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances. Under Wisconsin law, WE
and WN are prohibited from loaning funds, either directly or indirectly, to
WEC.  WEC does not believe that such restrictions will affect its operations.

Conservation Investments
------------------------

WE and WN direct a variety of demand-side management programs to help foster
energy conservation by their customers.  As authorized by the PSCW, WE has
capitalized certain conservation program costs.  Utility rates approved by the
PSCW provide for a current return on these conservation investments. 
Conservation investments are amortized to operating expense over a ten-year
period.

B - Utility Mergers
-------------------

Effective January 1, 1994, the company acquired all of the outstanding common
stock of Wisconsin Southern Gas Company, Inc. (WSG) through a statutory merger
of WSG into WN in which all of WSG's common stock was converted into common
stock of WEC.  WSG was a gas utility engaged in the purchase, distribution,
transportation and sale of natural gas primarily in a section of southeastern
Wisconsin which is contiguous to WN's service territory.  WSG was merged into
WN using the pooling of interests method of accounting.  Accordingly,
historical financial data has been restated to include WSG.

In January 1994, the company announced plans to merge WN into WE.  The
completion of the merger, which is subject to a number of conditions including
requisite regulatory approvals, is currently anticipated to occur by year-end
1995.

C - Income Taxes
----------------

Comprehensive interperiod income tax allocation is used for federal and state
temporary differences.  The federal investment tax credit is accounted for on
the deferred basis and is reflected in income ratably over the life of the
related property.












                                    - 54 -

C - Income Taxes - (Cont'd)
---------------------------

Following is a summary of income tax expense and a reconciliation of total
income tax expense with the tax expected at the federal statutory rate.

                               1994           1993           1992 
                             --------       --------       --------
                                     (Thousands of Dollars)

Current tax expense          $128,303       $ 89,750       $ 85,136 
Investment tax credit-net      (4,625)        (4,626)        (4,469)
Deferred tax expense          (25,095)        13,096          9,979 
                             --------       --------       --------
Total tax expense            $ 98,583       $ 98,220       $ 90,646 
                             ========       ========       ========
Income before income taxes
  and preferred dividend     $280,802       $292,732       $267,801
                             ========       ========       ========

Expected tax at federal
  statutory rate             $ 98,281       $102,456       $ 91,052 
State income tax net of
  federal tax reduction        14,382         12,024         13,604 
Investment tax credit
  restored                     (4,625)        (5,241)        (4,580)
Other (no item over
  5% of expected tax)          (9,455)       (11,019)        (9,430)
                             --------       --------       --------
Total tax expense            $ 98,583       $ 98,220       $ 90,646
                             ========       ========       ========


FAS 109 requires the recording of deferred assets and liabilities to recognize
the expected future tax consequences of events that have been reflected in the
company's financial statements or tax returns, the adjustment of deferred tax
balances to reflect tax rate changes and the recognition of previously
unrecorded deferred taxes.  Following is a summary of deferred income taxes
under FAS 109.

                                                      December 31
                                               1994                 1993
                                             --------             --------
                                                 (Thousands of Dollars)
  Deferred Income Tax Assets
    Decommissioning trust                    $ 42,685             $ 44,888
    Construction advances                      40,839               39,497
    ERIP accrual                               18,410                  -  
    Other                                      37,993               29,769
                                             --------             --------
      Total Deferred Income Tax Assets       $139,927             $114,154
                                             ========             ========

  Deferred Income Tax Liabilities
    Property related                         $430,740             $414,238
    Conservation investments                   27,564               51,882
    Other                                      17,237               11,475
                                             --------             --------
      Total Deferred Income Tax Liabilities  $475,541             $477,595
                                             ========             ========

                                    - 55 -

C - Income Taxes - (Cont'd)
---------------------------

The company also has recorded deferred regulatory assets and liabilities which
represent the future expected impact of deferred taxes on utility revenues.

                                                     December 31
(Thousands of Dollars)                         1994             1993
                                             --------         --------
Deferred regulatory assets                   $158,912         $159,760
Deferred regulatory liabilities               171,599          180,401

D - Depreciation
-----------------

Depreciation expense is accrued at straight line rates, certified by the PSCW,
which include estimates for salvage and removal costs. Depreciation as a
percent of average depreciable utility plant was 3.9% in 1994 and 1993, and
4.1% in 1992.

Nuclear plant decommissioning is accrued as depreciation expense (see Note E).

E - Nuclear Operations
----------------------

Nuclear Fuel
------------
WE has a nuclear fuel leasing arrangement with Wisconsin Electric Fuel Trust
(Trust), which is treated as a capital lease.  The nuclear fuel is leased for
a period of 60 months or until the removal of the fuel from the reactor, if
earlier.  Lease payments include charges for the cost of fuel burned,
financing costs and a management fee.  In the event WE or the Trust terminates
the lease, the Trust would recover its unamortized cost of nuclear fuel from
WE.  Under the lease terms, WE is in effect the ultimate guarantor of the
Trust's commercial paper and line of credit borrowings financing the
investment in nuclear fuel.

Provided below is a summary of nuclear fuel investment at December 31 and
interest expense for the respective years on the nuclear fuel lease:

                                                   1994      1993      1992
                                                 --------  --------  --------
                                                     (Thousands of Dollars) 
     Nuclear Fuel
       Under capital lease                       $ 89,705  $ 91,201
       Accumulated provision for amortization     (50,983)  (54,207) 
       In process/stock                            17,884    15,671
                                                 --------  --------
           Total nuclear fuel                    $ 56,606  $ 52,665
                                                 ========  ========

     Interest expense on nuclear fuel lease      $  1,896  $  1,697  $  2,098 









                                    - 56 -

E - Nuclear Operations - (Cont'd)
---------------------------------

The future minimum lease payments under the capital lease and the present
value of the net minimum lease payments as of December 31, 1994 are as
follows:

                                     (Thousands of Dollars)

            1995                            $22,620
            1996                             14,705
            1997                              7,992
            1998                              1,472
            1999                                539
                                            -------
Total Minimum Lease Payments                 47,328
Less: Interest                               (3,632)
                                            -------
Present Value of Net Minimum
Lease Payments                              $43,696
                                            =======

The estimated cost of disposal of spent fuel based on a contract with the U.S.
Department of Energy (DOE) is included in nuclear fuel expense.  The Energy
Policy Act of 1992 establishes a Uranium Enrichment Decontamination and
Decommissioning Fund (Fund) for the DOE's nuclear fuel enrichment facilities. 
Deposits to the fund will be derived in part from special assessments to
utilities.  As of December 31, 1994, WE has on its books a remaining estimated
liability equal to the projected special assessments of $31,133,000.  A
corresponding deferred regulatory asset will be amortized to nuclear fuel
expense and included in utility rates over the next 13 years.

Nuclear Insurance
-----------------
The Price-Anderson Act (Act) provides an aggregate limitation of $8.9 billion
on public liability claims arising out of a nuclear incident.  WE has $200
million of liability insurance from commercial sources.  The Act also
establishes an industry-wide retrospective rating plan under which nuclear
reactor owners could be assessed up to $79 million per reactor (WE owns two),
but not more than $10 million in any one year for each reactor, in the event
of a nuclear incident.

An industry-wide insurance program, with an aggregate limit of $200 million,
has been established to cover radiation injury claims of nuclear workers first
employed after 1987.  If claims in excess of the available funds develop, WE
could be assessed a maximum of approximately $3.2 million per reactor.

WE has property damage, decontamination and decommissioning insurance totaling
$2 billion for loss from damage at the Point Beach Nuclear Plant with Nuclear
Mutual Limited (NML) and Nuclear Electric Insurance Limited (NEIL).  Under the
NML and NEIL policies, WE has a potential maximum retrospective premium
liability per loss of $6 million and $15.9 million, respectively.

WE also maintains additional insurance with NEIL covering extra expenses of
obtaining replacement power during a prolonged accidental outage (in excess of
21 weeks) at the Point Beach Nuclear Plant.  This insurance coverage provides
weekly indemnities of $3.5 million per unit for outages during the first year,
declining to 80% of the amounts during the second and third years.  Under the
policy, WE's maximum retrospective premium liability is approximately $9
million.

                                    - 57 -

E - Nuclear Operations - (Cont'd)
---------------------------------

It should not be assumed that, in the event of a major nuclear incident, any
insurance or statutory limitation of liability would protect the company from
material adverse impact.

Nuclear Decommissioning
-----------------------
WE expects to operate the two units at its Point Beach Nuclear Plant to the
expiration of their current operating licenses, 2010 for Unit 1 and 2013 for
Unit 2.  The estimated cost to decommission the plant in 1994 dollars is $335
million based upon a site specific decommissioning cost study completed in
1994.  Assuming plant shutdown at the expiration of the current operating
licenses, prompt dismantlement and annual escalation of costs at specific
inflation factors established by the PSCW, it is projected that approximately
$1.6 billion will be spent over a twenty-year period, beginning in 2010, to
decommission the plant.  

Nuclear decommissioning costs are accrued as depreciation expense over the
expected service lives of the two units based upon an external sinking fund
method.  It is expected that the annual payments to the Nuclear
Decommissioning Trust Fund (Fund) along with earnings on the Fund will provide
sufficient funds at the time of decommissioning.  WE believes it is probable
that any shortfall in funding would be recoverable in utility rates.

In a generic proceeding in 1994, the PSCW issued an order setting forth the
requirement of a site specific estimate with prompt dismantlement for
determining decommissioning funding levels for the owners of nuclear power
plants located in Wisconsin.  WE will modify its funding requirements based on
the order in its next utility rate case filing; an increase in funding is
anticipated along with a corresponding increase in expense.

As required by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115, Accounting
for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities (FAS 115), WE's debt and
equity security investments in the Fund are classified as available for sale. 
Gains and losses on the Fund were determined on the basis of specific
identification; net unrealized holding gains on the Fund were recorded as part
of the accumulated provision for depreciation.

Following is a summary of decommissioning costs and earnings charged to
depreciation expense and the Fund balance included in the accumulated
provision for depreciation at December 31:

                                              1994       1993       1992
                                            --------   --------   -------
                                                 (Thousands of Dollars)

Decommissioning costs                       $  3,456   $  3,456   $12,162
Earnings                                       6,682      7,915     8,050
                                            --------   --------   -------
Depreciation Expense                        $ 10,138   $ 11,371   $20,212

Total costs accrued to date                 $224,559   $214,421
Unrealized gain                                2,246
                                            --------   --------
Accumulated Provision for Depreciation      $226,805   $214,421
                                            ========   ========



                                    - 58 -

E - Nuclear Operations - (Cont'd)
---------------------------------

The December 31, 1994 Fund balance was stated at fair value, whereas the
December 31, 1993 Fund balance was stated at historical cost.  The fair value
of the Fund at December 31, 1993 was $231,991,000.

F - Allowance for Funds Used During Construction (AFUDC)
--------------------------------------------------------

AFUDC is included in utility plant accounts and represents the cost of
borrowed funds used during plant construction and a return on stockholders'
capital used for construction purposes.  Allowance for borrowed funds also
includes interest capitalized on qualifying assets of nonutility subsidiaries. 
On the income statement the cost of borrowed funds (before income taxes) is a
reduction of interest expense and the return on stockholders' capital is an
item of noncash other income.

Utility rates approved by the PSCW provide for a current return on investment
for selected long-term projects included in construction work in progress
(CWIP).  AFUDC was capitalized on the remaining CWIP at a rate of 10.83% in
1994 and 1993, and 11.10% in 1992, as approved by the PSCW.

G - Long-Term Debt
------------------

The maturities and sinking fund requirements through 1999 for the aggregate
amount of long-term debt outstanding (excluding obligations under capital
lease, see Note E) at December 31, 1994 are shown below:

                        (Thousands of Dollars)

                 1995         $ 12,685
                 1996           30,435
                 1997          171,175
                 1998           68,220
                 1999           93,310

Sinking fund requirements for the years 1995 through 1999, included in the
table above, are $6,105,000.  Substantially all utility plant is subject to
the applicable mortgage.

Long-term debt premium or discount and expense of issuance are amortized by
the straight line method over the lives of the debt issues and included as
interest expense.  Unamortized amounts pertaining to reacquired debt are
written off currently, when acquired for sinking fund purposes, or amortized
in accordance with PSCW orders, when acquired for early retirement.

Fair value of long-term debt is estimated based upon the market value of the
same or similar issues.  The fair value of the company's long-term debt was
$1.2 billion and $1.4 billion at December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.


H - Preferred Stock
-------------------

Preferred stock authorized but unissued is: WEC, $.01 par value, 15,000,000
shares; WE, cumulative, $25 par value, 5,000,000 shares; and WN, cumulative,
$100 par value, 120,000 shares.


                                    - 59 -

H - Preferred Stock (cont'd)
----------------------------

Redemption Not Required

The 3.60% Series Preferred Stock is redeemable in whole or in part at the
option of WE at $101 per share plus any accrued dividends.

Redemption Required

In 1994, WE called for redemption all of its 52,500 outstanding shares of
6.75% Series Preferred Stock at a redemption price of par.  In 1993, WE called
for redemption 626,500 shares at a purchase price of $104.05 per share plus
accrued dividends to the redemption date.


I - Pension Plans
-----------------

Effective in 1993, the PSCW adopted Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards No. 87, Employers' Accounting for Pensions (FAS 87), for ratemaking. 
For 1992, the PSCW recognized funded amounts for ratemaking, and WE and WN
charged $4,127,000 to expense as paid.

WE and WN have several noncontributory pension plans covering all eligible
employees.  Pension benefits are based on years of service and the employee's
compensation.  The majority of the plans' assets are equity securities; other
assets include corporate and government bonds and real estate.  The plans are
funded to meet the requirements of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act
of 1974.  

In the opinion of the company, current pension trust assets and amounts which
are expected to be paid to the trusts in the future will be adequate to meet
future pension payment obligations to current and future retirees.  

Pension Cost calculated per FAS 87                1994       1993       1992
----------------------------------               ------     ------     ------
                                                     (Thousands of Dollars)
Components of Net Periodic Pension Cost,
  Year Ended December 31 -
  Cost of pension benefits earned by
   employees                                  $ 10,933   $ 10,842    $ 9,858
  Interest cost on projected benefit
   obligation                                   38,736     36,335     33,137
  Actual (return) loss on plan assets            7,634    (43,226)   (16,779)
  Net amortization and deferral                (52,180)     1,067    (33,934)
                                              --------   --------    -------
Total pension cost (credit) calculated
under FAS 87                                  $  5,123   $  5,018    $(7,718)
                                              ========   ========    =======
Actuarial Present Value of Accumulated
  Benefit Obligation, at December 31 -
  Vested benefits-employees' right to
   receive benefit no longer contingent
   upon continued employment                  $436,697   $393,527
  Nonvested benefits-employees' right to
   receive benefit contingent upon
   continued employment                          1,113      6,579
                                              --------   --------
Total obligation                              $437,810   $400,106
                                              ========   ========
                                    - 60 -

I - Pension Plans (cont'd)
--------------------------
                                                  1994       1993       1992
                                                 ------     ------     ------
                                                     (Thousands of Dollars)
Funded Status of Plans: Pension Assets and
  Obligations at December 31 -
  Pension assets at fair market value         $527,182   $555,260
  Projected benefit obligation
   at present value                           (513,166)  (502,254)
  Unrecognized transition asset                (24,628)   (27,211)
  Unrecognized prior service cost                  593      3,107
  Unrecognized net (gain) loss                   5,903     (7,539)
                                              --------   --------
Projected status of plans                     $ (4,116)  $ 21,363
                                              ========   ========

Rates used for calculations (%) -
  Discount Rate-interest rate used to
   adjust for the time value of money              8.25       7.5        8.0
  Assumed rate of increase in
   compensation levels                             5.0        5.0        5.0
  Expected long-term rate of return 
   on pension assets                               9.0        9.0        9.0

J - Benefits Other Than Pensions
--------------------------------

Postretirement Benefits
-----------------------
Effective in 1993, the company adopted prospectively Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 106, Employers' Accounting for Postretirement
Benefits Other Than Pensions (FAS 106), and elected the 20 year option for
amortization of the previously unrecognized accumulated postretirement benefit
obligation.  The PSCW has issued an order recognizing FAS 106 for ratemaking;
therefore adoption has no material impact on net income.  Prior to 1993 the
cost of these postretirement benefits was expensed when paid and was
$4,766,000 in 1992.

WE and WN sponsor defined benefit postretirement plans that cover both
salaried and nonsalaried employees who retire at age 55 or older with at least
10 years of credited service.  The postretirement medical plan provides
coverage to retirees and their dependents.  Retirees contribute to the medical
plan.  The group life insurance benefit is based on employee compensation and
is reduced upon retirement.

Employees' Benefit Trusts (Trusts) are used to fund a major portion of
postretirement benefits.  The funding policy for the Trusts is to maximize tax
deductibility.  The majority of the Trusts' assets are mutual funds.  












                                    - 61 -

J - Benefits Other Than Pensions - (Cont'd)
-------------------------------------------
                                                          1994         1993
                                                        ---------   ---------
                                                        (Thousands of Dollars)
Components of Net Periodic Postretirement Benefit Cost,
  Year Ended December 31 - 
  Cost of postretirement benefits earned by employees   $   2,653   $   3,105
  Interest cost on projected benefit obligation            10,148      10,395
  Actual return on plan assets                             (3,893)     (2,388)
  Net amortization and deferral                             5,648       5,082
                                                        ---------   ---------
Total postretirement benefit cost calculated
  under FAS 106                                         $  14,556   $  16,194
                                                        =========   =========


Funded Status of Plans: Postretirement Obligations 
  and Assets at December 31 - 
  Accumulated Postretirement Benefit Obligation
   Retirees                                             $ (83,670)  $ (66,861)
   Fully eligible active plan participants                 (7,223)    (19,480)
   Other active plan participants                         (37,255)    (55,062)
                                                        ---------   ---------
  Total obligation                                       (128,148)   (141,403)
  Postretirement assets at fair market value               37,919      32,098
                                                        ---------   ---------
  Accumulated postretirement benefit obligation in 
   excess of plan assets                                  (90,229)   (109,305)
  Unrecognized transition obligation                       90,302      97,471
  Unrecognized prior service cost                          (1,169)        -
  Unrecognized net (gain) loss                            (16,484)      5,393
                                                        ---------   ---------
Accrued postretirement benefit obligation               $ (17,580)  $  (6,441)
                                                        =========   =========


Rates used for calculations (%) -
   Discount Rate-interest rate used to adjust 
    for the time value of money                             8.25        7.5
   Assumed rate of increase in compensation levels          5.0         5.0
   Expected long-term rate of return on 
    postretirement assets                                   9.0         9.0
   Health care cost trend rate                             12.0 declining to
                                                            5.0 in 2002

Changes in health care cost trend rates will affect the amounts reported.  For
example, a 1% increase in rates would increase the accumulated postretirement
benefit obligation as of December 31, 1994 by $8,392,000 and the aggregate of
the service and interest cost components of the postretirement benefit cost
for the year then ended by $1,004,000.

Revitalization
--------------
In the first quarter of 1994, the company recorded a $73.9 million charge
related to its revitalization program.  This charge included $37.5 million for
Early Retirement Incentive Packages (ERIP) and $25 million for Severance
Packages (SP).  These plans are being used to reduce employee staffing levels.
ERIP provided for a monthly income supplement, medical benefits, and waiver of


                                    - 62 -

J - Benefits Other Than Pensions - (Cont'd)
-------------------------------------------

an early retirement pension reduction.  The SP included a severance payment,
medical/dental insurance, outplacement services, personal financial planning
and tuition support.  Availability of these plans to various bargaining units
was based upon agreements made between WE, WN and the bargaining units.  These
plans have been available to most management employees but not elected
officers.

Under ERIP, 403 employees elected to retire and 651 employees have enrolled in
SP.  It is anticipated that the revitalization charge will be offset by the
end of 1995 through savings in operation and maintenance costs.  ERIP
supplemental income costs are being paid from pension plan trusts and
medical/dental benefits from employee benefit trusts.  Remaining ERIP and SP
costs are being paid from general corporate funds.  The ultimate timing of
cash flows for revitalization will depend in part upon the funding limitations
of the WE and WN pension plans.  Through December 31, 1994, $30 million have
been paid against the revitalization liability.

Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan
----------------------------
A stockholder approved Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan (the Plan) enables the
company to offer selected officers and key employees performance-based
incentives.  The Plan provides for the granting of stock options, stock
appreciation rights (SARS), stock awards and performance units over a period
of no more than 10 years.  Awards under the Plan may be paid in common stock,
cash or a combination thereof.  Four million shares of common stock have been
reserved under the Plan.  The exercise price of a stock option will not be
less than 100% of the common stock's fair market value on grant date and
options may not be exercised within 6 months of the grant date.  As of
December 31, 1994 and 1993, options for 145,500 and 64,250 shares,
respectively, have been granted.  These options are exercisable 4 years after
the grant date at per share prices of $26.813 and $27.375 for 1994 and 1993,
respectively.  No SARS or stock awards have been granted and no performance
units have been earned to date.

K - Notes Payable
-----------------

Short-term notes payable balances and their corresponding weighted average
interest rates consist of:
                                            December 31
                                 1994                        1993
                          --------------------       ----------------------
                                      Interest                     Interest
                          Balance       Rate         Balance         Rate
                          --------    --------       --------      --------
                                       (Thousands of Dollars)

        Banks             $ 96,949     6.06%         $110,874       3.39%
        Commercial paper   155,106     6.04%           96,412       3.33%
                          --------                   --------
                          $252,055                   $207,286
                          ========                   ========

Unused lines of credit for short-term borrowing amounted to $209,050,000 at
December 31, 1994.  In support of various informal lines of credit from banks,
WEC subsidiaries have agreed to maintain unrestricted compensating balances or
to pay commitment fees; neither the compensating balances nor the commitment
fees are significant.
                                    - 63 -

L - Commitments and Contingencies
---------------------------------

Plans for the construction and financing of future additions to utility plant
can be found elsewhere in this report in "Management's Discussion and Analysis
of Financial Condition and Results of Operations."


M - Information By Segments of Business
---------------------------------------
                                                 (Thousands of Dollars)
Year ended December 31                        1994        1993        1992
----------------------                        ----        ----        ----
Electric Operations
  Operating revenues                      $1,403,562  $1,347,844  $1,298,723
  Operating income before income taxes       329,216     329,727     299,902
  Depreciation                               159,414     149,646     147,859
  Construction expenditures                  244,718     305,467     292,031

Gas Operations
  Operating revenues                         324,349     331,301     283,699
  Operating income before income taxes        30,993      31,025      29,407
  Depreciation                                16,856      16,235      15,400
  Construction expenditures                   25,481      24,419      25,188

Steam Operations
  Operating revenues                          14,281      14,090      13,093
  Operating income before income taxes         2,825       3,147       2,235
  Depreciation                                 1,344       1,185       1,108
  Construction expenditures                    1,213       4,940       1,530

Consolidated
  Operating revenues                       1,742,192   1,693,235   1,595,515
  Operating income before income taxes       363,034     363,899     331,544
  Depreciation                               177,614     167,066     164,367
  Construction expenditures
    (including nonutility)                   295,769     364,810     323,387

Other Information
  Nonutility Net Income
    Real estate activities                     2,768       2,211         200
    Venture capital and other
      investing activities                    (2,303)        220       1,005

=============================================================================

At December 31
--------------
Net Identifiable Assets
  Electric                                $3,800,377  $3,668,151  $3,264,839
  Gas                                        376,494     385,460     338,021
  Steam                                       25,315      25,119      20,972
  Nonutility                             
   Real estate activities                    148,401     134,669     107,677
   Venture capital and other
     investing activities                     57,672      57,193      57,446
                                          ----------  ----------  ----------
Total Consolidated Assets                 $4,408,259  $4,270,592  $3,788,955
                                          ==========  ==========  ==========


                                    - 64 -



                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


To the Board of Directors and
  the Stockholders of Wisconsin Energy Corporation

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements listed under Item
14(a)(1) and (2) on pages 66 and 67 present fairly, in all material respects,
the financial position of Wisconsin Energy Corporation and its subsidiaries at
December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management; our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.  We conducted our audits of these financial statements in
accordance with generally accepted auditing standards which require that we
plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the
financial statements are free of material misstatement.  An audit includes
examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation.  We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for the opinion expressed above. 






/s/Price Waterhouse LLP
-----------------------
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP


Milwaukee, Wisconsin
January 25, 1995























                                    - 65 -


ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.


                                   PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

In accordance with General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information
under "Election of Directors" in Wisconsin Energy's definitive Proxy Statement
for its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held May 17, 1995 (the "1995
Annual Meeting Proxy Statement") is incorporated herein by reference.  Also
see "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this report.


ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

In accordance with General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information
under "Compensation of the Board of Directors", "Executive Officers'
Compensation" and "Retirement Plans" in the 1995 Annual Meeting Proxy
Statement is incorporated herein by reference.


ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

In accordance with General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the security
ownership information under "Stock Ownership of Directors, Nominees and
Executive Officers" in the 1995 Annual Meeting Proxy Statement is incorporated
herein by reference.


ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

None.


                                    PART IV


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

          (a) 1. Consolidated Financial Statements and
                   Report of Independent Accountants

                 Included in Part II of this report:

                   Consolidated Income Statement for the three years ended
                     December 31, 1994

                   Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the three years
                     ended December 31, 1994

                   Consolidated Balance Sheet at December 31, 1994 and 1993

                   Consolidated Capitalization Statement at December 31, 1994
                     and 1993


                                    - 66 -


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, 
          AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K (Cont'd)

                   Consolidated Common Stock Equity Statement for the three
                     years ended December 31, 1994

                   Notes to Financial Statements

                   Report of Independent Accountants

              2. Financial Statement Schedules

                 Included in Part IV of this report:

                   For the three years ended December 31, 1994

                     Schedule I    Condensed Parent Company Financial
                                   Statements

         Other schedules are omitted because of the absence of conditions
         under which they are required or because the required information
         is given in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.

              3. Exhibits

                 The following Exhibits are filed with this report:

                 Exhibit No.

                 (10)-1 Executive Deferred Compensation Plan of Wisconsin
                        Energy Corporation effective January 1, 1989, as
                        amended and restated as of January 1, 1994. *

                      2 Supplemental Benefits Agreement between Wisconsin
                        Energy Corporation and employee Richard A. Abdoo dated
                        November 21, 1994. *

                      3 Supplemental Benefits Agreement between Wisconsin
                        Electric Power Company and employee John W. Boston
                        dated November 21, 1994. *

                      4 Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan of Wisconsin
                        Energy Corporation (as amended and restated as of
                        January 1, 1994). *

                      5 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan of Wisconsin
                        Energy Corporation, effective January 1, 1987 and as
                        restated as of January 1, 1994. *

                      6 Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan of Wisconsin
                        Electric Power Company, as restated as of 
                        January 1, 1994. *

                 (23)   Consent of Independent Accountants, dated March 30,
                        1995, appearing on page 75 of this Annual Report
                        on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994.

                 (27)   Wisconsin Energy Corporation Financial Data Schedule
                        for the fiscal year ended December 31, 1994.

                                    - 67 -


ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, 
          AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K (Cont'd)

                 (99)-1  Information furnished in lieu of the Form 11-K
                         Annual Report for Wisconsin Energy Corporation
                         Management Employee Savings Plan for the year
                         ended December 31, 1994.  (To be filed by
                         amendment.)

                      2  Information furnished in lieu of the Form 11-K
                         Annual Report for Wisconsin Energy Corporation
                         Represented Employee Savings Plan for the year
                         ended December 31, 1994.  (To be filed by
                         amendment.)

In addition to those Exhibits shown above, which are filed herewith, Wisconsin
Energy hereby incorporates the following Exhibits pursuant to Exchange Act
Rule 12b-32 and Regulation Section 201.24 by reference to the filings set
forth below:

(2)     Agreement and Plan of Restructuring, including Plan of Merger.
        (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit 2 to Amendment No. 1
        to Wisconsin Energy's Registration Statement on Form S-4,
        File No. 33-7045.)

(3)-1   Restated Articles of Incorporation of Wisconsin Energy Corporation.
        (Incorporated herein by reference to Exhibit (19) to Wisconsin Energy
        Corporation's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended 
        June 30, 1992, File No. 1-9057.)

    2   Bylaws of Wisconsin Energy Corporation, as amended to October 27, 
        1993.  (Exhibit 3-1 to Wisconsin Energy Corporation's 1993 Form 10-K
        in File No. 1-9057.)

(4)-1   Reference is made to Article III of the Restated Articles of
        Incorporation of Wisconsin Energy. (Exhibit (3)-1 herein.) 


Mortgage or Supplemental
Indenture                Company     Date      Exhibit #   Under File No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
(4)- 2  Mortgage and    Wisconsin   10/28/38      B-1         2-4340
        Deed of Trust   Electric
                         ("WE")
     3  Second             WE       6/1/46        7-C         2-6422
     4  Third              WE       3/1/49        7-C         2-8456
     5  Fourth             WE       6/1/50        7-D         2-8456
     6  Fifth              WE       5/1/52        4-G         2-9588
     7  Sixth              WE       5/1/54        4-H         2-10846
     8  Seventh            WE       4/15/56       4-1         2-12400
     9  Eighth             WE       4/1/58        2-I         2-13937
    10  Ninth              WE       11/15/60      2-J         2-17087
    11  Tenth              WE       11/1/66       2-K         2-25593
    12  Eleventh           WE       11/15/67      2-L         2-27504
    13  Twelfth            WE       5/15/68       2-M         2-28799
    14  Thirteenth         WE       5/15/69       2-N         2-32629
    15  Fourteenth         WE       11/1/69       2-O         2-34942
    16  Fifteenth          WE       7/15/76       2-P         2-54211
    17  Sixteenth          WE       1/1/78        2-Q         2-61220
    18  Seventeenth        WE       5/1/78        2-R         2-61220
                                    - 68 -

Mortgage or Supplemental
Indenture                Company     Date      Exhibit #   Under File No.
------------------------------------------------------------------------------
    19  Eighteenth         WE       5/15/78       2-S         2-61220
    20  Nineteenth         WE       8/1/79      (a)2(a)       1-1245 (9/30/79
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)  
    21  Twentieth          WE       11/15/79    (a)2(a)       1-1245 (12/31/79
                                                               WE Form 10-K)
    22  Twenty-First       WE       4/15/80     (4)-21        2-69488
    23  Twenty-Second      WE       12/1/80     (4)-1         1-1245 (12/31/80
                                                               WE Form 10-K)
    24  Twenty-Third       WE       9/15/85     (4)-1         1-1245 (9/30/85
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)
    25  Twenty-Four        WE       9/15/85     (4)-1         1-1245 (9/30/85
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)
    26  Twenty-Fifth       WE       12/15/86    (4)-25        1-1245 (12/31/86
                                                               WE Form 10-K)
    27  Twenty-Sixth       WE       1/15/88        4          1-1245 (1/26/88
                                                               Form 8-K)
    28  Twenty-Seventh     WE       4/15/88        4          1-1245 (3/31/88
                                                               Form 10-Q)
    29  Twenty-Eighth      WE       9/1/89         4          1-1245 (9/30/89
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)
    30  Twenty-Ninth       WE       10/1/91        4-1        1-1245 (12/31/91
                                                               WE Form 10-K)  
    31  Thirtieth          WE       12/1/91        4-2        1-1245 (12/31/91
                                                               WE Form 10-K)
    32  Thirty-First       WE        8/1/92        4-1        1-1245 (6/30/92
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)
    33  Thirty-Second      WE        8/1/92        4-2        1-1245 (6/30/92
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)
    34  Thirty-Third       WE       10/1/92        4-1        1-1245 (9/30/92
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)
    35  Thirty-Fourth      WE       11/1/92        4-2        1-1245 (9/30/92
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)
    36  Thirty-Fifth       WE      12/15/92        4-1        1-1245 (12/31/92
                                                               WE Form 10-K)
    37  Thirty-Sixth       WE       1/15/93        4-2        1-1245 (12/31/92
                                                               WE Form 10-K)
    38  Thirty-Seventh     WE       3/15/93        4-3        1-1245 (12/31/92
                                                               WE Form 10-K)
    39  Thirty-Eighth      WE       8/01/93     (4)-1         1-1245 (6/30/93
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)
    40  Thirty-Ninth       WE       9/15/93     (4)-1         1-1245 (9/30/93
                                                               WE Form 10-Q)

        All agreements and instruments with respect to long-term debt not
        exceeding 10 percent of the total assets of the Registrant and its
        subsidiaries on a consolidated basis have been omitted as permitted
        by related instructions.  The Registrant agrees pursuant to Item
        601(b)(4) of Regulation S-K to furnish to the Securities and Exchange
        Commission, upon request, a copy of all such agreements and
        instruments.

(10)-7  Executive Non-Qualified Trust by and between Wisconsin Energy
        Corporation and Firstar Trust Company, dated May 12, 1994,
        established to provide a source of funds to assist in the meeting of
        the liabilities under various nonqualified deferred compensation
        plans made between the Registrant or its subsidiaries and various plan
        participants.  (Exhibit 10-1 to Wisconsin Energy's Quarterly Report on
        Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 1994, File No. 1-9057.)*
                                    - 69 -


(10)-8  1993 Omnibus Stock Incentive Plan adopted by the Board of Directors on
        December 15, 1993, approved by shareholders at the
        Annual Meeting of Stockholders held on May 11, 1994, offering
        performance-based incentives and other equity interests in Wisconsin
        Energy to officers and other key employees. (Exhibit 10-1 to Wisconsin
        Energy's 1993 Form 10-K in File No. 1-9057.) *

     9  Agreement between Wisconsin Energy Corporation, WITECH Corporation and
        employee Francis Brzezinski dated November 30, 1992, naming him a
        participant in the Wisconsin Energy Corporation Supplemental Executive
        Retirement Plan retroactive to September 1, 1990.  (Exhibit 10-1 to
        Wisconsin Energy's 1992 Form 10-K in File No. 1-9057.) *

     10 Executive Incentive Compensation Plan of Wisconsin Energy Corporation
        as amended and renewed effective December 18, 1991.  (Exhibit 10-1 to
        Wisconsin Energy's 1991 Form 10-K in File No. 1-9057.) *

     11 Short-Term Performance Plan of Wisconsin Energy Corporation effective
        January 1, 1992.  (Exhibit 10-3 to Wisconsin Energy's 1991 Form 10-K
        in File No. 1-9057.) *
 
     12 Purchase and Sale Agreement by and among The Cleveland-Cliffs Iron
        Company, Cliffs Electric Service Company, Upper Peninsula Generating
        Company, Upper Peninsula Power Company and Wisconsin Electric Power
        Company, dated as of December 8, 1987.  (Exhibit 10 to Wisconsin
        Electric's Form 8-K dated December 18, 1987 in File No. 1-1245.)

     13 Service Agreement dated January 1, 1987, between Wisconsin Electric,
        Wisconsin Energy and other non-utility affiliated companies.  
        (Exhibit (10)-(a) to Wisconsin Electric's Current Report on Form 8-K
        dated January 2, 1987 in File No. 1-1245.)

     14 Service Agreement dated January 1, 1987, between Wisconsin Natural,
        Wisconsin Energy and other non-utility affiliated companies.  
        (Exhibit (10)-(a) to Wisconsin Natural's Current Report on Form 8-K
        dated January 2, 1987 in File No. 2-2066.)

     *  Management contracts and executive compensation plans or arrangements
        required to be filed as exhibits pursuant to Item 14(c) of Form 10-K.


(21)    Subsidiaries of Wisconsin Energy Corporation (Incorporated herein
        by reference to Exhibit (22) to Wisconsin Energy's Form 8-B filed
        on January 7, 1987, File No. 33-7045.)


(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

No reports on Form 8-K were filed during the fourth quarter of the year ended
December 31, 1994.  










                                    - 70 -


                         WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION
                                INCOME STATEMENT
                             (Parent Company Only)

                     SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY
                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                                                Year Ended December 31
                                                ----------------------
                                              1994        1993*       1992*
                                            --------    --------    --------
                                                 (Thousands of Dollars)

Miscellaneous Income                       $     373   $     411    $    429

Nonoperating Expense                             423         250         251
                                            --------    --------    --------
                                                 (50)        161         178
Income Taxes                                     (20)         17          30
                                            --------    --------    --------
                                                 (30)        144         148
Equity in Subsidiaries' Earnings             180,898     189,991     171,091
                                            --------    --------    --------
Net Income                                 $ 180,868   $ 190,135   $ 171,239
                                            ========    ========    ========


* Restated to reflect the acquisition of Wisconsin Southern Gas Company, Inc.
  on 1/1/94.







                             See Notes on Page 74.
                           (continued on next page)




















                                    - 71 -


                         WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION
                            STATEMENT OF CASH FLOWS
                             (Parent Company Only)

                     SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY
                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



                                               Year Ended December 31
                                               ----------------------
                                             1994        1993*      1992*
                                          ---------   ---------  ---------
                                               (Thousands of Dollars)

Operating Activities:
Net Income                                $ 180,868   $ 190,135  $ 171,239
Reconciliation to cash:
  Equity in subsidiaries' earnings         (180,898)   (189,991)  (171,091)
  Dividends from subsidiaries               150,951      74,654     74,576
  Other                                         235         109         27
                                          ---------   ---------  ---------
Cash Provided by Operating Activities       151,156      74,907     74,751

Investing Activities:
Equity investment in subsidiaries - net     (19,500)    (23,500)     6,363
Change in notes receivable -
  associated companies                      (17,535)     13,330    (13,330)
Other                                          (870)         (8)        (3)
                                          ---------   ---------  ---------
Cash Used in Investing Activities           (37,905)    (10,178)    (6,970)

Financing Activities:
Sale of common stock                         50,494      61,442     54,465
Dividends on common stock                  (150,708)   (140,876)  (131,752)    
Change in notes payable -                                                      
  associated companies                      (13,100)     13,100       -        
                                          ---------   ---------  ---------
Cash Used in Financing Activities          (113,314)    (66,334)   (77,287)
                                          ---------   ---------  ---------
Change in Cash and Cash Equivalents       $     (63)  $  (1,605) $  (9,506)
                                          =========   =========  =========

Cash Paid for-
  Interest                                $      62   $    -     $    -
  Income Taxes                                  (15)         (3)        25


* Restated to reflect the acquisition of Wisconsin Southern Gas Company, Inc.
  on 1/1/94.

                             See Notes on Page 74.
                           (continued on next page)







                                    - 72 -


                         WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION
                                 BALANCE SHEET
                             (Parent Company Only)

                     SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY
                             FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


                                                 Year Ended December 31
                                                 ----------------------
                                                 1994              1993*
                                               ---------         --------
                                                 (Thousands of Dollars)
              Assets
              ------
Current Assets
  Cash and cash equivalents                  $        3        $       66
  Accounts and notes receivable
    from associated companies                    17,909               166
  Other                                             297               471
                                             ----------        ----------
      Total Current Assets                       18,209               703

Property and Investments
  Investment in subsidiary companies          1,729,052         1,679,605
  Other                                             885                29
                                             ----------        ----------
      Total Property and Investments          1,729,937         1,679,634

Deferred Charges                                  7,585             7,164
                                             ----------        ----------
                                             $1,755,731        $1,687,501
                                             ==========        ==========

              Liabilities
              -----------
Current Liabilities
  Accounts payable                           $       41        $       90      
  Accounts and notes payable                                                   
    to associated companies                         132            13,103      
  Other                                             (61)              210
                                             ----------        ----------
      Total Current Liabilities                     112            13,403

Deferred Credits                                  8,264             7,397

Stockholders' Equity
  Common stock                                  628,446           577,935
  Retained earnings                             116,187           115,991
  Undistributed subsidiaries' earnings        1,002,722           972,775
                                             ----------        ----------
      Total Stockholders' Equity              1,747,355         1,666,701
                                             ----------        ----------
                                             $1,755,731        $1,687,501
                                             ==========        ==========
* Restated to reflect the acquisition of Wisconsin Southern Gas Company, Inc.
  on 1/1/94.

                             See Notes on Page 74.
                           (continued on next page)
                                    - 73 -


                            WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION
                           NOTES TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                                (Parent Company Only)

                        SCHEDULE I - CONDENSED PARENT COMPANY
                                FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


1.  The condensed parent company financial statements and notes should be read
    in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and notes
    appearing on pages 47-64 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

2.  Various financing arrangements and regulatory requirements impose certain
    restrictions on the ability of Wisconsin Energy Corporation's utility
    subsidiaries to transfer funds to Wisconsin Energy Corporation (WEC) in
    the form of cash dividends, loans, or advances.  Under Wisconsin law, 
    Wisconsin Electric Power Company and Wisconsin Natural Gas Company are
    prohibited from loaning funds, either directly or indirectly, to WEC.
    WEC does not believe that such restrictions will affect its operations.









































                                    - 74 -



                      CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS


We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration
Statements and Prospectuses constituting part of or relating to the
Registration Statements listed below of Wisconsin Energy Corporation of our
report dated January 25, 1995 appearing on page 65 of this Form 10-K.


   1.  Registration Statements on Form S-3 (Registration Nos. 33-43737 and
       33-57765) - Stock Plus Investment Plan

   2.  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-34656) -
       Represented Employee Savings Plan

   3.  Registration Statement on Form S-8 (Registration No. 33-34657) -
       Management Employee Savings Plan







/s/Price Waterhouse LLP
-----------------------
PRICE WATERHOUSE LLP


Milwaukee, Wisconsin
March 30, 1995




























                                    - 75 -



                                  SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.


                                          WISCONSIN ENERGY CORPORATION


                                        /s/R. A. Abdoo
                                    By -------------------------------------
Date     March 30, 1995                 (R. A. Abdoo, Chairman of the Board,
                                            President and Chief
                                            Executive Officer)

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.


    Signature and Title                                         Date


  /s/R. A. Abdoo
---------------------------------------------------         March 30, 1995
   (R. A. Abdoo, Chairman of the Board, President            
    and Chief Executive Officer and Director 
    - Principal Executive Officer)


  /s/J. W. Boston
---------------------------------------------------         March 30, 1995
   (J. W. Boston, Vice Chairman of the Board and            
    Director)


  /s/J. G. Remmel
---------------------------------------------------         March 30, 1995
   (J. G. Remmel, Vice President, Treasurer, Chief
    Financial Officer - Principal Financial
    Officer and Principal Accounting Officer)


  /s/J. F. Ahearne
----------------------------------------------------        March 30, 1995
   (J. F. Ahearne, Director)                        


  /s/J. F. Bergstrom
----------------------------------------------------        March 30, 1995
   (J. F. Bergstrom, Director)                        


  /s/R. A. Cornog
----------------------------------------------------        March 30, 1995
   (R. A. Cornog, Director)                

                                    - 76 -



    Signature and Title                                         Date


  /s/G. B. Johnson
----------------------------------------------------        March 30, 1995
   (G. B. Johnson, Director)                


  /s/J. L. Murray
----------------------------------------------------        March 30, 1995
   (J. L. Murray, Director)                 


  /s/M. W. Reid
----------------------------------------------------        March 30, 1995
   (M. W. Reid, Director)                    


  /s/F. P. Stratton, Jr.
----------------------------------------------------        March 30, 1995
   (F. P. Stratton, Jr., Director)        


  /s/J. G. Udell
----------------------------------------------------        March 30, 1995
   (J. G. Udell, Director)                   
































                                    - 77 -



                         Wisconsin Energy Corporation

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------

                        1994 Annual Report on Form 10-K
                     For the Year Ended December 31, 1994

Exhibit
Number
-------
(10)-1  Executive Deferred Compensation Plan of Wisconsin Energy Corporation
        effective January 1, 1989, as amended and restated as of January 1,
        1994.

     2  Supplemental Benefits Agreement between Wisconsin Energy Corporation
        and employee Richard A. Abdoo dated November 21, 1994. 

     3  Supplemental Benefits Agreement between Wisconsin Electric Power
        Company and employee John W. Boston dated November 21, 1994. 

     4  Supplemental Executive Retirement Plan of Wisconsin Energy Corporation
        (as amended and restated as of January 1, 1994.)

     5  Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan of Wisconsin Energy Corporation,
        effective January 1, 1987 and as restated as of January 1, 1994.

     6  Directors' Deferred Compensation Plan of Wisconsin Electric Power
        Company, as restated as of January 1, 1994. 

(23)    Consent of Independent Accountants, dated March 30, 1994, appearing
        on page 75 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended 
        December 31, 1993.

(27)    Wisconsin Energy Corporation Financial Data Schedule for the fiscal
        year ended December 31, 1994.

(99)-1  Information furnished in lieu of the Form 11-K Annual Report for
        Wisconsin Energy Corporation Management Employee Savings Plan for the
        year ended December 31, 1993.  (To be filed by amendment.)

     2  Information furnished in lieu of the Form 11-K Annual Report for
        Wisconsin Energy Corporation Represented Employee Savings Plan for the
        year ended December 31, 1993.  (To be filed by amendment.)

The foregoing Exhibits are (or will be) filed with this report.  The
additional Exhibits which are incorporated by reference are listed in Item
14(a)(3) of this report.











                                    - 78 -


