ITEM 1.BUSINESS



Proposed Merger with Allegheny

As previously disclosed, on February 10, 2010, FirstEnergy entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger,
subsequently amended on June 4, 2010 (Merger Agreement), with Element Merger Sub, Inc., a Maryland corporation, its wholly-owned subsidiary (Merger Sub) and Allegheny a
 Maryland corporation. Upon the terms and subject to the conditions set forth in the Merger Agreement, Merger Sub will merge with and into Allegheny with Allegheny continuing
as the surviving corporation and a wholly-owned subsidiary of FirstEnergy. Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, upon the closing of the merger, each issued and outstanding share
 of Allegheny common stock, including grants of restricted common stock, would automatically be converted into the right to receive 0.667 of a share of common stock of
 FirstEnergy, and Allegheny stockholders would own approximately 27% of the combined company. FirstEnergy would also assume all outstanding Allegheny debt.

Pursuant to the Merger Agreement, completion of the merger is conditioned upon, among other things,
shareholder approval of both companies, which was received on September 14, 2010; the SEC’s clearance of a registration statement registering the FirstEnergy
common stock to be issued in connection with the merger, which
occurred on July 16, 2010. Approval of the merger was received
from the VSCC on September 9, 2010.
 Approval from the FERC and from the PSCWV was received on
December 16, 2010. Approval from the MDPSC was received on January 18, 2011. On January 7, 2011,
 we were notified by the DOJ that it had completed its review of the merger and closed its investigation. The proposed merger is also conditioned upon receipt of the approval
 of the PPUC. The Merger Agreement also contains certain termination rights for both FirstEnergy and Allegheny, and further provides for the payment of fees and expenses upon
termination under specified circumstances.

FirstEnergy
and Allegheny currently anticipate completing the merger in the first
quarter of 2011. Although
FirstEnergy and Allegheny believe that they will receive the required authorizations, approvals and consents to complete the merger, there can be no assurance as to the
timing of these authorizations, approvals and consents or as to FirstEnergy’s and Allegheny’s ultimate ability to obtain such authorizations, consents or approvals
 (or any additional authorizations, approvals or consents which may otherwise become necessary) or that such authorizations, approvals or consents will be obtained on terms
and subject to conditions satisfactory to Allegheny and FirstEnergy. Further information concerning the proposed merger is included in the Registration Statement filed by
 FirstEnergy with the SEC in connection with the merger.



The Company

FirstEnergy Corp. was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1996. FirstEnergy’s
principal business is the holding, directly or indirectly, of all of the outstanding common stock
of its eight principal electric utility operating subsidiaries: OE, CEI, TE, Penn, ATSI, JCP&L,
Met-Ed and Penelec; and of its generating and marketing subsidiary, FES. FirstEnergy’s consolidated
revenues are primarily derived from electric service provided by its utility operating subsidiaries
and the revenues of its other principal subsidiary, FES. In addition, FirstEnergy holds all of the
outstanding common stock of other direct subsidiaries including: FirstEnergy Properties, Inc., FEV,
FENOC, FELHC, Inc., FirstEnergy Facilities Services Group, LLC, FirstEnergy Fiber Holdings Corp.,
GPU Power, Inc., GPU Nuclear, Inc., MARBEL Energy Corporation and FESC.

FES was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1997. FES provides energy-related products
and services to wholesale and retail customers. FES also owns and operates, through its subsidiary,
FGCO, FirstEnergy’s fossil and hydroelectric generating facilities and owns, through its
subsidiary, NGC, FirstEnergy’s nuclear generating facilities. FENOC, a separate subsidiary of
FirstEnergy, organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998, operates and maintains NGC’s
nuclear generating facilities. FES purchases the entire output of the generation facilities owned
by FGCO and NGC, as well as the output relating to leasehold interests of the Ohio Companies in
certain of those facilities that are subject to sale and leaseback arrangements with
non-affiliates, pursuant to full output, cost-of-service PSAs.





FirstEnergy’s generating portfolio includes 13,436 MW of diversified capacity (FES — 13,236 MW and
JCP&L — 200 MW). Within FES’ portfolio, approximately 7,157 MW, or 54.1%, consist of coal-fired
capacity; 3,991 MW, or 30.2%, consist of
nuclear capacity; 1,151 MW, or 8.7%, consist of oil and natural gas peaking units; 451 MW, or 3.4%,
consist of hydroelectric capacity, 376 MW, or 2.8%, are from wind facilities; and 110 MW, or 0.8%,
consist of capacity from FGCO’s current 4.85% entitlement to the generation output owned by the
OVEC. FirstEnergy’s nuclear and non-nuclear facilities are operated by FENOC and FGCO,
respectively, and, except for portions of certain facilities that are subject to the sale and
leaseback arrangements with non-affiliates referred to above for which the corresponding output is
available to FES through power sale agreements, are all owned directly by NGC and FGCO,
respectively. The FES generating assets are concentrated primarily in Ohio and Pennsylvania. All
FES units are currently dedicated to MISO except Beaver Valley and Seneca Pumped Storage Plant,
which are designated as a PJM resource. Additionally, see FERC Matters for RTO Realignment.

FES, FGCO and NGC comply with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC
and the FERC. In addition, NGC and FENOC comply with the regulations, orders, policies and
practices prescribed by the NRC.

The Utilities’ combined service areas encompass approximately 36,100 square miles in Ohio, New
Jersey and Pennsylvania. The areas they serve have a combined population of approximately 11.3
million.

OE was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1930 and owns property and does business as
an electric public utility in that state. OE engages in the distribution and sale of electric
energy to communities in a 7,000 square mile area of central and northeastern Ohio. The area it
serves has a population of approximately 2.8 million. OE complies with the regulations, orders,
policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

OE owns all of Penn’s outstanding common stock. Penn was organized under the laws of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1930 and owns property and does business as an electric public
utility in that state. Penn is also authorized to do business in the State of Ohio (see Item 2 —
Properties). Penn furnishes electric service to communities in 1,100 square miles of western
Pennsylvania. The area it serves has a population of approximately 0.4 million. Penn complies with
the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC.

CEI was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1892 and does business as an electric
public utility in that state. CEI engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy in an
area of approximately 1,600 square miles in northeastern Ohio. The area it serves has a population
of approximately 1.8 million. CEI complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices
prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

TE was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1901 and does business as an electric
public utility in that state. TE engages in the distribution and sale of electric energy in an area
of approximately 2,300 square miles in northwestern Ohio. The area it serves has a population of
approximately 0.8 million. TE complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices
prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PUCO.

ATSI was organized under the laws of the State of Ohio in 1998. ATSI owns transmission assets that
were formerly owned by the Ohio Companies and Penn. ATSI owns major, high-voltage transmission
facilities, which consist of approximately 5,821 pole miles of transmission lines with nominal
voltages of 345 kV, 138 kV and 69 kV. Effective October 1, 2003, ATSI transferred operational
control of its transmission facilities to MISO. On December 17, 2009, the FERC authorized ATSI to
transfer operational control of its facilities to PJM. As described below in FERC Matters the
transfer is scheduled to occur on June 1, 2011. ATSI plans, operates, and maintains its
transmission system in accordance with NERC reliability standards, and applicable regulatory
requirements to ensure reliable service to customers. Additionally, see FERC Matters for RTO
Realignment. ATSI complies with the regulations, orders, policies and practices prescribed by the
SEC, FERC and applicable state regulatory authorities.

JCP&L was organized under the laws of the State of New Jersey in 1925 and owns property and does
business as an electric public utility in that state. JCP&L provides transmission and distribution
services in 3,200 square miles of northern, western and east central New Jersey. The area it serves
has a population of approximately 2.6 million. JCP&L complies with the regulations, orders,
policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and the NJBPU.

Met-Ed was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1922 and owns property
and does business as an electric public utility in that state. Met-Ed provides transmission and
distribution services in 3,300 square miles of eastern and south central Pennsylvania. The area it
serves has a population of approximately 1.3 million. Met-Ed complies with the regulations, orders,
policies and practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC and PPUC.

Penelec was organized under the laws of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1919 and owns property
and does business as an electric public utility in that state. Penelec provides transmission and
distribution services in 17,600 square miles of western, northern and south central Pennsylvania.
The area it serves has a population of approximately 1.6 million. Penelec, as lessee of the
property of its subsidiary, The Waverly Electric Light & Power Company, also serves customers in
Waverly, New York and its vicinity. Penelec complies with the regulations, orders, policies and
practices prescribed by the SEC, FERC, NYPSC and PPUC, as applicable.





FESC provides legal, financial and other corporate support services to affiliated FirstEnergy
companies.

Reference is made to Note 15, Segment Information, of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements contained in Item 8 for information regarding FirstEnergy’s reportable segments.



Utility Regulation



State Regulation

Each of the Utilities’ retail rates, conditions of service, issuance of securities and other
matters are subject to regulation in the state in which each company operates — in Ohio by the
PUCO, in New Jersey by the NJBPU and in Pennsylvania by the PPUC. In addition, under Ohio law,
municipalities may regulate rates of a public utility, subject to appeal to the PUCO if not
acceptable to the utility.

As a competitive retail electric supplier serving retail customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania, New
Jersey, Maryland, Michigan, and Illinois, FES is subject to state laws applicable to competitive
electric suppliers in those states, including affiliate codes of conduct that apply to FES and its
public utility affiliates. In addition, if FES or any of its subsidiaries were to engage in the
construction of significant new generation facilities, they would also be subject to state siting
authority.



Federal Regulation

With respect to their wholesale and interstate electric operations and rates, the Utilities, ATSI,
FES, FGCO and NGC are subject to regulation by the FERC. Under the FPA, the FERC regulates rates
for interstate sales at wholesale, transmission of electric power, accounting and other matters,
including construction and operation of hydroelectric projects. The FERC regulations require ATSI,
Met-Ed, JCP&L and Penelec to provide open access transmission service at FERC-approved rates, terms
and conditions. Transmission service over ATSI’s facilities is provided by MISO under its open
access transmission tariff although as explained herein effective June 1, 2011 transmission service
over ATSI’s facilities will be provided pursuant to PJM’s open access transmission tariff.
Transmission service over Met-Ed’s, JCP&L’s and Penelec’s facilities is provided by PJM under its
open access transmission tariff. The FERC also regulates unbundled transmission service to retail
customers. Additionally, see FERC Matters for RTO Realignment.

The FERC regulates the sale of power for resale in interstate commerce in part by granting
authority to public utilities to sell wholesale power at market-based rates upon a showing that the
seller cannot exert market power in generation or transmission. FES, FGCO and NGC have been
authorized by the FERC to sell wholesale power in interstate commerce and have a market-based
tariff on file with the FERC. By virtue of this tariff and authority to sell wholesale power, each
company is regulated as a public utility under the FPA. However, consistent with its historical
practice, the FERC has granted FES, FGCO and NGC a waiver from most of the reporting,
record-keeping and accounting requirements that typically apply to traditional public utilities.
Along with market-based rate authority, the FERC also granted FES, FGCO and NGC blanket authority
to issue securities and assume liabilities under Section 204 of the FPA. As a condition to selling
electricity on a wholesale basis at market-based rates, FES, FGCO and NGC, like all other entities
granted market-based rate authority, must file electronic quarterly reports with the FERC, listing
their sales transactions for the prior quarter.

The nuclear generating facilities owned and leased by NGC are subject to extensive regulation by
the NRC. The NRC subjects nuclear generating stations to continuing review and regulation covering,
among other things, operations, maintenance, emergency planning, security and environmental and
radiological aspects of those stations. The NRC may modify, suspend or revoke operating licenses
and impose civil penalties for failure to comply with the Atomic Energy Act, the regulations under
such Act or the terms of the licenses. FENOC is the licensee for the operating nuclear plants and
has direct compliance responsibility for NRC matters. FES controls the economic dispatch of NGC’s
plants. See Nuclear Regulation below.



Regulatory Accounting

The Utilities and ATSI recognize, as regulatory assets, costs which the FERC, PUCO, PPUC and NJBPU
have authorized for recovery from customers in future periods or for which authorization is
probable. Without the probability of such authorization, costs currently recorded as regulatory
assets would have been charged to income as incurred. All regulatory assets are expected to be
recovered from customers under the Utilities’ respective transition and regulatory plans. Based on
those plans, the Utilities and ATSI continue to bill and collect cost-based rates for their
transmission and distribution services, which remain regulated; accordingly, it is appropriate that
the Utilities and ATSI continue the application of regulatory accounting to those operations.





FirstEnergy accounts for the effects of regulation through the application of regulatory accounting
to its operating utilities since their rates:

•are established by a third-party regulator with the authority to set rates that bind
customers;•are cost-based; and•can be charged to and collected from customers.

An enterprise meeting all of these criteria capitalizes costs that would otherwise be charged to
expense (regulatory assets) if the rate actions of its regulator make it probable that those costs
will be recovered in future revenue. Regulatory accounting is applied only to the parts of the
business that meet the above criteria. If a portion of the business applying regulatory accounting
no longer meets those requirements, previously recorded net regulatory assets are removed from the
balance sheet in accordance with GAAP.

In Ohio, New Jersey and Pennsylvania, laws applicable to electric industry restructuring contain
similar provisions that are reflected in the Utilities’ respective state regulatory plans. These
provisions include:

•restructuring the electric generation business and allowing the Utilities’ customers to
select a competitive electric generation supplier other than the Utilities;•establishing or defining the POLR obligations to customers in the Utilities’ service
areas;•providing the Utilities with the opportunity to recover potentially stranded investment
(or transition costs) not otherwise recoverable in a competitive generation market;•itemizing (unbundling) the price of electricity into its component elements — including
generation, transmission, distribution and stranded costs recovery charges;•continuing regulation of the Utilities’ transmission and distribution systems; and•requiring corporate separation of regulated and unregulated business activities.



Reliability Initiatives

In 2005, Congress amended the FPA to provide for federally-enforceable mandatory reliability
standards. The mandatory reliability standards apply to the bulk power system and impose certain
operating, record-keeping and reporting requirements on the Utilities, FES, FGCO, FENOC and ATSI.
The NERC, as the ERO, is charged with establishing and enforcing these reliability standards,
although it has delegated day-to-day implementation and enforcement of its responsibilities to
eight regional entities, including ReliabilityFirstCorporation. All of FirstEnergy’s facilities
are located within the ReliabilityFirstregion. FirstEnergy actively participates in the NERC and
ReliabilityFirststakeholder processes, and otherwise monitors and manages its companies in
response to the ongoing development, implementation and enforcement of the reliability standards.

FirstEnergy believes that it is in compliance with all currently-effective and enforceable
reliability standards. Nevertheless, in the course of operating its extensive electric utility
systems and facilities FirstEnergy occasionally learns of isolated facts or circumstances that
could be interpreted as excursions from the reliability standards. If and when such items are
found, FirstEnergy develops information about the item and develops a remedial response to the
specific circumstances, including in appropriate cases “self-reporting” an item to
ReliabilityFirst. Moreover, it is clear that the NERC, ReliabilityFirstand the FERC will continue
to refine existing reliability standards as well as to develop and adopt new reliability standards.
The financial impact of complying with new or amended standards cannot be determined at this time.
However, the 2005 amendments to the FPA provide that all prudent costs incurred to comply with the
new reliability standards be recovered in rates. Still, any future inability on FirstEnergy’s part
to comply with the reliability standards for its bulk power system could result in the imposition
of financial penalties that could have a material adverse effect on its financial condition,
results of operations and cash flows.

In April 2007, ReliabilityFirstperformed a routine compliance audit of FirstEnergy’s bulk-power
system within the Midwest ISO region and found it to be in full compliance with all audited
reliability standards. Similarly, in October 2008, ReliabilityFirstperformed a routine compliance
audit of FirstEnergy’s bulk-power system within the PJM region and found it to be in full
compliance with all audited reliability standards. In May 2010, ReliabilityFirstperformed a
routine compliance audit of FirstEnergy’s bulk-power system in the Midwest ISO region and, subject
to certain nonmaterial items, found it to be in compliance with the audited reliability standards.
FirstEnergy’s PJM facilities are next due for the periodic audit by ReliabilityFirstin 2011.







Ohio Regulatory Matters

The Ohio Companies operate under an ESP, which expires on May 31, 2011, that provides for
generation supplied through a CBP. The ESP also allows the Ohio Companies to collect a delivery
service improvement rider (Rider DSI) at an overall average rate of $0.002 per KWH for the period
of April 1, 2009 through December 31, 2011. The Ohio Companies currently purchase generation at the
average wholesale rate of a CBP conducted in May 2009. FES is one of the suppliers to the Ohio
Companies through the May 2009 CBP. The PUCO approved a $136.6 million distribution rate increase
for the Ohio Companies in January 2009, which went into effect on January 23, 2009 for OE ($68.9
million) and TE ($38.5 million) and on May 1, 2009 for CEI ($29.2 million). Applications for
rehearing of the PUCO order in the distribution case were filed by the Ohio Companies and one other
party. The Ohio Companies raised numerous issues in
their application for rehearing related to rate recovery of certain expenses, recovery of line
extension costs, the level of rate of return and the amount of general plant balances. On February
2, 2011, the PUCO issued an Entry on Rehearing denying the applications for rehearing filed both by
the Ohio Companies and by the other party.

Under the provisions of SB221, the Ohio Companies are required to implement energy efficiency
programs that will achieve a total annual energy savings equivalent to approximately 166,000 MWH in
2009, 290,000 MWH in 2010, 410,000 MWH in 2011, 470,000 MWH in 2012 and 530,000 MWH in 2013, with
additional savings required through 2025. Utilities are also required to reduce peak demand in 2009
by 1%, with an additional 0.75% reduction each year thereafter through 2018.

On December 15, 2009, the Ohio Companies filed the required three year portfolio plan seeking
approval for the programs they intend to implement to meet the energy efficiency and peak demand
reduction requirements for the 2010-2012 period. The Ohio Companies expect that all costs
associated with compliance will be recoverable from customers. The Ohio Companies’ three year
portfolio plan is still awaiting decision from the PUCO, which is delaying the launch of the
programs described in the plan. As a result, the Ohio Companies filed on January 11, 2011, a
request for amendment of OE’s 2010 energy efficiency and peak demand reduction benchmarks to levels
actually achieved in 2010. Because the Commission indicated that it would revise all of the Ohio
Companies’ 2010, 2011, and 2012 benchmarks when addressing the Ohio Companies’ three year portfolio
plan, and an order has yet to be issued on that plan, CEI and TE also requested a waiver of their
respective yet-to-be defined 2010 energy efficiency benchmarks if and only to the degree one is
deemed necessary to bring these companies into compliance with their 2010 energy efficiency
obligations. Failure to comply with the benchmarks or to obtain such an amendment may subject the
Companies to an assessment by the PUCO of a penalty.





On February 12, 2010, OE and CEI filed an application with the PUCO to establish a new credit for
all-electric customers. On March 3, 2010, the PUCO ordered that rates for the affected customers
be set at a level that will provide bill impacts commensurate with charges in place on December 31,
2008 and authorized the Ohio Companies to defer incurred costs equivalent to the difference between
what the affected customers would have paid under previously existing rates and what they pay with
the new credit in place. Tariffs implementing this new credit went into effect on March 17, 2010.
On April 15, 2010, the PUCO issued a Second Entry on Rehearing that expanded the group of customers
to which the new
credit would apply and authorized deferral for the associated additional amounts. The PUCO also
stated that it expected that the new credit would remain in place through at least the 2011 winter
season, and charged its staff to work with parties to seek a long term solution to the issue.
Tariffs implementing this newly expanded credit went into effect on May 21, 2010, and the
proceeding remains open. The hearing in the matter is set to commence on February 16, 2011.



Pennsylvania Regulatory Matters

en banc

On May 20, 2010, the PPUC approved Met-Ed’s and Penelec’s annual updates to their TSC rider for the
period June 1, 2010 through December 31, 2010, including marginal transmission losses as approved by
the PPUC, although the recovery of marginal losses will be subject to the outcome of the proceeding
related to the 2008 TSC filing as described above. The TSC for Met-Ed’s customers was increased to
provide for full recovery by December 31, 2010.

Met-Ed and Penelec filed with the PPUC a generation procurement plan covering the period January 1,
2011 through May 31, 2013. The plan is designed to provide adequate and reliable service through a
prudent mix of long-term, short-term and spot market generation supply with a staggered procurement
schedule that varies by customer class, using a descending clock auction. On August 12, 2009, the
parties to the proceeding filed a settlement agreement of all but two issues, and the PPUC entered
an Order approving the settlement and the generation procurement plan on November 6, 2009.
Generation procurement began in January 2010.

On February 8, 2010, Penn filed a Petition for Approval of its Default Service Plan for the period
June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. On July 29, 2010, the parties to the proceeding filed a Joint
Petition for Settlement of all issues. Although the PPUC’s Order approving the Joint Petition held
that the provisions relating to the recovery of MISO exit fees and one-time PJM integration costs
(resulting from Penn’s June 1, 2011 exit from MISO and integration into PJM) were approved, it made
such provisions subject to the approval of cost recovery by FERC. Therefore, Penn may not put these
provisions into effect until FERC has approved the recovery and allocation of MISO exit fees and
PJM integration costs.





By Tentative Order entered September 17, 2009, the PPUC provided for an additional 30-day comment
period on whether the 1998 Restructuring Settlement, which addressed how Met-Ed and Penelec were
going to implement direct
access to a competitive market for the generation of electricity, allows Met-Ed and Penelec to
apply over-collection of NUG costs for select and isolated months to reduce non-NUG stranded costs
when a cumulative NUG stranded cost balance exists. In response to the Tentative Order, various
parties filed comments objecting to the above accounting method utilized by Met-Ed and Penelec.
Met-Ed and Penelec are awaiting further action by the PPUC.



New Jersey Regulatory Matters

JCP&L is permitted to defer for future collection from customers the amounts by which its costs of
supplying BGS to non-shopping customers, costs incurred under NUG agreements, and certain other
stranded costs, exceed amounts collected through BGS and NUGC rates and market sales of NUG energy
and capacity. As of December 31, 2010, the accumulated deferred cost balance was a credit of
approximately $37 million. To better align the recovery of expected costs, on July 26, 2010, JCP&L
filed a request to decrease the amount recovered for the costs incurred under the NUG agreements by
$180 million annually. On February 10, 2011, the NJBPU approved a stipulation which allows the change in rates to become effective March 1, 2011.

On March 13, 2009, JCP&L filed its annual SBC Petition with the NJBPU that includes a request for a
reduction in the level of recovery of TMI-2 decommissioning costs based on an updated TMI-2
decommissioning cost analysis dated January 2009 estimated at $736 million (in 2003 dollars). This
matter is currently pending before the NJBPU.

New Jersey statutes require that the state periodically undertake a planning process, known as the
EMP, to address energy related issues including energy security, economic growth, and environmental
impact. The NJBPU adopted an order establishing the general process and contents of specific EMP
plans that must be filed by New Jersey electric and gas utilities in order to achieve the goals of
the EMP. On April 16, 2010, the NJBPU issued an order indefinitely suspending the requirement of
New Jersey utilities to submit Utility Master Plans until such time as the status of the EMP has
been made clear. At this time, FirstEnergy and JCP&L cannot determine the impact, if any, the EMP
may have on their operations.







FERC Matters

Rates for Transmission Service Between MISO and PJM

PJM Transmission Rate

On April 19, 2007, FERC issued an order (Opinion 494) finding that the PJM transmission owners’
existing “license plate” or zonal rate design was just and reasonable and ordered that the current
license plate rates for existing transmission facilities be retained. On the issue of rates for new
transmission facilities, FERC directed that costs for new transmission facilities that are rated at
500 kV or higher are to be collected from all transmission zones throughout the PJM footprint by
means of a postage-stamp rate based on the amount of load served in a transmission zone. Costs for
new transmission facilities that are rated at less than 500 kV, however, are to be allocated on a
load flow methodology (DFAX), which is generally referred to as a “beneficiary pays” approach to
allocating the cost of high voltage transmission facilities.

The FERC’s Opinion 494 order was appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit,
which issued a decision on August 6, 2009. The court affirmed FERC’s ratemaking treatment for
existing transmission facilities, but found that FERC had not supported its decision to allocate
costs for new 500+ kV facilities on a load ratio share basis and, based on this finding, remanded
the rate design issue back to FERC.

In an order dated January 21, 2010, FERC set the matter for “paper hearings”— meaning that FERC
called for parties to submit comments or written testimony pursuant to the schedule described in
the order. FERC identified nine separate issues for comments and directed PJM to file the first
round of comments on February 22, 2010, with other parties
submitting responsive comments and then reply comments on later dates. PJM filed certain studies
with FERC on April 13, 2010, in response to the FERC order. PJM’s filing demonstrated that
allocation of the cost of high voltage transmission facilities on a beneficiary pays basis results
in certain eastern utilities in PJM bearing the majority of their costs. Numerous parties filed
responsive comments or studies on May 28, 2010 and reply comments on June 28, 2010. FirstEnergy and
a number of other utilities, industrial customers and state commissions supported the use of the
beneficiary pays approach for cost allocation for high voltage transmission facilities. Certain
eastern utilities and their state commissions supported continued socialization of these costs on a
load ratio share basis. FERC is expected to act by May 31, 2011.

RTO Realignment

On December 17, 2009, FERC issued an order approving, subject to certain future compliance filings,
ATSI’s withdrawal from MISO and integration into PJM. This move, which is expected to be effective
on June 1, 2011, allows FirstEnergy to consolidate its transmission assets and operations into PJM.
Currently, FirstEnergy’s transmission assets and operations are divided between PJM and MISO. The
realignment will make the transmission assets that are part of ATSI, whose footprint includes the
Ohio Companies and Penn, part of PJM. In the order, FERC approved FirstEnergy’s proposal to use a
FRR Plan to obtain capacity to satisfy the PJM capacity requirements for the 2011-12 and 2012-13
delivery years.

FirstEnergy
successfully conducted the FRR auctions on March 19, 2010. Moreover, the ATSI zone
loads participated in the PJM base residual auction for the 2013 delivery year. Successful
completion of these steps secured the capacity necessary for the ATSI footprint to meet PJM’s
capacity requirements. On August 25, 2010, the PUCO issued an order in the 2010 ESP Case approving
a settlement that, among other things, called for the PUCO to withdraw its opposition to the RTO
consolidation. In addition, the order approved a wholesale procurement process, and certain “retail
choice” policies, that reflected ATSI’s entry into PJM on June 1, 2011.





On February 1, 2011, ATSI in conjunction with PJM filed its proposal with FERC for moving its
transmission rate into PJM’s tariffs. FirstEnergy expects ATSI to enter PJM on June 1, 2011, and
that if legal proceedings regarding its rate are outstanding at that time, ATSI will be permitted
to start charging its proposed rates, subject to refund. Additional FERC proceedings are either
pending or expected in which the amount of exit fees, transmission cost allocations, and costs
associated with long term firm transmission rights payable by the ATSI zone upon its withdrawal
from the Midwest ISO will be determined. In addition, certain parties may protest other aspects of
ATSI’s integration into PJM, and certain of these matters remain outstanding and will be resolved
in future FERC proceedings. The outcome of these proceedings cannot be predicted.

MISO Multi-Value Project Rule Proposal

On July 15, 2010, MISO and certain MISO transmission owners jointly filed with FERC their proposed
cost allocation methodology for certain new transmission projects. The new transmission
projects—described as MVPs—are a class of MTEP projects. The filing parties proposed to allocate
the costs of MVPs by means of a usage-based charge that will be applied to all loads within the
MISO footprint, and to energy transactions that call for power to be “wheeled through” the MISO as
well as to energy transactions that “source” in the MISO but “sink” outside of MISO. The filing
parties expect that the MVP proposal will fund the costs of large transmission projects designed to
bring wind generation from the upper Midwest to load centers in the east. The filing parties
requested an effective date for the proposal of July 16, 2011. On August 19, 2010, MISO’s Board
approved the first MVP project — the “Michigan Thumb Project.” Under MISO’s proposal, the costs of
MVP projects approved by MISO’s Board prior to the anticipated June 1, 2011 effective date of
FirstEnergy’s integration into PJM would continue to be allocated to FirstEnergy. MISO estimated
that approximately $11 million in annual revenue requirements would be allocated to the ATSI zone
associated with the Michigan Thumb Project upon its completion.

On September 10, 2010, FirstEnergy filed a protest to the MVP proposal arguing that MISO’s proposal
to allocate costs of MVP projects across the entire MISO footprint does not align with the
established rule that cost allocation is to be based on cost causation (the “beneficiary pays”
approach). FirstEnergy also argued that, in light of progress to date in the ATSI integration into
PJM, it would be unjust and unreasonable to allocate any MVP costs to the ATSI zone, or to ATSI.
Numerous other parties filed pleadings on MISO’s MVP proposal.

On December 16, 2010, FERC issued an order approving the MVP proposal without significant change.
FERC’s order was not clear, however, as to whether the MVP costs would be payable by ATSI or load
in the ATSI zone. FERC stated that the MISO’s tariffs obligate ATSI to pay all charges that attach
prior to ATSI’s exit but ruled that the question of the amount of costs that are to be allocated to
ATSI or to load in the ATSI zone were beyond the scope of FERC’s order and would be addressed in
future proceedings.

On January 18, 2011, FirstEnergy filed for rehearing of FERC’s order. In its rehearing request,
the Company argued that because the MVP rate is usage-based, costs could not be applied to ATSI,
which is a stand-alone transmission company that does not use the transmission system. FirstEnergy
also renewed its arguments regarding cost causation and the impropriety of allocating costs to the
ATSI zone or to ATSI. FirstEnergy cannot predict the outcome of these proceedings at this time.

Sales to Affiliates

FES has received authorization from FERC to make wholesale power sales to the Utilities. FES
actively participates in auctions conducted by or on behalf of the Utilities to obtain the power
and related services necessary to meet the Utilities’ POLR obligations. Because of the merger with
FirstEnergy, AS is considered an affiliate of the Utilities for purposes of FERC’s affiliate
restriction regulations. This requires AS to obtain prior FERC authorization to make sales to the
Utilities when it successfully participates in the Utilities’ POLR auctions.

FES currently supplies the Ohio Companies with a portion of their capacity, energy, ancillary
services and transmission under a Master SSO Supply Agreement for a two-year period ending May 31,
2011. FES won 51 tranches in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered by the Ohio
Companies and their consultant, CRA International on May 13-14, 2009. Other winning suppliers have
assigned their Master SSO Supply Agreements to FES, five of which were effective in June, two more
in July, four more in August and ten more in September, 2009. FES also supplies power used by
Constellation to serve an additional five tranches. As a result of these arrangements, FES serves
77 tranches, or 77% of the POLR load of the Ohio Companies until May 31, 2011.

On October 20, 2010, FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered
by the Ohio Companies and their consultant, CRA International, for the following periods: June 1,
2011 through May 31, 2012; June 1, 2011, through May 31, 2013; and June 1, 2010 through May 31,
2014. The Ohio Companies offered 17, 17, and 16 tranches for these periods, respectively. FES won
10, 7, and 3 tranches, respectively, for these periods. On January 25, 2011, the Ohio Companies
conducted a second auction offering the same product for identical time periods. FES won 3, 0, and
3 tranches, respectively, for these periods. FES entered into a Master SSO Supply Agreement to
provide capacity, energy, ancillary services, and congestion costs to the Ohio Companies for the
tranches won. Under the ESP in effect for these time periods, the Ohio Companies are responsible
for payment of noncontrollable transmission costs billed by PJM for POLR service.





On October 18, 2010, FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service administered
by both Met-Ed and Penelec and their consultant, National Economic Research Associates (NERA) for
the following tranche products and delivery periods: Residential 5-month, Residential 24-month,
Commercial 5-month, Commercial 12-month and Industrial 12-month. All 5-month delivery periods are
from January 1, 2011 through May 31, 2011, all 12-month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011
through May 31, 2012 while all 24-month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31,
2013. Met-Ed offered 7 Residential 5-month tranches, 4 Residential 24-month tranches, 6 Commercial
5-month tranches, 6 Commercial 12-month tranches and 1 Industrial tranche while Penelec offered 5
Residential 5-month tranches, 3 Residential 24-month tranches, 5 Commercial 5-month tranches, 5
Commercial 12-month tranches and 1 Industrial tranche.

For Met-Ed offerings, FES won 4 Residential 5-month tranches, 2 Residential 24-month tranches, 1
Commercial 5-month tranche, 1 Commercial 12-month tranche and zero Industrial tranches. For Penelec
offerings, FES won 1 Residential 5-month tranche, 1 Residential 24-month tranche, zero Commercial
5-month tranches, zero Commercial 12-month tranches and zero Industrial tranches. FES entered into
separate Supplier Master Agreements (SMA) to provide capacity, energy, ancillary services, and
congestion costs with Met-Ed and Penelec for each product won. Under the terms and conditions of
the SMA, Met-Ed and Penelec are responsible for payment of noncontrollable transmission costs
billed by PJM.

On January 18 to 20, 2011 FES participated in a descending clock auction for POLR service
administered by Met-Ed, Penelec, and Penn Power and their consultant, NERA for the following
tranche products and delivery periods: Residential 12-month, Residential 24-month, Commercial
12-month and Industrial 12-month. All 12-month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May
31, 2012 while all 24-month delivery periods are from June 1, 2011 through May 31, 2013. Met-Ed
offered 3 Residential 12-month tranches, 4 Residential 24-month tranches, 6 Commercial 12-month
tranches and 11 Industrial tranches. Penelec offered 3 Residential 12-month tranches, 2 Residential
24-month tranches, 5 Commercial 12-month tranches and 11 Industrial tranches. Penn Power offered 2
Residential 12-month tranches, 1 Residential 24-month tranche, 3 Commercial 12-month tranches and 3
Industrial tranches.

For Met-Ed offerings, FES won 1 Commercial 12-month tranche and zero for the remaining products.
For Penelec and Penn Power offerings, FES won no tranches. FES entered into a SMA to provide
capacity, energy, ancillary services, and congestion costs with Met-Ed for the product won. Under
the terms and conditions of the SMA, Met-Ed is responsible for payment of noncontrollable
transmission costs billed by PJM.



Capital Requirements

Our capital spending for 2011 is expected to be approximately $1.4 billion (excluding nuclear
fuel). For 2012 and 2013 we anticipate average annual baseline capital expenditures of
approximately $1.2 billion — that excludes currently unplanned investment opportunities or future
mandated spending. Baseline capital initiatives promote reliability, improve
operations, and support current environmental and energy efficiency directives. Our capital
investments for additional nuclear fuel are expected to be $133 million, $300 million and $183
million in 2011, 2012 and 2013, respectively.

Anticipated capital expenditures for the Utilities, FES and FirstEnergy’s other subsidiaries for
2011, excluding nuclear fuel, are shown in the following table. Such costs include expenditures for
the betterment of existing facilities and for the completion of generating capacity, construction,
transmission lines, distribution lines, substations and other assets.

Capital2010ExpendituresActual(1)Forecast 2011(In millions)OE$138$127Penn2620CEI113117TE4637JCP&L190181Met-Ed10689Penelec135121ATSI6760FGCO581215NGC333393Other subsidiaries7860Total$1,813$1,420

(1)Excludes nuclear fuel.





During the 2011-2015 period, maturities of, and sinking fund requirements for, long-term debt
of FirstEnergy and its subsidiaries are:

Long-Term Debt Redemption Schedule20112012-2015Total(In millions)FirstEnergy$250$—$250FES163692855OE—150150Penn145CEI20396416JCP&L32149181Met-Ed—400400Penelec—150150Other(1)(21)229208Total$445$2,170$2,615

(1)Includes elimination of certain intercompany debt.

The following tables display consolidated operating lease commitments as of December 31, 2010.

LeaseCapitalOperating LeasesPaymentsTrustNet(In millions)2011$329$116$213201236512524020133671302372014363131232201536591274Years thereafter2,150322,118Total minimum lease payments$3,939$625$3,314

Operating LeasesFESOECEITEJCP&LMet-EdPenelec(In millions)2011$192$146$4$64$6$4$32012230147364543201323614736454320142341463645422015238146364442Years thereafter1,895166679484023Total minimum lease
payments$3,025$898$22$399$73$60$36

FirstEnergy expects its existing sources of liquidity to remain sufficient to meet its
anticipated obligations and those of its subsidiaries. FirstEnergy’s business is capital intensive,
requiring significant resources to fund operating expenses, construction expenditures, scheduled
debt maturities and interest and dividend payments. During 2011, FirstEnergy expects to satisfy these requirements with internal cash from operations — external
funds may also be raised in the capital markets as market conditions warrant. FirstEnergy also
expects that borrowing capacity under credit facilities will continue to be available to manage
working capital requirements along with continued access to long-term capital markets.

FirstEnergy had approximately $700 million of short-term indebtedness as of December 31, 2010,
comprised of borrowings under the $2.75 billion revolving line of credit described below. Total
short-term bank lines of committed credit to FirstEnergy, FES and the Utilities as of January 31,
2011 were approximately $3.2 billion.





FirstEnergy, along with certain of its subsidiaries, are party to a $2.75 billion five-year
revolving credit facility. FirstEnergy has the ability to request an increase in the total
commitments available under this facility up to a maximum of $3.25 billion, subject to the
discretion of each lender to provide additional commitments. Commitments under the facility are
available until August 24, 2012, unless the lenders agree, at the request of the borrowers, to an
unlimited number of additional one-year extensions. Generally, borrowings under the facility must
be repaid within 364 days. Available amounts for each borrower are subject to a specified
sub-limit, as well as applicable regulatory and other limitations. The annual facility fee is
0.125%.

As of January 31, 2011, FES had a $100 million term loan in addition to a $1 billion credit limit
associated with FirstEnergy’s $2.75 billion revolving credit facility. Also, an aggregate of $395
million of accounts receivable financing facilities through the Ohio and Pennsylvania Companies may
be accessed to meet working capital requirements and for other general corporate purposes.
FirstEnergy’s available liquidity as of January 31, 2011, is described in the following table.

AvailableCompanyTypeMaturityCommitmentLiquidity(In millions)FirstEnergy(1)RevolvingAug. 2012$2,750$2,245FESTerm loanMar. 2011100—Ohio and Pennsylvania CompaniesReceivables financingVarious(2)395237Subtotal$3,245$2,482Cash—668Total$3,245$3,150

(1)FirstEnergy Corp. and subsidiary borrowers.(2)Ohio — $250 million matures March 30, 2011; Pennsylvania — $145 million matures June 17, 2011 with optional extension terms.

FirstEnergy’s primary source of cash for continuing operations as a holding company is cash
from the operations of its subsidiaries. During 2010, the holding company received $850 million of
cash dividends on common stock from its subsidiaries and paid $670 million in cash dividends to
common shareholders.

As of December 31, 2010, the Ohio Companies and Penn had the aggregate capability to issue
approximately $2.4 billion of additional FMBs on the basis of property additions and retired bonds
under the terms of their respective mortgage indentures. The issuance of FMBs by the Ohio Companies
is also subject to provisions of their senior note indentures generally limiting the incurrence of
additional secured debt, subject to certain exceptions that would permit, among other things, the
issuance of secured debt (including FMBs) supporting pollution control notes or similar
obligations, or as an extension, renewal or replacement of previously outstanding secured debt. In
addition, these provisions would permit OE and CEI to incur additional secured debt not otherwise
permitted by a specified exception of
up to $124 million and $26 million, respectively, as of December 31, 2010. As a result of the
indenture provisions, TE cannot incur any additional secured debt. Met-Ed and Penelec had the
capability to issue secured debt of approximately $394 million and $343 million, respectively,
under provisions of their senior note indentures as of December 31, 2010.

Based upon FGCO’s FMB indenture, net earnings and available bondable property additions as of
December 31, 2010, FGCO had the capability to issue $1.7 billion of additional FMBs under the terms
of that indenture. Based upon NGC’s FMB indenture, net earnings and available bondable property
additions, NGC had the capability to issue $695 million of additional FMBs as of December 31, 2010.

To the extent that coverage requirements or market conditions restrict the subsidiaries’ abilities
to issue desired amounts of FMBs or preferred stock, they may seek other methods of financing. Such
financings could include the sale of preferred and/or preference stock or of such other types of
securities as might be authorized by applicable regulatory authorities which would not otherwise be
sold and could result in annual interest charges and/or dividend requirements in excess of those
that would otherwise be incurred.

On September 22, 2008, the Shelf Registrants filed an automatically effective shelf registration
statement with the SEC for an unspecified number and amount of securities to be offered thereon.
The shelf registration provides FirstEnergy the flexibility to issue and sell various types of
securities, including common stock, preferred stock, debt securities, warrants, share purchase
contracts, and share purchase units. The Shelf Registrants may utilize the shelf registration
statement to offer and sell unsecured, and in some cases, secured debt securities.







Nuclear Operating Licenses

On August 27, 2010, FENOC submitted an application to the NRC for renewal of the Davis-Besse
Nuclear Power Station operating license for an additional twenty years, until 2037. On December 27
and 28, 2010, a group of petitioners filed a request for hearing, contending that FENOC failed to
adequately consider wind or solar generation, or some combination thereof, as an alternative to
license extension at Davis Besse. They further argued FENOC had failed to adequately assess the
cost of a severe accident at Davis Besse. FENOC and the NRC staff responded to this pleading on
January 21, 2011, demonstrating that none of the petitioners’ arguments were admissible contentions
under the National Environmental Policy Act or NRC regulations. An Atomic Safety and Licensing
Board panel is expected to determine whether a hearing is necessary in this matter.

The following table summarizes the current operating license expiration dates for FES’ nuclear
facilities in service.

Current LicenseStationIn-Service DateExpirationBeaver Valley Unit 119762036Beaver Valley Unit 219872047Perry19862026Davis-Besse19772017



Nuclear Regulation

Under NRC regulations, FirstEnergy must ensure that adequate funds will be available to
decommission its nuclear facilities. As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy had approximately $2
billion invested in external trusts to be used for the decommissioning and environmental
remediation of Davis-Besse, Beaver Valley, Perry and TMI-2. FirstEnergy provides an additional $15
million parental guarantee associated with the funding of decommissioning costs for these units. As
required by the NRC, FirstEnergy annually recalculates and adjusts the amount of its parental
guarantee, as appropriate. The values of FirstEnergy’s nuclear decommissioning trusts fluctuate
based on market conditions. If the value of the trusts decline by a material amount, FirstEnergy’s
obligation to fund the trusts may increase. Disruptions in the capital markets and its effects on
particular businesses and the economy could also affect the values of the nuclear decommissioning
trusts. The NRC recently issued guidance anticipating an increase in low-level radioactive waste disposal
costs associated with the decommissioning of FirstEnergy’s nuclear facilities. As a result,
FirstEnergy’s decommissioning funding obligations are expected to increase. FirstEnergy continues
to evaluate the status of its funding obligations for the decommissioning of these nuclear
facilities.



Nuclear Insurance

The Price-Anderson Act limits the public liability which can be assessed with respect to a nuclear
power plant to $12.6 billion (assuming 104 units licensed to operate) for a single nuclear
incident, which amount is covered by: (i) private insurance amounting to $375 million; and (ii)
$12.2 billion provided by an industry retrospective rating plan required by the NRC pursuant
thereto. Under such retrospective rating plan, in the event of a nuclear incident at any unit in
the
United States resulting in losses in excess of private insurance, up to $118 million (but not more
than $18 million per unit per year in the event of more than one incident) must be contributed for
each nuclear unit licensed to operate in the country by the licensees thereof to cover liabilities
arising out of the incident. Based on their present nuclear ownership and leasehold interests,
FirstEnergy’s maximum potential assessment under these provisions would be $470 million (OE-$40
million, NGC-$408 million, and TE-$22 million) per incident but not more than $70 million (OE-$6
million, NGC-$61 million, and TE-$3 million) in any one year for each incident.

In addition to the public liability insurance provided pursuant to the Price-Anderson Act,
FirstEnergy has also obtained insurance coverage in limited amounts for economic loss and property
damage arising out of nuclear incidents. FirstEnergy is a member of NEIL which provides coverage
(NEIL I) for the extra expense of replacement power incurred due to prolonged accidental outages of
nuclear units. Under NEIL I, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries have policies, renewable yearly,
corresponding to their respective nuclear interests, which provide an aggregate indemnity of up to
approximately $1.4 billion (OE-$120 million, NGC-$1.22 billion, TE-$64 million) for replacement
power costs incurred during an outage after an initial 26-week waiting period. Members of NEIL I
pay annual premiums and are subject to assessments if losses exceed the accumulated funds available
to the insurer. FirstEnergy’s present maximum aggregate assessment for incidents at any covered
nuclear facility occurring during a policy year would be approximately $9 million (OE-$1 million,
NGC-$8 million, and TE-less than $1 million).





FirstEnergy is insured as to its respective nuclear interests under property damage insurance
provided by NEIL to the operating company for each plant. Under these arrangements, up to $2.8
billion of coverage for decontamination costs, decommissioning costs, debris removal and repair
and/or replacement of property is provided. FirstEnergy pays annual premiums for this coverage and
is liable for retrospective assessments of up to approximately $61 million (OE-$5 million, NGC-$52
million, TE-$2 million, Met Ed, Penelec, and JCP&L-less than $1 million each) during a policy year.

FirstEnergy intends to maintain insurance against nuclear risks as described above as long as it is
available. To the extent that replacement power, property damage, decontamination, decommissioning,
repair and replacement costs and other such costs arising from a nuclear incident at any of
FirstEnergy’s plants exceed the policy limits of the insurance in effect with respect to that
plant, to the extent a nuclear incident is determined not to be covered by FirstEnergy’s insurance
policies, or to the extent such insurance becomes unavailable in the future, FirstEnergy would
remain at risk for such costs.

The NRC requires nuclear power plant licensees to obtain minimum property insurance coverage of
$1.1 billion or the amount generally available from private sources, whichever is less. The
proceeds of this insurance are required to be used first to ensure that the licensed reactor is in
a safe and stable condition and can be maintained in that condition to prevent any significant risk
to the public health and safety. Within 30 days of stabilization, the licensee is required to
prepare and submit to the NRC a cleanup plan for approval. The plan is required to identify all
cleanup operations necessary to decontaminate the reactor sufficiently to permit the resumption of
operations or to commence decommissioning. Any property insurance proceeds not already expended to
place the reactor in a safe and stable condition must be used first to complete those
decontamination operations that are ordered by the NRC. FirstEnergy is unable to predict what
effect these requirements may have on the availability of insurance proceeds.



Hydro Relicensing

Yards Creek

The Yards Creek Pumped Storage Project is a 400 MW hydroelectric project located in Warren County,
New Jersey. JCP&L owns an undivided 50% interest in the project, and operates the project. PSEG
Fossil, LLC, a subsidiary of Public Service Enterprise Group, owns the remaining interest in the
plant. The project was constructed in the early 1960s, and became operational in 1965.
Authorization to operate the project is by a license issued by the FERC. The existing license
expires on February 28, 2013.

In February 2011 FirstEnergy and PSEG filed a joint application with FERC to renew the license
for an additional fifty years. The companies are pursuing relicensure through FERC’s Integrated
License Application Process (ILP). Under the ILP process FERC will assess the license
applications, issue draft and final Environmental Assessments/Environmental Impact Studies (as
required by NEPA), and provide opportunity for intervention and protests by affected third parties.
FERC may hold hearings during the 2-year ILP licensure period. FirstEnergy expects FERC to issue
the new license within the remaining portion of the 2-year ILP period. To the extent, however that
the license proceedings extend beyond the February 28, 2013 expiration date for the current
license, the current license will be extended yearly as necessary to permit FERC to issue the new
license.

Seneca

The Seneca (Kinzua) Pumped Storage Project is a 451 MW hydroelectric project located in Warren
County, Pennsylvania. FGCO owns and operates the project. The current FERC license was issued on
December 1, 1965, and will expire on November 30, 2015.
FGCO expects to file its new license
application on or before November 30, 2013.

On November 23, 2010, FGCO filed its notice of intent to relicense and pre-application document
(PAD). On November 30, 2010, the Seneca Nation of Indians (Salamanca, NY) filed a competing notice
of intent to file a new license application and PAD. On January 28, 2011, FERC issued a notice of
the competing notices of intent and PADs; commencement of prefiling process and scoping; request
for comments on the PADs; and identification of issues and associated study requests.

FERC’s ILP provides a 5 year period for preparation, submission and adjudication of the licenses.
The first part is a 3-year period during which each of FirstEnergy and the Seneca Nation are to
collect the information and conduct the studies necessary to support license applications. The
second part is the same as the licensing process described above for Yards Creek.

Section 15 of the Federal Power Act provides that when there are competing license applications,
insignificant differences between competing applications are not determinative and shall not result
in transfer of the license for the project. Based on the facts and
the law, FirstEnergy believes it
qualifies for this “incumbent preference”. The timetable for a FERC decision cannot be predicted at
this time.







Environmental Matters

Various federal, state and local authorities regulate FirstEnergy with regard to air and water
quality and other environmental matters. Compliance with environmental regulations could have a
material adverse effect on FirstEnergy’s earnings and competitive position to the extent that
FirstEnergy competes with companies that are not subject to such regulations and, therefore, do not
bear the risk of costs associated with compliance, or failure to comply, with such regulations.

Clean Air Act Compliance

FirstEnergy is required to meet federally-approved SO2and NOx emissions regulations
under the CAA. FirstEnergy complies with SO2and NOx reduction requirements under the
CAA and SIP(s) under the CAA by burning lower-sulfur fuel, combustion controls and post-combustion
controls, generating more electricity from lower-emitting plants and/or using emission allowances.
Violations can result in the shutdown of the generating unit involved and/or civil or criminal
penalties.

The Sammis, Eastlake and Mansfield coal-fired plants are operated under a consent decree with the
EPA and DOJ that requires reductions of NOx and SO2emissions through the installation
of pollution control devices or repowering. OE and Penn are subject to stipulated penalties for
failure to install and operate such pollution controls or complete repowering in accordance with
that agreement.

In July 2008, three complaints were filed against FGCO in the U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on Bruce Mansfield Plant air emissions. Two of these
complaints also seek to enjoin the Bruce Mansfield Plant from operating except in a “safe,
responsible, prudent and proper manner”, one being a complaint filed on behalf of twenty-one
individuals and the other being a class action complaint seeking certification as a class action
with the eight named plaintiffs as the class representatives. FGCO believes the claims are without
merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in those three complaints.

The states of New Jersey and Connecticut filed CAA citizen suits in 2007 alleging NSR violations at
the Portland Generation Station against GenOn Energy, Inc. (the current owner and operator), Sithe
Energy (the purchaser of the Portland Station from Met-Ed in 1999) and Met-Ed. Specifically, these
suits allege that “modifications” at Portland Units 1 and 2 occurred between 1980 and 2005 without
preconstruction NSR permitting in violation of the CAA’s PSD program, and seek injunctive relief,
penalties, attorney fees and mitigation of the harm caused by excess emissions. In September 2009,
the Court granted Met-Ed’s motion to dismiss New Jersey’s and Connecticut’s claims for injunctive
relief against Met-Ed, but denied Met-Ed’s motion to dismiss the claims for civil penalties. The
parties dispute the scope of Met-Ed’s indemnity obligation to and from Sithe Energy.

In January 2009, the EPA issued a NOV to GenOn alleging NSR violations at the Portland Generation
Station based on “modifications” dating back to 1986 and also alleged NSR violations at the
Keystone and Shawville Stations based on “modifications” dating back to 1984. Met-Ed, JCP&L, as the
former owner of 16.67% of the Keystone Station, and Penelec, as former owner and operator of the
Shawville Station, are unable to predict the outcome of this matter.

In January 2011, a complaint was filed against Penelec in the U.S. District Court for the Western
District of Pennsylvania seeking damages based on the Homer City Station’s air emissions. The
complaint was also filed against the former co-owner, NYSEG and various current owners of the Homer
City Station, including EME Homer City Generation L.P. and affiliated companies, including Edison
International. The complaint also seeks certification as a class action and to enjoin the Homer
City Station from operating except in a “safe, responsible, prudent and proper manner.” Penelec
believes the claims are without merit and intends to defend itself against the allegations made in
the complaint.





In August 2009, the EPA issued a Finding of Violation and NOV alleging violations of the CAA and
Ohio regulations, including the PSD, NNSR, and Title V regulations at the Eastlake, Lakeshore, Bay
Shore and Ashtabula generating plants. The EPA’s NOV alleges equipment replacements occurring
during maintenance outages dating back to 1990 triggered the pre-construction permitting
requirements under the PSD and NNSR programs. FGCO received a request for certain operating and
maintenance information and planning information for these same generating plants and notification
that the EPA is evaluating whether certain maintenance at the Eastlake generating plant may
constitute a major modification under the NSR provision of the CAA. Later in 2009, FGCO also
received another information request regarding emission projections for the Eastlake generating
plant. FGCO intends to comply with the CAA, including the EPA’s information requests, but, at this
time, is unable to predict the outcome of this matter.

National Ambient Air Quality Standards









Hazardous Air Pollutant Emissions


Climate Change

There are a number of initiatives to reduce GHG emissions under consideration at the federal, state
and international level. At the federal level, members of Congress have introduced several bills
seeking to reduce emissions of GHG in the United States, and the House of Representatives passed
one such bill, the American Clean Energy and Security Act of 2009, on June 26, 2009. The Senate
continues to consider a number of measures to regulate GHG emissions. President Obama has announced
his Administration’s “New Energy for America Plan” that includes, among other provisions, ensuring
that 10% of electricity used in the United States comes from renewable sources by 2012, increasing
to 25% by 2025, and implementing an economy-wide cap-and-trade program to reduce GHG emissions by
80% by 2050. State activities, primarily the northeastern states participating in the Regional
Greenhouse Gas Initiative and western states, led by California, have coordinated efforts to
develop regional strategies to control emissions of certain GHGs.





In September 2009, the EPA finalized a national GHG emissions collection and reporting rule that
will require FirstEnergy to measure GHG emissions commencing in 2010 and submit reports commencing
in 2011. In December 2009, the EPA released its final “Endangerment and Cause or Contribute
Findings for Greenhouse Gases under the Clean Air Act.” The EPA’s finding concludes that
concentrations of several key GHGs increase the threat of climate change and may be regulated as
“air pollutants” under the CAA. In April 2010, the EPA finalized new GHG standards for model years
2012 to 2016 passenger cars, light-duty trucks and medium-duty passenger vehicles and clarified
that GHG regulation under the CAA would not be triggered for electric generating plants and other
stationary sources until January 2, 2011, at the earliest. In May 2010, the EPA finalized new
thresholds for GHG emissions that define when permits under the CAA’s NSR program would be
required. The EPA established an emissions applicability threshold of 75,000 tons per year (tpy) of
carbon dioxide equivalents (CO2e) effective January 2, 2011 for existing facilities under the CAA’s
PSD program, but until July 1, 2011 that emissions applicability threshold will only apply if PSD
is triggered by non-carbon dioxide pollutants.

At the international level, the Kyoto Protocol, signed by the U.S. in 1998 but never submitted for
ratification by the U.S. Senate, was intended to address global warming by reducing the amount of
man-made GHG, including CO2, emitted by developed countries by 2012. A December 2009
U.N. Climate Change Conference in Copenhagen did not reach a consensus on a successor treaty to the
Kyoto Protocol, but did take note of the Copenhagen Accord, a non-binding political agreement which
recognized the scientific view that the increase in global temperature should be below two degrees
Celsius; include a commitment by developed countries to provide funds, approaching $30 billion over
the next three years with a goal of increasing to $100 billion by 2020; and establish the
“Copenhagen Green Climate Fund” to support mitigation, adaptation, and other climate-related
activities in developing countries. Once they have become a party to the Copenhagen Accord,
developed economies, such as the European Union, Japan, Russia and the United States, would commit
to quantified economy-wide emissions targets from 2020, while developing countries, including
Brazil, China and India, would agree to take mitigation actions, subject to their domestic
measurement, reporting and verification.

On September 21, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit and on October 16, 2009,
the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reversed and remanded lower court decisions that
had dismissed complaints alleging damage from GHG emissions on jurisdictional grounds. However, a
subsequent ruling from the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit reinstated the lower court
dismissal of a complaint alleging damage from GHG emissions. These cases involve common law tort
claims, including public and private nuisance, alleging that GHG emissions contribute to global
warming and result in property damages. On December 6, 2010, the U.S. Supreme Court granted a writ
of certiorari to the Second Circuit inConnecticut v. AEP. Briefing and oral argument are expected
to be completed in early 2011 and a decision issued in or around June 2011. While FirstEnergy is
not a party to this litigation, FirstEnergy and/or one or more of its subsidiaries could be named
in actions making similar allegations.

FirstEnergy cannot currently estimate the financial impact of climate change policies, although
potential legislative or regulatory programs restricting CO2emissions, or litigation
alleging damages from GHG emissions, could require significant capital and other expenditures or
result in changes to its operations. The CO2emissions per KWH of electricity generated
by FirstEnergy is lower than many regional competitors due to its diversified generation sources,
which include low or non-CO2emitting gas-fired and nuclear generators.

Clean Water Act

Various water quality regulations, the majority of which are the result of the federal Clean Water
Act and its amendments, apply to FirstEnergy’s plants. In addition, Ohio, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania have water quality standards applicable to FirstEnergy’s operations.





In June 2008, the U.S. Attorney’s Office in Cleveland, Ohio advised FGCO that it is considering
prosecution under the Clean Water Act and the Migratory Bird Treaty Act for three petroleum spills
at the Edgewater, Lakeshore and Bay Shore plants which occurred on November 1, 2005, January 26,
2007 and February 27, 2007. FGCO is unable to predict the outcome of this matter.

Regulation of Waste Disposal

Federal and state hazardous waste regulations have been promulgated as a result of the Resource
Conservation and Recovery Act of 1976, as amended, and the Toxic Substances Control Act of 1976.
Certain fossil-fuel combustion residuals, such as coal ash, were exempted from hazardous waste
disposal requirements pending the EPA’s evaluation of the need for future regulation. In February
2009, the EPA requested comments from the states on options for regulating coal combustion
residuals, including whether they should be regulated as hazardous or non-hazardous waste.

On December 30, 2009, in an advanced notice of public rulemaking, the EPA said that the large
volumes of coal combustion residuals produced by electric utilities pose significant financial risk
to the industry. On May 4, 2010, the EPA proposed two options for additional regulation of coal
combustion residuals, including the option of regulation as a special waste under the EPA’s
hazardous waste management program which could have a significant impact on the management,
beneficial use and disposal of coal combustion residuals. FGCO’s future cost of compliance with any
coal combustion residuals regulations which may be promulgated could be substantial and would
depend, in part, on the regulatory action taken by the EPA and implementation by the EPA or the
states.

The Utilities have been named as potentially responsible parties at waste disposal sites, which may
require cleanup under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of
1980. Allegations of disposal of hazardous substances at historical sites and the liability
involved are often unsubstantiated and subject to dispute; however, federal law provides that all
potentially responsible parties for a particular site may be liable on a joint and several basis.
Environmental liabilities that are considered probable have been recognized on the consolidated
balance sheet as of December 31, 2010, based on estimates of the total costs of cleanup, the
Utilities’ proportionate responsibility for such costs and the financial ability of other
unaffiliated entities to pay. Total liabilities of approximately $104 million (JCP&L — $69 million,
TE — $1 million, CEI — $1 million, FGCO — $1 million and FirstEnergy — $32 million) have been
accrued through December 31, 2010. Included in the total are accrued liabilities of approximately
$64 million for environmental remediation of former MGPs and gas holder facilities in New Jersey,
which are being recovered by JCP&L through a non-bypassable SBC.



Fuel Supply

FES currently has long-term coal contracts with various terms to acquire approximately 19.2 million
tons of coal for the year 2011, approximately 116% of its 2011 coal requirements of 16.6 million
tons. This contract coal is produced primarily from mines located in Ohio, Pennsylvania, West
Virginia, Montana and Wyoming. The contracts expire at various times through December 31, 2030. FES
has contracted sufficient storage to manage the coal inventory should that be necessary. See
“Environmental Matters” for factors pertaining to meeting environmental regulations affecting
coal-fired generating units.

In July 2008, FEV entered into a joint venture with WMB Loan Ventures LLC and WMB Loan Ventures II
LLC, to acquire a majority stake in the Bull Mountain Mine Operations, now called Signal Peak,
near Roundup, Montana. This joint venture is part of FirstEnergy’s strategy to secure high-quality
fuel supplies at attractive prices to maximize the capacity of its fossil generating plants. In a
related transaction, FGCO entered into a 15-year agreement to purchase up to 10 million tons of
bituminous western coal annually from the mine. FirstEnergy also entered into agreements with the
rail carriers associated with transporting coal from the mine to its generating stations, and began
taking delivery of the coal in late 2009. The joint venture has the right to resell Signal Peak
coal tonnage not used at FirstEnergy facilities and has call rights on such coal above certain
levels.

FirstEnergy has contracts for all uranium requirements through 2012 and a portion of uranium
material requirements through 2024. Conversion services contracts fully cover requirements through
2011 and partially fill requirements through 2024. Enrichment services are contracted for
essentially all of the enrichment requirements for nuclear fuel through 2020. A portion of
enrichment requirements is also contracted for through 2024. Fabrication services for fuel
assemblies are contracted for both Beaver Valley units and Davis-Besse through 2013 and through the
current operating license period for Perry. The Davis-Besse fabrication contract also has an
extension provision for services for additional consecutive reload batches through the current
operating license period. In addition to the existing commitments, FirstEnergy intends to make
additional arrangements for the supply of uranium and for the subsequent conversion, enrichment,
fabrication, and waste disposal services.





On-site spent fuel storage facilities are expected to be adequate for Beaver Valley Unit 1 through
2014. Davis-Besse has adequate storage through 2017. FENOC is taking actions to extend the spent
fuel storage capacity for Beaver Valley Units 1 and 2 and Perry. Plant modifications to increase
the storage capacity of the existing spent fuel storage pool at Beaver Valley Unit 2 are currently
under NRC review with approval expected by mid-year 2011. Dry fuel storage is also being pursued
at Beaver Valley with completion projected by the end of 2014. Perry dry fuel storage facilities
have been completed with the initial dry fuel storage loading pending resolution of a technical
issue with the NRC. The Perry initial dry fuel storage loading campaign is targeted for 2012.
Both Beaver Valley 2 and Perry maintain sufficient fuel storage capability to continue operations
through the targeted completion dates of their respective storage expansion projects. After
current on-site storage capacity at the plants is exhausted, additional storage capacity will have
to be obtained either through plant modifications, interim off-site disposal, or permanent waste
disposal facilities.

The Federal Nuclear Waste Policy Act of 1982 provided for the construction of facilities for the
permanent disposal of high-level nuclear wastes, including spent fuel from nuclear power plants
operated by electric utilities. NGC has contracts with the DOE for the disposal of spent fuel for
Beaver Valley, Davis-Besse and Perry. Yucca Mountain was approved in 2002 as a repository for
underground disposal of spent nuclear fuel from nuclear power plants and high level waste from U.S.
defense programs. The DOE submitted the license application for Yucca Mountain to the NRC on June
3, 2008. On March 3, 2010, the Department of Energy filed a motion to withdraw its Yucca Mountain
license application with prejudice. The Atomic Safety and Licensing Board denied the Department’s
withdrawal motion on June 29, 2010. That decision is on appeal to the Commission. However, the
current Administration has stated the Yucca Mountain repository will not be completed and a Federal
review of potential alternative strategies is being performed.

In parallel, several parties filed actions in the U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals for the D.C.
Circuit challenging the Department’s authority to withdraw the license application in light of its
obligations under the Nuclear Waste Policy Act. The first case filed wasIn re: Aiken County,
filed on February 19, 2010. Robert L. Ferguson, et al. filed a petition on February 25, 2010;
State of South Carolina filed on March 26, 2010; and State of Washington filed on April 13, 2010.
These cases have since been consolidated. Arguments in the case are scheduled for March 22, 2011.
In light of this uncertainty, FirstEnergy intends to make additional arrangements for storage
capacity as a contingency for the continuing delays of the DOE acceptance of spent fuel for
disposal.

Fuel oil and natural gas are used primarily to fuel peaking units and/or to ignite the burners
prior to burning coal when a coal-fired plant is restarted. Fuel oil requirements have historically
been low and are forecasted to remain so. Requirements are expected to average approximately 5
million gallons per year over the next five years. Natural gas is currently consumed primarily by
peaking units and demand is forecasted at less than 1 million mcf in 2011. FirstEnergy purchased a
partially completed combined cycle combustion turbine plant in Fremont Ohio. Construction is
scheduled to be completed in 2011.



System Demand

The 2010 net maximum hourly demand for each of the Utilities was:

•OE—5,610 MW on July 23, 2010;•Penn—1,028 MW on July 23, 2010;•CEI—4,418 MW on July 23, 2010;•TE—2,122 MW on July 23, 2010;•JCP&L—6,420 MW on July 6, 2010;•Met-Ed—2,932 MW on July 6, 2010; and•Penelec—2,884 MW on July 6, 2010.







Supply Plan

Regulated Commodity Sourcing

The Utilities have a default service obligation to provide power to non-shopping customers who have
elected to continue to receive service under regulated retail tariffs. The volume of these sales
can vary depending on the level of shopping that occurs. Supply plans vary by state and by service
territory. JCP&L’s default service supply is secured through a statewide competitive procurement
process approved by the NJBPU. The Ohio Companies and Penn’s default service supplies are provided
through a competitive procurement process approved by the PUCO and PPUC, respectively. The default
service supply for Met-Ed and Penelec was secured through a FERC-approved agreement with FES
through 2010, transitioning to a PPUC-approved competitive procurement process in 2011. If any
supplier fails to deliver power to any one of the Utilities’ service areas, the Utility serving
that area may need to procure the required power in the market in their role as a POLR.

Unregulated Commodity Sourcing

FES provides energy and energy related services, including the generation and sale of electricity
and energy planning and procurement through retail and wholesale competitive supply arrangements.
FES controls 13,236 MW of installed generating capacity. FES supplies the power requirements of its
competitive load-serving obligations through a combination of subsidiary-owned generation,
non-affiliated contracts and spot market transactions.

FES has retail and wholesale competitive load-serving obligations in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Illinois,
Maryland, Michigan and New Jersey serving both affiliated and non-affiliated companies. FES
provides energy products and services to customers under various POLR, shopping, competitive-bid
and non-affiliated contractual obligations. In 2010, FES’ generation was used to serve two primary
obligations — affiliated companies utilized approximately 43% of FES’ total generation and retail
customers utilized approximately 43% of FES’ total generation. Geographically, approximately 60% of
FES’ obligation is located in the MISO market area and 40% is located in the PJM market area.



Regional Reliability

FirstEnergy’s operating companies are located within MISO and PJM and operate under the reliability
oversight of a regional entity known as ReliabilityFirst. This regional entity operates under the
oversight of the NERC in accordance with a Delegation Agreement approved by the FERC.
ReliabilityFirstbegan operations under the NERC on January 1, 2006. On July 20, 2006, the NERC was
certified by the FERC as the ERO in the United States pursuant to Section 215 of the FPA and
ReliabilityFirstwas certified as a regional entity.



Competition

As a result of actions taken by state legislative bodies, major changes in the electric utility
business have occurred in portions of the United States, including Ohio, New Jersey and
Pennsylvania, where FirstEnergy’s utility subsidiaries operate. These changes have altered the way
traditional integrated utilities conduct their business. FirstEnergy has aligned its business units
to participate in the competitive electricity marketplace (see Management’s Discussion and
Analysis). FirstEnergy’s Competitive Energy Services segment participates in deregulated energy
markets in Ohio, Pennsylvania, Maryland, Michigan, New Jersey, and Illinois through FES.

In New Jersey, JCP&L has procured electric generation supply to serve its BGS customers since 2002
through a statewide auction process approved by the NJBPU. The auction is designed to procure
supply for BGS customers at a cost reflective of market conditions. In Ohio, SB221 provides two
options for pricing generation in 2009 and beyond — through a negotiated rate plan or a
competitive bidding process (see Ohio Regulatory Matters above). In Pennsylvania, all electric
distribution companies are required to secure generation for customers in competitive markets
effective January 1, 2011.



Seasonality

The sale of electric power is generally a seasonal business and weather patterns can have a
material impact on FirstEnergy’s operating results. Demand for electricity in our service
territories historically peaks during the summer and winter months, with market prices also
generally peaking at that time. Accordingly, FirstEnergy’s annual results of operations and
liquidity position may depend disproportionately on its operating performance during the summer and
winter. Mild weather conditions may result in lower power sales and consequently lower earnings.





Research and DevelopmentThe Utilities, FES, and FENOC participate in the funding of EPRI, which was formed for the purpose
of expanding electric research and development (R&D) under the voluntary sponsorship of the
nation’s electric utility industry — public,
private and cooperative. Its goal is to mutually benefit utilities and their customers by promoting
the development of new and improved technologies to help the utility industry meet present and
future electric energy needs in environmentally and economically acceptable ways. EPRI conducts
research on all aspects of electric power production and use, including fuels, generation,
delivery, energy management and conservation, environmental effects and energy analysis. The
majority of EPRI’s research and development projects are directed toward practical solutions and
their applications to problems currently facing the electric utility industry.FirstEnergy participates in other initiatives with industry R&D consortiums and universities to
address technology needs for its various business units. Participation in these consortiums helps
the company address research needs in areas such as plant operations and maintenance, major
component reliability, environmental controls, advanced energy technologies, and transmission and
distribution system infrastructure to improve performance, and develop new technologies for
advanced energy and grid applications.21






Executive Officers



NameAgePositions Held During Past Five YearsDates

A.
J. Alexander (A)(B)59President and Chief Executive OfficerChief Executive Officer (F)*-present*-present



W. D. Byrd (B)56Vice President, Corporate Risk & Chief Risk Officer2007-present

Director — Rates Strategy*-2007



L. M. Cavalier (B)59Senior Vice President — Human Resources2005-present

Vice President*-2005



M. T. Clark (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)60Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer2009-present

Executive Vice President — Strategic Planning & Operations2008-2009

Senior Vice President — Strategic Planning & Operations*-2008



C. E. Jones (A)(B)55Senior Vice President & President — FirstEnergy Utilities2010-present

President (C) (D)2010-present

Senior Vice President — Energy Delivery & Customer Service2009-2010

President — FirstEnergy Solutions2007-2009

Senior Vice President — Energy Delivery & Customer Service*-2007



J. H. Lash (F)60President and Chief Nuclear Officer2010-present

Senior Vice President and Chief Operating Officer2007-2010

Vice President, Beaver Valley*-2007



C. D. Lasky (E)48Vice President — Fossil Operations2008-present

Vice President — Fossil Operations & Air Quality Compliance2007-2008

Vice President*-2007



G. R. Leidich (A)(B)60Executive Vice President & President — FirstEnergy Generation2008-present

Senior Vice President — Operations (B)2007-2008

President and Chief Nuclear Officer (F)*-2007



D. C. Luff (B)63Senior Vice President — Governmental Affairs2007-present

Vice President*-2007



J. F. Pearson56Vice President and Treasurer2006-present

(A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)Treasurer*-2006



D. R. Schneider (E)49President2009-present

Senior Vice President — Energy Delivery & Customer Service (B)2007-2009

Vice President (B)2006-2007

Vice President (E)*-2006



L. L. Vespoli (A)(B)(C)(D)(E)(F)51Executive Vice President and General Counsel2008-present

Senior Vice President and General Counsel*-2008



H. L. Wagner (A)(B)58Vice President, Controller and Chief Accounting Officer*-present

Vice President and Controller (C)(D)(E)(F)*-present

(A)Denotes executive officer of FirstEnergy Corp.(B)Denotes executive officer of FESC(C)Denotes executive officer of OE, CEI and TE.(D)Denotes executive officer of Met-Ed, Penelec and Penn.(E)Denotes executive officer of FES(F)Denotes executive officer of FENOC*Indicates position held at least since January 1, 2006.







Employees

As of December 31, 2010, FirstEnergy’s subsidiaries had a total of 13,330 employees located in the
United States as follows:

BargainingTotalUnitEmployeesEmployeesFESC2,796295OE1,227750CEI916615TE394287Penn207154JCP&L1,4341,097Met-Ed706509Penelec899642ATSI39—FES274—FGCO1,7511,140FENOC2,687982Total13,3306,471



FirstEnergy Web Site

Each of the registrant’s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current
Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed with or furnished to the SEC pursuant to
Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are also made available free of
charge on or through FirstEnergy’s internet Web site at www.firstenergycorp.com. These reports are
posted on the Web site as soon as reasonably practicable after they are electronically filed with
the SEC. Additionally, we routinely post important information on our Web site and recognize our
Web site is a channel of distribution to reach public investors and as a means of disclosing
material non-public information for complying with disclosure obligations under SEC Regulation FD.
Information contained on FirstEnergy’s Web site shall not be deemed incorporated into, or to be
part of, this report.



