
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K
                Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of
                       the Securities Exchange Act of 1934


              For the Fiscal Year Ended: September 30, 1997    
                                         ------------------
                        Commission File Number: 0-18059
                                                -------
                        PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

         Massachusetts                              04-2866152
- -------------------------------      --------------------------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of      (I.R.S. Employer Identification Number)
incorporation or organization)

                    128 Technology Drive, Waltham, MA 02154
                    ---------------------------------------
         (Address of principal executive offices, including zip code)

                                (781) 398-5000
                    ---------------------------------------
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

Securities registered pursuant to            Securities registered pursuant to
Section 12(b) of the Act:                    Section 12(g) of the Act:

                    None                 Common Stock, $.01 par value per share
                                         --------------------------------------
                                                  (Title of Class)

       Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has (i) filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports) and (ii) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.

                            YES     X           NO 
                                ----------         ---------- 

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the
best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]

       The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of
the registrant as of October 31, 1997 was $4,478,147,410.


       Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's
classes of common stock, as of the latest practicable date.

       Common Stock, $.01 par value per share             127,936,236
       --------------------------------------        ----------------------
                             Class               Outstanding at October 31, 1997

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

       Portions of the Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended
September 30, 1997 ("1997 Annual Report to Stockholders") are incorporated by
reference into Parts I and II.

       Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement in connection with the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders to be held February 12, 1998 ("1998 Proxy Statement")
are incorporated by reference into Part III.

 
                   Important Factors Regarding Future Results

Information provided by the Company, including information contained in this
Annual Report on Form 10-K, or by its spokespersons from time to time may
contain forward-looking statements concerning projected financial performance,
market and industry segment growth, product development and commercialization,
or other aspects of future operations. Such statements are based on the
assumptions and expectations of management at the time such statements are made.
The Company cautions investors that its performance (and, therefore, any
forward-looking statement) is subject to risks and uncertainties. Various
important factors, including but not limited to those discussed herein, may
cause the Company's future results to differ materially from those projected in
any forward-looking statement. Important information about such factors and the
basis for those assumptions is contained in "Proposed Acquisition" and
"Important Factors Regarding Future Results" included in the "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
section in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders, which section is incorporated
herein by reference, and in the "Risk Factors" section of the Company's
Registration Statement on Form S-4 filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission on November 12, 1997.



                                     PART I

ITEM 1:    Business

                                     General

Parametric Technology Corporation (the "Company") develops, markets and supports
Pro/ENGINEER(R) Solutions, a family of software products that automate the
complete product development process within the mechanical computer-aided
design, manufacturing and engineering ("CAD/CAM/CAE") industry. The Company's
Pro/ENGINEER product line includes industrial design; mechanical design;
functional simulation; production applications; information technology
applications and implementation solutions. The Company focuses its marketing and
sales efforts primarily on the electronic, aerospace, automotive, consumer
products, medical equipment, industrial equipment, heavy equipment and
telecommunications industries.

Mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE is a complex process which encompasses a broad spectrum
of engineering disciplines essential to the development of virtually all
manufactured products, ranging from consumer products to jet aircraft.
Manufacturers compete on the basis of cost, time to market and product
performance criteria, which are significantly affected by the quality and length
of the product development process. The Company's mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE
products offer a high-performance, fully integrated solution which enables
end-users to reduce the time to market and manufacturing costs for their
products and to improve product quality by easily evaluating multiple design
alternatives. The Company believes that its Pro/ENGINEER product line offers
better price/performance, greater ease of use and more complete integration of
multiple engineering disciplines than other available mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE
products.

The Company's Pro/ENGINEER product line is based on an innovative software
architecture that incorporates a unique parametric, feature-based solid modeling
technology. The Company's Pro/ENGINEER software uses a single data structure to
capture changes made in any stage of the product development process and to
automatically update designs and all engineering deliverables. The single data
structure allows all changes to be propagated automatically throughout the
product development process, enabling users to integrate multiple engineering
activities in the mechanical design process and conduct them on a concurrent
basis. In addition, as a result of the data structure of the Company's products,
engineers can create, process, modify and store designs quickly and easily, in a
highly efficient manner.

The Pro/ENGINEER product line runs on all major UNIX(R) and Microsoft(R) Windows
NT(TM) and Windows(R) 95 Operating System platforms, and is
hardware-independent. The product is written in "C" programming language, which
allows for portability from one standard workstation to another.


 
                              Proposed Acquisition

On November 4, 1997, the Company announced that it had entered into an agreement
to acquire Computervision Corporation ("Computervision") in a stock-for-stock
transaction. Based on the November 3, 1997 closing price of the Company's common
stock, the aggregate equity value of the transaction is approximately
$260,000,000. The Company will also assume approximately $240,000,000 in debt
from Computervision, and expects to use cash and short-term investment balances
to repay a substantial portion of such debt.

Under the terms of the proposed transaction, each share of Computervision common
stock will be exchanged for .0866 shares of the Company's common stock. The
transaction is intended to be accounted for as a pooling of interests and to
qualify as a tax-free reorganization. Upon closing, Computervision will become a
wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. The transaction is subject to approval
of Computervision's shareholders at a meeting called for January 12, 1998 and is
expected to close promptly after such approval. The Company expects to recognize
a non-recurring charge of approximately $75,000,000 to $95,000,000 related to
certain merger-related, debt prepayment, consolidation and integration expenses
during the quarter in which the transaction closes.

The Company expects that the acquisition of Computervision will expand its
business presence and make it more competitive in the high-end of the
computer-aided design market in the automotive and aerospace industries.
Computervision's products are also expected to broaden the Company's data
management product offerings and permit it to offer enterprise-wide data
management products that address the requirements of larger customers.

Except where explicitly noted, the discussion in this Report does not give
effect to the acquisition of Computervision.



                               Product Development

The mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE industry is characterized by rapid technological
advances. The Company's ability to develop new products rapidly is facilitated
by the modular structure of its software code, which enables functional
subroutines used in existing products to be accessed and utilized by new
software modules, thereby reducing the amount of new code required to develop
additional products. The major benefit of this approach is rapid development of
new functionality. There can be no assurance, however, that the Company will be
successful in developing and marketing product enhancements or new products and
modules that respond to technological changes by others, or that its new
products will adequately address the needs of the marketplace.

The Company works closely with its customers to define improvements and
enhancements, which are then integrated into the products. Using this approach,
customers become involved in the product design process to validate feasibility
and to influence functionality early in the product's life-cycle. In addition,
the Company's Cooperative Software Program ("CSP") provides the mechanisms and
environment to facilitate the integration of complementary products with the
Pro/ENGINEER product line. Through the Company's open software toolkit, the CSP
members can build tightly integrated solutions that satisfy various requirements
of the Company's customers.

During the years ended September 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995, the Company incurred
expenses of $53,236,000, $39,476,000 and $25,591,000, respectively, on research
and development.


                                      Sales

The Company derives most of its revenue from products distributed directly to
its customers and the remainder through third-party distributors. The Company's
sales force manages the activities of all distribution channels within a
geographic area.

As of September 30, 1997, the Company's sales and marketing organization
consisted of 800 employees in the United States and 1,293 employees abroad. The
Company has sales and/or support offices throughout the United States and in 34
foreign countries.

Since inception, the Company has licensed software products for nearly 101,500
seats to more than 15,000 companies. A seat of software generally consists of
the Company's core product, Pro/ENGINEER, together with several other software


 
modules, configured to serve the needs of a single end-user. End-users of the
Company's products range from small companies to some of the world's largest
manufacturing organizations. No single customer accounted for more than 10% of
the Company's revenue in fiscal 1997 or prior years.

Information with respect to foreign and domestic operations and export sales,
and the risks thereof, may be found in Note L to the Consolidated Financial
Statements and the section entitled "Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and Results of Operations" of the 1997 Annual Report to
Stockholders, which financial statements and section are included in Exhibit
13.1 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and incorporated herein by reference.

                                  Competition

The Company competes most directly with the CADAM(R) and CATIA(R) products
developed by Dassault and marketed by IBM(R), the UNIGRAPHICS(R) product
marketed by EDS, the I/EMS(TM) product marketed by Intergraph Corporation and
the I-DEAS Master Series(TM) product marketed by Structural Dynamics Research
Corporation. The Company believes that the principal bases for competition in
its markets are product functionality, price/performance characteristics,
product portability, ease of product use, sales and marketing strength, support
services and corporate reputation. The Company is aware of ongoing efforts by
competitors, some of whom have greater resources than the Company, to develop
technically equivalent or superior technology and market these products at lower
prices. Should a competitor successfully bring such a product to market and be
able to sell it at a lower price in the future, the Company's operating results
could be materially adversely affected. The Company's future success will depend
in a large part on its ability to license and sell additional products and
services to its existing customer base as well as the installed customer bases
of traditional mechanical CAD/CAM/CAE suppliers.

                               Proprietary Rights

The Company regards its software products as proprietary and attempts to protect
its intellectual property rights by relying on copyrights, trademarks, patents
and common law safeguards, including trade secret protection, as well as
restrictions on disclosures and transferability in its agreements with other
parties. The Company typically distributes its products under software license
agreements, which grant customers perpetual licenses to, rather than ownership
of, the Company's products and which contain provisions protecting the Company's
ownership of and the confidentiality of the underlying technology. The Company
also limits access to and distribution of its software, documentation and other
proprietary information. The source code of the Company's products is protected
as a trade secret and as an unpublished copyright work. Despite these
precautions, it may be possible to copy or otherwise obtain and use the
Company's products or technology without authorization. In addition, effective
copyright and trade secret protection may be unavailable or limited in certain
foreign countries.

The Company believes that, due to the rapid pace of innovation within its
industry, factors such as the technological and creative skills of its personnel
are more important to establishing and maintaining a technology leadership
position within the industry than are the various legal protections surrounding
its technology. The Company believes that its products and technology do not
infringe any existing proprietary rights of others, although there can be no
assurance that third parties will not assert infringement claims in the future.

Parametric Technology Corporation, Pro/ENGINEER, and Pro/MECHANICA are
registered trademarks of the Company in the United States and other countries.
Parametric Technology, PTC, the PTC logo and all product names in the PTC
product family are trademarks of the Company in the United States and other
countries.

                                    Backlog

The Company generally ships its products within 30 days after acceptance of a
customer purchase order and execution of a software license agreement.
Accordingly, the Company does not believe that its backlog at any particular
point in time is indicative of future sales levels.

                                   Employees

As of September 30, 1997, the Company had 3,432 employees, including 2,093 in
sales, marketing and support activities; 567 in customer support, training and
consulting; 310 in management, finance and administration; and 462 in product
development. Of these employees, 1,707 were located throughout the United States
and 1,725 were located in foreign countries.


 
ITEM 2:    Properties

The Company's executive offices are located in approximately 307,000 square feet
of office space in Waltham, Massachusetts. The Company also leases 216
additional sales and/or support offices and development offices throughout the
United States and, through its wholly owned subsidiaries, abroad. The Company
believes that its facilities are adequate for its present needs, but will
continue to evaluate the need for additional space, as the growth of the
business requires.

ITEM 3:     Legal Proceedings

None.

ITEM 4:    Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the last quarter
of fiscal 1997.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         The executive officers are:

 
Mr. Walske has been Chairman of the Board of Directors since August 1994 and
Chief Executive Officer and a director of the Company since he joined the
Company in December 1986. Mr. Walske was President of the Company from December
1986 to August 1994 and Clerk of the Company from December 1986 to February
1993.

Mr. Harrison has been President and Chief Operating Officer since August 1994.
Prior to that, Mr. Harrison served as Senior Vice President of Sales and
Distribution from September 1991 until August 1994 and as Vice President of
Sales and Distribution from May 1987 to September 1991.

Mr. Gillis has been Executive Vice President of Finance and Administration since
October 1996 and Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer since October 1995. Mr.
Gillis served as Senior Vice President of Finance and Administration from
October 1995 to September 1996. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Gillis was
Senior Vice President of Finance and Operations and Chief Financial Officer at
Lotus Development Corporation from August 1991 until September 1995.

Mr. McMahon has been Executive Vice President of Worldwide Sales since April
1997. Prior to that, Mr. McMahon served as Senior Vice President of European
Sales from October 1996 to March 1997, Vice President of North American
Operations from October 1994 to September 1996, Vice President of Western
Operations from November 1993 to September 1994, and Vice President
International Operations from October 1991 to October 1993.

Ms. Durcan has served as Vice President since October 1993, Corporate Counsel
since joining the Company in March 1992 and as Clerk since February 1993.

Mr. Kelliher has been Senior Vice President of Finance since June 1997. Prior to
that, Mr. Kelliher had served as Vice President of Finance from December 1994
until June 1997, Director of Corporate Finance from November 1994 to December
1994, Chief Financial Officer of Europe from May 1993 to November 1994, Manager
of Finance and Assistant International Controller from February 1992 to May
1993, and Manager of Budget and Analysis from October 1991 to February 1992.



 
Mr. Mokas has been Director of Treasury and Finance and Assistant Treasurer
since February 1997. Prior to that, Mr. Mokas served as Controller from August
1993 until February 1997. Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Mokas was a manager
at Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. from May 1988 to July 1993.

                                     PART II

ITEM 5:    Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Information with respect to this item may be found in the sections captioned
"Quarterly Financial Information" and "Supplemental Financial Information"
appearing in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders. Such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 6:     Selected Financial Data

Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Five Year Summary of Selected Financial Data" appearing in the 1997 Annual
Report to Stockholders. Such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 7:     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
            Results of Operations

Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" appearing in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders. Such
information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 8:     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

Information with respect to this item may be found on pages 31 through 45 and in
the section entitled "Quarterly Financial Information" appearing in the 1997
Annual Report to Stockholders. Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 9:     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
            Financial Disclosure

On November 17, 1995, the Board of Directors of the Company, upon recommendation
of its Audit Committee, approved a change in the Company's independent
accountants from Price Waterhouse LLP to Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P. effective for
the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996. Price Waterhouse LLP served as the
Company's independent accountants for fiscal years 1992 through 1995. During
these periods, the Company did not have any disagreements with Price Waterhouse
LLP on any matter of accounting principles or practices, financial statement
disclosure or auditing scope or procedure, nor did any reports issued by Price
Waterhouse LLP contain an adverse opinion or a disclaimer of opinion, nor were
such reports qualified or modified as to uncertainty, audit scope or accounting
principles.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10:     Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

Information with respect to directors of the Company may be found in the
sections captioned "Election of Directors" appearing in the 1998 Proxy
Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by reference. Information
with respect to Executive Officers of the Company may be found under the section
captioned "Executive Officers of the Registrant" in Part I of this Annual Report
on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11:     Executive Compensation

Information with respect to this item may be found in the sections captioned
"Director Compensation" and "Compensation of Executive Officers" appearing in
the 1998 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by reference.



 
ITEM 12:     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

Information with respect to this item may be found in the section captioned
"Principal Stockholders" appearing in the 1998 Proxy Statement. Such information
is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13:     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

Information with respect to this item may be found under the headings "Certain
Business Relationships" and "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Trading" in the section captioned "Compensation of Executive Officers" appearing
in the 1998 Proxy Statement. Such information is incorporated herein by
reference.




 
                                     PART IV

ITEM 14:     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K

(a)      Documents Filed as Part of Form 10-K
         1.   Financial Statements
              -Consolidated Balance Sheet as of September 30, 1997 and 1996*
              -Consolidated Statement of Income for the years ended September
               30, 1997, 1996 and 1995* 
              -Consolidated Statement of Stockholders' Equity for the years
               ended September 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995*
              -Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows for the years ended
               September 30, 1997, 1996 and 1995*
              -Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements*
              -Reports of Independent Accountants for the years ended September
               30, 1997*, 1996* and 1995
         2.   Financial Statement Schedules
              -Reports of Independent Accountants for the years ended September
               30, 1997, 1996 and 1995 
              -Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
              -Schedules other than the one listed above have been omitted since
               they are either not required, not applicable, or the information
               is otherwise included.
         3.   Listing of Exhibits
              The Exhibits filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K are
              listed in the Exhibit Index immediately preceding such Exhibits,
              and are incorporated herein by reference.

(b)      Reports on Form 8-K
         None.

(c)      Exhibits
         The Company hereby files as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K the
         Exhibits listed in the attached Exhibit Index.

(d)      Financial Statement Schedules
         The Company hereby files as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K the
         financial statement schedule listed in Item 14(a)2 as set forth above.

- ----------
* Referenced information is contained in the 1997 Annual Report to Stockholders,
  filed as Exhibit 13.1 hereto.





 
                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on the 24th day of
December, 1997.

                              PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
          
          
                              By   /S/  Steven C. Walske
                                   ----------------------------
                                   Steven C. Walske, Chairman
                                   and Chief Executive Officer

                               POWER OF ATTORNEY
                               -----------------

We, the undersigned officers and directors of Parametric Technology Corporation,
hereby severally constitute Edwin J. Gillis and Martha L. Durcan, Esq., and each
of them singly, our true and lawful attorneys with full power to them, and each
of them singly, to sign for us and in our names in the capacities indicated
below any and all subsequent amendments to this report, and to file the same,
with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the
Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that
each of said attorneys-in-fact may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities indicated below on the 24th day of December, 1997.

 


 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------


Exhibit
Number
- -------

2.1      - Agreement and Plan of Reorganization dated as of November 3, 1997 by
           and among the Company, PTC Acquisition Corporation, and
           Computervision Corporation (filed as Exhibit 2.1 to the Current
           Report on Form 8-K dated November 4, 1997 and incorporated herein by
           reference).

3.1(a)   - Restated Articles of Organization of the Company (filed as Exhibit
           3.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
           March 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

3.1(b)   - Articles of Amendment to Restated Articles of Organization
           (filed as Exhibit 4.1(b) to the Company's Registration Statement on
           Form S-8 (File No. 333-22169) and incorporated herein by reference).

3.2      - By-Laws, as amended and restated, of the Company (filed as Exhibit
           3.2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
           September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.1*   -  1997 Incentive Stock Option Plan of the Company (filed as Exhibit
           10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter
           ended March 29, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.2*    - 1987 Incentive Stock Option Plan of the Company, as amended (filed as
           Exhibit 10.2 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year
           ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.3     - Lease dated May 22, 1987 by and between the Company and the Trustees
           of 128 Technology Trust (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Company's
           Registration Statement on Form S-1 (File No. 33-31620) and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.4*    - Employment Letter with Steven C. Walske dated October 17, 1986 (filed
           as Exhibit 10.12 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-1
           (File No. 33-31620) and incorporated herein by reference).

10.5*    - Amended and Restated Severance Agreement with Steven C. Walske dated
           February 13, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on
           Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 29, 1997 and
           incorporated herein by reference).

10.6     - Lease Amendment dated November 8, 1989 by and between the Company and
           the Trustees of 128 Technology Trust (filed as Exhibit 10.8 to the
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30,
           1996 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.7     - Lease Amendment dated January 21, 1991 by and between the Company and
           the Trustees of 128 Technology Trust; filed herewith.

10.8*    - Parametric Technology Corporation 1992 Director Stock Option Plan, as
           amended (filed as Exhibit 10.10 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
           the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by
           reference).

10.9     - Lease Amendment dated March 6, 1992 by and between the Company and
           the Trustees of 128 Technology Trust (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to the
           Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30,
           1992 and incorporated herein by reference).

- ----------
*Identifies a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement in which
an executive officer or director of the Company participates.


 
10.10  - Lease Amendment dated November 18, 1992 by and between the Company and
         the Trustees of 128 Technology Trust (filed as Exhibit 10.19 to the
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1992
         and incorporated herein by reference).
       
10.11  - Lease Amendment dated June 8, 1993 by and between the Company and the
         Trustees of 128 Technology Trust (filed as Exhibit 10.21 to the Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1993 and
         incorporated herein by reference).

10.12* - Severance Agreement with Michael E. McGuinness dated May 15, 1997
         (filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
         fiscal quarter ended June 28, 1997 and incorporated herein by
         reference).

10.13* - Amended and Restated Severance Agreement with C. Richard Harrison dated
         February 13, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.3 to the Quarterly Report on
         Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 29, 1997 and incorporated
         herein by reference).

10.14  - Lease Amendment dated April 14, 1994 by and between the Company and the
         Trustees of 128 Technology Trust (filed as Exhibit 10.22 to the Annual
         Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1994 and
         incorporated herein by reference).

10.15  - Lease Amendment dated January 19, 1995 by and between the Company and
         the Trustees of 128 Technology Trust (filed as Exhibit 10.23 to the
         Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended September 30, 1995
         and incorporated herein by reference).

10.16* - Amended and Restated Severance Agreement with Edwin J. Gillis dated
         February 13, 1997 (filed as Exhibit 10.4 to the Quarterly Report on
         Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 29, 1997 and incorporated
         herein by reference).

10.17* - Parametric Technology Corporation 1996 Directors Stock Option Plan, as
         amended (filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Annual Report on Form 10-K for
         the fiscal year ended September 30, 1996 and incorporated herein by
         reference).

10.18* - Severance agreement with John D. McMahon dated May 15, 1997 (filed as
         Exhibit 10.2 to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
         quarter ended June 28, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.19* - Consulting Agreement with Michael E. Porter dated November 17, 1995,
         and Amendment #1 thereto dated May 15, 1997 (filed as Exhibits 10.3 and
         10.4, respectively, to the Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal
         quarter ended June 28, 1997 and incorporated herein by reference).

10.20* - Employment Agreement with Michael E. McGuinness dated November 17,
         1997; filed herewith.

13.1   - Annual Report to Stockholders for the fiscal year ended September 30,
         1997 (which is not deemed to be "filed" except to the extent that
         portions thereof are expressly incorporated by reference in this Annual
         Report on Form 10-K); filed herewith.

16.1   - Letter from Price Waterhouse LLP (filed as Exhibit 16.1 to the Current
         Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 1995 and incorporated herein by
         reference).

21.1   - Subsidiaries of the Company; filed herewith.

23.1   - Report of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.; filed herewith.

23.2   - Consent of Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.; filed herewith.
- ----------
* Identifies a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement in which
  an executive officer or director of the Company participates.


 
23.3  - Report of Price Waterhouse LLP; filed herewith.

23.4  - Report of Price Waterhouse LLP on Financial Statement Schedules; filed
        herewith.

23.5  - Consent of Price Waterhouse LLP; filed herewith.
- ----------
* Identifies a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement in which
  an executive officer or director of the Company participates.







 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
                        PARAMETRIC TECHNOLOGY CORPORATION
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts

 



- ----------------------------------------------

(1) Uncollectible accounts written off, net of recoveries.





