
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
================================================================================
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                             ---------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 

 
                         Commission file number 1-4797
                            ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 

 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 724-7500
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
 
                            Yes  X           No  
                                ----             ---- 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]
 
     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of March 11, 1997, was approximately $8,000,000,000.
 
     Shares of Common Stock outstanding at March 11, 1997 -- 124,531,549.
                                ---------------
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
1996 Annual Report to Stockholders...............................Parts I, II, IV
Proxy Statement dated March 25, 1997, for Annual Meeting 
  of Stockholders to be held on May 9, 1997.............................Part III
================================================================================

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the "Company") was founded in 1912 and
incorporated in 1915. The Company manufactures and markets a variety of products
and systems that provide specific, problem-solving solutions for a diverse
customer base worldwide. The Company has more than 365 operations in 34
countries. The Company's business units are divided into three segments:
Engineered Components, Industrial Systems and Consumables, and Leasing and
Investments. Products in the Company's Engineered Components segment include
short lead-time plastic and metal components, fasteners and assemblies;
industrial fluids and adhesives; fastening tools; and welding products.
Industrial Systems and Consumables' products include longer lead-time systems
and related consumables for consumer and industrial packaging; marking, labeling
and identification systems; industrial spray coating equipment and systems; and
quality assurance equipment and systems. Leasing and Investments' activities
consist of making opportunistic investments that optimally utilize the Company's
cash flow and provide high returns.
 
     In the first quarter of 1993, the Company acquired the Miller Group
Ltd.("Miller"), a manufacturer of arc welding equipment, through an exchange of
ITW voting Common Stock for all of the voting Common Stock of Miller. In early
1996, the Company acquired all of the voting stock of Hobart Brothers Company
("Hobart"), a manufacturer of welding products, in exchange for shares of ITW
voting common stock. As a result, the Miller and Hobart acquisitions have been
accounted for as poolings of interests in conformity with Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles, specifically paragraphs 46 through 48 of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion ("APB") No. 16. The impact of Miller and Hobart on
consolidated operating revenues, net income and net income per share was not
significant. Therefore, the 1992 and 1995 financial statements have not been
restated to reflect the acquisitions of Miller and Hobart, respectively. The
results of operations for Miller and Hobart have been included in the Statement
of Income as of the beginning of 1993 and 1996, respectively.
 
     In late 1996, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common stock of
Azon Limited ("Azon"), an Australian manufacturer of strapping and other
industrial products. The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase, and
accordingly, the acquired net assets have been recorded at their estimated fair
values at the date of acquisition. The results of operations have been included
in the Statement of Income from the acquisition date, except for the Azon
businesses which are expected to be sold, which have not been consolidated.
Based on the assumption that the Azon acquisition had occurred on January 1,
1996 or January 1, 1995, the Company's pro forma operating revenues, net income
and net income per share would not have been significantly different.
 
     During the five-year period ending December 31, 1996, the Company acquired
and disposed of numerous other operations which did not materially impact
consolidated results.
 
CURRENT YEAR DEVELOPMENTS
 
     Refer to pages 20 through 23, Management's Discussion and Analysis, in the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.

 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
     The percentage contributions to operating revenues for the last three years
by industry segment are as follows:
 

 
     Segment and geographic data are included on pages 20 through 22 and 38 of
the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
     The principal markets served by the Company's two manufacturing segments
are as follows:
 

 
     Operating results of the segments are described on pages 20 through 22 and
38 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
BACKLOG
 
     Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the Company's
businesses as relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are
characteristic of many of its products.
 
     Backlog by manufacturing segment as of December 31, 1996 and 1995 is
summarized as follows:
 

 
     Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 1997 were not
material in either industry segment as of December 31, 1996.
 
     The following information is equally applicable to all industry segments of
the Company unless otherwise noted:
 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company's global competitive environment is complex because of the wide
diversity of products the Company manufactures and the markets it serves.
Depending on the product or market, the Company may
 

 
compete with a few other companies or with many others, some of which may be the
Company's own licensees.
 
     The Company is a leading producer of plastic and metal components,
fasteners and assemblies; industrial fluids and adhesives; tooling for specialty
applications; welding products; packaging systems and related consumables;
industrial spray coating and static control equipment and systems; and quality
assurance equipment and systems.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily metals and
plastics that are available from numerous commercial sources. The availability
of materials and energy has not resulted in any business interruptions or other
major problems, nor are any such problems anticipated.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's growth has resulted from developing new and improved
products, broadening the application of established products, continuing efforts
to improve and develop new methods, processes and equipment, and from
acquisitions. Many new products are designed to reduce customers' costs by
eliminating steps in their manufacturing processes, reducing the number of parts
in an assembly, or by improving the quality of customers' assembled products.
Typically, the development of such products is accomplished by working closely
with customers on specific applications. Identifiable research and development
costs determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles are
set forth on page 27 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
     The Company owns approximately 1,700 unexpired United States patents
covering articles, methods and machines. Many counterparts of these patents have
also been obtained in various foreign countries. In addition, the Company has
approximately 355 applications for patents pending in the United States Patent
Office, but there is no assurance that any patent will be issued. The Company
maintains an active patent department for the administration of patents and
processing of patent applications.
 
     The Company licenses some of its patents to other companies, from which the
Company collects royalties. The Company believes that many of its patents are
valuable and important. Nevertheless, the Company credits its leadership in the
markets it serves to engineering capability; manufacturing techniques, skills
and efficiency; marketing and sales promotion; and service and delivery of
quality products to its customers.
 
TRADEMARKS
 
     Many of the Company's products are sold under various trademarks owned or
licensed by the Company. Among the most significant are: ITW, Signode, Apex,
Buildex, Deltar, Devcon, DeVilbiss, Fastex, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Keps, Magnaflux,
Miller, Minigrip, Newtec, Oxo, Paktron, Paslode, Powcon, Ramset, Ransburg, Red
Head, Shakeproof, Teks, Tenax and ZipPak.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
 
     The Company believes that its plants and equipment are in substantial
compliance with applicable environmental regulations. Additional measures to
maintain compliance are not expected to affect materially the Company's capital
expenditures, competitive position, financial position or results of operations.
 
     Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning environmental
issues have become effective or are under consideration in many parts of the
world relating to manufacturing processes, and the sale or use of certain
products. To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse impact
on the Company's sales or earnings. The Company has made considerable efforts to
develop and sell environmentally compatible products resulting in new and
expanding marketing opportunities.
 

 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company employed approximately 24,400 persons as of December 31, 1996
and considers its employee relations to be excellent.
 
INTERNATIONAL
 
     The Company's international operations include subsidiaries, joint ventures
and licensees in 33 countries on six continents. These operations serve such
markets as automotive, food and beverage, construction, general industrial,
industrial capital goods and others on a worldwide basis. The Company's
international subsidiaries contributed approximately 36% and 38% of operating
revenues in 1996 and 1995, respectively.
 
     Refer to pages 20 through 23 in the Company's 1996 Annual Report to
Stockholders for additional information on international activities.
International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting
business in foreign countries, including price controls, exchange controls,
limitations on participation in local enterprises, nationalization,
expropriation and other governmental action, and changes in currency exchange
rates.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 
     Executive Officers of the Company as of March 11, 1997:
 

 
     Except for Messrs. Kinney, Martin, Speer, and Zentmeyer, each of the
foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in various elected executive
capacities for more than five years. The executive officers of the Company serve
at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Mr. Kinney joined the Company in 1973
and has served as Vice President and Controller, Operations, and Group
Controller of the Company's automotive, construction, finishing systems and
quality measurement groups. Mr. Martin joined the Company in 1991 and has served
as a general manager in the construction products group and has most recently
served as President and Chief Operating Officer of the welding products group.
Mr. Speer joined the Company in 1978 and has held various sales, marketing and
general management positions within the construction products group, most
recently having served as Group Vice President of the worldwide construction
products group. Mr. Zentmeyer joined the Company as part of Signode Corporation
in 1968 and has most recently served as President of the specialty industrial
packaging businesses.
 

 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     As of December 31, 1996 the Company operated the following plants and
office facilities, excluding regional sales offices and warehouse facilities:
 

 
     The principal international plants are in Australia, Belgium, Canada,
France, Germany, Ireland, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and
the United Kingdom.
 
     The Company's properties are primarily of steel, brick or concrete
construction and are maintained in good operating condition. Productive
capacity, in general, currently exceeds operating levels. Capacity levels are
somewhat flexible based on the number of shifts operated and on the number of
overtime hours worked. The Company adds productive capacity from time to time as
required by increased demand. Additions to capacity can be made within a
reasonable period of time due to the nature of the businesses.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     Not applicable.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to page 39 of the Company's
1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to pages 40 and 41 of the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to pages 20 through 23 of the
Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 

 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The financial statements and report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP dated
January 28, 1997, together with other supplementary data, as found on pages 24
through 39 of the Company's 1996 Annual Report to Stockholders, are incorporated
by reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
     Information regarding the Directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference to the information under the caption "Election of Directors" in the
Company's Proxy Statement for the 1997 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
     Information regarding the Executive Officers of the Company can be found in
Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K on page 4.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to the information under the
caption "Executive Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1997
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to the information under the
caption "Security Ownership" in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1997
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (a)(1) Financial Statements
 
     The financial statements and report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP dated
January 28, 1997 as found on pages 24 through 39 of the Company's 1996 Annual
Report to Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.
 
  (2) Financial Statement Schedule
 
     The following supplementary financial data should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements and comments thereto as presented in the Company's
1996 Annual Report to Stockholders. Schedules not included with this
supplementary financial data have been omitted because they are not applicable,
immaterial or the required information is included in the financial statements
or the related notes to financial statements.
 

 
  (3) Exhibits
 
     (i) See the Exhibit Index on page 11 of this Form 10-K.
 

 
     (ii) Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii), the Company has not
filed with Exhibit 4 any debt instruments for which the total amount of
securities authorized thereunder are less than 10% of the total assets of the
Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 1996,
with the exception of the agreements related to the 7 1/2% and 5 7/8% Notes,
which are filed with Exhibit 4. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of the
agreements related to the debt instruments which have not been filed with
Exhibit 4 to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     No reports on Form 8-K have been filed during the three months ended
December 31, 1996.
 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                                  ON SCHEDULE
 
To Illinois Tool Works Inc.:
 
     We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements included in Illinois Tool Works Inc.'s 1996 Annual
Report to Stockholders, incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have
issued our report thereon dated January 28, 1997. Our audits were made for the
purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule
listed in the accompanying index is the responsibility of the Company's
management and is presented for the purpose of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.
The schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits
of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois,
January 28, 1997
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this 21st day of
March 1997.
 
                                          ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
 
                                          By       /s/ W. JAMES FARRELL
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                      W. James Farrell
                                                   Director, Chairman and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on this 21st day of March 1997.
 


     Original powers of attorney authorizing W. James Farrell to sign this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and amendments thereto on behalf of the above-named
directors of the registrant have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Exhibit 24).
 

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                            ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1995, AND 1996
 

 
- ---------------
 
(1) Primarily represents effect of foreign currency translation.
 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 

 


 

