
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
================================================================================
                UNITED STATES SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
                             ---------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 

 
                         Commission file number 1-4797
 
                            ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
             (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in its Charter)
 

 
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (847) 724-7500
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None
 
     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.
                            Yes  X           No  ___
 
     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [ ]
 
     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the registrant as of March 16, 1999, was approximately $12,700,000,000.
 
     Shares of Common Stock outstanding at March 16, 1999 -- 250,307,289.
 
                                ---------------
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders...............................Parts I, II, IV
Proxy Statement dated March 25, 1999, for Annual Meeting of Stockholders
  to be held on May 14, 1999............................................Part III
================================================================================

 
                                     PART I
 
ITEM 1.  BUSINESS
 
GENERAL
 
     Illinois Tool Works Inc. (the "Company") was founded in 1912 and
incorporated in 1915. The Company manufactures and markets a variety of products
and systems that provide specific, problem-solving solutions for a diverse
customer base worldwide. The Company has more than 400 operations in 35
countries. The Company's business units are divided into five segments:
Engineered Products-North America, Engineered Products-International, Specialty
Systems-North America, Specialty Systems-International, and Leasing and
Investments. Businesses in the Engineered Products-North America segment are
located in North America and manufacture short lead-time components and
fasteners, and specialty products such as adhesives, resealable packaging and
electronic component packaging. Businesses in the Engineered
Products-International segment are located outside North America and manufacture
short lead-time components and fasteners, and specialty products such as
electronic component packaging and adhesives. Businesses in the Specialty
Systems-North America segment are located in North America and produce longer
lead-time machinery and related consumables, and specialty equipment for
applications such as industrial spray coating, quality measurement and static
control. Businesses in the Specialty Systems-International segment are located
outside North America and manufacture longer lead-time machinery and related
consumables, and specialty equipment for industrial spray coating and other
applications. The Leasing and Investment segment makes opportunistic investments
in mortgage-related assets, leveraged and direct financing leases of equipment,
properties and property developments, and affordable housing.
 
     In early 1996, the Company acquired all of the voting stock of Hobart
Brothers Company ("Hobart"), a manufacturer of welding products, in exchange for
shares of ITW voting common stock. As a result, the Hobart acquisition has been
accounted for as a pooling of interests in conformity with Generally Accepted
Accounting Principles, specifically paragraphs 46 through 48 of Accounting
Principles Board Opinion ("APB") No. 16. Accordingly, the results of operations
for Hobart have been included in the Statement of Income as of the beginning of
1996. The impact of Hobart on consolidated operating revenues, net income and
net income per share was not significant. Therefore, the 1995 financial
statements have not been restated to reflect the acquisition of Hobart.
 
     In late 1996, the Company acquired all of the outstanding common stock of
Azon Limited ("Azon"), an Australian manufacturer of strapping and other
industrial products. The acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase, and
accordingly, the acquired net assets have been recorded at their estimated fair
values at the date of acquisition. The results of operations have been included
in the Statement of Income from the acquisition date, except for the Azon
businesses which were expected to be sold, which were not consolidated at
December 31, 1996. During 1997, the Company disposed of the majority of the Azon
businesses which were expected to be sold. Based on the assumption that the Azon
acquisition had occurred on January 1, 1996 or January 1, 1995, the Company's
pro forma operating revenues, net income and net income per share would not have
been significantly different.
 
     During the five-year period ending December 31, 1998, the Company acquired
and disposed of numerous other operations which did not materially impact
consolidated results.
 
CURRENT YEAR DEVELOPMENTS
 
     Refer to pages 16 through 21, Management's Discussion and Analysis, in the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.

 
FINANCIAL INFORMATION ABOUT INDUSTRY SEGMENTS
 
     Segment and geographic data are included on pages 16 through 18 and 36
through 38 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
     The principal markets served by the Company's four manufacturing segments
are as follows:
 

 
     Operating results of the segments are described on pages 16 through 18 and
36 through 38 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
     Most of the Company's businesses distribute their products directly to
industrial manufacturers and through independent distributors.
 
BACKLOG
 
     Backlog generally is not considered a significant factor in the Company's
businesses as relatively short delivery periods and rapid inventory turnover are
characteristic of many of its products.
 
     Backlog by manufacturing segment as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 is
summarized as follows:
 

 
     Backlog orders scheduled for shipment beyond calendar year 1999 were not
material for any manufacturing segment as of December 31, 1998.
 
     The information set forth below is equally applicable to all segments of
the Company unless otherwise noted:
 
COMPETITION
 
     The Company's global competitive environment is complex because of the wide
diversity of products the Company manufactures and the markets it serves.
Depending on the product or market, the Company may compete with a few other
companies or with many others, some of which may be the Company's own licensees.
 
     The Company is a leading producer of plastic and metal components,
fasteners and assemblies; industrial fluids and adhesives; tooling for specialty
applications; welding products; packaging machinery and related
 

 
consumables; industrial spray coating and static control equipment and systems;
and quality measurement equipment and systems.
 
RAW MATERIALS
 
     The Company uses raw materials of various types, primarily metals and
plastics that are available from numerous commercial sources. The availability
of materials and energy has not resulted in any business interruptions or other
major problems, nor are any such problems anticipated.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
     The Company's growth has resulted from developing new and improved
products, broadening the application of established products, continuing efforts
to improve and develop new methods, processes and equipment, and from
acquisitions. Many new products are designed to reduce customers' costs by
eliminating steps in their manufacturing processes, reducing the number of parts
in an assembly, or by improving the quality of customers' assembled products.
Typically, the development of such products is accomplished by working closely
with customers on specific applications. Identifiable research and development
costs are set forth on page 25 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to
Stockholders. Research and development expenditures in 1998 in local currencies
were consistent with 1997, however U.S. dollar expenditures decreased in 1998 as
a result of the negative impact of foreign currencies against the U.S. dollar.
 
     The Company owns approximately 1,975 unexpired United States patents
covering articles, methods and machines. Many counterparts of these patents have
also been obtained in various foreign countries. In addition, the Company has
approximately 347 applications for patents pending in the United States Patent
Office, but there is no assurance that any patent will be issued. The Company
maintains an active patent department for the administration of patents and
processing of patent applications.
 
     The Company believes that many of its patents are valuable and important.
Nevertheless, the Company credits its leadership in the markets it serves to
engineering capability; manufacturing techniques, skills and efficiency;
marketing and sales promotion; and service and delivery of quality products to
its customers.
 
TRADEMARKS
 
     Many of the Company's products are sold under various trademarks owned or
licensed by the Company. Among the most significant are: ITW, Apex, Buildex,
Deltar, Devcon, DeVilbiss, Fastex, Hi-Cone, Hobart, Keps, Magnaflux, Miller,
Minigrip, Newtec, Oxo, Paktron, Paslode, Powcon, Ramset, Ransburg, Red Head,
Shakeproof, Signode, Teks, Tenax and Zip-Pak.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL
 
     The Company believes that its plants and equipment are in substantial
compliance with applicable environmental regulations. Additional measures to
maintain compliance are not expected to materially affect the Company's capital
expenditures, competitive position, financial position or results of operations.
 
     Various legislative and administrative regulations concerning environmental
issues have become effective or are under consideration in many parts of the
world relating to manufacturing processes, and the sale or use of certain
products. To date, such developments have not had a substantial adverse impact
on the Company's sales or earnings. The Company has made considerable efforts to
develop and sell environmentally compatible products resulting in new and
expanding marketing opportunities.
 
EMPLOYEES
 
     The Company employed approximately 29,200 persons as of December 31, 1998
and considers its employee relations to be excellent.
 

 
INTERNATIONAL
 
     The Company's international operations include subsidiaries, joint ventures
and licensees in 35 countries on six continents. These operations serve such
markets as automotive, food and beverage, construction, general industrial,
industrial capital goods, electronics, paper products and others on a worldwide
basis. The Company's international subsidiaries contributed approximately 36% of
operating revenues in both 1998 and 1997.
 
     Refer to pages 16 through 19 and 36 through 38 in the Company's 1998 Annual
Report to Stockholders for additional information on international activities.
International operations are subject to certain risks inherent in conducting
business in foreign countries, including price controls, exchange controls,
limitations on participation in local enterprises, nationalization,
expropriation and other governmental action, and changes in currency exchange
rates.
 
YEAR 2000
 
     Refer to page 21 in the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders for
discussion of the effect on the Company of the Year 2000 computer issue.
 
FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS
 
     Refer to page 21 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders for
information on the risks associated with forward-looking statements within this
document.
 
EXECUTIVE OFFICERS
 
     Executive Officers of the Company as of March 25, 1999:
 

 
     Except for Messrs. Hansen, Kinney, Martin, Speer, Sutherland, and
Zentmeyer, each of the foregoing officers has been employed by the Company in
various elected executive capacities for more than five years. The executive
officers of the Company serve at the pleasure of the Board of Directors. Mr.
Hansen joined the Company in 1980 and has held various management positions
within the Company's automotive metal fasteners and components businesses. Mr.
Kinney joined the Company in 1973 and has served as Senior Vice President and
Controller, Operations, and Group Controller of several of the Company's
businesses. Mr. Martin joined the Company in 1991 and has held several
management positions in the welding businesses.
 

 
Mr. Speer joined the Company in 1978 and has held various sales, marketing and
general management positions within the construction businesses. Mr. Sutherland
joined the Company in 1993 after serving as a senior tax manager with Ernst &
Young and has served the Company in various capacities, most recently as Vice
President of Leasing and Investments. Mr. Zentmeyer joined Signode Corporation
(which was acquired by the Company in 1986) in 1968 and has held various
management positions in the industrial packaging businesses.
 
ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES
 
     As of December 31, 1998 the Company operated the following plants and
office facilities, excluding regional sales offices and warehouse facilities:
 

 
     The principal plants outside of the U.S. are in Australia, Belgium, Canada,
France, Germany, Ireland, India, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Spain, Sweden,
Switzerland and the United Kingdom.
 
     The Company's properties are primarily of steel, brick or concrete
construction and are maintained in good operating condition. Productive
capacity, in general, currently exceeds operating levels. Capacity levels are
somewhat flexible based on the number of shifts operated and on the number of
overtime hours worked. The Company adds productive capacity from time to time as
required by increased demand. Additions to capacity can be made within a
reasonable period of time due to the nature of the businesses.
 
ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
     Not applicable.
 
ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
         MATTERS
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to page 39 of the Company's
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to pages 40 and 41 of the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
         OF OPERATIONS
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to pages 16 through 21 of the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 

 
ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to page 20 and 21 of the
Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders.
 
ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
     The financial statements and report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP dated
January 27, 1999, as found on pages 22 through 38 and supplementary data on page
39 of the Company's 1998 Annual Report to Stockholders, are incorporated by
reference.
 
ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
     Not applicable.
 
                                    PART III
 
ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY
 
     Information regarding the Directors of the Company is incorporated by
reference to the information under the caption "Election of Directors" in the
Company's Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
     Information regarding the Executive Officers of the Company can be found in
Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K on pages 4 and 5.
 
ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to the information under the
caption "Executive Compensation" in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1999
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
     This information is incorporated by reference to the information under the
caption "Ownership of ITW Stock" in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1999
Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 
ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
     Additional information is incorporated by reference to the information
under the captions "Director Compensation" and "Executive Compensation" in the
Company's Proxy Statement for the 1999 Annual Meeting of Stockholders.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
  (a)(1) Financial Statements
 
     The financial statements and report thereon of Arthur Andersen LLP dated
January 27, 1999, as found on pages 22 through 39 of the Company's 1998 Annual
Report to Stockholders, are incorporated by reference.
 
  (2) Financial Statement Schedule
 
     The following supplementary financial data should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements and notes thereto as presented in the Company's
1998 Annual Report to Stockholders. Schedules not included with this
supplementary financial data have been omitted because they are not applicable,
immaterial or the required information is included in the financial statements
or the related notes to financial statements.
 

 
  (3) Exhibits
 
     (i) See the Exhibit Index on page 11 of this Form 10-K.
 
     (ii) Pursuant to Regulation S-K, Item 601(b)(4)(iii), the Company has not
filed with Exhibit 4 any debt instruments for which the total amount of
securities authorized thereunder are less than 10% of the total assets of the
Company and its subsidiaries on a consolidated basis as of December 31, 1998,
with the exception of the agreement related to the 5 7/8% and 5 3/4% Notes,
which are filed with Exhibit 4. The Company agrees to furnish a copy of the
agreements related to the debt instruments which have not been filed with
Exhibit 4 to the Securities and Exchange Commission upon request.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K
 
     No reports on Form 8-K have been filed during the three months ended
December 31, 1998.
 

 
                    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT PUBLIC ACCOUNTANTS
                                  ON SCHEDULE
 
To Illinois Tool Works Inc.:
 
     We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards,
the financial statements included in Illinois Tool Works Inc.'s 1998 Annual
Report to Stockholders, incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and have
issued our report thereon dated January 27, 1999. Our audits were made for the
purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The schedule
listed in the accompanying index is the responsibility of the Company's
management and is presented for the purpose of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and is not part of the basic financial statements.
The schedule has been subjected to the auditing procedures applied in the audits
of the basic financial statements and, in our opinion, fairly states in all
material respects the financial data required to be set forth therein in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole.
 
                                          ARTHUR ANDERSEN LLP
 
Chicago, Illinois,
January 27, 1999
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on this 29th day of
March, 1999.
 
                                          ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
 
                                          By      /s/ W. JAMES FARRELL
                                            ------------------------------------
                                                      W. James Farrell
                                                   Director, Chairman and
                                                  Chief Executive Officer
 
     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and
in the capacities indicated on this 29th day of March, 1999.
 

 
                                            By     /s/ W. JAMES FARRELL 
                                             -----------------------------------
                                                      (W. James Farrell
                                                    as Attorney-in-Fact)
 
     Original powers of attorney authorizing W. James Farrell to sign this
Annual Report on Form 10-K and amendments thereto on behalf of the above-named
directors of the registrant have been filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K (Exhibit 24).
 

 
                                                                     SCHEDULE II
 
                            ILLINOIS TOOL WORKS INC.
 
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
             FOR THE YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996, 1997, AND 1998
 

 
- ---------------
(1) Includes the effects of foreign currency translation and other reserve
    adjustments.
 

 
                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
 
                           ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K
 

 

 

 

