
10-K



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
              ----------------------------------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(mark one)
[ X ] Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended January 1, 2000

[   ] Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
      Exchange Act of 1934

                          Commission file number 1-8002

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

Delaware                                         04-2209186
(State or other jurisdiction of
incorporation or organization)       (I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046
Waltham, Massachusetts                                           02454-9046
(Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)

          Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (781) 622-1000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

    Title of each class        Name of each exchange on which registered
Common Stock, $1.00 par value           New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                    None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for
at least the past 90 days. Yes [ X ] No [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [ ]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant as of January 28, 2000, was approximately $2,493,791,000.

As of January 28, 2000, the Registrant had 156,800,687 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
January 1, 2000, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareholders to be held on May 18, 2000, are incorporated by reference into
Part III.

                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

(a)   General Development of Business

      Thermo Electron Corporation (also referred to in this document as the
Company or the Registrant) is a global leader in the development, manufacture,
and sale of measurement and detection instruments used in virtually every
industry to monitor, collect, and analyze data that provides knowledge for the
user. For example, the Company's powerful analysis technologies help researchers
sift through data to make the discoveries that will fight disease or prolong
life; allow manufacturers to fabricate ever-smaller components required to
increase the speed and quality of communications; or monitor and control
industrial processes on-line to ensure that critical quality standards are met
efficiently and safely.

      In the late eighties, Thermo Electron had adopted a strategy of spinning
out certain of its businesses into separate public subsidiaries in which it held
the majority ownership. By offering employees a stake in their own ventures,
Thermo Electron's objective was to maintain the entrepreneurial culture it
believed was essential to its continued growth and development. By 1997, the
Company had spun out 22 public entities serving many diverse markets.

      In 1998, the Company began to reorganize and simplify its structure to
increase business focus. During 1999, three of its subsidiaries were taken
private, and a fourth in early 2000. Also in 1999, the Company's Thermo
Instrument Systems Inc. subsidiary completed the acquisition of Spectra-Physics
AB, a Stockholm Stock Exchange-listed company. As part of the acquisition of
Spectra-Physics, Thermo Instrument acquired Spectra-Physics' majority-owned
public subsidiary, Spectra-Physics Lasers, Inc. (SPLI).

      In January 2000, Thermo Electron announced a major reorganization that
would allow it to focus solely on its measurement and detection instrument
business. The Company will offer as a dividend to its shareholders two
businesses that will be spun off completely: one serving the healthcare industry
with a range of medical products for diagnosis and monitoring, and the other
supplying systems to the paper making and recycling industry as well as
fiber-based consumer products. In addition, the Company plans to sell other
non-core businesses with aggregate revenues of more than $1 billion. The
businesses to be spun off and sold have been accounted for as discontinued
operations (see "Description of Business - Principal Products and Services"). As
part of this plan, the Company intends to take private all of its remaining
public subsidiaries, except for SPLI. Except where indicated, the information
presented in this Form 10-K pertains to the Company's continuing operations.
Each component of the reorganization is subject to numerous conditions, as
outlined in Note 17 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's
1999* Annual Report to Shareholders, which is incorporated into this document by
reference.

      The Company believes that this reorganization will offer a number of
long-term benefits. It will vastly simplify Thermo Electron's corporate
structure and allow it to channel all resources toward a single business -
instrumentation. It will create added value for shareholders by offering a stake
in the two spinoff companies. In addition, it will generate substantial cash
from the sale of businesses that can be reinvested in the future growth of the
Company. The Company's strategy going forward is to emphasize internal growth by
continuing to actively fund research and development, particularly in its
high-growth segments serving the life sciences and telecommunications
industries, and to augment that growth with complementary acquisitions.

      Thermo Electron is a Delaware corporation and was incorporated in 1956.
The Company completed its initial public offering in 1967 and was listed on the
New York Stock Exchange in 1980.



- --------------------
* References to 1999, 1998, and 1997 herein are for the fiscal years ended
  January 1, 2000, January 2, 1999, and January 3, 1998, respectively.



Forward-looking Statements

      Forward-looking statements, within the meaning of Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, are made throughout this Annual Report on Form
10-K. For this purpose, any statements contained herein that are not statements
of historical fact may be deemed to be forward-looking statements. Without
limiting the foregoing, the words "believes," "anticipates," "plans," "expects,"
"seeks," "estimates," and similar expressions are intended to identify
forward-looking statements. There are a number of important factors that could
cause the results of the Company to differ materially from those indicated by
such forward-looking statements, including those detailed under the heading
"Forward-looking Statements" in the Registrant's 1999 Annual Report to
Shareholders, which statements are incorporated herein by reference.

(b)   Financial Information About Segments

      Financial information concerning the Company's segments is summarized in
Note 14 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1999 Annual
Report to Shareholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.

(c)   Description of Business

      (i)  Principal Products and Services

      Thermo Electron has elected to focus on its instruments business, and, as
stated previously, has initiated a significant reorganization plan to accomplish
that objective. Although no longer considered a core business under the plan,
its Thermo Ecotek Corporation subsidiary will remain with the Company after it
is taken private as Thermo Electron continues to evaluate how to best exit that
business while creating maximum value for shareholders. As a result, Thermo
Electron currently reports its business in four segments: Life Sciences, Optical
Technologies, Measurement and Control, and Power Generation. This represents a
change in the composition of its segments from prior periods, and the Company
has restated the information contained herein regarding segments for earlier
periods.

Life Sciences

      The Company addresses the biotechnology and pharmaceutical markets, as
well as the clinical laboratory and healthcare industries, through its Life
Sciences segment. The segment is organized into five groups: biosciences
instruments and consumables, advanced instrumentation and consumables,
scientific equipment, clinical equipment and supplies, and information
management systems.

      Biosciences instruments and consumables encompass a broad range of
instruments, such as microplate-based handling and reading equipment, optical
biosensors, polymerase chain reaction (PCR) thermal cyclers for deoxyribonucleic
acid (DNA) amplification, and capillary electrophoresis (CE). Consumables -
disposable, one-time use, or limited life span products - include reagents,
microtiter plates, liquid-handling pipettes, and pipette tips. Biosciences
instruments are used primarily by pharmaceutical companies for drug discovery
and development, testing, and quality control, and by biotechnology companies
for research leading to knowledge about diseases and possible treatments. These
products are typically used on the "front end" of multi-instrument systems, as
the instruments prepare and handle samples prior to being loaded into other,
advanced instruments.

      Advanced instrumentation and consumables includes the Company's offerings
of mass spectrometers, liquid chromatographs, gas chromatographs, and
multi-instrument combinations of these products, along with the vials, syringes,
and columns necessary for chromatography. As with biomolecular instruments,
these products are used by the pharmaceutical industry for drug development,
testing, and quality control; and by the biotechnology industry for research
leading to knowledge about disease and possible treatments. A significant, and
growing, application for these instruments is proteomics, which is the study of
proteins. Most drugs - about 90 percent - interact with proteins, so




multi-instrument systems that rapidly identify and quantify proteins are of
increasing value to pharmaceutical and biotechnology customers. In 2000, the
Company introduced an integrated, high-throughput system for the quantitative
analysis of proteins, employing the Company's new Surveyor high performance
liquid chromatograph, LCQ Deca mass spectrometer, and new TurboSEQUEST software.

      Scientific equipment is used for the preparation and preservation of
chemical samples, principally in research settings for pharmaceutical, academic,
and government customers. Products in this group include ultralow-temperature
freezers, high-speed centrifuges, centrifugal vacuum concentrators, and
laboratory freeze dryers. The Company also designs, manufactures, and markets
electrochemistry and other technologies for quality assurance and regulatory
compliance, primarily in the environmental, food, beverage, chemical,
pharmaceutical, and biomedical research industries. These products determine the
quality of various substances, from food and pharmaceuticals to water and
wastewater, by measuring their pH, specific ion concentration, dissolved oxygen,
and conductivity.

      Clinical equipment and supplies are used by such healthcare facilities as
reference laboratories, physician-office laboratories, and hospital laboratories
to detect and diagnose disease. Products in this group include sample
preparation instruments and materials to highlight abnormal cells, blood gas and
ion-selective electrolyte (ISE) consumables, chemistry reagents, clinical
biochemistry instruments and automation equipment, and rapid diagnostic tests
for use in physicians' offices. The Company received U.S. Food and Drug
Administration (FDA) clearance in December 1998 for its FLU OIA 15-minute
diagnostic test, which detects influenza A and B in patient samples. The Company
also received FDA clearance in 1999 to market a rapid diagnostic test for
Clostridium difficile, an intestinal disease.

      Information management systems provided by the Company facilitate the
monitoring and analysis of samples, as well as storage and organization of
information in laboratories, industrial settings, and clinical testing sites.
The Company is a leading supplier of laboratory information management systems
(LIMS) and provides chromatography data systems (CDS) to analyze chromatographic
data obtained via gas or liquid chromatography and CE.

Optical Technologies

      The Company is a leader in optical and energy-based systems and
technologies that control and apply light throughout the electromagnetic
spectrum for many different uses. Products within the Optical Technologies
segment are used in multiple markets, particularly the scientific instrument,
semiconductor, and telecommunications industries, to fabricate, analyze, and
implement advanced materials. These products are grouped into four categories:
spectroscopy, semiconductor, physical properties, and photonics. In addition,
the Company's majority-owned SPLI subsidiary, a leader in the design,
development, manufacture, and distribution of lasers and laser systems for a
broad range of markets, is also part of the Optical Technologies segment.

      Spectroscopy instrumentation is used for molecular and elemental analysis
based upon energy and light measurements. These precision instruments use optics
to determine, in a nondestructive manner, the composition of a wide range of
complex liquids and solids. Customers include pharmaceutical, specialty
chemical, and basic material producers, who use these instruments either in a
laboratory or integrated into the production line.

      Semiconductor products are used in the manufacture of capital equipment
that produces and tests semiconductors. In particular, the Company is the
leading supplier of molecular beam epitaxy (MBE) reactors for the manufacture of
gallium arsenide and other compound semiconductor devices. The largest
application is for microwave devices used in cellular telephones and other
high-speed wireless communications devices. In 1999, the Company introduced the
V150 MBE, a successor to its market-leading V100 MBE system. The V150 MBE helps
customers keep up with the rapidly growing demand for high-speed
telecommunications devices by significantly increasing semiconductor production
capacity.



      Physical properties products analyze materials for viscosity, surface
tension, and thermal properties. Significant customers include the food and
beverage industries, which use high-precision viscometers to maintain quality
and consistency of their products. In addition, the Company manufactures
products for precision temperature control necessary for analytical, laboratory,
industrial, research and development, laser, and semiconductor applications.

      Photonics businesses manufacture optical components that are used in a
variety of industries, including scientific and medical instruments,
telecommunications, and semiconductor applications.

      Also a part of this segment, SPLI offers technologies of high-power
semiconductor-based laser and semiconductor laser pumped solid state laser
technologies, as well as conventional lasers and laser-related products.
Conventional lasers have unique performance characteristics that make them the
only current solution for certain demanding technical applications. SPLI also
manufactures high-power semiconductor-based lasers, which are generally more
efficient, reliable, cost-effective, and compact than conventional lasers.
SPLI's customers are in the materials processing, life sciences, research and
development, printing, and telecommunications markets. Research and development
emphasis will be on creating components for the next generation of high-speed
fiber-optic telecommunications. In 1999, SPLI introduced a new line of thin-film
filters, which are used to separate data (light) within fiber-optic cable,
allowing more wavelengths of light to travel down the cable to increase what is
known as the "bandwidth" or capacity of the fiber.

Measurement and Control

      The Company provides a range of real-time, on-line sensors, monitors, and
control systems through its Measurement and Control segment that not only help
manufacturers ensure their processes and industrial practices meet their own and
government standards for quality, reliability, and safety, but also reduce
costs, save materials, and increase productivity. These products are organized
into five groups: environmental, weighing and inspection, quality control, field
instruments and sensors, and oil and gas.

      Environmental products include a complete line of instruments and systems
for monitoring environmental pollutants generated by industrial and mobile
sources. These include continuous gaseous and aerosol monitors, and water
quality instruments for assessing ambient air quality and emissions from
stationary sources. Specific compounds measured include oxides of nitrogen,
sulfur dioxide, ozone, carbon monoxide, carbon dioxide, volatile organic
compounds, fine particulates, total organic carbon, and total organic halogens.

      The Company also provides a comprehensive line of radiation and gas
detectors for controlling and detecting the presence of harmful radiation and
combustible and toxic gases for worker and plant safety. These products range
from the simplest handheld general-purpose portable equipment to more
sophisticated stationary installed systems.

      Weighing and inspection systems include a comprehensive family of on-line
weighing, force measurement, and inspection equipment for consumer products,
packaged goods, and bulk materials. Products for the packaged and consumer goods
sector provide customers with a quality and productivity solution by ensuring
that each package contains the proper quantity or a specific item, whether it be
a food product or a book ordered over the Internet. In addition, the Company
employs in its systems various technologies including X-ray imaging and
ultratrace chemical detection to inspect food, beverage, and pharmaceutical
packages to see that they are free of physical contaminants and contain no
missing or broken parts. In bulk materials, the Company's product line includes
solids flow monitoring, level measurement, and force and tension measurements
for a wide variety of process industries including food, chemicals, plastics,
and pharmaceuticals.



      Quality control systems are manufactured by the Company for on-line
process optimization, taking ultrahigh-speed noninvasive measurements and
analyzing the physical and chemical properties of streams of raw materials in
real time. These systems are used primarily to analyze the composition of raw
materials for certain basic industries, such as coal, cement, and minerals
production. This technology allows the entire stream of material to be analyzed
and eliminates the need for off-line sampling, which adds production time and
cost.

      Process optimization systems are also provided by the Company for the
continuous production of certain web-type finished materials, such as metal
strip, plastics, foil, rubber, glass, and paper. The Company's instruments
measure the total thickness, basis weight, and coating thickness of such
materials, and are also capable of detecting defects the size of a pinhole in
these webs. They can measure a single point on the material, several points, or
generate a web profile. Measurements are gathered without contacting the
material or interfering with the production process, and are highly accurate and
extremely reliable - even in hostile environments such as steel mills. These
systems provide tangible economic benefits for customers, while reducing
materials waste and energy consumption.

      Field instruments and sensors are provided by the Company for use in the
process control industry. These instruments measure level, density, flow, and
composition, acquiring data for use in controlling industrial and chemical
processes. Level and density instruments include point-level, continuous-level,
and density sensors that use a variety of technologies, including commercial
radiation, radar, ultrasonic, and vibrational measurement principles. Flow
instrumentation includes ultrasonic flowmeters, in-line turbine meters,
pitostatic air flow monitors, and electronic flow metering instruments used for
natural gas custody transfer. The Company's on-line composition analysis
instruments are used to measure chemical compounds in a variety of liquids,
gases, and solids using gas chromatographic, mass spectrographic, and X-ray
fluorescent technologies. The Company also offers strip chart and video graphic
recorders along with instrumentation for measuring and recording AC power in
industrial facilities.

      Oil and gas products cover specifically designed and installed sensor
systems that are used to provide real-time measurement, data communication, and
local control of process functions, primarily for customers in the production
segment of the oil and gas industry. These special-purpose instruments and
sensors include rod pump controllers, remote terminal units, gas-injection
systems, and both topside and subsea wellhead safety and control systems. These
systems and the aftermarket services provided are required by oil and gas
companies throughout the world, particularly those operating offshore platforms.
The Company's electrical generators, switchgear, and motor control units are
used in a wide variety of industrial and commercial applications.

Power Generation

      Through its Thermo Ecotek business, the Company develops, owns, and
operates independent (nonutility) electric power-generation facilities in this
country and overseas, as well as a natural gas gathering, storage, and marketing
business in the U.S.

      Thermo Ecotek currently operates six power plants fueled by agricultural
and wood wastes, known as biomass. Its facilities are typically developed and
operated through joint ventures or limited partnerships in which it has a
majority interest, or through wholly owned subsidiaries. Thermo Ecotek believes
that utility deregulation may present opportunities for updating, or repowering,
existing plants and is pursuing the development of additional power projects
both in the U.S. and overseas. In November 1997, Thermo Ecotek purchased two
deregulated plants in southern California for repowering, and acquired the
rights to develop a similar site in Florida in January 1999. Overseas, the
Company indirectly acquired a majority interest in two energy centers in the
Czech Republic in early 1998, and in September 1999 acquired an electricity
generating facility in Germany.

      Thermo Ecotek also established a Texas-based natural gas gathering,
storage, and marketing business in 1998. Called Star Natural Gas, this business
provides midstream services to the natural gas industry by offering natural gas
gathering capabilities from the wellhead to the transmission pipeline; gas
processing, which involves the extraction of natural gas liquids; gas treatment
for removal of impurities; and underground storage facilities. These services
provide a means by which gas producers move and market their products.



      The Company believes that global energy deregulation presents future
opportunities for independent power generation. However, since Thermo Ecotek has
been deemed a non-core business according to Thermo Electron's reorganization
plan, any future investment will be funded solely by Thermo Ecotek.

      In August 1995, Thermo Ecotek entered into a Limited Partnership Agreement
with KFx Wyoming, Inc., a subsidiary of KFx, Inc., to develop, construct, and
operate a coal-beneficiation plant in Gillette, Wyoming. The facility employed
patented "clean coal" technology to remove excess moisture and increase energy
from low-grade regional coal. Although Thermo Ecotek believes the technology
employed at the plant was viable, and a high-quality coal product was produced,
various operational problems were encountered that would require a significant
investment to yield production volumes that would meet the Company's objectives.
As a result, in May 1999, Thermo Ecotek decided to cease operation of the plant
and hold for sale its investment in the facility.

Discontinued Operations

      As a result of its reorganization plan announced January 31, 2000, in
which Thermo Electron will take private, spin off, and sell a number of
companies to focus on the instrumentation marketplace, a number of businesses
have been accounted for as discontinued operations. The major businesses
included in this category are as follows:

Businesses to be spun off:

      Thermo Fibertek companies
      Thermo Fibertek: papermaking and recycling equipment and water-management
                       systems
      Thermo Fibergen: fiber-based composite products and water-clarification
                       and fiber recovery systems

      New Medical Products company
      Thermo Biomedical: neurodiagnostic monitoring, vascular, and audiology
                         systems; respiratory-care products; and portable
                         patient-monitors
      Thermedics Medical: biocompatible polymers; cardiac and respiratory
                          diagnostic and monitoring equipment; and enteral
                          feeding systems

Businesses to be sold include the following:

      Thermo Cardiosystems: heart-assist devices
      Trex Medical: medical imaging systems
      Thermo TerraTech: environmental management and infrastructure engineering
                         services
      Thermo Coleman: systems engineering and analytical services
      Peek: intelligent traffic control systems
      NuTemp: industrial refrigeration systems
      Thermo Trilogy: biopesticide products
      Peter Brotherhood: industrial turbines and compressors

      (ii) and (xi) New Products; Research and Development

      The Company's business includes the development and introduction of new
products and may include entry into new business segments. The Company has made
no commitments to new products that require the investment of a material amount
of the Company's assets, nor does it have any definitive plans to enter new
business segments that would require such an investment.

      During 1999, 1998, and 1997, the Company expended $171.1 million, $128.0
million, and $123.9 million, respectively, on research and development.



      (iii)         Raw Materials

Continuing Operations

      In the opinion of management, the Company has a readily available supply
of raw materials for all of its significant products from various sources and
does not anticipate any difficulties in obtaining the raw materials essential to
its business.

Discontinued Operations

      Certain raw materials used in the manufacture of Thermo Cardiosystems'
left ventricular-assist systems (LVAS) are available from only one or two
suppliers. Thermo Cardiosystems is making efforts to minimize the risks
associated with sole sources and ensure long-term availability, including
qualifying alternative materials and components or developing alternative
sources for materials and components supplied by a single source. Although
Thermo Cardiosystems believes that it has adequate supplies of materials and
components to meet demand for the LVAS for the foreseeable future, no assurance
can be given that Thermo Cardiosystems will not experience shortages of certain
materials or components in the future that could delay shipments of the LVAS.

      The cost to Thermo Cardiosystems to evaluate and test alternative
materials and components and the time necessary to obtain FDA approval for these
materials and components are inherently difficult to determine because both time
and cost are dependent on at least two factors: the similarity of alternative
materials or components to the original materials or components, and the amount
of third-party testing that may have already been completed on alternative
materials or components. There can be no assurance that the substitution of
alternative materials or components will not cause delays in Thermo
Cardiosystems' LVAS development program or adversely affect Thermo
Cardiosystems' ability to manufacture and ship LVAS to meet demand.

      (iv)          Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks

Continuing Operations

      The Company considers patents to be important in the present operation of
its business; however, the Company does not consider any patent, or related
group of patents, to be of such importance that its expiration or termination
would materially affect the Company's business taken as a whole. The Company
seeks patent protection for inventions and developments made by its personnel
and incorporated into its products or otherwise falling within its fields of
interest. Patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not
always accrue exclusively to the Company and may be limited by agreements or
contracts.

      The Company protects some of its technology as trade secrets and, where
appropriate, uses trademarks or registers its products. It also enters into
license agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and
know-how.

Discontinued Operations

      Thermo Cardiosystems has received correspondence from a third party
alleging that the textured surface of the LVAS housing infringes certain patent
rights of such third party. In general, an owner of intellectual property can
prevent others from using such property without a license and is entitled to
damages for unauthorized usage. Thermo Cardiosystems has investigated the bases
of the allegation and, based on the opinion of its counsel and the Company's
assessment of the proceedings in the United States Patent and Trademark Office
to date, it believes that if it were sued on these bases, it would have
meritorious defenses. Given the inherent uncertainties in dispute resolution,
however, if Thermo Cardiosystems were sued and the outcome were unfavorable,
Thermo Cardiosystems' results of operations or financial condition could be
materially adversely affected in amounts Thermo Cardiosystems cannot reasonably
estimate.


      (v)           Seasonal Influences

      Thermo Ecotek, which represents the Power Generation segment, historically
has earned a disproportionately high share of its income from May through
October due to the rate structures under the power-sales agreements relating to
its California power plants, which provided strong incentives to operate during
this period of high demand. Conversely, Thermo Ecotek historically has operated
at a marginal profit during the first calendar quarter due to the rate structure
under these agreements. Due to the expiration of the fixed price contracts at
Thermo Ecotek's California plants, the seasonality of this business is expected
to be reduced in the future.

      There are no other material seasonal influences on the Company's sales of
products.

      (vi)          Working Capital Requirements

      There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to
customers that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's working
capital.

      (vii)         Dependency on a Single Customer

      No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total
revenues in any of the past three years.

      The Power Generation segment derived 10% or more of its revenues during
the past three years from its three most significant electric utility customers.
Revenues from Southern California Edison as a percentage of the Power Generation
segment's revenues were approximately 34%, 35%, and 34% in 1999, 1998, and 1997,
respectively. Revenues from Pacific Gas & Electric as a percentage of the Power
Generation segment's revenues were approximately 26%, 34%, and 35% in 1999,
1998, and 1997, respectively. Revenues from Public Service of New Hampshire as a
percentage of the Power Generation segment's revenues were approximately 19%,
19%, and 20% in 1999, 1998, and 1997, respectively.

      (viii)        Backlog

      The Company's backlog of firm orders at year-end 1999 and 1998 was as
follows:



(e)   Executive Officers of the Registrant


SCHEDULE II

                           THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
                        Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                 (In thousands)



