
10-K
THERMO ELECTRON 1993 10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                              WASHINGTON, DC 20549
                                                
                       ----------------------------------
                                   FORM 10-K
(mark one)
[ X ]   Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
        Exchange Act of 1934 for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994

[   ]   Transition Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
        Exchange Act of 1934

                         Commission file number 1-8002

                          THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)
Delaware                                                         04-2209186
(State or other jurisdiction of                            (I.R.S. Employer
incorporation or organization)                          Identification No.)

81 Wyman Street, P.O. Box 9046
Waltham, Massachusetts                                           02254-9046
(Address of principal executive offices)                         (Zip Code)
       Registrant's telephone number, including area code: (617) 622-1000

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                                      Name of each exchange
Title of each class                                     on which registered
- -------------------------------                     -----------------------
Common Stock, $1.00 par value                       New York Stock Exchange
Preferred Stock Purchase Rights
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
                                      None

Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for
at least the past 90 days. Yes [ X ]   No [   ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of the Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [  ]

The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
Registrant as of January 28, 1994, was approximately $1,967,000,000.

As of January 28, 1994, the Registrant had 47,933,007 shares of Common Stock
outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders for the year ended
January 1, 1994, are incorporated by reference into Parts I and II.

Portions of the Registrant's definitive Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting
of Shareholders to be held on May 24, 1994, are incorporated by reference into
Part III.
                                     PART I

Item 1.   Business

(a)  General Development of Business

Thermo Electron Corporation and its subsidiaries develop, manufacture, and
market analytical and environmental-monitoring instruments, alternative-energy
systems, industrial process equipment, biomedical products, and various devices
based on advanced technologies. The Company also provides metallurgical
heat-treating, environmental engineering, and analytical laboratory services.
The Company conducts its business through its divisions and wholly owned
subsidiaries, as well as majority-owned subsidiaries that are partially owned by
the public or by private investors.

The Company has developed leading market positions in many lines of business,
including analytical and environmental-monitoring instruments, biomass-fueled
power plants, paper-recycling equipment, and papermaking accessories. The
Company is currently seeking to establish leading market positions in the fields
of left ventricular-assist devices, explosives-detection systems, thermal
soil-remediation services, and dedicated natural gas engines for vehicles and
stationary applications. The Company is developing new products in its Advanced
Technologies segment, as well as other segments.

A key element in the Company's growth has been its ability to commercialize
innovative products and services emanating from research and development
activities conducted at the Company's various subsidiaries and divisions. The
Company's strategy has been to identify business opportunities arising from
social, economic, and regulatory issues and to seek a leading market share
through the application of proprietary technology. As part of this strategy, the
Company continues to focus on the acquisition of complementary businesses that
can be integrated into existing core businesses to leverage the Company's access
to new markets.

The Company believes that maintaining an entrepreneurial atmosphere is essential
to continuing its growth and development. In order to preserve this environment,
in 1983 the Company adopted the strategy of having certain subsidiaries sell a
minority interest to outside investors. This permits the establishment of more
focused management objectives and performance incentives and provides capital to
support the subsidiaries' growth. The Company's operating philosophy is to
manage both its wholly owned and majority-owned subsidiaries by providing
centralized strategic planning, corporate development, administrative, financial
and other services that would not be available to many independent companies of
similar size. As of year-end 1993, the Company had 12 subsidiaries that have
sold minority equity interests, nine of which are publicly traded.

Thermo Electron, a Delaware corporation, was incorporated in 1956, completed its
initial public offering in 1967, and was listed on the New York Stock Exchange
in 1980. The principal executive office of the Company is 81 Wyman Street,
Waltham, Massachusetts 02254-9046 (telephone: 617-622-1000). Unless the context
otherwise requires, "the Registrant" and "the Company" as used herein refer to
Thermo Electron Corporation and its subsidiaries.

(b)  Financial Information About Industry Segments

The Company's products and services are divided into six segments: Instruments,
Alternative-energy Systems, Process Equipment, Biomedical Products, Services,
and Advanced Technologies. In some cases, products or services within a
particular segment are provided by more than one subsidiary, and certain
subsidiaries' products or services are included in more than one segment. The
principal products and services offered by the Company in the six industry
segments are described in detail below (see "Principal Products and Services").
Financial information concerning the Company's industry segments is summarized
in Note 12 to Consolidated Financial Statements in the Registrant's 1993 Annual
Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

(c)  Description of Business

     (i)  Principal Products and Services

Instruments
- -----------
The Company, through its Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. subsidiary, is a
worldwide leader in the development, manufacture, and marketing of analytical
instruments used to detect and measure air pollution, nuclear radioactivity,
complex chemical compounds, toxic metals, and other elements in a wide variety
of materials. In recent years, Thermo Instrument has completed a number of key
acquisitions to expand and complement its existing lines of instruments,
including: Finnigan Corporation, a leading manufacturer of mass spectrometers,
in May 1990; Gas Tech Inc., a leading manufacturer of portable instruments and
fixed-site systems for detecting and monitoring toxic and combustible gases, in
May 1992; Nicolet Instrument Corporation, a leading manufacturer of instruments
for numerous analytical, chemistry, engineering, and other applications, in
August 1992; Gamma-Metrics, a manufacturer of analytical and nuclear reactor
monitoring instruments, in January 1993; Spectra-Physics Analytical, a
manufacturer of high performance liquid chromatography and capillary
electrophoresis analytical instruments, in February 1993; and the radiation
measurement products and radiometry process control divisions of FAG
Kugelfischer Georg Shafer AG, in October 1993. On January 31, 1994, Thermo
Instrument announced its intention to acquire, subject to regulatory approvals
and the satisfaction of certain conditions to closing, several of the businesses
within the EnviroTech Measurements & Controls group of Baker Hughes Incorporated
for a cash purchase price of approximately $93 million. The businesses to be
acquired manufacture products used for process control, process measurement and
laboratory analysis.

The Company's instruments employ a variety of advanced technologies including
spectral, electroanalytical, and separation techniques to determine the
composition, or structure, and physical properties of natural and synthetic
substances. The Company's instruments can be broadly categorized by their use as
analytical or monitoring instruments.

Analytical Instruments

The Company's principal analytical instrument products are atomic emission and
absorption spectrometers, Fourier transform infrared (FT-IR) and FT-Raman
spectrometers, mass spectrometers, and high performance liquid chromatographs.

Atomic emission (AE) and atomic absorption (AA) spectrometers identify and
measure trace quantities of metals, and other elements, in a wide variety of
materials, including environmental samples (such as soil, water, and wastes),
foods, drugs, cosmetics, and metal alloys. The Company sells these products to a
wide range of customers in manufacturing industries, such as producers of
aircraft, automobiles and trucks, computers, chemicals, food, and primary
metals; service industries such as waste management companies and commercial
testing laboratories; and government and university laboratories.

The Company is a leading manufacturer of both sequential AE spectrometers, in
which elements are analyzed one at a time, and simultaneous AE spectrometers, in
which many elements can be measured at one time. The Company produces AA
spectrometers in single-, double-, and four-channel models. The Company is the
only major producer of multichannel AA spectrometers, which provide several
operational advantages over single-channel instruments, including speed of
analysis, increased accuracy, reduced sample consumption, and analysis over an
extended range of concentrations.

The Company's FT-IR and FT-Raman spectrometers are designed to nondestructively
determine the chemical composition and physical properties of materials. These
instruments are used in many areas of chemical research, industrial quality
control and process monitoring, and for solving a wide variety of materials
analysis problems. The Company offers a variety of models ranging from recently
introduced models designed for routine applications to highly advanced
research-grade FT-IR spectrometers.

The Company is a leading manufacturer of commercial mass spectrometers and has
pioneered many of the significant developments and applications of mass
spectrometry. The Company's mass spectrometry products identify and measure the
components of a sample for organic chemical compounds or for inorganic elements.
These instruments are used by customers in environmental analysis and pollution
control; in research and the production of pharmaceuticals; in biochemistry; in
analysis of foods, chemicals, and petrochemicals; and in health and forensic
science. The Company provides both stand-alone spectrometers and combined
systems that use chromatographs purchased from other companies. These products
span a range of sensitivity, specificity, separation technologies, data-handling
capabilities, sizes, and prices.

The Company also sells high performance liquid chromatography instruments and
related equipment used principally in the production of pharmaceuticals,
chemicals, and personal-care products, and for environmental monitoring. These
instruments separate the chemical components of substances for purposes of
identification and measurement. Capillary electrophoresis is a relatively new
separation technique that is based on a combination of chromatographic and
electroanalytical technologies and is particularly useful in biochemical,
pharmaceutical, and environmental research. In addition, the Company
manufactures and markets digital oscilloscopes and multichannel transient
recorders, as well as X-ray imaging systems used for quality control in the
electronics industry.

Monitoring Instruments

The Company also manufactures monitoring instruments for two principal markets:
the detection and measurement of nuclear radiation, and the monitoring of air
pollutants and detection of toxic and combustible gases.

The Company's nuclear radiation monitoring instruments detect and measure alpha,
beta, gamma, neutron, or X-ray radiation emitted by natural sources and by
radioactive materials found in nuclear power plants and certain governmental,
industrial, and medical facilities. The Company is a leading manufacturer of a
broad range of stand-alone and portable instruments and computer-integrated
instrument systems used to ensure the protection of personnel from nuclear
radiation. Nuclear power plants and U.S. Department of Energy facilities
purchase approximately 85% of the radiation monitoring instruments sold by the
Company.

The Company's air-monitoring instruments measure pollutants in ambient or "open"
air and from stationary sources such as industrial smokestacks. The principal
pollutants measured are oxides of nitrogen, sulfur dioxide, carbon monoxide,
ozone, and volatile organic compounds. These instruments are used by utility and
industrial customers to ensure compliance with environmental regulations, by
government agencies to monitor air quality, and by research facilities. The
Occupational Safety and Health Administration's recently established safety
requirements for protecting workers from toxic or explosive atmospheres in
confined spaces are addressed with detectors, instruments, and systems for
sensing, monitoring, and warning of such dangers. These worker-safety products
are used in a wide range of applications, from large petrochemical plants,
utilities, and industrial manufacturing facilities to commercial buildings.

Also included in the Company's monitoring instruments business is equipment that
provides on-line, real-time analysis of elements in bulk raw materials, such as
coal and cement. These analyzers are used by utilities to determine the sulfur
content of coal to ensure compliance with air quality standards and by the
cement industry to test raw materials to assure product quality and uniformity.

Revenues from instruments products were $516,712,000, $349,261,000, and
$283,612,000 in 1993*, 1992, and 1991, respectively.


Alternative-energy Systems
- --------------------------
The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment includes the construction,
sale, and operation of alternative-energy power plants, the manufacture, sale,
and servicing of packaged cooling and cogeneration systems, natural gas and
marine engines, industrial refrigeration systems, and steam turbines and
compressors and, beginning in early 1994, the operation of a waste-recycling
facility.

Alternative-energy Power Plants

Through a division and its Thermo Energy Systems Corporation subsidiary, the
Company develops, constructs, and operates alternative-energy power plants. The
power plants, generally designed to burn low-grade fuels and to produce less
than 100 megawatts of electric power, are either owned by the Company or sold to
third parties upon completion and operated by the Company. The Company has
completed and operates three wood-waste power plants and four agricultural-waste
power plants, representing a net electric generating capacity of approximately
140 megawatts.

The Company also has substantial capabilities in developing and operating
fossil-fuel cogeneration systems, which generate electricity and thermal energy
in the form of steam, or hot or chilled water. The Company has built, on a
turnkey basis, three fossil-fuel cogeneration systems that are owned and
operated by others, and one system in Dade County, Florida, that is owned by a
third party and operated by a joint venture of which the Company is a partner.

The facilities that are leased by the Company are owned by institutional
investors and are leased on a long-term basis to the Company or to joint
ventures or partnerships in which the Company has ownership interests. The
Company uses internal funds for preconstruction development expenses and
generally obtains external financing for construction. The Company has equity
ownership interests in three operating plants. The Company may make additional
significant equity investments in its projects in the future.

The Company participates in the operation of the Dade County Downtown Government
Center cogeneration plant in Miami, Florida, through a joint venture of
subsidiaries of the Company and Rolls-Royce, Inc. Because the demand for power
and chilled water at the Downtown Government Center complex has been

- --------------------------
*    References to 1993, 1992, and 1991 herein are for the fiscal years ended
     January 1, 1994, January 2, 1993, and December 28, 1991, respectively.
substantially less than anticipated since the plant's startup in 1987, and
because the Company believes Dade County has breached its contractual
obligations with respect to use of power at Dade County facilities outside the
Government Center (affecting plant efficiencies), the joint venture has
experienced continuing losses. The Company is involved in litigation and
regulatory proceedings with respect to this project (see Item 3., "Legal
Proceedings" below). 

Revenues from alternative-energy power plant operations and construction were
$128,558,000, $140,561,000, and $112,527,000 in 1993, 1992, and 1991,
respectively.

Waste-recycling Facility

In early 1994, the Company completed construction and commenced operation of a
2,100-ton-per-day municipal solid waste-recycling facility (the Recycling
Facility) in San Diego County, California (the County). The Recycling Facility
is the first such facility that the Company has built or operated. The
construction of the Recycling Facility was financed by the issuance by the
California Pollution Control Finance Authority of $133.5 million principal
amount of bonds (the CPCFA Bonds), which are effectively guaranteed by the
Company except under certain circumstances. The Company has entered into a
24-year agreement with the County under which the Company will recycle materials
recovered from the County's waste stream and reduce the volume of remaining
waste for a service fee. The service fee is calculated pursuant to a formula
that includes a provision for debt service for the CPCFA Bonds, a passthrough of
certain costs of operating the Recycling Facility, an operation and maintenance
allowance, and an allocation of a portion of the proceeds from the resale of
recovered materials generated by the Recycling Facility. The County has
guaranteed that certain minimum amounts of waste will be brought to the
Recycling Facility and the Company has guaranteed that the Recycling Facility is
capable of processing a minimum amount of waste and of yielding certain
percentages of recovered materials from recoverable waste. Except for risks
associated with the nonperformance by the County of its obligations, the Company
will bear most business and legal risks associated with operating the Recycling
Facility. Although the Company believes that the Recycling Facility will be able
to satisfy all applicable performance requirements, due to the novelty and
complexity of the technology and processes involved, there can be no assurance
that the Company will not encounter unanticipated operational difficulties.

Natural Gas Engines and Refrigeration Systems

The Company, through its Thermo Power Corporation subsidiary, designs, develops,
manufactures, markets, and services environmentally sensitive and economically
efficient power generation, cooling, and related products, many of which are
fueled by natural gas. Thermo Power's 1992 acquisition of FES, Inc., a supplier
of specialized ammonia-based, fluorocarbon-free refrigeration systems primarily
used by the food-processing, pharmaceutical, and petrochemical industries,
combined with its Crusader Engines division, a leading manufacturer of inboard
marine engines, have expanded Thermo Power from an entity with a research and
development focus to an integrated manufacturing operation.

Many of Thermo Power's products are powered by its proprietary low-emission
natural gas-fueled TecoDrive engines, a family of General Motors Corporation
gasoline engines that have been modified by Thermo Power to optimize performance
on natural gas. Thermo Power is developing a number of applications for its
TecoDrive engines, including driving irrigation pumping systems and other
stationary power applications and powering various fleet vehicles. Thermo Power
has established a marketing relationship with Blue Bird Corporation, a leading
school bus manufacturer in the U.S., to provide TecoDrive engines as a
production option for school buses built by Blue Bird. Thermo Power has also
supplied TecoDrive engines for use in demonstrations by other fleet operators,
including United Parcel Service, the U.S. Postal Service, and several fleets
abroad. In addition to conducting research on natural gas engines for vehicles,
Thermo Power, through its Tecogen division, has a research and development
relationship with Carrier Corporation and the Gas Research Institute to develop
natural gas engine-driven cooling systems.

The Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment also includes its Peter
Brotherhood Ltd. subsidiary, a manufacturer of steam turbines and compressors
based in the United Kingdom.

Process Equipment
- -----------------
The Company designs, manufactures, and sells advanced, custom-engineered
processing machinery, including papermaking and paper-recycling equipment,
metallurgical thermal-processing systems, and electroplating systems.

Papermaking and Paper-recycling Equipment

Through its Thermo Fibertek Inc. subsidiary, the Company manufactures and sells
processing machinery and accessories for the papermaking and paper-recycling
industries worldwide. The Company's principal products in this business include
custom-engineered systems and equipment for the preparation of waste paper for
conversion into recycled paper, and accessory equipment and related consumables
that are of critical importance to the efficient operation of papermaking
machines. The Company has developed what it believes is the most technologically
advanced equipment for the preparation of white recycled fiber (e.g. printing
and office paper, newsprint, and tissue). The Company sells in countries outside
the Pacific Rim what it believes is the most technologically advanced equipment
for the preparation of brown recycled fiber (e.g. corrugated boxes and paper
bags) pursuant to a license from Aikawa Iron Works Ltd., a leading Japanese
manufacturer of this equipment.

Thermo Fibertek also manufactures accessories used in the papermaking industry,
and is a leading designer and manufacturer of doctor blades and showers that
perform continuous on-line cleaning of rolls and fabrics used to protect
papermaking machines from costly damage caused by web breaks. The Company seeks
to expand its businesses through the introduction of new products and
technologies and through select acquisitions. Thermo Fibertek expanded its
existing market position in papermaking accessories through the September 1992
acquisition of Vickerys Holdings Limited, a U.K.-based manufacturer of doctoring
systems and environmental process systems, and the June 1993 acquisition of AES,
formerly Albany International Corp.'s Engineered Systems Division, a worldwide
supplier of showering systems, formation systems, and water-filtration systems
for the papermaking process.

Revenues from papermaking and paper-recycling equipment were $137,088,000,
$125,577,000, and $124,731,000 in 1993, 1992, and 1991, respectively.

Metallurgical Thermal-processing Systems

The Company, through the Holcroft division of its Thermo Process Systems Inc.'s
subsidiary, designs, manufactures, and sells computer-controlled,
custom-engineered thermal-processing systems used to treat primary metals and
metal parts. Holcroft's products include controlled-atmosphere systems used to
impart desirable metallurgical properties, such as added tensile strength and
wear resistance, and vacuum heat-treating systems used in forming metals into
desired shapes.
The Company also manufactures electroplating systems, heavy metal and
waste-treatment systems, and aqueous cleaning systems that offer an alternative
to the use of ozone-damaging chemicals in a variety of production processes.

Biomedical Products
- -------------------
The Company's Biomedical Products segment comprises a number of different
businesses, several of which have developed out of the Company's research
related to ventricular-assist devices, which began in 1966. In addition, the
Company has made several acquisitions, including International Technidyne
Corporation (ITC) in 1991, the biomedical division of Nicolet Instrument
Corporation (Nicolet Biomedical) and Lorad Corporation in 1992, and CBI
Laboratories, Inc. in 1993.

ITC is a leading manufacturer of hemostasis management products, including blood
coagulation-monitoring instruments. ITC also manufactures and markets
skin-incision devices that can draw minute but medically significant blood
samples through precisely controlled, pain-free incisions.

Nicolet Biomedical is a leading manufacturer of biomedical instruments for
assessing muscle, nerve, sleep, hearing, and brain blood-flow disorders and for
related work in clinical neurophysiology. These instruments are used in
hospitals, clinics, universities, private practice medical offices, and medical
research facilities by physicians and technologists for routine clinical testing
and intra-operative monitoring. Nicolet Biomedical also produces systems that
record and display spontaneous brain waves in the form of a topographic colored
"map." Such maps of brain activity are used in conjunction with other
measurements to assist in the diagnosis of various neurologic disorders.

Lorad is a leading U.S. manufacturer of low-dose X-ray mammography equipment and
minimally invasive needle-biopsy systems. In 1992, Lorad introduced a digital
imaging mammography system designed to target a specific area of the breast
where a suspicious lesion has been detected, and create a digital image of the
lesion on a video monitor. Digital imaging has advantages over traditional X-ray
mammography because once the X-ray image has been converted into digital
computer code, radiologists can enhance the image quality to scrutinize subtle
differences that may go undetected on a film-based X-ray. Lorad's needle-biopsy
systems provide a less-invasive alternative to conventional surgical biopsies.
Compared with open surgery, these needle techniques are less traumatic to the
patient, result in less scarring, which can affect the accuracy of future
mammograms, and are performed on an outpatient basis at a significantly lower
cost.

In December 1993, the Company's ThermoTrex Corporation subsidiary acquired CBI,
a manufacturer of high-quality skin-care and other personal-care products sold
through salons, spas, and department stores. It is anticipated that CBI will
manufacture the lotion that is an integral part of ThermoTrex's laser-based
system for long-term hair removal, which is being developed by ThermoLase Inc.,
a majority-owned subsidiary of ThermoTrex.

The Company's Thermedics Inc. subsidiary develops, manufactures, and markets
enteral-nutrition delivery systems and solutions and a family of biocompatible
polyurethanes, TecoflexR and TecothaneR, which are medical-grade plastics used
in medical disposables and industrial applications.

Thermedics also manufactures Scent Seal (1) fragrance samplers, which were
developed from the Company's polymer technology. Scent Seal fragrance samplers
are used in magazines to seal fragrance renditions in perfume advertisements,
and offer an alternative to commonly used fragrance strips.
- -------------------------------
(1) Scent Seal is a trademark of Scent Seal Inc.
The Company, through its Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. subsidiary, is a leader in
the research and development of implantable left ventricular-assist devices
(LVADs). These devices are designed to perform substantially all or part of the
pumping function of the left ventricle of the natural heart for patients
suffering from cardiovascular disease. Unlike total artificial heart systems,
which require removal of the natural heart, LVADs allow the heart to be left in
place, preserving the heart's biological control mechanisms. The Company's
devices are currently being used in clinical trials in patients awaiting heart
transplants. The current version of the Company's air-driven LVAD has been
implanted in more than 190 patients, and its battery-powered LVAD has been
implanted in 12 patients. In December 1993, the FDA's Advisory Panel on
Circulatory System Devices unanimously recommended commercial approval for the
air-driven LVAD, providing that certain labeling conditions are met. The FDA is
free to decide whether or not to accept this recommendation and whether to
impose additional conditions upon the grant of commercial approval. The FDA may
also impose limitations on the indicated uses for the air-driven LVAD and may
require that the Company continue to submit clinical data after the product is
approved. In any event, prior to the FDA's final decision on commercial
approval, the Company must undergo a standard FDA review of product labeling and
manufacturing practices. The Company expects that the FDA will not make a final
approval decision until mid-1994 at the earliest. There can be no assurances,
however, when the FDA's decision will be made or whether the FDA will approve
the air-driven LVAD for commercial sale. The Company does not expect that it
will file a premarket approval application for its electric LVAD before 1995.

Services
- --------
The Company provides analytical and environmental services in the fields of
laboratory testing, engineering, and waste treatment. Through a network of
facilities owned and operated by Thermo Instrument, the Company provides
comprehensive laboratory-based environmental testing, analysis, and related
services for the detection, measurement, and monitoring of hazardous wastes and
radioactive materials. The Company's services also include design and
construction inspection of water supply and wastewater treatment facilities,
surveying and site planning, transportation engineering services, solid waste
management services, and building services.

Thermo Process Systems' Thermo Remediation Inc. subsidiary operates a national
network of facilities for remediating petroleum-contaminated soil. Thermo
Remediation currently operates six soil-recycling centers, one each in Virginia,
Florida, California and Oregon, and two in South Carolina. Thermo Remediation
recently entered the waste fluids-recycling market through the acquisition of a
fluids recovery company based in Arizona. A majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo
Process, J. Amerika N.V., provides environmental services from its
Netherlands-based operation.

In addition, metallurgical heat-treating services are provided for customers in
the aerospace, defense, and other industries. The Company also provides
metallurgical fabrication services, principally on high-temperature materials,
for customers in the aerospace, medical, electronics, and nuclear industries.

Advanced Technologies
- ---------------------
Many of the Company's lines of business resulted from its research and
development activities. In 1988, the operations constituting substantially all
of the Company's research and development segment were combined into a
subsidiary, which is now called ThermoTrex Corporation. ThermoTrex continues to

conduct sponsored research and development and is also attempting to
commercialize new products based on advanced technologies it has developed in
its laboratories. Sponsored research and development conducted by this
subsidiary, principally for the United States government, includes basic and
applied research in electro-optical and electro-acoustic systems, advanced laser
systems, thermodynamics, heat transfer, materials technology, and advanced
parallel and signal processing. This work also includes design, development, and
testing of prototype devices and systems.

Research and development currently in progress by ThermoTrex includes the
development of a passive microwave camera that is intended to "see" through
clouds and fog to enhance safety in aerial navigation, the Sonic CTTM (Computed
Tomography) system for the early detection of breast cancer, a blood-flow
measurement system, called the Doppler CT, for the diagnosis and monitoring of
peripheral vascular disease, and a laser-based system, called ThermoLase, for
the painless long-term removal of hair. ThermoTrex is also developing a
full-breast digital mammography system. These products are at various stages of
development and are subject to various levels of regulatory approval. Because
these projects are still under development, no assurance can be given that the
necessary approvals for any of the projects will be obtained on a timely basis,
or at all, or that any of them will eventually result in commercially viable
products.

Based on technology that has been used to develop instruments sold by the
Company for the detection of nitrosamines and other nitrogen-based compounds,
the Company, through a subsidiary of Thermedics, develops, manufactures,
markets, and sells instruments to detect explosives (the EGISR system) and
narcotics (the SentorR system) at airports and other locations. In 1992,
Thermedics introduced a high-speed product quality assurance system based on its
EGIS technology for use in bottling lines (the AlexusR system). The Company
believes that the technology developed from this project may have applications
in a range of environments where the ability to screen products during
high-speed production, without interruption, will enhance product quality and
increase efficiency.

The Company's Thermo Voltek Corporation subsidiary designs, develops, and
manufactures test instruments that simulate different types of pulsed
electromagnetic interference in order to test electronic and electrical systems
and components for electromagnetic compatibility (EMC), provides EMC consulting
and systems-integration services, distributes a range of EMC-related products
and manufactures and markets specialized power supplies for telecommunications
equipment. Thermo Voltek also designs, manufactures, and markets high-voltage
power conversion systems, modulators, fast-repsonse protection systems, and
related high-voltage equipment for industrial, medical, and environmental
processes, and defense and scientific research applications.

Publicly and Privately Held Subsidiaries

In 1983, the Company adopted a strategy of having certain subsidiaries sell a
minority interest in a public or private offering to outside investors. An
important goal of this strategy is to provide the entrepreneurial atmosphere and
focused performance incentives of a separate business. As of January 1, 1994,
the Company had 12 subsidiaries that have sold minority equity interests, nine
of which are publicly traded and three of which are privately held. 

Thermedics Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets explosives- and
drug-detection devices, product quality assurance systems, as well as
biomaterials and other biomedical products. Thermedics' products are included in
the Company's Biomedical Products and Advanced Technologies segments. On January
31, 1994, Thermedics announced its intention to acquire from Baker Hughes
Incorporated two businesses that manufacture precision measurement and
inspection equipment, for a cash purchase price of approximately $41 million.

     Thermo Cardiosystems Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics,
     performs research and development of implantable left ventricular-assist
     devices designed to perform substantially all or part of the pumping
     function of the left ventricle of the natural heart for patients suffering
     from cardiovascular disease. Thermo Cardiosystems' products are included in
     the Company's Biomedical Products segment.

     Thermo Voltek Corp., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermedics, designs,
     develops, and manufactures instruments and systems that simulate the
     effects of pulsed electromagnetic interference and power interruptions,
     provides electromagnetic compatibility consulting and systems services, and
     designs, manufactures, and markets high-voltage power conversion systems
     for commercial, medical, defense, and industrial applications. Thermo
     Voltek's products are included in the Company's Advanced Technologies
     segment.

Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. develops, manufactures, and markets analytical
and monitoring instruments used to detect and measure air pollution, nuclear
radioactivity, toxic substances, chemical compounds, and trace quantities of
metals, and other elements, in a wide variety of materials. Thermo Instrument
also performs analytical laboratory services for the management of hazardous
wastes and radioactive materials, and environmental science and engineering
services. Thermo Instrument's products and services are included in the
Company's Instruments and Services segments.

Thermo Process Systems Inc. designs, manufactures, and installs
custom-engineered thermal-processing systems for treating primary metals and
metal parts. The Company also provides a range of metallurgical processing
services. Thermo Process' products and services are included in the Company's
Process Equipment and Services segments.

     Thermo Remediation Inc., a majority-owned subsidiary of Thermo Process,
     operates a network of soil-recycling centers in the U.S. and provides waste
     fluids-recycling services. Thermo Remediation's services are included in
     the Company's Services segment.

     J. Amerika N.V., a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary of Thermo
     Process, provides environmental services in the Netherlands, including
     testing, removal, and installation of underground storage tanks, and
     groundwater cleanup. J. Amerika's services are included in the Company's
     Services segment.

Thermo Power Corporation manufactures, markets, and services industrial
refrigeration equipment; natural gas engines for vehicles and stationary
applications; natural gas-fueled cooling and cogeneration systems; and marine
engines; and conducts research and development on low-emission engines and
advanced systems for clean-coal combustion. Thermo Power's products are included
in the Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment.

ThermoTrex Corporation manufactures and markets mammography and biopsy systems
for the early detection of breast cancer, and conducts advanced-technology
research and product development, which it is incorporating into commercial
products for the medical imaging and avionics industries. ThermoTrex's products
are included in the Company's Advanced Technologies and Biomedical Products
segments.
     ThermoLase Inc., a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary of ThermoTrex,
     is developing a laser-based system for the long-term removal of hair, and
     manufactures high-quality skin-care products sold through salons, spas, and
     department stores. ThermoLase's hair-removal system is included in the
     Advanced Technologies segment and ThermoLase's skin-care products are
     included in the Company's Biomedical Products segment.

Thermo Fibertek Inc. develops, markets, and manufactures a range of equipment
and accessory products for the domestic and international paper industry,
including de-inking and stock-preparation equipment for paper recycling. Thermo
Fibertek's products are included in the Company's Process Equipment segment.

Thermo Energy Systems Corporation, a majority-owned, privately held subsidiary,
develops and operates alternative-energy power plants. Plants currently operated
by the Company are owned by third parties and leased on a long-term basis to the
Company, or are owned by joint ventures or partnerships in which the Company has
ownership interests. Thermo Energy Systems' operations are included in the
Company's Alternative-energy Systems segment.

The Company also has a number of wholly owned subsidiaries and divisions that
develop, manufacture, and market neurophysiology monitoring instruments,
blood-coagulation monitoring products and skin-incision devices, electroplating
and wastewater treatment lines, and steam turbines and gas compressors, and
provide services in metallurgical heat-treating and specialty metals
fabrication. In addition, a division of the Company constructed and now operates
a waste-recycling facility.

     (ii) New Products

The Company's business includes the development and introduction of new products
and may include entry into new business segments. The Company has made no
commitments to new products that require the investment of a material amount of
the Company's assets, nor does it have any definitive plans to enter new
business segments that would require such an investment (see Section (xi)
"Research and Development").

     (iii) Raw Materials

In the opinion of management, the Company has a readily available supply of raw
materials for all of its significant products from various sources and does not
anticipate any difficulties in obtaining the raw materials essential to its
business, except as described below.

The Company's Thermedics subsidiary relies upon a number of sole-source
suppliers of chemical components used in the manufacture of two polyurethanes.
In addition, Thermedics' Thermo Cardiosystems subsidiary relies upon a number of
custom-designed components and materials supplied by other companies to
manufacture its LVADs. In 1992, several suppliers of such components and
materials notified Thermo Cardiosystems that they intended to exit the
biomedical market. While the Company believes that the existing premarket
approval application for Thermo Cardiosystems air-driven LVADs will not be
affected by the discontinuation of these materials, any new materials used in
the LVAD systems will require approval by the FDA. The Company's goal is to
obtain FDA approval for alternative materials before Thermo Cardiosystems'
existing supplies are depleted. The cost to the Company to evaluate and test
alternative materials and the time necessary to obtain FDA approval for these
materials are inherently difficult to determine because both time and cost are
dependent on at least two factors: the similarity of the alternative material to
the original material, and the amount of third-party testing that may have
already been completed on alternative materials. There can be no assurance,
however, that Thermo Cardiosystems' existing supplies will not be depleted prior
to the receipt of FDA approval.

     (iv) Patents, Licenses, and Trademarks

The Company considers patents to be important in the present operation of its
business. However, the Company does not consider any patent, or related group of
patents, to be of such importance that its expiration or termination would
materially affect the Company's business taken as a whole. The Company seeks
patent protection for inventions and developments made by its personnel and
incorporated into its products or otherwise falling within its fields of
interest. Patent rights resulting from work sponsored by outside parties do not
always accrue exclusively to the Company and may be limited by agreements or
contracts.

The Company protects some of its technology as trade secrets and, where
appropriate, utilizes trademarks with its products. It also enters into license
agreements with others to grant and/or receive rights to patents and know-how.

     (v)  Seasonal Influences

There are no significant seasonal influences on the Company's sales of products
and services.

     (vi) Working Capital Requirements

There are no special inventory requirements or credit terms extended to
customers that would have a material adverse effect on the Company's working
capital.

     (vii) Dependence on a Single Customer

No single customer accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total revenues
in any of the past three years. The Advanced Technologies segment derived
approximately 23% of its revenues in 1993 from contracts with various agencies
of the U.S. government and approximately 45% of its revenues in 1993 from one
customer for a high-speed product quality assurance system. In connection with
the development of alternative-energy power plants, the Company typically enters
into long-term power supply contracts with a single customer for the sale of
power generated by each plant. Although the Alternative-energy Systems segment
is, therefore, dependent upon a small number of customers, the Company believes
that the nature of its customers (typically utilities) and the long-term nature
of these contracts significantly reduce the risk associated with a small
customer base.

     (viii) Backlog

The Company's backlog of firm orders at year-end 1993 and 1992 was as follows:

       (In thousands)                            1993           1992
       -----------------------------------------------------------------
       Instruments                               $115,600       $ 93,000
       Alternative-energy Systems                 370,600        375,800
       Process Equipment                           36,200         40,900
       Biomedical Products                         26,800         13,300
       Services                                    39,700         47,400
       Advanced Technologies                       29,100         25,900
                                                 --------       --------
                                                 $618,000       $596,300
                                                 ========       ========
Alternative-energy Systems segment backlog includes $281 million at year-end
1993 and 1992 for revenues to be earned over 24 years from the operation of the
San Diego County waste-recycling facility, construction of which was completed
in early 1994 (see "Alternative-energy Systems" under section (c), "Description
of Business"). The Advanced Technologies segment backlog includes government
contract orders that are firm but not yet funded. Such orders were $11.4 million
and $11.7 million at year-end 1993 and 1992, respectively.

Backlog includes the uncompleted portion of research and development contracts
and the uncompleted portion of certain equipment contracts that are accounted
for using the percentage-of-completion method. The Company believes
approximately 95% of the 1993 backlog, excluding backlog relating to the
waste-recycling facility in San Diego County, will be filled during fiscal 1994.
The Company believes that approximately $12 million of the backlog relating to
the waste-recycling facility in San Diego County will be filled in fiscal 1994.

     (ix) Government Contracts

Approximately 3% of the Company's total revenues in fiscal 1993 were derived
from contracts or subcontracts with the federal government, which are subject to
renegotiation of profits or termination. The Company does not have any knowledge
of threatened or pending renegotiation or termination of any material contract
or subcontract.

     (x)  Competition

The Company is engaged in many highly competitive industries. The nature of the
competition in each of the Company's markets is described below:

Instruments

The Company's instruments business generally competes on the basis of technical
advances that result in new products and improved price-performance ratios,
reputation among customers as a quality leader for products and services, and
active research and application-development programs. To a lesser extent, the
Company competes on the basis of price. The Company believes it is among the
principal manufacturers specializing in analytical instrumentation, although it
faces significant competition from other companies and technologies in most of
its product lines and its relative position in certain markets cannot be
determined due to insufficient data. The Company believes it is the leading
supplier of mass spectrometers, FT-IR spectrometers, FT-IR and FT-Raman
microscopes, and optical plasma-emission spectrometers, and a major supplier of
atomic absorption spectrometers. In liquid chromatography, the Company believes
its competitors include several larger companies and numerous specialty
manufacturers. In its remaining analytical instrument product lines, the Company
believes its competitors are mainly smaller, specialized firms.

The Company is a leading manufacturer of ambient air monitoring instruments and
a major manufacturer of source monitoring and worker-safety monitoring
instruments. Some engineering companies compete for large ambient air monitoring
installations, but they do not manufacture the individual instruments that form
a major part of the system, therefore, they will often buy these from the
Company on an OEM basis.

Alternative-energy Systems

Alternative-energy power plants are individually designed to meet customer
specifications. Most customers solicit proposals from several companies and make
a selection based upon engineering design capability, adherence to
specifications, and previous experience with the supplier, as well as price and
service.

The Company's sale of packaged cogeneration systems is subject to intense
competition, both direct and indirect. Direct competitors consist of companies
that sell cogeneration products resembling those sold by the Company. In
addition, electric utility pricing programs provide competition for the
Company's cogeneration products. Indirect competitors include manufacturers of
conventional water heaters, air conditioners, and electric generator sets, since
the economic benefits of the Company's cogeneration and cooling systems depend
on the cost of conventional energy. The Company believes it competes in the sale
of its systems on the basis of several factors, including product quality and
reliability, operational savings, ease of installation, service, and price. 

The Company anticipates that competition in the developing alternative-fuel
engine market, specifically natural gas engines for vehicles, will be intense,
and potential competitors may include major automotive and natural gas companies
and other companies that have greater financial resources than those of the
Company.

The Company has experienced intense competition in the marine engine business in
recent years, primarily from the vertical integration of boat and engine
manufacturers that has led to the acquisition of some of its former customers by
competing engine manufacturers. Competition is primarily on the basis of
quality, reliability, and service.

The Company's sale of industrial refrigeration systems is subject to intense
competition. The industrial refrigeration market is mature, highly fragmented,
and extremely dependent on close customer contacts. Major industrial
refrigeration companies, of which FES is one, account for approximately one half
of worldwide sales, with the balance generated by many smaller companies. The
Company competes principally on the basis of its advanced control systems and
overall quality, reliability, service, and price.

Process Equipment

The Company faces significant competition in the markets for both
paper-recycling and web process equipment, and competes in these markets
primarily on the basis of quality, service, technical expertise, and product
innovation. The Company is a leading supplier of accessory equipment for
papermaking machines, and competes in this market primarily on the basis of
service, technical expertise, and performance.

Although the market for metallurgical processing systems is subject to intense
competition worldwide, competition for particular projects is typically limited
to only a few companies. The Company competes on the basis of several factors,
including technical performance, product quality and reliability, timely
delivery, and price.

Services

The Company competes in the emerging and highly fragmented market for
soil-remediation services on its ability to offer customers superior protection
from environmental liabilities from a national network of cleanup facilities.
However, the Company faces competition in local markets from landfills and other
remediation technologies as well as from companies competing with similar
technologies, that limits the prices that can be charged by the Company. Pricing
is therefore a major competitive factor to the Company.

The Company's metallurgical services business competes in specialty machining
services. Competition is based principally on quality, service, price, and the
ability to respond rapidly to customer requirements.

Hundreds of independent analytical testing laboratories and engineering and
consulting firms compete for environmental services business nationwide. Many of
these firms use equipment and processes similar to those of the Company.
Competition is based not only on price, but also on reputation for accuracy,
quality, and the ability to respond rapidly to customer requirements. In
addition, many industrial companies have their own in-house analytical testing
capabilities. 

Biomedical Products

Competition in the markets for most of the Company's biomedical products,
including those manufactured by Thermo Cardiosystems, Lorad, Nicolet Biomedical
and ITC, is based to a large extent upon technical performance.

The Company is aware of one other company that is performing clinical trials in
humans of a long-term LVAD and a portable electric LVAD. The Company is also
aware that a total artificial heart is currently undergoing clinical trials. The
requirement of obtaining FDA approval for commercial sale of LVADs is a
significant barrier to entry into that market. Consequently, the first companies
to receive market approval from the FDA will have a significant competitive
advantage. 

Sales of Lorad X-ray mammography equipment are primarily limited to the U.S.
Lorad and General Electric Company each have approximately 30% of the U.S. X-ray
mammography market. The balance of the market is divided among approximately 10
other companies. The Company competes in this market principally on the basis of
technological advances and technical service support and, to a lesser extent,
price.

CBI competes with a number of small manufacturers and divisions of larger
companies primarily on the basis of reputation, product quality, diversity of
products and price.

Advanced Technologies

In its contract research and development business, the Company not only competes
with other companies and institutions that perform similar services, but must
also rely on the ability of government agencies and other clients to obtain
allocations of research and development monies to fund contracts with the
Company. The Company competes for its research and development programs
principally on the basis of technical innovations. As government funding becomes
more scarce, particularly for defense projects, the competition for such funding
will become more intense. In addition, as the Company's programs move from the
development stage to commercialization, competition is expected to intensify.

There are a number of competing technologies for instruments that detect
explosives and narcotics, including makers of other chemical-detection
instruments as well as enhanced X-ray detectors. Competition in this area is
primarily based on performance and, to a lesser extent, price. Since use of the
Company's explosives-detection instruments has not been mandated by the U.S.
Federal Aviation Administration (FAA), most of the Company's sales of
explosives-detection equipment are overseas. The Company believes that the
manufacturers, if any, whose devices are required to be used by the FAA will
have a substantial competitive advantage in the United States. The Company's
product quality assurance systems compete with chemical-detection systems
manufactured by several companies and with other technologies and processes for
quality assurance. Competition in the markets for all of the Company's detection
products is based primarily on performance and, to a lesser extent, price.

The Company estimates that there are between 10 and 20 companies that compete in
each of the markets for pulsed electromagnetic interference test equipment,
component reliability test equipment, and high-voltage power conversion systems
of the general type manufactured and marketed by the Company. Competition is
principally on the basis of reputation, technical expertise, and product
performance.

     (xi) Research and Development

During 1993, 1992, and 1991, the Company expended $79,378,000, $58,101,000, and
$47,367,000, respectively, on research and development. Of these amounts,
$20,435,000, $19,426,000, and $21,196,000 were sponsored by customers and
$58,943,000, $38,675,000, and $26,171,000 were Company-sponsored. Approximately
640 professional employees were engaged full-time in research and development
activities at January 1, 1994.

     (xii) Environmental Protection Regulations

The Company believes that compliance with federal, state, and local
environmental protection regulations will not have a material adverse effect on
its capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position.

     (xiii) Number of Employees

At January 1, 1994, the Company employed approximately 8,800 persons.

(d)  Financial Information about Exports by Domestic Operations and about
     Foreign Operations

Financial information about exports by domestic operations and about foreign
operations is summarized in Note 12 in the Registrant's 1993 Annual Report to
Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

(e)  Executive Officers of the Registrant

                              Present Title (Year First
Name                      Age Became Executive Officer)
- ------------------------- --- ----------------------------------
George N. Hatsopoulos (1) 67  Chairman of the Board, President,
                              Chief Executive Officer, and
                              Director (1956)
John N. Hatsopoulos (1)   59  Executive Vice President and Chief
                              Financial Officer (1968)
Robert C. Howard          63  Executive Vice President (1968)
Peter G. Pantazelos       63  Executive Vice President (1968)
Arvin H. Smith            64  Executive Vice President (1983)
William A. Rainville      52  Senior Vice President (1993)
Paul F. Kelleher          51  Vice President, Finance (1982)

(1) George N. Hatsopoulos and John N. Hatsopoulos are brothers.

Each executive officer serves until his successor is chosen or appointed and
qualified or until earlier resignation, death, or removal. All executive
officers have held comparable positions with the Company for at least the last
five years.

Item 2.   Properties

The location and general character of the Company's principal properties by
industry segment as of January 1, 1994, are as follows:

Instruments

The Company owns approximately 697,000 square feet of office, engineering,
laboratory, and production space, principally in California, Colorado, Florida,
New Mexico, Wisconsin, Germany, and England, and leases approximately 694,000
square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and production space principally
in California, Connecticut, Massachusetts, Wisconsin, Germany, and Japan, under
leases expiring from 1994 to 2017.

Alternative-energy Systems

The Company owns approximately 413,000 square feet of office, engineering, and
production space in Pennsylvania and England, and leases approximately 208,000
square feet of office, engineering, laboratory, and production space principally
in Massachusetts and Michigan, under leases expiring from 1994 to 2005.

The Company operates four alternative-energy power plants in California, Maine,
and New Hampshire, under leases expiring from 2003 to 2009. The Company owns
three alternative-energy power plants in New Hampshire and California and a
waste-recycling facility in California.

Process Equipment

The Company owns approximately 1,153,000 square feet of office, laboratory, and
production space, principally in Connecticut, Massachusetts, New York, Canada,
England, France, and Mexico, and leases approximately 471,000 square feet of
office, engineering, and production space principally in Georgia, Michigan, and
Wisconsin, under leases expiring from 1994 to 2000.

Biomedical Products

The Company owns approximately 96,000 square feet of office and production space
in Connecticut and New Jersey, and leases approximately 286,000 square feet of
office, engineering, laboratory, and production space in Illinois,
Massachusetts, New Jersey, and Texas, under leases expiring from 1995 to 2003.

Services

The Company owns approximately 1,855,000 square feet of office, laboratory, and
production space, principally in California, Florida, Minnesota, Oregon, South
Carolina, and the Netherlands, and leases approximately 782,000 square feet of
office, engineering, laboratory, and production space principally in Arizona,
California, Massachusetts, New Jersey, New Mexico, and South Carolina, under
leases expiring from 1994 to 2008.

Advanced Technologies and Corporate Headquarters

The Company owns approximately 126,000 square feet of office space in
Massachusetts and New York and leases approximately 231,000 square feet of
office, engineering, and laboratory space principally in California,
Massachusetts, and the Netherlands, under leases expiring from 1994 to 2003.
The Company believes that its facilities are in good condition and are suitable
and adequate to meet its current needs, and that suitable replacements are
available on commercially reasonable terms for any leases which expire in 1994
in the event that the Company is unable to renew such leases on reasonable
terms.


Item 3.   Legal Proceedings

The Company participates in the operation of the Dade County Downtown Government
Center cogeneration facility in Miami, Florida, through a 50/50 joint venture of
subsidiaries of the Company and Rolls-Royce, Inc. The joint venture sells
electricity to Metropolitan Dade County (the County) pursuant to an energy
purchase contract signed in 1983. Because the demand for power and chilled water
at the Government Center complex has been substantially less than anticipated
since the plant's startup in 1987, and because the Company believes the County
has breached its contractual obligations with respect to the use of power at
County facilities outside the Government Center (affecting plant efficiency),
the joint venture has experienced continuing losses. The joint venture sells
over half of its actual output to the County and the balance to Florida Power
and Light (the local utility). On April 13, 1992, the joint venture re-filed a
lawsuit against the County (originally brought in 1988) in the Circuit Court of
the Eleventh Judicial Circuit, Dade County, Florida, seeking in excess of $60
million in damages and alleging that the County was in breach of the energy
purchase contract and had misrepresented its demand for electrical power. The
County has asserted counterclaims in excess of $28 million against the joint
venture, the Company, and Rolls-Royce, alleging, among other things, failure to
properly maintain and operate the facility and to use its best efforts to
maximize use of the facility's output. The County has also asserted that the
joint venture is responsible for local property taxes on the project, totaling
approximately $10.5 million to date, which the joint venture disputes. On May
18, 1993, the County filed a petition with the Florida Public Service
Commission, asserting that the joint venture was engaged in the retail sale of
electricity without complying with the rules governing public utilities. The
County has filed a similar motion in the state court case alleging that the
contract was illegal. Trial of the state court action has been delayed while the
County and the joint venture attempt to settle the dispute.

On May 28, 1993, the County brought a parallel proceeding before the Federal
Energy Regulatory Commission (FERC) seeking to terminate the project's
qualifying facility status under the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of
1978 (PURPA) for failure to meet certain required efficiency standards at
various times from 1987 to the present (PURPA generally obligates utilities,
such as Florida Power and Light, to purchase electricity from qualifying
facilities at the utilities' avoided cost and exempts qualifying facilities from
various Federal and state regulations, such as the Federal Power Act (FPA).) The
Company believes the project currently meets the efficiency standards and
therefore currently has qualifying facility status. However, on October 21,
1993, FERC issued an order finding that, although the project met the efficiency
standards for 1992, the project did not meet such standards from 1987 through
1991. FERC denied the joint venture's request for a waiver of the efficiency
standards for that period and also directed the joint venture to show cause why
FERC should not find that the joint venture was a public utility for FPA
purposes during that period. If the joint venture is retroactively deemed a
public utility under FPA, FERC could impose refund liabilities and other
penalties to the extent FERC does not find either that the joint venture
complied with relevant FERC regulations or that the regulations should be
waived. The joint venture has been granted a rehearing of the FERC decision and
has asserted various grounds for reversal. The joint venture is also entitled to
appeal FERC's final decision, if necessary. In the rehearing, the County and
Florida Power and Light argued before FERC that the project did not meet the
efficiency standards for 1992. The County is also using FERC's decision in an
attempt to have the state court declare the energy purchase contract illegal
under Federal law.

The joint venture leases its generating equipment from Florida Energy Partners
Limited Partnership (FEP). If the energy purchase contract were to be held
illegal, FEP could declare a default by the joint venture under the lease with
FEP, and the County could be released from its obligation to buy electricity
from the joint venture. In the lease, the joint venture also covenanted that the
project would maintain PURPA qualifying facility status. If the joint venture is
deemed to have breached this covenant, FEP could declare a default under the
lease. In the event of a default under the lease, among other things, FEP could
seek to sell or re-lease the equipment and the Company generally would be liable
for one-half of any deficiency between (a) in the event of a sale, approximately
$54 million and the amount realized from the sale or (b) in the case of
re-lease, one-half of the difference between the present value of future rental
and prepayment penalty under the lease (approximately $42 million) and the
present value of a fair rental value to be collected from a new tenant.

The joint venture's revenues and net losses for (a) the year ended
January 1, 1994 were $5.0 million and $12.5 million, respectively (exclusive of
a $15.0 million reserve the Company recorded in 1993 in connection with this
project) and (b) the cumulative period 1987 through 1991 were $26.3 million and
$23.0 million, respectively. The Company reports its interest in the joint
venture's results of operations using the equity method of accounting. Under
this method, the Company records 50% of the joint venture's loss, but does not
report as revenues any of the joint venture's revenues.

On or about September 8, 1993, the Connecticut Department of Environmental
Protection (DEP) served pretrial memoranda in the action captioned "Timothy R.E.
Keeney, Commissioner of Environmental Protection vs. Napco, Inc.," in Hartford
County (Connecticut) Superior Court, seeking civil penalties from the Company's
Napco, Inc. subsidiary for alleged violations of state law relating primarily to
labeling and storage of on-site containers allegedly containing hazardous
materials, and related record-keeping matters. The allegations do not involve
damage to the environment. The DEP seeks to have the court impose civil
penalties of up to $25,000 per day per violation, allegedly totaling several
million dollars. Napco, Inc. has denied the DEP's allegations, and is defending
the case vigorously and asserting all available defenses. The Company believes
that any settlement of this matter by its subsidiary will not have a material
adverse effect on the Company.

Certain subsidiaries of the Company, including those recently acquired by the
Company, have been notified that the U.S. Environmental Protection Agency (EPA)
has determined that a release or a substantial threat of a release of a
hazardous substance, as defined in the Comprehensive Environmental Response
Compensation and Liability Act of 1980 (CERCLA or the Superfund law), occurred
at sites to which chemical or other wastes generated by the manufacturing
operations of these companies may have been sent. These notifications generally
also allege that these companies may be potentially responsible parties with
respect to the remedial actions needed to control or clean up any such releases.
Under CERCLA, responsible parties can include current and previous owners of the
site, generators of hazardous substances disposed of at the site, and
transporters of hazardous substances to the site. Each responsible party can be
jointly and severally liable, without regard to fault or negligence, for all
costs associated with site remediation. In each instance the Company believes
that its subsidiary is one of several companies that received such notification
and who may likewise be held liable for any such remedial costs.
The Company is also involved in situations under state environmental laws with
respect to certain other sites where remediation may be required. The Company is
conducting investigative or remediation activities at these sites pursuant to
arrangements with state environmental agencies.

The Company evaluates its potential liability as a responsible party for these
environmental matters on an ongoing basis subject to factors such as the
estimated remediation costs, the nature and duration of the Company's
involvement with the site, the financial strength of other potentially
responsible parties, and the availability of indemnification from previous
owners of acquired businesses. Estimated liabilities are accrued in accordance
with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 5, "Accounting for
Contingencies." To date, the Company has not incurred any significant liability
with respect to any of these sites and anticipates that future liabilities
related to sites where the Company is currently a potentially responsible party
or is otherwise conducting investigative or remediation activities, will not
have a material adverse effect on its business, results of operations, or
financial position.


Item 4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

Not applicable.

                                    PART II


Item 5.   Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

Information concerning the market and market price for the Registrant's Common
Stock, $1.00 par value, and related matters, is included under the sections
labeled "Common Stock Market Information" and "Dividend Policy" in the
Registrant's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by
reference.

Item 6.   Selected Financial Data

The information required under this item is included under the sections "Ten
Year Financial Summary" and "Dividend Policy" in the Registrant's 1993 Annual
Report to Shareholders and is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
          Results of Operations

The information required under this item is included under the heading
"Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations" in the Registrant's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders and is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

The Registrant's Consolidated Financial Statements as of January 1, 1994, are
included in the Registrant's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders and are
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 9.   Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and
          Financial Disclosures

Not Applicable.
                                    PART III



Item 10.  Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

The information concerning Directors required under this item is incorporated
herein by reference from the material contained under the caption "Election of
Directors" in the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than
120 days after the close of the fiscal year. The information concerning
delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein
by reference from the material contained under the heading "Disclosure of
Certain Late Filings" under the caption "Stock Ownership" in the Registrant's
definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and Exchange
Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after the close
of the fiscal year.


Item 11.  Executive Compensation

The information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the material contained under the caption "Executive Compensation" in the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after
the close of the fiscal year.


Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

The information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the material contained under the caption "Stock Ownership" in the
Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after
the close of the fiscal year.


Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

The information required under this item is incorporated herein by reference
from the material contained under the caption "Relationship with Affiliates" in
the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed with the Securities and
Exchange Commission pursuant to Regulation 14A, not later than 120 days after
the close of the fiscal year.
                                    PART IV



Item 14.  Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

(a), (d) Financial Statements and Schedules

       (1) The financial statements set forth in the list below are filed as
           part of this Report.

       (2) The financial statement schedules set forth in the list below are
           filed as part of this Report.

       (3) Exhibits filed herewith or incorporated herein by reference are set
           forth in Item 14(c) below.

       List of Financial Statements and Schedules Referenced in this Item 14

       Information incorporated by reference from Exhibit 13 filed herewith:

           Consolidated Statement of Income
           Consolidated Balance Sheet
           Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows
           Consolidated Statement of Shareholders' Investment
           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
           Report of Independent Public Accountants

       Certain Financial Schedules included herewith:

       Schedule I:     Marketable Securities Short- and Long-term
       Schedule II:    Amounts Receivable From Related Parties and
                       Underwriters, Promoters, and Employees Other Than
                       Related Parties
       Schedule VIII:  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
       Schedule IX:    Short-term Borrowings
       Schedule X:     Supplemental Income Statement Information

       All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or not
       required, or because the required information is shown either in the
       financial statements or in the notes thereto.

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

During the Company's fiscal quarter ended January 1, 1994, the Company was not
required to file, and did not file, any Current Report on Form 8-K.

(c)  Exhibits

See Exhibit Index on the page immediately preceding exhibits.
                                   SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

Date: March 9, 1994

                                    THERMO ELECTRON CORPORATION


                                    By: George N. Hatsopoulos
                                        George N. Hatsopoulos
                                        President and Chief Executive
                                        Officer
Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report
has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and
in the capacities indicated, as of March 9, 1994.

  Signature                      Title
  ---------                      -----

By: George N. Hatsopoulos        President, Chief Executive Officer,
    George N. Hatsopoulos        Chairman of the Board and Director

By: John N. Hatsopoulos          Executive Vice President and Chief
    John N. Hatsopoulos          Financial Officer

By: Paul F. Kelleher             Vice President, Finance
    Paul F. Kelleher             (Chief Accounting officer)

By: John M. Albertine            Director
    John M. Albertine

By: Peter O. Crisp               Director
    Peter O. Crisp

By: Elias P. Gyftopoulos         Director
    Elias P. Gyftopoulos

By: Frank Jungers                Director
    Frank Jungers

By: Robert A. McCabe             Director
    Robert A. McCabe

By: Frank E. Morris              Director
    Frank E. Morris

By: Donald E. Noble              Director
    Donald E. Noble

By: Hutham S. Olayan             Director
    Hutham S. Olayan

By:                              Director
    Roger D. Wellington

                    Report of Independent Public Accountants
                    ----------------------------------------


To the Shareholders and Board of Directors of
Thermo Electron Corporation:


We have audited in accordance with generally accepted auditing standards, the
consolidated financial statements included in Thermo Electron Corporation's
Annual Report to Shareholders incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K, and
have issued our report thereon dated February 17, 1994. Our audits were made for
the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole. The
schedules listed in Item 14 on page 23 are the responsibility of the Company's
management and are presented for purposes of complying with the Securities and
Exchange Commission's rules and are not part of the basic consolidated financial
statements. These schedules have been subjected to the auditing procedures
applied in the audits of the basic consolidated financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly state in all material respects the financial data required to be
set forth therein in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements
taken as a whole.




                                               Arthur Andersen & Co.


Boston, Massachusetts
February 17, 1994

























SCHEDULE I


                          Thermo Electron Corporation

                   Marketable Securities Short- and Long-term
                                 (In thousands)
                                January 1, 1994

                                                                  Amount
                                                        Market   Carried
                                                 Cost    Value        in
Name of Issuer and Title of       Principal   of Each  of Each   Balance
Each Issue                           Amount  Issue(a)    Issue  Sheet(a)
- --------------------------------- ---------  -------- --------  --------
Corporate Notes:

 ACM Managed Income Fund           $  4,900  $  4,899 $  4,900  $  4,900
 Alexander Haagen Properties Inc.     2,000     2,000    2,000     2,000
 American Express Corporation         1,000     1,069    1,076     1,000
 Anagram Funding Corp.                5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Bankers Trust New York Corp.         5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Bear Stearns Companies Inc.          6,000     6,039    6,032     6,000
 British Petroleum North America      4,500     4,609    4,604     4,500
 Broken Hill Properties 
  Operations Inc.                    10,000    10,000   10,000    10,000
 Caterpillar Financial Services Inc.  8,000     8,017    8,014     8,000
 Chrysler Financial Corp.             9,000     9,062    9,129     9,000
 Chubb Capital Corp.                  5,100     5,100    5,100     5,100
 Coca-Cola Enterprises Inc.             800       800      818       800
 Dean Witter Discover & Co.           5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Dow Chemical Corp.                  10,000    10,000   10,000    10,000
 Eastman Kodak Corporation            6,000     2,785    2,753     6,000
 First Australia Prime Income Fund   15,000    15,000   15,000    15,000
 Ford Motor Credit Company           10,000    10,000   10,013    10,000
 Freeport McMoran Inc.                2,000     2,000    1,990     2,000
 General Electric Capital             
  Corporation                         7,225     7,446    7,583     7,225
 General Motors Acceptance 
  Corporation                        19,590    20,033   20,072    19,590
 Halliburton Co.                      6,000     2,651    2,925     6,000
 IBM Corporation                      7,000     7,000    6,983     7,000
 Kimberly-Clark Corp.                 2,775     3,126    2,970     2,775
 MCI Communications Corp.             3,000     3,019    3,012     3,000
 Meditrust                            4,200     4,577    4,537     4,200
 Merrill Lynch & Co.                  7,000     7,174    7,158     7,000
 National Health Investors Inc.       5,000     5,095    5,000     5,000
 Pepsi Corporation                    5,000     5,267    5,260     5,000
 Pfizer Inc.                          1,200     1,200    1,200     1,200
 Pioneer International Hong          
  Kong Ltd.                           5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Pitney Bowes Inc.                    1,350     1,432    1,406     1,350
 RJR Nabisco Inc.                     4,000     4,482    4,378     4,000
 Safeway Stores Inc.                  2,000     1,995    2,044     2,000
 Seven World Trade Finance Inc.       5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Shearson Lehman Hutton Inc.          1,000     1,039    1,150     1,000
 Sizeler Property Investors           1,000     1,000    1,000     1,000
 Southwestern Bell Capital 
  Corporation                      $  2,000  $  2,085 $  2,129  $  2,000

                                                                  Amount
                                                        Market   Carried
                                                 Cost    Value        in
Name of Issuer and Title of       Principal   of Each  of Each   Balance
Each Issue                           Amount  Issue(a)    Issue  Sheet(a)
- --------------------------------- ---------  -------- --------  --------
 
 Texaco Capital Inc.               $  2,000  $  2,057 $  2,073  $  2,000
 The Limited Inc.                     7,200     7,200    7,200     7,200
 Time Warner Inc.                     2,000     2,069    2,095     2,000
 Union Bank of Finland                2,000     2,034    2,045     2,000
 USX Corporation                      4,000     1,420    1,640     4,000
 Waste Management Inc.                3,500     3,526    3,679     3,500
 Xerox Corporation                    1,870     1,906    1,911     1,870
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
                                    221,210   215,213  215,879   221,210
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------

Commercial Paper:

 Allianz of America Finance Corp.     5,000     4,911    5,000     5,000
 American International Group       
  Funding                            10,000     9,996   10,000    10,000
 Bank of New York                    10,000     9,985   10,000    10,000
 Baxter International                 5,000     4,971    5,000     5,000
 Conagra Inc.                         5,000     4,984    5,000     5,000
 Daimler Benz North America Corp.    10,000     9,991   10,000    10,000
 GTE Corporation                      5,000     4,978    5,000     5,000
 Merrill Lynch & Co.                  5,000     4,975    5,000     5,000
 R.R. Donnelley & Sons               10,000     9,996   10,000    10,000
 Time Warner Inc.                     5,000     4,971    5,000     5,000
 Xerox Credit Corp.                   5,000     4,990    5,000     5,000
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
                                     75,000    74,748   75,000    75,000
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
Money Market Preferred Stock:

 Bank America Corporation             1,000     1,187    1,100     1,000
 Duff & Phelps Selected           
  Utilities                           5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Elf Acquitaine Finance USA           7,500     7,500    7,500     7,500
 Ford Holdings Inc.                   5,900     5,925    5,934     5,900
 Lasalle National Corp.               1,000     1,000    1,000     1,000
 Lasmo Funding Corp.                  5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Rhone Poulenc Equity
  Development Inc.                    5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Select Asset Funding                10,400    10,400   10,400    10,400
 Texaco Inc.                         10,750    10,804   10,763    10,750
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
                                     51,550    51,816   51,697    51,550
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------       
U.S. Government and Agencies:

 Federal Home Loan Bank             18,000     18,080   18,181    18,000
 Federal Farm Credit                 8,000      9,513    9,689     8,000
 Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corp.    9,675      9,881    9,769     9,675
 Federal National Mortgage 
  Association                     $ 44,000   $ 45,159 $ 45,260  $ 44,000
                                       
                                                                  Amount
                                                        Market   Carried
                                                 Cost    Value        in
Name of Issuer and Title of       Principal   of Each  of Each   Balance
Each Issue                           Amount  Issue(a)    Issue  Sheet(a)
- --------------------------------- ---------  -------- --------  --------

 Student Loan Marketing          
  Association                      $  2,000  $  2,015 $  2,015  $  2,000
 Overseas Private Investment Corp.    2,800     2,800    2,800     2,800
 U.S. Treasury                        7,000     6,919    7,098     7,000
 CMO Agency Fund                     20,903    20,903   21,162    20,903
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
                                    112,378   115,270  115,974   112,378
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
Tax-exempt Securities:

 Chicago Illinois School
  Finance Authority                   2,000     2,195    2,191     2,000
 Intercapital Insured Trust           3,050     3,050    3,050     3,050
 Intermountain Power Agency, Utah     2,000     2,206    2,196     2,000
 La Grange, Georgia                   1,330     1,483    1,370     1,330
 Metro Atlantic Rapid Trust           1,000     1,098    1,097     1,000
 Muniyield Fund Inc.                  5,300     5,300    5,300     5,300
 Muniyield New Jersey                 8,000     7,991    8,002     8,000
 Muniyield Quality IIC Inc.           5,000     4,997    5,005     5,000
 Nuveen Insured Municipal         
  Fund Inc.                           3,500     3,567    3,553     3,500
 Nuveen Premier Income Fund           5,000     5,000    5,000     5,000
 Nuveen Performance Plus Fund         3,000     3,000    3,003     3,000
 Nuveen Quality Municipal Fund        3,300     3,307    3,332     3,300
 Nuveen Municipal Advantage Fund      1,500     1,497    1,509     1,500
 Nuveen California Quality Fund       1,700     1,694    1,709     1,700
 Van Kempen Municipal Trust           4,500     4,493    4,534     4,500
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
                                     50,180    50,878   50,851    50,180
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
Asset-backed Securities:

 FHLMC-1232 Class B                   5,000     4,939    5,034     5,000
 FHLMC-1237 Series D                  5,000     4,894    5,003     5,000
 First Chicago Trust Series 93F       7,000     7,016    7,009     7,000
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
                                     17,000    16,849   17,046    17,000
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
Other:

 Common Stock                        12,907    12,907   12,730    12,556
 Bank Time Deposit                   30,875    30,875   30,875    30,875
 Whole Loan Repurchase Agreement     25,000    25,000   25,000    25,000
 Government Money Market Cash       127,972   127,972  127,972   127,972
 Money Market Cash                   11,461    11,461   11,461    11,461
 Cash in Bank Accounts               39,811    39,811   39,811    39,811
 Other                             $  3,106  $  3,106 $  3,106  $  3,106
  
                                                                  Amount
                                                        Market   Carried
                                                 Cost    Value        in
Name of Issuer and Title of       Principal   of Each  of Each   Balance
Each Issue                           Amount  Issue(a)    Issue  Sheet(a)
- --------------------------------- ---------  -------- --------  --------

 Accrued Interest                  $  3,996  $  3,996 $  3,996  $  3,996
 Accrued Discount/Surplus                 -         -        -    (4,171)
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
                                    255,128   255,128  254,951   250,606
                                   --------  -------- --------  --------
Total Cash, Cash Equivalents,
 Short- and Long-term
 Investments, and 
 Restricted Funds                  $782,446  $779,902 $781,398  $777,924
                                   ========  ======== ========  ========

(a)  The cost of certain securities exceeds the amount carried on
     the balance sheet due to the purchase of these securities at
     a premium. "Accrued discount/surplus" represents the
     unamortized discount/premium as of January 1, 1994.
 
 
 
 
 
 




























SCHEDULE II


                          Thermo Electron Corporation

                  Amounts Receivable From Related Parties and 
                     Underwriters, Promoters, and Employees
                           Other Than Related Parties
                                 (In thousands)


                                       
                                      Balance,                        Balance,  
                                     Beginning                          End of
Year Ended         Name of Debtor(a)   of Year   Additions  Deductions    Year
- -----------------  ----------------- ---------   ---------  ---------- -------

January 1, 1994    Kenneth L. Wood      $  775      $  450      $    -  $1,225
                   Kenneth L. Wood      $  588      $    -      $    -  $  588

January 2, 1993    Kenneth L. Wood      $    -      $  775      $    -  $  775
                   Kenneth L. Wood      $  588      $    -      $    -  $  588

December 28, 1991  Kenneth L. Wood      $  588      $    -      $    -  $  588

(a)  The $588,000 represents a noninterest bearing note receivable which is
     payable to the Company's Thermo Process Systems Inc. subsidiary on
     April 14, 1994. This amount is included in "Accounts receivable" in
     the Consolidated Financial Statements included in the Registrant's 1993
     Annual Report to Shareholders. The $1,225,000 represents a note 
     receivable which bears interest at the Broker Call Rate, minus 25 basis 
     points, and is payable to the Company on September 18, 1995. This note 
     is included in "Other Assets" in the Consolidated Financial Statements 
     included in the Registrant's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders. These
     notes were secured by a pledge of Thermo Process common stock and were
     repaid in full in January 1994. As of January 1, 1994, Kenneth L. Wood
     was an employee of Thermo Process.



















SCHEDULE VIII


                          Thermo Electron Corporation

                       Valuation and Qualifying Accounts
                                 (In thousands)

                           Year Ended January 1, 1994



                              
                                 Charged                            
                     Balance,         to                    Accounts  Balance, 
                    Beginning  Costs and           Accounts  Written       End
Description           of Year   Expenses Other(a) Recovered      Off   of Year
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------  

Allowance for 
 Doubtful accounts    $11,341      2,675   1,532      1,961   (3,380)  $14,129
==============================================================================
   
                           Year Ended January 2, 1993




                                 Charged                            
                     Balance,         to                    Accounts  Balance, 
                    Beginning  Costs and           Accounts  Written       End
Description           of Year   Expenses Other(a) Recovered      Off   of Year
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------ 

Allowance for 
 Doubtful accounts    $10,865      2,021   1,760        144   (3,449)  $11,341
==============================================================================

                          Year Ended December 28, 1991




                                 Charged                            
                     Balance,         to                    Accounts  Balance, 
                    Beginning  Costs and           Accounts  Written       End
Description           of Year   Expenses Other(a) Recovered      Off   of Year
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Allowance for
 Doubtful accounts    $10,894      3,020      71        173   (3,293)  $10,865
==============================================================================

(a)  Allowances of businesses acquired during the year as
     described in Note 2 to Consolidated Statements in the
     Registrant's 1993 Annual Report to Shareholders.


SCHEDULE IX


                          Thermo Electron Corporation

                             Short-term Borrowings
                       (In thousands except percentages)


                              At Year-end            During the Year
                           ---------------- --------------------------------- 
                                   Weighted                          Weighted
                                    Average     Highest  Average of   Average
                  Category         Interest Quarter-end Quarter-end  Interest
Year Ended           (a)   Balance     Rate     Balance    Balances  Rate (b)
- ----------------- ------- -------- -------- ----------- -----------  -------- 
                                                
January 1, 1994     Bank   $45,851     6.2%     $45,851     $30,047      6.5%
January 2, 1993     Bank   $22,034     7.6%     $22,034     $13,341      9.5%
December 28, 1991   Bank   $ 4,904     8.6%     $ 6,750     $ 5,477     10.2%



(a)  This schedule does not include current maturities of
     long-term obligations.

(b)  Calculations are based on the average daily interest rates in
     effect during the periods the loans were outstanding.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


SCHEDULE X


                          Thermo Electron Corporation

                   Supplemental Income Statement Information
                                 (In thousands)
         

                                             Year Ended
                          --------------------------------------------------- 
                          January 1, 1994  January 2, 1993  December 28, 1991
                          ---------------  ---------------  -----------------
Maintenance and Repairs           $19,715          $14,604            $10,327










Exhibit
Number    Description of Exhibit                                  Page
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
  3.1     Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the
          Registrant, as amended (filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the
          Registrant's Registration Statement on Form S-3
          [Reg. No. 33-64324] and incorporated herein by
          reference).

  3.2     By-laws of the Registrant, as amended.

  4.1     Fiscal Agency Agreement dated July 29, 1992 between
          the Registrant and Chemical Bank, pertaining to the
          Registrant's 4 5/8% Senior Convertible Debentures
          due 1997 (filed as Exhibit 19 to the Registrant's
          Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
          June 27, 1992 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
          herein by reference).

          The Registrant agrees, pursuant to Item
          601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of Regulation S-K, to furnish to
          the Commission upon request, a copy of each
          instrument with respect to other long-term debt of
          the Registrant or its consolidated subsidiaries.

  4.2     Rights Agreement dated as of May 4, 1988 between the
          Registrant and The First National Bank of Boston,
          which includes as Exhibit A the Form of Certificate
          of Designations, as Exhibit B the Form of Rights
          Certificate, and as Exhibit C the Summary of Rights
          to Purchase Preferred Stock (filed as Exhibit 1 to
          the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form 8-A,
          declared effective by the Commission on June 25,
          1988 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
          reference).

 10.1     Thermo Electron Corporate Charter as amended and
          restated effective January 3, 1993 (filed as
          Exhibit 10.1 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
          [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
          reference).

 10.2     Form of Severance Benefit Agreement with officers
          (filed as Exhibit 10.15 to the Registrant's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
          herein by reference).

 10.3     Form of Indemnification Agreement with directors and
          officers (filed as Exhibit 10.16 to the Registrant's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          December 29, 1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
          herein by reference).



 10.4     Loan and Reimbursement Agreement dated as of
          December 1, 1991 among North County Resource
          Recovery Associates; Union Bank of Switzerland;
          National Westminster Bank PLC and Banque Paribas,
          New York Branch, as lead managers; Credit Local de
          France as co-lead manager; and Union Bank of
          Switzerland as issuing bank and as agent (filed as
          Exhibit 10.39 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
          [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
          reference).

 10.5     Amended and Restated Reimbursement Agreement dated
          as of December 31, 1993 among Chemical Trust Company
          of California as Owner Trustee; Delano Energy
          Company Inc.; ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Boston Branch, for
          itself and as Agent; The First National Bank of
          Boston, as Co-agent; Barclays Bank PLC, as Co-agent;
          Societe Generale, as Co-agent; and BayBank, as Lead
          Manager.

 10.6     Amended and Restated Participation Agreement dated
          as of December 31, 1991 among Delano Energy Company
          Inc.; Thermo Energy Systems Corporation; Chemical
          Trust Company of California, as Owner Trustee; ABN
          AMRO Bank N.V., Boston Branch, as Co-agent; Bank of
          Montreal, as Co-agent; Barclays Bank PLC, as
          Co-agent; Society Generale, as Co-agent; BayBank, as
          Lead Manager; and ABN AMRO Bank N.V., Cayman Island
          Branch, and joined in by the Registrant.

 10.7     Asset and Stock Purchase Agreement dated January 14,
          1993 among Thermo Instrument Systems Inc.,
          Spectra-Physics Analytical, Inc. and
          Spectra-Physics, Inc. (filed as Exhibit 10(j) to the
          Annual Report on Form 10-K of Thermo Instrument
          Systems Inc. for the year ended January 2, 1993
          [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
          reference).

 10.8-
 10.20    Reserved

 10.21    Incentive Stock Option Plan of the Registrant (filed
          as Exhibit 4(d) to the Registrant's Registration
          Statement on Form S-8 [Reg. No. 33-8993] and
          incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
          of shares issuable is 6,023,437 shares, after
          adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
          1984 and 1986, and share decrease approved in 1989,
          and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in October 1986
          and October 1993).






 10.22    Nonqualified Stock Option Plan of the Registrant
          (filed as Exhibit 4(e) to the Registrant's
          Registration Statement on Form S-8 [Reg. No.
          33-8993] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Plan amended in 1984 to extend expiration date to
          December 14, 1994; maximum number of shares issuable
          is 6,023,437 shares, after adjustment to reflect
          share increases approved in 1984 and 1986, and share
          decrease approved in 1989, and 3-for-2 stock splits
          effected in October 1986 and October 1993).

 10.23    Deferred Compensation for Directors of the
          Registrant (filed as Exhibit 10.5 to the
          Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended January 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002]
          and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
          number of shares issuable is 301,875 shares, after
          adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
          1986 and 1992 and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in
          October 1986 and October 1993).

 10.24    Equity Incentive Plan of the Registrant (filed as
          Exhibit A to the Registrant's Proxy Statement dated
          April 12, 1989 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated
          herein by reference). (Plan amended in 1989 to
          restrict exercise price for SEC reporting persons to
          not less than 50% of fair market value or par value;
          maximum number of shares issuable is 2,700,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock
          split effected in October 1993).

 10.25    Directors' Stock Option Plan of the Registrant
          (filed as Appendix A to the Registrant's Proxy
          Statement dated April 14, 1993 [File No. 1-8002] and
          incorporated herein by reference). (Adjustments to
          reserved shares and formula grant to reflect stock
          split as follows: 300,000 shares of Thermo Electron
          Corporation reserved and option grant size is 1,500
          shares as a result of 3-for-2 stock split effected
          in October 1993).

 10.26    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermedics Inc.
          Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 4
          to a Registration Statement on Form S-8 of
          Thermedics Inc. [Reg. No. 2-93747] and incorporated
          herein by reference). (Maximum number of shares
          issuable is 450,000 shares, after adjustment to
          reflect share increase approved in 1988, 5-for-4
          stock split effected in January 1985, 4-for-3 stock
          split effected in September 1985, and 3-for-2 stock
          splits effected in October 1986 and November 1993).




 10.27    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument
          Systems Inc. (formerly Thermo Environmental
          Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed
          as Exhibit 4(c) to a Registration Statement on Form
          S-8 of Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. [Reg. No.
          33-8034] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 225,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock
          split effected in July 1993).

 10.28    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Instrument
          Systems Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed
          as Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant's Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3,
          1987 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          320,152 shares, after giving effect to share
          increase approved in 1988 and adjustment for 3-for-2
          stock splits effected in January 1988 and July
          1993).

 10.29    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Process Systems
          Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
          Exhibit 10.13 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 3, 1987
          [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          108,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect 6-for-5
          stock splits effected in July 1988 and March 1989,
          and 3-for-2 stock split effected in September 1989).

 10.30    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Power
          Corporation (formerly Tecogen Inc.) Nonqualified
          Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.14 to the
          Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended January 3, 1987 [File No. 1-8002]
          and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.31    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Cardiosystems
          Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
          Exhibit 10.11 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29,
          1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          130,500 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
          increases approved in 1990 and 1992, 3-for-2 stock
          split effected in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock split
          effected in May 1990, and 2-for-1 stock split
          effected in November 1993).

 10.32    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Energy Systems
          Corporation Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
          Exhibit 10.12 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29,
          1990 [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
          reference).




 10.33    Thermo Electron Corporation - ThermoTrex Corporation
          (formerly Thermo Electron Technologies Corporation)
          Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
          10.13 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended December 29, 1990 [File
          No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 180,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock
          split effected in October 1993).

 10.34    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Fibertek Inc.
          Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
          10.14 to the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended December 28, 1991 [File
          No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 400,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect 2-for-1 stock
          split effected in September 1992).

 10.35    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermo Voltek Corp.
          (formerly Universal Voltronics Corp.) Nonqualified
          Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.17 to the
          Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002]
          and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
          number of shares issuable is 37,500 shares, after
          adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected
          in November 1993).

 10.36    Thermo Electron Corporation - Thermedics Detection
          Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as
          Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 2, 1993
          [File No. 1-8002] and incorporated herein by
          reference).

 10.37    Thermo Energy Systems Corporation Incentive Stock
          Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.18 to the
          Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002]
          (Maximum number number of shares issuable is 900,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect share increase
          approved in December 1993).

 10.38    Thermo Energy Systems Corporation Nonqualified Stock
          Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.19 to the
          Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
          fiscal year ended January 2, 1993 [File No. 1-8002]
          and incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum
          number of shares issuable is 900,000 shares, after
          giving effect to share increase approved in December
          1993).





 10.39    Thermedics Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
          (filed as Exhibit 10(e) to Thermedics' Registration
          Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-84380] and
          incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
          of shares issuable is 1,931,923 shares, after
          adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
          1986 and 1992, 5-for-4 stock split effected in
          January 1985, 4-for-3 stock split effected in
          September 1985, and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in
          October 1986 and November 1993).

 10.40    Thermedics Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed
          as Exhibit 10(d) to Thermedics' Registration
          Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-84380] and
          incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
          of shares issuable is 1,931,923 shares, after
          adjustment to reflect share increases approved in
          1986 and 1992, 5-for-4 stock split effected in
          January 1985, 4-for-3 stock split effected in
          September 1985, and 3-for-2 stock splits effected in
          October 1986 and November 1993).

 10.41    Thermedics Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed as
          Appendix A to the Proxy Statement dated May 10, 1993
          of Thermedics Inc. [File No. 1-9567] and
          incorporated herein by reference). (Maximum number
          of shares issuable is 1,500,000 shares, after
          adjustment to reflect 3-for-2 stock split effected
          in November 1993).

 10.42    Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. Incentive Stock Option
          Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(f) to Thermo
          Cardiosystems' Registration Statement on Form S-1
          [Reg. No. 33-25144] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          1,143,750 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
          increase approved in 1992, 3-for-2 stock split
          effected in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock split
          effected in May 1990, and 2-for-1 stock split
          effected in November 1993).

 10.43    Thermo Cardiosystems Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option
          Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(g) to Thermo
          Cardiosystems' Registration Statement on Form S-1
          [Reg. No. 33-25144] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          1,143,750 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
          increase approved in 1992, 3-for-2 stock split
          effected in January 1990, 5-for-4 stock split
          effected in May 1990, and 2-for-1 stock split
          effected in November 1993).







 10.44    Thermo Voltek Corp. (formerly Universal Voltronics
          Corp.) 1985 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
          10.14 to Thermo Voltek's Annual Report on Form 10-K
          for the fiscal year ended June 30, 1985 [File No.
          0-8245] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 200,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect 1-for-3 reverse
          stock split effected in November 1992 and 3-for-2
          stock split effected in November 1993).

 10.45    Thermo Voltek Corp. (formerly Universal Voltronics
          Corp.) 1990 Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10.2
          to Thermo Voltek's Annual Report on Form 10-K for
          the fiscal year ended June 30, 1990 [File No.
          1-10574] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 400,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect share increase
          in 1993, 1-for-3 reverse stock split effected in
          November 1992, and 3-for-2 stock split effected in
          November 1993).

 10.46    Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Incentive Stock
          Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(c) to Thermo
          Instrument's Registration Statement on Form S-1
          [Reg. No. 33-6762] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          1,500,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
          increase approved in 1990 and 3-for-2 stock splits
          effected in January 1988 and July 1993).

 10.47    Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Nonqualified Stock
          Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(d) to Thermo
          Instrument's Registration Statement on Form S-1
          [Reg. No. 33-6762] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          1,500,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
          increase approved in 1990 and 3-for-2 stock splits
          effected in January 1988 and July 1993).

 10.48    Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. Equity Incentive Plan
          (filed as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement dated
          April 27, 1993 of Thermo Instrument Systems Inc.
          [File No. 1-9786] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          2,150,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
          increase approved in December 1993 and 3-for-2 stock
          split effected in July 1993).

 10.49    Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. (formerly Thermo
          Environmental Corporation) Incentive Stock Option
          Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(d) to Thermo
          Environmental's Registration Statement on Form S-1
          [Reg. No. 33-329] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          618,750 shares, after giving effect to share
          increase approved in 1987 and adjustment to reflect
          3-for-2 stock split effected in July 1993).

 10.50    Thermo Instrument Systems Inc. (formerly Thermo
          Environmental Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option
          Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(e) to Thermo
          Environmental's Registration Statement on Form S-1
          [Reg. No. 33-329] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          618,750 shares, after giving effect to share
          increase approved in 1987 and adjustment to reflect
          3-for-2 stock split effected in July 1993).

 10.51    ThermoTrex Corporation (formerly Thermo Electron
          Technologies Corporation) Incentive Stock Option
          Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(h) to ThermoTrex's
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No.
          33-40972] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 1,945,000
          shares, after giving effect to share increases
          approved in 1992 and 1993, and 3-for-2 stock split
          effected in October 1993).
 
 10.52    ThermoTrex Corporation (formerly Thermo Electron
          Technologies Corporation) Nonqualified Stock Option
          Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(i) to ThermoTrex's
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No.
          33-40972] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 1,945,000
          shares, after giving effect to share increases
          approved in 1992 and 1993, and 3-for-2 stock split
          effected in October 1993).

 10.53    ThermoTrex Corporation - ThermoLase Inc.
          Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
          10.53 to ThermoTrex Corporation's Annual Report on
          Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 1, 1994
          [File No. 1-10791] and incorporated herein by
          reference).

 10.54    ThermoLase Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
          (filed as Exhibit 10.54 to ThermoTrex Corporation's
          Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-10791] and incorporated
          herein by reference).

 10.55    ThermoLase Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed
          as Exhibit 10.55 to ThermoTrex Corporation's Annual
          Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended
          January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-10791] and incorporated
          herein by reference).

 10.56    Thermo Fibertek Inc. Incentive Stock Option Plan
          (filed as Exhibit 10(k) to Thermo Fibertek's
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No.
          33-51172] and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.57    Thermo Fibertek Inc. Nonqualified Stock Option Plan
          (filed as Exhibit 10(l) to Thermo Fibertek's
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No.
          33-51172] and incorporated herein by reference).


 10.58    Thermo Power Corporation (formerly Tecogen Inc.)
          Incentive Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(h)
          to Thermo Power's Registration Statement on Form S-1
          [Reg. No. 33-14017] and incorporated herein by
          reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          950,000 shares, after adjustment to reflect share
          increases approved in 1990, 1992, and 1993).

 10.59    Thermo Power Corporation (formerly Tecogen Inc.)
          Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
          10(i) to Thermo Power's Registration Statement on
          Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-14017] and incorporated herein
          by reference). (Maximum number of shares issuable is
          950,000 shares, after giving effect to share
          increases approved in 1990, 1992, and 1993).

 10.60    Thermo Power Corporation Equity Incentive Plan
          (filed as Appendix A to the Proxy Statement dated
          February 8, 1994 of Thermo Power Corporation [File
          No. 1-10573] and incorporated herein by reference).

 10.61    Thermo Process Systems Inc. Incentive Stock Option
          Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(h) to Thermo Process'
          Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No.
          33-6763] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 1,850,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect share increases
          approved in 1987, 1989, and 1992, 6-for-5 stock
          splits effected in July 1988 and March 1989, and
          3-for-2 stock split effected in September 1989).

 10.62    Thermo Process Systems Inc. Nonqualified Stock
          Option Plan (filed as Exhibit 10(i) to Thermo
          Process' Registration Statement on Form S-1 [Reg.
          No. 33-6763] and incorporated herein by reference).
          (Maximum number of shares issuable is 1,850,000
          shares, after adjustment to reflect share increases
          approved in 1987, 1989, and 1992, 6-for-5 stock
          splits effected in July 1988 and March 1989, and
          3-for-2 stock split effected in September 1989).

 10.63    Thermo Process Systems Inc. Equity Incentive Plan
          (filed as Exhibit 10.63 to Thermedics' Annual Report
          on Form 10-K for the year ended January 1, 1994
          [File No. 1-9567] and incorporated herein by
          reference).

 10.64    Thermo Process Systems Inc. - Thermo Remediation
          Nonqualified Stock Option Plan (filed as Exhibit
          10(l) to Thermo Process Systems Inc.'s Quarterly
          Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended
          January 1, 1994 [File No. 1-9549] and incorporated
          herein by reference).

 10.65    Thermo Remediation Inc. Equity Incentive Plan (filed
          as Exhibit 10.7 to Thermo Remediation's Registration
          Statement on Form S-1 [Reg. No. 33-70544] and
          incorporated herein by reference).
  11      Statements re: computation of earnings per share.

  13      Annual Report to shareholders (only those portions
          of the Registrant's Annual Report to Shareholders
          incorporated herein by reference).

  21      Subsidiaries of the Registrant.

  23      Consent of Arthur Andersen & Co.














































