
10-K


                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.   20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15
(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended October 29, 1994,   Commission
File No. 1-2402

                         GEO A. HORMEL & COMPANY
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its
charter)

          Delaware                                    41-
(State or other Jurisdiction of                   (I.R.S.
Employer
 Incorporation or organization)
Identification No.)
                         1 Hormel Place
                         Austin, Minnesota
55912-3680
          (Address of principal executive offices)     (zip
Code)

Registrant's telephone number, including area code  (507)
437-5737

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:

                                                  Name of
Each Exchange on
     Title of Each Class                               Which
Registered

Common Stock, $.1172 Par Value                    New York
Stock Exchange

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (g) of the Act:

                                   None
                              (Title of Class)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed
all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 during the preceding 12 months, and (2) has been
subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes X  No

State the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non- affiliates
of the registrant as of December 1, 1994.

     Common Stock-- $1,076,060,436

Indicate the number of shares outstanding of each of the
issuer's classes of
common stock, as of the latest practicable date covered by
this report.


     Common Stock, $.1172 Par Value--76,700,180 shares at
December 1, 1994
     Common Stock Non-Voting, $.01 Par Value--0 shares at
December 1, 1994

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

Portions of the Annual Stockholders' Report for the year
ended October 29,
1994, are incorporated by reference into Part II and
included as a separate
section in the electronic filing to the SEC.

Portions of the proxy statement for the Annual Meeting of
the Stockholders to be
held January 31, 1995, are incorporated by reference into
Part II and included as
a separate section in the electronic filing to the SEC.
                                             PART I
   Item 1.  BUSINESS

     General Development of Business

       (a)  Geo. A. Hormel & Company, a Delaware
corporation, was founded by
            George A. Hormel in 1891 in Austin, Minnesota.
The Company
            started as a processor of meat and food products
and continues in
            this line of business.  The parent company
operating under the
            trade name Hormel Foods Corporation is primarily
engaged in the
            production of a variety of meat and food
products and the
            marketing of those products throughout the
United States.
            Although pork remains the major raw material for
Hormel products,
            the Company has been emphasizing for several
years the manufacture
            and distribution of branded, consumer packaged
items rather than
            the commodity fresh meat business closely
associated with the
            industry in the past.  The emphasis of new
product introductions
            the past few years has been in shelf stable,
microwaveable entrees
            such as Top Shelf, Kid's Kitchen and Micro-Cup
single-serving
            entrees, a variety of branded turkey products
produced and sold
            under the Jennie-O label, and ethnic foods such
as the Chi-Chi's
            line of Mexican foods and House of Tsang
oriental sauces and food
            products.

            The Company's larger subsidiaries include
Jennie-O Foods, Inc.;
            Dubuque Foods, Inc.; Farm Fresh Catfish Company
and Hormel Foods
            International Corporation.  Jennie-O, a Willmar,
Minnesota based
            turkey processor, was acquired in December 1986.
Jennie-O markets
            its products nationwide through its own sales
force and brokers,
            providing the Company with a significant
presence in this
            important, fast growing segment of the industry.

            Dubuque Foods, Inc. formerly called FDL
Marketing was formed in
            1985 to be the exclusive marketer of the
production of FDL Foods,
            Inc., a Dubuque, Iowa, meat packer.  In July of
1993, the Company
            acquired through two subsidiaries, Dubuque
Foods, Inc. and
            Rochelle Foods, Inc., a portion of the assets of
FDL Foods.
            Dubuque Foods acquired the brands and
trademarks, and Rochelle
            Foods, Inc. acquired the operations at Rochelle,
Illinois of FDL
            Foods.  FDL Foods has a co-packing agreement to
produce product
            for Dubuque Foods, Inc. with the acquired brands
and trademarks.

            Farm Fresh Catfish Company, acquired in 1983,
competes in another
            growing segment of the food industry.  Farm
Fresh raises,
            slaughters and distributes farm raised catfish
primarily in the
            southeastern section of the United States
through a network of
            brokers.

            The Company markets its products internationally
through Hormel
            Foods International Corporation.  Hormel Foods
International has
            a domestic subsidiary, Vista International
Packaging,Inc., which
            imports, customizes, and distributes, a variety
of natural and
            artificial casings for the meat and food
processing industry.






                                        -2-
   Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued


            The Company has not been involved in any
bankruptcy, receivership
            or similar proceedings during its history.
Substantially all of
            the assets of the Company have been acquired in
the ordinary
            course of business.

            The Company had no significant change in the
type of products
            produced or services rendered, nor in the
markets or methods of
            distribution since the beginning of the fiscal
year.


     Industry Segment

       (b)  Hormel Foods Corporation is engaged in a single
industry segment
            "meat and food processing".  The meat and food
processing
            industry is very competitive with respect to
price, marketing and
            customer service.  In addition to meat
processing firms, the
            Company competes with consumer packaged food
manufacturers as
            well as seafood, poultry and vegetable protein
processors.


     Description of Business

       (c)  The principal products of the Company are meat
and food products
            which are sold fresh, frozen, cured, smoked,
cooked and canned.

            The percentage of total revenues contributed by
classes of
            similar products for the last three fiscal years
of the Company
            are as follows:

                                                Year Ended
                                         October  October
October
                                         29,1994  30,1993
31,1992

                Meat Products              57.3%    57.0%
58.7%
                Prepared Foods             26.0     26.9
27.7
                Poultry, Fish, Other       16.7     16.1
13.6

                                          100.0%   100.0%
100.0%

            Meat Products includes fresh meats, sausages,
hams, wieners and
            bacon.  Prepared Foods products include canned
luncheon meats,
            shelf stable microwaveable entrees, stews,
chilies, hash, meat
            spreads and frozen processed products.  Jennie-O
turkey and Farm
            Fresh catfish products are included in the
Poultry, Fish and
            Other category.

            Hormel Foods has numerous trademarks and patents
which are
            important to the Company's business.  Some of
the trademarks are
            registered and some are not.  The more




                                        -3-


   Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued

            significant trademarks are:  HORMEL, BLACK
LABEL, BY GEORGE, CURE
            81, CUREMASTER, DI LUSSO, DINTY MOORE, FRANK 'N
STUFF, HOMELAND,
            LAYOUT PACK, LIGHT & LEAN, LIGHT & LEAN 97,
LITTLE SIZZLERS, MARY
            KITCHEN, RANGE BRAND, ROSA GRANDE, SANDWICH
MAKER, SPAM,
            WRANGLERS, TOP SHELF, JENNIE-O, FARM FRESH,
KID'S KITCHEN, FAST
            'N EASY, DUBUQUE, QUICK MEAL, and OLD
SMOKEHOUSE.  The Company
            holds 19 foreign and 23 U. S. patents.

            The Company for the past several years has been
concentrating on
            processed, consumer branded products with year
round demand to
            minimize the seasonal variation experienced with
commodity type
            products.  Pork continues to be the primary raw
material for
            Company products and although live pork
producers are moving
            toward larger and year round confinement
operations, there is
            still a seasonal variation in the supply of
fresh pork materials.
            The expanding line of processed items has
reduced but not
            eliminated the sensitivity of Company results to
raw material
            supply and price fluctuations.

            Quarterly results for fiscal 1994 and 1993 are
reported on page
            50, Note J to the financial statements in the
Annual Report to
            Stockholders for 1994.

            On October 29, 1994, the Company had unused
lines of credit of
            $10,000,000.  A fee is paid for the availability
of fixed credit
            lines.  The parent company  has no long-term
debt except for
            Industrial Revenue Bonds with varying maturities
and a $5,000,000
            loan used for an investment in an affordable
housing project.
            There was no commercial paper outstanding at the
end of fiscal
            1994.  Financial resources and anticipated funds
from operations
            are considered adequate to meet normal operating
cash
            requirements in 1995.

            The Company has no customers, the loss of which,
would have a
            significant effect on the Company's business.
During fiscal year
            1994, no customer accounted for more than 6.5%
of sales.  Backlog
            orders are not significant due to the perishable
nature of a
            large portion of the products and orders are
accepted and shipped
            on a current basis.

            The Company continues to develop and introduce
new products each
            year.  No new product in 1994 required a
material investment of
            Company assets.  Improving and developing new
products is the
            responsibility of task forces including
personnel from
            operations, marketing, administration,
engineering, and research
            and development.  Research and development
expenditures for
            fiscal 1994, 1993, and 1992, respectively, were
$7,742,973,
            $6,904,764, and $5,780,399.  There are 29
professional employees
            engaged in full time research, 11 in the area of
improving
            existing products and 18 in developing new
products.

            As of October 29, 1994, the Company had over
9,500 active
            employees.



                                        -4-
   Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued

            HORMEL

            Livestock slaughtered by the parent company is
purchased by
            Company buyers, commission dealers, sale barns
and terminal
            markets located principally in Minnesota, Iowa,
Nebraska and
            South Dakota.  The level of pork production in
the United States
            has an impact on Hormel's operations.  Any
significant decrease
            in the supply of pork has an adverse effect
because of higher
            costs and lower margins coupled with an under-
utilization of
            Company facilities.  A significant increase in
the supply of pork
            normally results in lower costs and higher
margins.  The live
            pork industry, to minimize the supply variations
which also
            impact this profitability, is rapidly moving to
very large,
            vertically integrated, year round confinement
operations.  The
            Company, as well as its major competitors is
analyzing options
            that will allow it to maximize the benefits of
reduced volatility
            in the supply of fresh pork.

            Products under the Hormel label are sold in all
50 states by the
            parent Company.  Products are sold by
approximately 605
            salespeople operating in assigned territories
coordinated from
            district sales offices located in most of the
larger United
            States cities, and by approximately 485 brokers
and distributors.
            Distribution of products to customers is by
common carrier.

            The parent Company has a plant at Fremont,
Nebraska, that
            slaughters livestock for processing.  The
slaughter facilities at
            the Austin, Minnesota plant are leased to
Quality Pork Processors
            of Dallas, Texas under a custom slaughter
arrangement with the
            Company. A subsidiary, Rochelle Foods, Inc.,
Rochelle, Illinois,
            also provides the Company with needed raw
materials and product
            through its pork slaughter and processing
operation.

            Facilities that produce manufactured items are
located in Algona,
            Iowa; Austin, Minnesota; Beloit, Wisconsin;
Aurora, Illinois;
            Davenport, Iowa; Fremont, Nebraska; Houston,
Texas; Knoxville,
            Iowa; Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Stockton,
California; Tucker,
            Georgia; and Wichita, Kansas.  Custom
manufacturing for Hormel is
            performed by several companies including
Owatonna Canning
            Company, Owatonna, Minnesota; Lakeside Packing
Company,
            Plainview, Minnesota; and Western Steer Mom and
Pops of
            Claremont, North Carolina.

            JENNIE-O FOODS

            Jennie-O Foods, Inc., a Willmar, Minnesota,
based turkey
            processor, has turkey raising, slaughter and
processing
            operations at various locations within
Minnesota.  Jennie-O
            contracts with turkey growers to supplement the
turkeys it raises
            to meet its raw material requirements for whole
birds and
            processed turkey products.  A major multi-year
expansion program
            was completed in 1991, significantly increasing
slaughter and
            processing capacity at the Willmar locations and
moderately
            increasing Jennie-O's turkey raising capacity.



                                        -5-


   Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued

            Capacity was further increased in 1992 when
Jennie-O contracted
            with West Central Turkeys, Inc. of Pelican
Rapids, Minnesota, to
            co-pack whole birds and processed turkey
products.  West Central
            Turkeys, Inc. began an expansion of the Pelican
Rapids facility
            in 1994 due to the increased demand for capacity
by Jennie-O.
            Jennie-O has an option to purchase the assets of
West Central
            Turkeys.


            HORMEL FOODS INTERNATIONAL

            Hormel Foods International markets the Company's
products in
            international areas including the Philippines,
Japan and various
            European countries. The Company, through Hormel
Foods
            International, has licensed certain companies to
manufacture SPAM
            luncheon meat overseas on a royalty basis,
principally:  Newforge
            Foods Limited in Great Britain, and K. R.
Darling Downs in
            Australia.  Hormel Foods International owns a
domestic
            corporation, Vista International Packaging,
Inc., a food
            packaging company located in Kenosha, Wisconsin,
and Hormel FSC,
            Inc., a foreign sales corporation, which engages
in export
            related activities.  In 1994, Hormel Foods
International opened
            offices in Mexico and Hong Kong to increase the
sales and
            marketing support in these geographical areas of
the
            international marketplace.

            FARM FRESH CATFISH

            Farm Fresh Catfish company continues to operate
slaughter and
            processing plants in Arkansas and Mississippi.
Live fish are
            purchased from independent growers to supplement
the supply
            provided by its own farms in Arkansas and
Mississippi.  The
            catfish business continues to be a very
competitive commodity
            oriented market segment.  During 1994, Farm
Fresh wrote down its
            live fish inventory which had a negative impact
on its operating
            results.

            DUBUQUE FOODS, INC.

            Dubuque Foods, Inc., formerly called FDL
Marketing, Inc.,
            purchased the brands and trademarks of FDL
Foods, Inc., Dubuque,
            Iowa, in July of 1993.  FDL Foods will produce
product to Dubuque
            Foods' specifications at its Dubuque, Iowa plant
under a five
            year co-packing agreement with Dubuque Foods.
FDL Foods also
            sold its Rochelle, Illinois slaughter and
processing operations
            to Rochelle Foods, Inc., a sister subsidiary of
Dubuque Foods.
            Rochelle Foods will also produce product for
Dubuque Foods under
            a co-packing arrangement, however, following a
transition period,
            it will primarily produce product for Hormel
Foods under the
            Hormel trademark.







                                        -6-


   Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued


          Executive Officers of the Registrant

          (d).

Year

Which First

Elected
             Name                        Office
Age   Officer

          Joel W. Johnson         President
51       1991
                                    & Chief Executive
Officer

          Don J. Hodapp           Executive Vice President
56       1969
                                    & Chief Financial
Officer

          Gary J. Ray             Executive Vice President
48       1988

          James W. Cole           Group Vice President,
60       1990
                                    Foodservice

          David N. Dickson        Group Vice President,
51       1989
                                    International,
                                    Planning and Development

          Stanley E. Kerber       Group Vice President,
56       1977
                                    Meat Products

          Robert F. Patterson     Group Vice President,
54       1984
                                    Prepared Foods

          Eric A. Brown           Senior Vice President,
48       1987
                                    Meat Products

          Richard W. Schlange     Vice President and
59       1969
                                    Controller

          Mahlon C. Schneider     Vice President and
55       1990
                                    General Counsel

          Robert J. Thatcher      Vice President and
64       1968
                                    Treasurer

          Forrest D. Dryden       Vice President, Research
51       1987
                                    & Development

          Jerry C. Figenskau      Vice President,
54       1994
                                    Specialty Products

          James A. Jorgenson      Vice President,
49       1990
                                    Human Resources

          Marvin F. Moes          Vice President,
59       1983
                                    Frozen Foods Division

          Gary C. Paxton          Vice President,
49       1992
                                    Manufacturing





                                        -7-

     Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued


Year

Which First

Elected
             Name                        Office
Age   Officer

          Ronald E. Plath         Vice President, Hormel
60       1989
                                    and President Hormel
                                    Foods International
Corp.

          Don L. Pohlman          Vice President,
58       1988
                                    Foodservice Sales

          Kenneth P. Regner       Vice President,
57       1989
                                    Engineering

          James N. Rieth          Vice President, Hormel
54       1981
                                    and President
                                    Jennie-O Foods, Inc.

          Robert A. Slavik        Vice President,
49       1993
                                    Meat Products Sales

          Robert G. Wells         Vice President, Pork,
58       1982
                                    Provisions and
                                    Refineries

          Thomas J. Leake         Corporate Secretary
49       1990


               No family relationship exists among the
executive officers.

               All of the above executive officers have been
employed by the
               Registrant in an officer capacity for more
than the past five years
               except  Mr. James W. Cole, President and
Chief Operating Officer of
               Farm Fresh Catfish Company until July 4, 1988
when he was appointed
               President, FDL Marketing, Inc., on November
21, 1988 he was appointed
               Chairman, President and Chief Executive
Officer of FDL Marketing until
               being elected Group Vice President
Foodservice Group on August 27,
               1990; Mr. Mahlon C. Schneider, employed
December 11, 1989 as Senior
               Attorney until being appointed Assistant
General Counsel on January
               29, 1990, on November 19, 1990 he was elected
Vice President and
               General Counsel; Mr. James A. Jorgenson,
General Manager of the
               Fremont plant until August 31, 1987 when he
became General Manager of
               the Austin plant, on November 19, 1990 he was
elected Vice President,
               Manufacturing, and on December 30, 1991, he
was elected Vice
               President, Human Resources; Mr. Joel W.
Johnson, Executive




                                             -8-
     Item 1.  BUSINESS--Continued

              Vice President and General Manager of Oscar
Mayer Foods until being
              employed by the Company as Executive Vice
President, Sales and
              Marketing on June 27, 1991, on July 27, 1992
he was elected President
              of the Company, and on September 30, 1993, he
was elected to the
              additional post of Chief Executive Officer;
Mr. Gary Paxton, Director
              Sausage Production until November 19, 1990
when he was named Plant
              Manager of the Austin Plant, on January 28,
1992 he was elected Vice
              President, Manufacturing; Mr. Robert A.
Slavik, Director Meat
              Products Sales until January 26, 1993 when he
was elected Vice
              President, Meat Products Sales; Mr. Jerry C.
Figenskau, Director of
              Marketing Services until December 30, 1991
when he was named Director
              Specialty Products, on January 24, 1994 he was
elected Vice
              President, Specialty Products.

              The executive officers are elected annually by
the Board of Directors
              at the first meeting following the Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.
              Vacancies may be filled and additional
officers elected at any
              regular or special meeting.

     Item 2.  PROPERTIES
                                       Approximate
                                       Floor Space
                                      (Square Feet)  Owned
or  Expiration
              Location                 Unless Noted   Leased
Date

              Hormel Foods Corporation

              Slaughtering and
              Processing Plants

                Austin, Minnesota
                  Slaughter               212,000      Owned
Leased Out
                  Processing              912,000      Owned

                Fremont, Nebraska         534,000      Owned

                Rochelle, Illinois        425,000      Owned
                 (Rochelle Foods, Inc.)














                                        -9-

     Item 2.  PROPERTIES--continued

              Processing Plants

                Algona, Iowa                 152,000   Owned
                Austin, Minnesota Annex       82,000   Owned
                Beloit, Wisconsin            338,000   Owned
                Davenport, Iowa              117,000   Owned
                Houston, Texas                93,000   Owned
                Knoxville, Iowa              130,000   Owned
                Oklahoma City, Oklahoma       56,000   Owned
                Ottumwa, Iowa                135,000   Owned
Closed
                Stockton, California         139,000   Owned
                Tucker, Georgia              259,000   Owned
                Wichita, Kansas               75,000   Owned
                 (Dold Foods, Inc.)
                Long Prairie, Minnesota       78,000   Owned
                 (Dan's Prize, Inc.)
                Aurora, Illinois              70,000
Leased  January 1998
                 (Creative Contract Packaging Corp.)
                Aurora, Illinois              70,000
Leased
                 (Herb-Ox Plant)

              Research and Development
              Center

                Austin, Minnesota             56,000   Owned

              Corporate Offices

                Austin, Minnesota            119,000   Owned

              Jennie-O Foods, Inc.

                Willmar, Minnesota
                 Airport Plant location      282,000   Owned
                Willmar, Minnesota
                 Benson Ave. Plant            79,000   Owned
                Melrose, Minnesota Plant     119,000   Owned
                 Turkey farms - acres          7,600   Owned
                Henning, Minnesota             5,200   Owned
                 Feed Mill
                Atwater, Minnesota            14,000   Owned
                 Feed Mill
              Farm Fresh Catfish, Inc.

                Hollandale, Mississippi
                  Plant                       50,000   Owned
                Lake Village, Arkansas Plant  21,000   Owned
                Fish farms - water acres       4,700
Leased  Various

              Vista International Packaging, Inc.

                Kenosha, Wisconsin Plant      61,000   Owned



                                        -10-


     Item 2.  PROPERTIES--continued


              Algona Food Equipment Company (AFECO)

                Algona, Iowa Plant           45,000   Owned

              The Company has started major expansion or
renovation projects
              at the Fremont, Nebraska plant, and the
Davenport, Iowa plant.

              The Company believes its operating facilities
are well maintained
              and suitable for current production volumes,
and after the
              completion of the expansion and renovation
projects, for all
              volumes which are anticipated in the
foreseeable future. During
              1994 the Company established a reserve for a
probable loss on
              disposition of the remaining facility at
Ottumwa, Iowa, which is
              closed and available for sale.

     Item 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

              The Company, its wholly-owned subsidiary Farm
Fresh Catfish
              Company, and Farm Fresh Catfish Company's
principal competitors
              are defendants in a civil class action suit in
the United States
              District Court for the Northern District of
Mississippi, Delta
              Division, filed on February 7, 1992, on behalf
of all purchasers
              of catfish products in the United States 1980-
1990.  The suit
              alleges a conspiracy by the defendants to fix
prices of all farm-
              raised catfish products in violation of the
antitrust laws, and
              demands unspecified monetary damages, costs of
suit, and
              attorneys' fees.  Management believes the
plaintiffs' claim will
              be a very large amount.  Any damages awarded
would be trebled in
              accordance with the antitrust laws.  Similar
suits have been
              pending in California and Alabama state courts
since 1992 as well.

              Management believes that plaintiffs' claims in
each suit are
              without merit and intends to vigorously defend
against each
              allegation.  While the outcome of commercial
litigation cannot be
              predicted with certainty, management believes
that the ultimate
              resolution of this matter will not have a
material effect on the
              Company's consolidated financial condition.

     Item 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY
HOLDERS

              No matters were submitted to stockholders
during the fourth
              quarter of the 1994 fiscal year.











                                        -11-

                                        PART II


     Item 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND
RELATED
              STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

              Information about Common Stock market prices,
dividends,
              principal market of trade and number of
stockholders on
              pages 37 and 38 of the Annual Stockholders'
Report for the year
              ended October 29, 1994, is incorporated herein
by reference.
              The Company's Common Stock has been listed on
the New York
              Stock Exchange since January 16, 1990.

     Item 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

              Selected Financial Data for the ten years
ended October 29,
              1994, on pages 40 and 41 of the Annual
Stockholders' Report for
              the year ended October 29, 1994, is
incorporated herein by
              reference.

     Item 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF
FINANCIAL
              CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATION

              Management's Discussion and Analysis of
Financial Condition and
              Results of Operations on pages 52 and 53 of
the Annual
              Stockholders' Report for the year ended
October 29, 1994, is
              incorporated herein by reference.





























                                       -12-






     Item 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

              Consolidated Financial Statements, including
unaudited
              quarterly data, on pages 42 through 50 and
Report of
              Independent Auditors on page 51 of the Annual
Stockholders'
              Report for the year ended October 29, 1994 are
incorporated
              herein by reference.

     Item 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL
DISCLOSURE

              None.

                                   PART III


    Item 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE
REGISTRANT

              Information under "Election of Directors",
contained on
              pages 3 through 6 of the definitive proxy
statement for the
              Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held
January 31, 1995,
              is incorporated herein by reference.

              Information concerning Executive Officers is
set forth in
              Item 1(d) of Part I pursuant to Instruction 3,
Paragraph (b)
              of Item 401 of Regulation S-K.

    Item 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

              Information for the year ended October 29,
1994, under
              "Executive Compensation" on pages 8 through 13
and
              "Compensation of Directors" on page 5 of the
definitive proxy
              statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be
              held January 31, 1995, is incorporated herein
by reference.

    Item 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL
OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

              Ownership of securities of the Company by
certain beneficial
              owners and management for the year ended
October 29, 1994, as
              set forth on pages 6 through 8 of the
definitive proxy
              statement for the Annual Meeting of
Stockholders to be held
              January 31, 1995, is incorporated herein by
reference.

    Item 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

              Information under "Other Information Relating
to Directors,
              Nominees, and Executive Officers" for the year
ended
              October 29, 1994, as set forth on pages 14 and
15 of the
              definitive proxy statement for the Annual
Meeting of
              Stockholders to be held January 31, 1995, is
incorporated herein
              by reference.






                                        -13-


                                   PART IV


    Item 14.  EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

              AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

              (a)   (1) and (2)--The response to this
portion of Item 14 is
                    submitted as a separate section of this
report.

                    (3) --List of Exhibits--The response to
this portion of
                    Item 14 is submitted as a separate
section of this
                    report.

              (c)   The response to this portion of Item 14
is submitted as
                    separate section of this report.

              (d)   The response to this portion of Item 14
is submitted as
                    separate section of this report.








































                                        -14-

     SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of
the Securities
     Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused
this report to
     be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto
duly authorized.


                         GE0. A. HORMEL & COMPANY


     By  /s/ Joel W. Johnson
1/27/95
       Joel W. Johnson, President,
Date
       and Chief Executive Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934,
     this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf
     of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the date
indicated:




     /s/ Richard L. Knowlton       1/27/95   Chairman of the
Board
     Richard L. Knowlton             Date    and Director




                                             President,Chief
Executive
     /s/Joel W. Johnson            1/27/95   Officer and
Director
     Joel W. Johnson                 Date    (Principal
Executive Officer)



                                             Executive Vice
President
                                             & Chief
Financial Officer
                                             and Director
     /s/ Don J. Hodapp             1/27/95   Principal
Financial and
     Don J. Hodapp                   Date     Accounting
Officer)



     /s/ Gary J. Ray               1/27/95   Executive Vice
President
     Gary J. Ray                     Date    and Director



     /s/ James W. Cole             1/27/95   Group Vice
President
     James W. Cole                   Date    Foodservice and
Director



                                             Group Vice
President
                                             International,
     /s/ David N. Dickson          1/27/95   Planning &
Development
     David N. Dickson                Date    and Director



     /s/ Stanley E. Kerber         1/27/95   Group Vice
President Meat
     Stanley E. Kerber               Date    Products and
Director



                                             Group Vice
President
     /s/ Robert F. Patterson       1/27/95   Prepared Foods
     Robert F. Patterson             Date    and Director


                              -15-



     /s/ John W. Allen             1/27/95   Director
     John W. Allen                   Date



     /s/ William S. Davila         1/27/95   Director
     William S. Davila               Date



     /s/ Luella G. Goldberg        1/27/95   Director
     Luella G. Goldberg              Date



     /s/ Geraldine M. Joseph       1/27/95   Director
     Geraldine M. Joseph             Date



     /s/ Earl B. Olson             1/27/95   Director
     Earl B. Olson                   Date



     /s/ Ray V. Rose               1/27/95   Director
     Ray V. Rose                     Date



     /s/ Dr. Robert R. Waller      1/27/95   Director
     Dr. Robert R. Waller            Date
















                              -16-


                                        F-1


















                            ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K

             ITEM 14 (a) (1), (2), AND (3) AND ITEM 14 (c)
AND (d)

                           LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                         AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                          FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

                                LIST OF EXHIBITS

                           YEAR ENDED OCTOBER 29, 1994

                             GEO. A. HORMEL & COMPANY

                                 Austin, Minnesota



                                         F-2




     Item 14(a) (1), (2) and (3) and Item 14 (c) and (d)

     LIST OF FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT
SCHEDULES

     GEO. A. HORMEL & COMPANY

     October 29, 1994


     The following consolidated financial statements of
Hormel Foods Corporation
     included in the Annual Report of the Registrant to its
stockholders for the year
     ended October 29, 1994, are incorporated herein by
reference in Item 8 of Part
     II of this report:

     Consolidated Statements of Financial Position--October
29, 1994,

     Consolidated Statements of Operations--Years Ended
October 29, 1994,
          October 30, 1993 and October 31, 1992.

     Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders'
Investment--Years
          Ended October 29, 1994, October 30, 1993, and
October 31, 1992

     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows--Years Ended
October 29, 1994,
          October 30, 1993 and October 31, 1992

     Notes to Financial Statements--October 29, 1994

     Report of Independent Auditors

     The following consolidated financial statement
schedules of HOrmel Foods
     Corporation required pursuant to Item 14(d) are
submitted herewith:

       Schedule II  Valuation and Qualifying Accounts and
Reserves..F-3


     All other schedules for which provision is made in the
applicable
     accounting regulation of the Securities and Exchange
Commission are
     not required under the related instructions or are
inapplicable, and
     therefore have been omitted.

     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SCHEDULES OMITTED

     Condensed parent company financial statements of the
registrant are
     omitted pursuant to Rule 5-04(c) of Article 5 of
Regulation S-X.



                              LIST OF EXHIBITS

                          GEO. A. HORMEL & COMPANY





       Number       Description of Document

     * (3) A-1      Certification of Incorporation as
amended to date.
                    (filed as Exhibit 3A-1 to Annual Report
on Form 10-K
                    for fiscal year ended October 27, 1990.)

     * (3) B-1      By-laws as amended to date (filed as
Exhibit 3B-1 to
                    Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal
year ended
                    October 30, 1993.)

       (4)          Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii)(A) of
Regulation S-K,
                    copies of instruments defining the
rights of holders
                    of long-term debt are not filed.  The
Company agrees
                    to furnish a copy thereof to the
Securities and Exchange
                    Commission upon request.

       (9)          None.

       (10)         None.

       (11)         None.

       (12)         None.

     **(13)         Pages 37 through 54 of the Annual Report
to Stockholders
                    for fiscal year ended October 29, 1994.

       (18)         None.

       (19)         None.

       (22)         None.

     **(23)         Consent of Independent Auditors.

       (24)         None.

       (25)         None.

     **(27)         Financial Data Schedule

       (28)         None.

     *  Document has previously been filed with the
Securities and Exchange
        Commission and is incorporated herein by reference.

     ** These Exhibits transmitted via EDGAR.




EXHIBIT 23






CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT AUDITORS


We consent to the incorporation by reference to this Annual
Report (Form 10K) of Hormel Foods Corporation of our report
dated November 22, 1994, included in the 1994 Annual Report
to Stockholders of Hormel Foods
Corporation.

Our audits also included the financial statement schedule of
Hormel Foods Corporation listed in Item 14(a).  This
schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an
opinion based on our audits.  In our opinion, the financial
statement schedule referred to above, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.

We also consent to the incorporation by reference in Post-
Effective Amendment Number 2 to Registration Statement
Number 33-14614 on Form S-8 dated December 6, 1988, in
Registration Statement Number 33-14615 on Form
S-8 dated May 20, 1987, in Post-Effective Amendment Number 1
to Registration Number 33-29053 dated January 26, 1990, in
Registration Statement Number 33-43246 on Form S-8 dated
October 9, 1991, and in Registration
Statement Number 33-45408 on Form S-8 dated January 30, 1992
of our report dated November 22, 1994, with respect to the
consolidated financial statements incorporated herein by
reference, and our report included in
the preceding paragraph with respect to the financial
statement schedule included in this annual Report (Form 10-
K) of Hormel Foods Corporation.



                              /s/ ERNST & YOUNG LLP



Minneapolis, Minnesota
January 27, 1995


F-3

Note (1)-Uncollectible accounts written off.

Note (2)-Recoveries on accounts previously written off.

Note (3)-Reserve on records of Dan's Prize, Inc. at the date
consolidated into Hormel Foods Corporation.





Stockholder Information

New and longstanding owners of Hormel Foods Corporation
oftentimes
have questions regarding stock certificates and duplicate
mailings.



Corporate Headquarters

Hormel Foods Corporation
1 Hormel Place
Austin, Minn. 55912-3680
(507) 437-5611



Independent Auditors

Ernst & Young
1400 Pillsbury Center
Minneapolis, Minn. 55402



Stock Listing

New York Stock Exchange

The corporation's daily trading activity, stock price and
dividend
information can be found in the financial section of most
newspapers
under the New York Stock Exchange listing "Hormel."



Transfer Agent and Registrar

Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A.
161 North Concord Exchange
P.O. Box 738
South St. Paul, Minn. 55075

For the convenience of stockholders, Norwest Bank Minnesota,
N.A., is
providing a toll-free number (1-800-468-9716) that can be
used
whenever questions arise regarding changes in registered
ownership,
lost or stolen certificates, address changes or other
matters
pertaining to the transfer of stock or stockholder records.

Representatives of Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., are
available to
assist stockholders from 8:00 a.m. to 5:00 p.m. (Central
standard
time) every business day. When requesting information,
stockholders
must provide their tax identification number, the name(s) in
which
their stock is registered and their record address.






Dividend Policy

Hormel Foods Corporation's Board of Directors typically
declares the
payment of a cash dividend each quarter. Since becoming a
public
company in 1928, Hormel Foods has never failed to make a
quarterly
dividend - a payout record that now extends to 66 years.



Stockholder Record Data

Usually the third week in January, April, July and October
which is
approximately 25 days before the payable date.



Dividend Payment Dates

The fifteenth of February, May, August and November. Postal
delays may
cause receipt dates to vary.



Dividend Reinvestment

Hormel Foods Corporation's Dividend Reinvestment Plan
provides
stockholders of record a cost-free method of purchasing
additional
shares of Company stock without paying brokerage commission
or other
service fees.

Participants in the plan may choose to have all their
dividends
automatically reinvested, make optional additional cash
payments or do
both in purchasing shares of Hormel Foods common stock.

All brokerage expenses are paid by Hormel Foods Corporation.
Personal
recordkeeping is simplified by an account statement that is
mailed to
participants by Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., plan
administrator,
after each investment.

To enroll in the plan or to obtain additional information,
contact
Norwest Bank Minnesota, N.A., using the address or telephone
number
provided with their listing in this section as Company
transfer agent
and registrar.



Tax Reports on Dividend Income

Hormel Foods Corporation is required to report to the
Internal Revenue
Service the total amount of dividends paid to each
stockholder during
the preceding year on Form 1099. This information is
supplied by the
transfer agent to the IRS for each stockholder account. This
form,




which may be used as a convenient reference and record when
personal
income taxes are filed, is mailed to stockholders after the
end of
each calendar year.



Reports and Publications

The objective in this 1994 Annual Report is to provide a
single,
comprehensive document describing the corporation's business
and
financial results. Additional sources of information about
the Company
include the following:



Form 10-K Report

Filed annually with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
this
report is available without charge in January, upon request,
to
stockholders of record and/or beneficial owners of the
Company's
common stock.



Form 10-Q

Filed quarterly with the Securities and Exchange Commission,
these
reports are available in March, June and September.



Notice of Annual Meeting and Proxy Statement

Mailed in January, accompanying the Notice of Annual Meeting
and Proxy
Statement, is the proxy card. The proxy card should be
signed, dated
and returned promptly to ensure all shares are represented
at the
meeting and voted in accordance with instructions of their
holder.



Quarterly Reports

Mailed to each stockholder in February, May, August and
November.



Report on Annual Meeting

Mailed to each stockholder in February, shortly after the
Annual
Meeting of Stockholders.






Duplicate Mailings

Sometimes several accounts are established for an individual
stockholder due to variations in name, initials or address.
Stockholders are encouraged to consolidate multiple accounts
to avoid
duplicate mailings to the same address.

To consolidate multiple accounts, write to Norwest Bank
Minnesota,
N.A., or call their toll-free number. (Use the address
and/or
telephone number provided with their listing in this section
as
Company transfer agent and registrar.) If possible, labels
or label
information indicating which name(s) are to be deleted
should
accompany your request. This procedure provides a
significant cost
reduction in production and mailing of reports and saves
stockholders
the annoyance of receiving duplicate mail.

This will not in any way affect dividend check mailings.
Each
registered stockholder will continue to receive regular
quarterly
dividends.



Questions About Hormel Foods

From Stockholders, call or write:

Thomas J. Leake
Corporate Secretary
Hormel Foods Corporation
1 Hormel Place
Austin, Minn. 55912-3680
(507) 437-5669

From Security Analysts, call or write:

Robert J. Thatcher
Vice President and Treasurer
Hormel Foods Corporation
1 Hormel Place
Austin, Minn. 55912-3680
(507) 437-5950

From the Media, call or write:

V. Allan Krejci
Director of Public Relations
Hormel Foods Corporation
1 Hormel Place
Austin, Minn. 55912-3680
(507) 437-5345



Annual Meeting Invitation




All Hormel Foods Corporation stockholders are encouraged to
attend
this year's Annual Meeting. The meeting is held each year on
the last
Tuesday in January. The 1995 Annual Meeting will be held
Tuesday,
January 31, in the Austin (Minn.) High School Auditorium.
The meeting
will convene at 8:00 p.m.



Common Stock Data

The high and low closing price of the Company's common stock
and the
dividends per share declared for each fiscal quarter of 1994
and 1993,
respectively, are shown below.



1994                 High       Low    Dividend

First Quarter          23    20 1/2       $.125

Second Quarter     21 3/8        19       $.125

Third Quarter          23        19       $.125

Fourth Quarter     24 1/2    21 1/2       $.125



1993                 High       Low    Dividend

First Quarter      24 1/4    20 7/8        $.11

Second Quarter     25 1/4    20 3/8        $.11

Third Quarter      22 1/8    20 1/2        $.11

Fourth Quarter     22 5/8    20 7/8        $.11









Page 1

1994 Financial Section

40   Selected Financial Data

42   Consolidated Statements of Financial Position

44   Consolidated Statements of Operations

45   Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders'
Investment

46   Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

47   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

51   Report of Independent Auditors Responsibilities

     for Financial Statements

52   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition

     and Results of Operations

54   A Corporate Profile



Selected Financial Data


See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Changes in Stockholders'
Investment


See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows


See notes to consolidated financial statements.



Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements

October 29, 1994

Note A: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation: The consolidated financial
statements

include the accounts of Hormel Foods Corporation and all of
its

majority-owned subsidiaries after elimination of all
significant




intercompany accounts, transactions and profits.

Segment Information: Hormel Foods is engaged in a single
business

segment designated as "meat and food processing." As a
federally

inspected food processor, Hormel Foods is engaged in the
processing of

meat and poultry products, production of a variety of
prepared foods and

the marketing of those products.

Inventories: Inventories are valued at the lower of cost or
market.

Livestock and the materials portion of products are valued
on the first-

in, first-out method with the exception of the materials
portion of

turkey products which are valued on the last-in, first-out
method.

Substantially all inventoriable expenses, packages and
supplies are

valued by the last-in, first-out method.

Property, Plant and Equipment: Property, plant and equipment
are carried

at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is
provided over the

estimated useful lives of the related assets, primarily on a
straight-

line basis.

Amortization of Intangibles: Goodwill and other intangibles
are being

amortized over periods up to 40 years. Accumulated
amortization at

October 29, 1994, and October 30, 1993, was $11,966,000 and
$9,010,000,

respectively.




Statement of Cash Flows: The Company considers all short-
term marketable

securities with maturities of less than 90 days to be cash
equivalents.

All short-term marketable securities are carried at cost
which

approximates market values.

Acquisitions: The Company acquired several businesses during
fiscal 1994

and 1993 which are included in the Company's results of
operations since

the respective acquisition dates. The results of these
acquired

businesses, either individually or in the aggregate, were
not

significant to the Company's results of operations.

Accounting Changes: The Company adopted Statements of
Financial

Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 106, "Employers' Accounting
for

Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," and SFAS No.
109,

"Accounting for Income Taxes," in 1993 (see Notes E and F).

SFAS No. 115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt
and Equity

Securities," is effective for fiscal 1995 and will not have
a

significant effect on the Company when adopted.

Earnings Per Share: Earnings per share of Common Stock are
based on the

weighted average number of shares outstanding during the
year. The

dilutive effects of Common Stock equivalents were not
significant in any

year presented.




Fiscal Year: The Company's fiscal year ends on the last
Saturday in

October. Fiscal year 1994 and 1993 consisted of 52 weeks and
fiscal year

1992 consisted of 53 weeks.



Note B: Inventories

Inventoriable expenses, packages and supplies amounting to
approximately

$48,700,000 at October 29, 1994, and $47,200,000 at October
30, 1993,

are stated at cost determined by the last-in, first-out
method, and are

$21,900,000 and $21,600,000 lower in the respective years
than such

inventories determined under the first-in, first-out method.
Turkey

products amounting to $9,500,000 at October 29, 1994, and
$7,000,000 at

October 30, 1993, are stated at cost determined by the last-
in, first-

out method and are $200,000 lower in 1994 and $600,000 lower
in 1993

than such inventories determined under the first-in, first-
out method.



Note C: Long-Term Debt and Other Borrowing Arrangements

Long-term debt consists of:

At October 29, 1994, the Company had unused lines of credit
of

$10,000,000 for short-term borrowing. A fixed fee is paid
for the

availability of credit lines.

Total interest paid during fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992 was
$1,791,000,

$1,386,000 and $4,082,000, respectively.



Note D: Benefit Plans

The Company and its subsidiaries have several
noncontributory defined

benefit plans and defined contribution plans covering most
employees.

Total costs associated with the Company's defined
contribution benefit

plans in 1994, 1993 and 1992 were $7,880,000, $7,119,000 and
$6,560,000,

respectively. Benefits for defined benefit pension plans
covering hourly

employees are provided based on stated amounts for each year
of service

while plan benefits covering salaried employees are based on
final




average compensation. The Company's funding policy is to
make annual

contributions of not less than the minimum required by
applicable

regulations.

A summary of the components of net periodic pension cost for
defined

benefit plans is as follows:

(In Thousands)                                1994      1993

The following table sets forth the plans' funded status and
amounts

recognized in the statements of financial position:





As of the 1994 valuation date, plan assets included Common
Stock of the

Company having a market value of $68,962,000.






Note E: Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions

The Company provides medical and life insurance benefits to
certain

retired employees. Eligible employees who retired prior to
January 1,

1987, remain on the medical plan in effect when they
retired. The

medical plan for eligible employees who retired after
January 1, 1987,

is automatically modified to incorporate plan benefit and
plan provision

changes whenever they are made to the active employee plan.
Employees

hired after January 1, 1990, are eligible for postretirement
medical

coverage, but must pay the full cost of the coverage.

In fiscal 1993, the Company adopted SFAS No. 106,
"Employers' Accounting

for Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions." This
statement

requires the accrual of the postretirement benefit costs of
health care

and life insurance during the years an employee provides
services. The

unfunded cumulative obligation of $227.2 million ($140.8
million after

tax) was charged against earnings, effective as of the
beginning of

fiscal 1993. The effect of the new rule on fiscal 1993 was
to increase

postretirement benefit costs by $6,128,000 and reduce net
earnings

before the cumulative effect of accounting changes by
$3,900,000.

The cost of these benefits as recorded under the previous
pay as you go

accounting policy was $14.2 million in fiscal 1992, which
year has not




been restated. The postretirement benefit costs for fiscal
1994 and 1993

under SFAS No. 106 were as follows:

The actuarial present value of postretirement benefit
obligations and

the amount reported in the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position

as of October 29, 1994, and October 30, 1993, were as
follows:

Accumulated postretirement benefit obligations as of the
August 1

measurement date:

Assumptions used in determining the accumulated
postretirement benefit

obligation:

The health care cost trend rate assumption has a significant
effect on

the amount reported. For example, a one percent increase in
the health

care cost trend rate would increase the accumulated
postretirement

benefit obligation by $16.7 million at October 29, 1994, and
the net

periodic cost by $1.2 million for the year.



Note F: Income Taxes

The Company adopted SFAS No. 109, "Accounting for Income
Taxes," as of

the beginning of fiscal 1993, changing its method of
accounting for

income taxes from the deferred method to the liability
method. As

permitted under SFAS No. 109, prior years' financial
statements have not




been restated. The cumulative effect of adopting SFAS No.
109 as of

November 1, 1992, was to increase net income by $13.3
million.

The components of the provision for income taxes
attributable to income

before the change in accounting principle were as follows:

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of
temporary

differences between the carrying amounts of assets and
liabilities for

financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income
tax

purposes. The Company believes that, based upon its lengthy
and




consistent history of profitable operations, it is probable
that the net

deferred tax assets of $85 million will be realized on
future tax

returns, primarily from the generation of future taxable
income.

Significant components of the deferred income tax
liabilities and assets

were as follows:

Reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to
the Company's




effective tax rate is as follows:

Included in the provision for deferred federal income taxes
for fiscal

year ended 1992 are the effects of timing differences as
follows:

(In Thousands)

Depreciation
$(2,436)

Employee benefit plans
(2,760)

All other, net
(3,484)


$(8,680)

Total income taxes paid during fiscal 1994, 1993 and 1992
were

$56,298,000, $67,750,000 and $57,161,000, respectively.



Note G: Arrangement With FDL Foods, Inc.

In accordance with a five-year copacking agreement with FDL
Foods, Inc.

(FDL), Dubuque, Iowa, facility, the Company has a revolving
credit




agreement secured by substantially all of the assets of FDL.
The Company

may lend up to $30,000,000 to FDL at one percent over the
prime rate

through July 1, 1995. Borrowings under the agreement at
October 29,

1994, and October 30, 1993, were $19,200,000 and
$25,300,000,

respectively, and are included in Investments and Other
Assets.

The Company also acts as an agent of FDL for the purchase of
livestock,

which purchases may be up to $15,000,000 and are repayable
in full on a

weekly basis under a credit agreement. The balances at
October 29, 1994,

and October 30, 1993, are $4,300,000 and $6,400,000,
respectively, and

are included in accounts receivable.



Note H: Commitments

In order to ensure a steady supply of livestock and turkeys
and to keep

the cost of products stable, the Company and its subsidiary,
Jennie-O

Foods, Inc., have entered into contracts with producers for
the purchase

of hogs and turkeys at formula based prices over periods of
up to 12

years. Under these contracts, the Company and Jennie-O are
committed at

October 29, 1994, to purchase hogs and live turkeys,
assuming current

price levels, as follows:

$247,852,000




173,638,000

174,187,000

174,874,000

154,025,000

Later years
433,765,000

Total
$1,358,341,000

The Company has commitments to expend approximately
$38,915,000 to

complete construction in progress at various locations at
October 29,

1994.



Note I: Stock Options

Under the Company's stock option plans, the Company may
grant employees

and nonemployee directors options to purchase Common Stock
of the

Company at 100 percent of the market value on the date of
grant. Options

outstanding expire at various dates ranging from fiscal 1995
through

2004. Options are exercisable upon grant and are outstanding
as follows:



Note J: Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)

The following tabulation reflects the unaudited quarterly
results of

operations for the years ended October 29, 1994, and October
30, 1993:

*1993 amounts have been restated to reflect the adoption of
SFAS No. 106 as of the beginning of the year.



Report of Independent Auditors

To the Stockholders and Board of Directors

Hormel Foods Corporation

Austin, Minnesota

We have audited the accompanying consolidated statements of
financial

position of Hormel Foods Corporation as of October 29, 1994
and October

30, 1993, and the related consolidated statements of
operations, changes

in stockholders' investment and cash flows for each of the
three years

in the period ended October 29, 1994. These financial
statements are the

responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to

express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally
accepted auditing

standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform
the audit to




obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are

free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining,
on a test

basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in
the financial

statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting
principles

used and significant estimates made by management, as well
as evaluating

the overall financial statement presentation. We believe
that our audits

provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above
present

fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of
Hormel Foods

Corporation at October 29, 1994 and October 30, 1993, and
the results of

its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the

period ended October 29, 1994 in conformity with generally
accepted

accounting principles.

As discussed in the notes to the consolidated financial
statements, in

1993 the Company changed its methods of accounting for
income taxes and

postretirement benefits other than pensions.

Minneapolis, Minnesota

November 22, 1994



Responsibilities for Financial Statements




The accompanying financial statements were prepared by the
management of

Hormel Foods Corporation which is responsible for their
integrity and

objectivity. These statements have been prepared in
accordance with

generally accepted accounting principles appropriate in the

circumstances and, as such, include amounts that are based
on our best

estimates and judgments.

Hormel Foods Corporation has developed a system of internal
controls

designed to assure that the records reflect the transactions
of the

Company and that the established policies and procedures are
adhered to.

This system is augmented by well-communicated written
policies and

procedures, a strong program of internal audit and well-
qualified

personnel.

These financial statements have been audited by Ernst &
Young LLP,

independent auditors, and their report appears on this page.
Their audit

is conducted in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards

and includes a review of the Company's accounting and
financial controls

and tests of transactions.

The Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, composed
solely of

outside directors, meets periodically with the independent
auditors,

management and the internal auditors to assure that each is
carrying out




its responsibilities. Both Ernst & Young LLP and our
internal auditors

have full and free access to the Audit Committee, with or
without the

presence of management, to discuss the results of their
audit work and

their opinions on the adequacy of internal controls and the
quality of

financial reporting.

R.W. Schlange

Vice President and Controller

Joel W. Johnson

President

Chief Executive Officer



Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results

of Operations

Fiscal Years 1994 and 1993

Earnings for the year were a record $117,975,000, an
increase of 17.1

percent over 1993 earnings of $100,770,000 reported before
the 1993

cumulative effects of adopting SFAS No. 106, "Employers'
Accounting for

Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions," and SFAS No.
109,

"Accounting for Income Taxes." Fiscal 1993 results after
cumulative

effects of accounting changes were a net loss of
$26,759,000. The




comparative discussion of fiscal 1994 and 1993 results will
exclude the

cumulative effects of the noncash accounting changes adopted
in 1993.

This will accurately reflect the Company's operating results
in 1993 and

the outstanding performance and growth that continued for
the 11th

straight year in 1994.

Net sales in 1994 were $3,064,793,000, an increase of 7.4
percent, or

$210,796,000, over the previous record of $2,853,997,000
recorded in

1993. Tonnage volume was also at record levels and increased
9.4 percent

over last year.

Earnings for the fourth quarter of 1994 were $54,237,000, an
increase of

24.2 percent over the same period one year ago. Net sales
increased 2.8

percent to $840,462,000, compared to $817,374,000 in the
fourth quarter

of 1993. Tonnage volume for the quarter increased 8.3
percent compared

to last year.

The Company continues to focus attention on improving its
core

businesses, expanding market share of mature consumer-
branded products

and introducing new products in the convenience and ethnic
market

segments. Pork remains a primary raw material for Company
products and

the supply of live hogs has an impact on Company results.
Pork raw

material prices declined by more than 20 percent toward the
end of the




fourth quarter in 1994. Lower raw material prices and a
product mix that

included a larger proportion of higher margin processed
items increased

gross profit as a percent of sales to 27.4 percent for the
quarter and

23.5 percent for the year from 23.7 percent and 22.7 percent
for the

same periods last year. Farm Fresh Catfish Company, a wholly
owned

subsidiary, wrote down its live fish inventory which had a
negative

impact on its operating results.

Selling and delivery expenses for the quarter and year were
$122,175,000

and $467,062,000 as compared to $105,776,000 and
$424,432,000 for the

same periods in 1993. As a percentage of sales, selling and
delivery

expenses increased to 15.2 percent from 14.9 percent in 1993
which

primarily reflects increased spending on advertising and
promotions.

Administrative and general expenses were $21,894,000 and
$65,184,000 for

the quarter and year to date, compared to $19,244,000 and
$67,302,000

last year.

At the end of 1994, the Company established reserves for the
impairment

in value of two investments. A reserve was established for a
probable

loss on disposition of the Company's remaining facility at
Ottumwa,

Iowa, which is idle and available for sale. The Company also
established

a reserve for the carrying value of an investment in an
affiliated




business. Neither of these reserves was considered material.

Advertising and promotional expenses increased to
$46,609,000 for the

quarter and $184,368,000 for the year, compared to
$36,889,000 and

$162,308,000 in 1993. These expenditures emphasize the
Company's

commitment to expanding its base of branded consumer
products. The

parent company and its larger subsidiaries, which include
Jennie-O

Foods, Inc., and Dubuque Foods, Inc., plan to continue
aggressive

advertising and promotional activities in 1995.

Research and development continues to be an integral part of
the

Company's strategy to extend existing brands and expand its
offerings of

new consumer-branded items in both existing and new food
market

segments. An important part of research and development
efforts include

packaging which effectively protects the product, is
convenient for the

consumer and minimizes cost while using environmentally
friendly

materials.

As a result of rising interest rates during 1994, the
Company increased

its key pension and other postretirement plan actuarial
assumptions as

of the August 1, 1994, measurement date, including an
increase in the

discount rate to 8.25 percent (see Note D to the
Consolidated Financial

Statements). The net effect of these changes resulted in a
decrease in




the minimum pension liability recorded under SFAS No. 87 at
October 29,

1994.

The Company's effective tax rate increased to 38.3 percent
from 37.5

percent in 1993. This reflects the remaining effect of the
increase in

the federal statutory rate to 35 percent and an increase in
state income

taxes.

The Company anticipates pork raw material prices to continue
at

favorable levels, at least through the first quarter of
1995. Raw

material supplies are expected to be adequate, and the
Company has

aggressive marketing plans in place to meet 1995 profit
plans.

Fiscal Years 1993 and 1992

Higher pork raw material prices experienced in 1993 and
large supplies

of competing protein sources resulted in heavy competition
and pressure

on selling prices. These conditions required all areas of
the Company to

aggressively market their products while implementing cost
efficiencies

to meet profit projections. Despite operating results that
produced

record operating earnings and dollar sales, a one-time net
charge for

accounting changes resulted in a net loss for fiscal 1993.

The net loss for 1993 was $26,759,000, compared to 1992
earnings of

$95,174,000. The loss was a result of the adoption of
Statement of




Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 106 "Employers'
Accounting for

Postretirement Benefits Other Than Pensions." SFAS No. 106
requires

companies to accrue the cost of future retiree health care
benefits in

the year earned instead of the year paid. The Company also
adopted SFAS

No. 109, "Accounting for Income Taxes," under which deferred
income

taxes are adjusted to reflect tax rates currently in effect.
Adopting

the new accounting standards resulted in a net cumulative
charge of

$127,529,000 for 1993 and reduced current year operating
earnings before

cumulative effect of accounting changes by $3,900,000.

Results from continuing operations before adoption of the
noncash

accounting changes more accurately reflect the Company's
outstanding

performance in 1993. Excluding the current year and
cumulative effect of

accounting changes, the Company earned $104,670,000, an
improvement of

$9,496,000 over 1992 results. Record sales of $2,853,997,000
exceeded

1992 sales by $40,346,000, or 1.4 percent. Sales tonnage
volume for 1993

decreased 5.5 percent from 1992, reflecting reduced supplies
of fresh

pork available to Dubuque Foods, Inc., a wholly owned
subsidiary, for a

portion of the year when supplier FDL Foods, Inc., closed
its Rochelle,

Ill., pork slaughtering operation. The increase in sales
dollar volume

on reduced tonnage volume highlights the increase in pork
raw material




prices and a product mix with significant increases in
higher priced

consumer-branded items.

Earnings for the fourth quarter of 1993 were $43,662,000,
compared to

$42,021,000 last year. Earnings for the quarter include the
current year

effect of the accounting changes of $975,000. Dollar sales
for the

quarter were down 2.9 percent to $817,374,000 from
$841,665,000 last

year. The 1992 quarter included 14 weeks while the 1993
quarter included

13 weeks which accounts for the lower sales volume. Sales
tonnage volume

for the quarter decreased by 11.5 percent compared to last
year, also

reflecting the extra week in 1992 and the reduced pork
supply at Dubuque

Foods mentioned previously.

Selling and delivery expenses for the quarter and year were
$105,776,000

and $424,432,000, compared to $109,325,000 and $412,458,000
for the same

periods in 1992. The decrease in the selling and delivery
expenses for

the fourth quarter of 1993 reflects reduced quarter sales
compared to

1992. As a percentage of sales, selling and delivery
expenses increased

slightly to 14.9 percent from 14.7 percent in 1992.
Administrative and

general expenses were $19,244,000 and $67,302,000 for the
quarter and to

date, compared to $17,891,000 and $62,535,000 last year. The
majority of

this increase reflects the adoption of SFAS No. 106 in the
fourth




quarter of 1993.

Advertising and promotional expenses increased to
$36,889,000 for the

quarter and $162,308,000 for the year, compared to
$32,700,000 and

$144,553,000 in 1992. This emphasizes the Company's intent
to expand its

branded consumer products.

Consistent with the favorable interest rate and inflationary
environment

in 1993, the Company reduced its key pension and other
postretirement

plan actuarial assumptions as of the August 1, 1993,
measurement date,

including a reduction in the discount rate to 7.75 percent
(see Note D

to the Consolidated Financial Statements). The net effect of
these

changes resulted in an increase in the minimum pension
liability

recorded under SFAS No. 87 at October 30, 1993.

The Company's effective tax rate increased to 37.5 percent
from 37

percent in 1992. As shown in Note F to the Consolidated
Financial

Statements, this reflects an increase in the federal
statutory rate from

34 percent to 35 percent, effective January 1, 1993 (the
Company's

blended federal rate for 1993 was 34.83 percent).

Liquidity and Sources of Capital

The Company continues to have an exceptionally strong
balance sheet.

Cash and short-term marketable securities were $259,959,000
at the end




of 1994, compared to $172,420,000 last year. Long-term debt
increased to

$10,300,000 from $5,700,000 at the end of 1993. Long-term
debt consists

of industrial revenue bonds with varying maturities and a
loan to

finance an investment in an affordable housing fund. This
liquidity and

low debt load provide the Company with the ability to take
advantage of

expansion or acquisition opportunities that may arise.

During 1994, items providing or requiring cash for operating
activities

were normal and in the ordinary course of business. Cash
provided by

operating activities was $199,141,000, compared to
$99,752,000 in 1993.

Cash required for investing activities in 1994 declined to
$74,637,000

from $128,074,000 last year. There were no material
acquisitions of

businesses in 1994. Major construction projects during 1994
included

pork slaughter and cutting renovations at the Hormel Foods
plant in

Fremont, Neb.; expansion of the gelatin processing
operations at

Davenport, Iowa, and a major expansion of the warehouse and
shipping

facilities at Jennie-O Foods, Inc. The Fremont and Davenport
projects

will continue into 1995. Additional projects being
considered for 1995

are renovations at Rochelle Foods, Rochelle, Ill., and
additional

projects supporting the growth of Jennie-O Foods' business.

Financial ratios for 1994 and 1993 are presented below:



*Computed without cumulative effect of accounting changes
for 1993.



A Corporate Profile

Having served the needs of generations of consumers for more
than a

century, Hormel Foods Corporation continues to successfully
build upon

its role as one of the leading processors and marketers of
branded,

value-added meat and food products. The broad industry arena
in which

Hormel Foods now competes nationally and internationally
creates many

new avenues of opportunity for long-term growth.




Hormel Foods and its family of subsidiaries manufacture,
market and

distribute thousands of processed food products which are
known and

respected by consumers, retail grocers, foodservice
operators and

industrial customers. Many of the Company's products are
among the best

known and trusted in the food industry. They not only enjoy
strong brand

identification and leading market shares but address
important customer

and consumer priorities for high standards of quality,
taste, nutrition,

convenience and value.

Principal products of the Company are branded, processed
meat and food

entrees which are sold fresh, frozen, cured, smoked, cooked
and canned.

Included are sausages, hams, franks, bacon, canned luncheon
meats,

shelf-stable microwaveable entrees, stews, chilies, hash,
meat spreads

and frozen processed products. These and other products are
sold in all

50 states by sales representatives coordinated from district
and/or area

sales offices located in most of the larger United States
cities. These

efforts are supported by brokers and distributors.

A majority of the Company's products is sold under the
Hormel brandmark.

Other well-established trademarks which are familiar to
consumers and

have contributed to the Company's established reputation for

uncompromising quality and value are as follows:




     Black Label              Layout Pack

     By George                Light & Lean

     Cure 81                  Light & Lean 97

     Curemaster               Little Sizzlers

     Di Lusso                 Mary Kitchen

     Dinty Moore              Old Smokehouse

     Dubuque                  Quick Meal

     Farm Fresh               Range Brand

     Fast'N Easy              Rosa Grande

     Frank'N Stuff            Sandwich Maker

     Homeland                 SPAM

     Jennie-O                 Top Shelf

     Kid's Kitchen            Wranglers

The Company's Corporate Offices are headquartered in Austin,
Minn., as

are its Research & Development Center and its 1,122,043
square foot

"flagship" plant. Facilities for pork operations at the
Austin plant are

leased to Quality Pork Processors, Inc., under a custom
slaughter

arrangement which provides the Company with needed raw
materials for

production operations. A Hormel Foods plant in Fremont,
Neb., is also a

pork slaughtering and processing operation. A wholly owned
subsidiary,




Rochelle Foods, Inc., Rochelle, Ill., provides the Company
with

additional raw materials through its pork slaughtering and
processing

operation.

Facilities producing manufactured meat and food products are
located in

Algona, Iowa; Austin, Minn.; Beloit, Wis.; Davenport, Iowa;
Fremont,

Neb.; Houston, Texas; Knoxville, Iowa; Oklahoma City, Okla.;
Stockton,

Calif.; Tucker, Ga., and Wichita, Kan. Custom manufacturing
of selected

Hormel Foods products is performed by several companies
adhering to

strict Company specifications and quality guidelines.

Dubuque Foods, Inc., a wholly owned subsidiary headquartered
in Dubuque,

Iowa, has a custom manufacturing agreement with FDL Foods,
Inc., also

based in Dubuque, whereby various consumer-branded and
foodservice meat

products are produced. Through two other wholly owned
subsidiaries,

Jennie-O Foods, Inc., Willmar, Minn., and Farm Fresh Catfish
Company,

Hollandale, Miss., Hormel Foods is a leading producer of
whole and

processed turkey products and grain-fed, farm-raised catfish
which are

sold through retail grocery stores and foodservice outlets.
Another

wholly owned subsidiary, Dan's Prize, Inc., headquartered in
Cornelia,

Ga., but with a manufacturing plant in Long Prairie, Minn.,
produces

roast beef, corned beef, pastrami, prime rib and other
cooked meats for




the foodservice and deli industries.

Hormel Foods Corporation also operates in international
areas, including

the Philippines, Japan, Korea, Australia, England, Panama
and other

countries through Hormel Foods International Corporation
(HFIC). With

exports to more than 40 countries, HFIC continues to expand
its presence

around the globe.

Hormel Foods Corporation is owned by approximately 10,500
stockholders

and comprised of more than 9,500 employees, including
subsidiaries.

References appearing in boldface in this 1994 Annual Report
to

Stockholders represent valuable trademarks important to and
owned by

Hormel Foods Corporation or its subsidiaries.

_ Hormel Foods Corporation 1995






