
10-K405


================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

   [X]    ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
          EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12762

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

               (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN CHARTER)


              TENNESSEE                           62-1543819
      (STATE OF INCORPORATION)          (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION
                                                    NUMBER)

                         6584 POPLAR AVENUE, SUITE 340
                            MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE 38138
                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

                                 (901) 682-6600
               REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (B) OF THE ACT:


                                            NAME OF EXCHANGE
         TITLE OF EACH CLASS              ON WHICH REGISTERED
- -------------------------------------   ------------------------
  Common Stock, par value $.01 per
                 share                   New York Stock Exchange
Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock,
       par value $.01 per share          New York Stock Exchange
Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock,
       par value $.01 per share          New York Stock Exchange
   Series C Cumulative Redeemable
  Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per
                 share                   New York Stock Exchange


          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (G) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in PART III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant, (based on the closing price of such stock ($22.625 per share),
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, on March 1, 2000) was approximately
$354,000,000 (for purposes of this calculation, directors and executive officers
are treated as affiliates).

     The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's Common Stock as of
March 17, 2000, was 17,635,277 shares, of which approximately 2,009,033 were
held by affiliates.

================================================================================

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

                               
ITEM                                             PAGE
- ---------                                        ----

                        PART I

 1.      Business.............................     1

 2.      Properties...........................     4

 3.      Legal Proceedings....................     9

 4.      Submission of Matters to Vote of
           Security Holders...................     9


                        PART II

 5.      Market for Registrant's Common Equity
           and Related Stockholder Matters....     9

 6.      Selected Financial Data..............    10

 7.      Management's Discussion and Analysis
           of Financial Condition and Results
           of Operations......................    11

 7A.     Quantitative and Qualitative
           Disclosures About Market Risk......    17

 8.      Financial Statements and
           Supplementary Data.................    18

 9.      Changes in and Disagreements with
           Accountants on Accounting and
           Financial Disclosure...............    18

                       PART III

10.      Directors and Executive Officers of
           the Registrant.....................    19

11.      Executive Compensation...............    19

12.      Security Ownership of Certain
           Beneficial Owners and Management...    19

13.      Certain Relationships and Related
           Transactions.......................    19

                        PART IV

14.      Exhibits, Financial Statement
           Schedule and Reports on Form 8-K...    19


                                       i


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

     Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. (the "Company") is a Memphis,
Tennessee-based self-administered and self-managed umbrella partnership
("UPREIT") real estate investment trust, ("REIT") which, as of December 31,
1999, owns or has ownership interest in, including 10 properties owned by an
unconsolidated joint venture, and operates 129 apartment communities containing
33,901 apartment units in 13 states, primarily in the southeastern United States
and Texas (the "Communities"). The Company currently has 1,367 apartment units
in various stages of construction, development and pre-development in 3 new
communities and 1 addition to an existing community.

     Founded in 1977 by George E. Cates, the Company's Chairman of the Board of
Directors and Chief Executive Officer, the Company's predecessor grew from an
operator of a single 252-unit apartment community in Memphis, Tennessee into a
fully-integrated owner and operator of 5,580 apartment units in 22 apartment
communities in four southeastern states immediately prior to the Company's
initial public offering in February 1994 (the "Initial Offering"). Since the
Initial Offering, the Company's portfolio has increased by 98 apartment
communities containing 25,528 apartment units.

     On June 30, 1999, the Company sold its development, construction and fee
management businesses acquired in connection with the November 1997 merger with
Flournoy Development Company ("Flournoy or FDC") back to the principals of
Flournoy. The Company received net proceeds of $18.1 million for these assets
and recorded a net loss of approximately $4.0 million, relating mainly to the
write-off of goodwill from to the original purchase transaction. In the
transaction, Flournoy reacquired the development businesses, related fixed
assets including single family development, land and property held for sale, and
the fee management business of 5,131 tax credit apartment units. The Company has
contracted with Flournoy to complete the remaining portion of its development
pipeline.

     In March 1999 the Company entered into an agreement to form a joint venture
(the "Joint Venture") with Blackstone Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC
("Blackstone"), and operate 10 apartment communities. On March 31, 1999 the
Company sold 6 apartment communities, containing 1,660 apartment units, to the
Joint Venture for approximately $64.6 million in cash. In August 1999, the
Company sold four additional properties containing 1,133 apartment units to the
Joint Venture, for approximately $33.3 million. The Company contributed
additional capital and made a loan to the Joint Venture bringing the Company's
total investment in the Joint Venture to approximately $8.1 million. The Company
recognized a gain of approximately $9.0 million and deferred gains of
approximately $4.8 million for the Company's retained interest. Proceeds from
the transactions were used to pay down the Company's Credit Line, fund the
development pipeline and to fund two cash escrow reserves related to the planned
tax free exchange of a portion of the properties, which exchange was completed
during the balance of 1999. The Company has retained a 33.3% ownership interest
in the Joint Venture and has an agreement to manage the operations of the
communities for a fee of 4% of revenues.

     The Company's business is conducted principally through the Mid-America
Apartments, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership"). The Company is the sole
general partner of the Operating Partnership, holding, as of December 31, 1999,
180,168 Common Units or a 1% general partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership. The Company's wholly-owned qualified REIT subsidiary, MAC II of
Delaware, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a limited partner in the Operating
Partnership and, as of December 31, 1999, held 14,872,572 Common Units, or
83.55% of all outstanding Common Units.

OPERATING PHILOSOPHY

     DIVERSIFIED MARKET FOCUS.  The Company focuses on owning, operating,
developing, constructing and acquiring apartment communities mainly throughout
the southeast and Texas.


     INTENSIVE MANAGEMENT FOCUS.  The Company strongly emphasizes on-site
property management. Particular attention is paid to opportunities to increase
rents, raise average occupancy rates, and control costs, with property managers
and regional management being given the responsibility for monitoring market
trends and the discretion to react to such trends.

     DEDICATION TO CUSTOMER SERVICE.  Management's experience is that
maintaining a consistently high level of customer satisfaction leads to greater
demand for the Company's apartment units, higher occupancy and rental rates, and
increased long-term profitability. The Company, as part of its intense
management focus, has established regional training facilities to produce highly
trained property managers, leasing consultants and service technicians on-site
at each of the Communities. Management believes that this commitment to training
and excellence in associates ultimately translates to higher customer
satisfaction.

     DECENTRALIZED OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE.  The Company's operational structure
is organized on a decentralized basis. The Company's property managers have
overall operating responsibility for their specific Communities. Property
managers report to area managers or regional managers who, in turn, are
accountable to the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer. Management
believes that its decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific
market knowledge, increases personal accountability relative to a centralized
structure and is beneficial in the acquisition, redevelopment and development
process.

PROACTIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT

     The Company reviews its existing assets routinely and sells those which no
longer fit the Company's investment criteria. The Company constantly evaluates
the effectiveness of its capital allocations and makes adjustments to its
strategy, including investing in acquisitions and new development, debt
retirement, and repurchases of Company shares.

STRATEGIES

     The Company seeks to increase operating cash flow and earnings per share to
maximize shareholder value through a balanced strategy of internal and external
growth.

     OPERATING GROWTH STRATEGY. Management's goal is to maximize its return on
investment in each Community by increasing rental rates and ancillary revenues
while tightly controlling operating expenses and maintaining high occupancy
levels. The Company seeks higher net rental revenues by enhancing the
competitiveness of the Communities, adding revenue-generating services, and
managing expenses through its system of detailed management reporting and
accountability in order to achieve increases in operating cash flow. The steps
taken to meet these objectives include:

     o  empowering the Company's property managers to adjust rents in response
        to local market conditions and to concentrate resident turnover in peak
        rental demand months;

     o  offering new services to residents, including telephone, cable, and
        internet access on which it generates fee and commission income;

     o  implementing programs to control expenses through investment in
        cost-saving initiatives, such as the installation of individual
        apartment unit water and utility meters in certain Communities;

     o  ensuring that, through monthly inspections of all Communities by senior
        management and prompt attention to maintenance and recurring capital
        needs as well as defined preventive maintenance programs conducted
        quarterly at each property, the Communities are properly maintained;

     o  improving the "curb appeal" of the Communities through extensive
        landscaping and exterior improvements and repositioning Communities from
        time to time to maintain market leadership positions;

     o  investing heavily in training programs for its property level personnel;

     o  compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock
        ownership programs; and


     o  maintaining a hands-on management style and "flat" organizational
        structure that emphasizes senior management's continued close contact
        with the market and employees;

     o  when its cost of capital and asset values permit, selling assets and
        repurchasing common stock.

     DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY. During 1998, the Company's emphasis shifted from
acquisitions to development because of the higher quality assets and higher long
term investment returns generated by development. The Company expects to
continue new development on a disciplined, selective basis. In 1999 the Company
completed the following development projects consisting of a total 1,588
apartment units which are currently in various stages of lease-up:

     o  264 unit Paddock Club in Gainesville, Florida

     o  254 unit Paddock Club in Panama City, Florida

     o  132 unit Phase II expansion of the Paddock Club in Brandon, Florida

     o  238 unit Phase II expansion of the Terraces at Towne Lake in Cherokee
        County, Georgia

     o  252 unit Reserve at Dexter Lake in Memphis, Tennessee

     o  240 unit Paddock Club in Murfreesboro, Tennessee

     o  208 unit Paddock Club in Montgomery, Alabama

     The Company currently has a total of 1,367 apartment units in various
stages of development, construction, and pre-development, of which 1,151 are
scheduled to be completed in 2000 with the remainder in 2001. The Company
anticipates a total capital investment in this development pipeline of
approximately $43.2 million in 2000 and approximately $3 million in 2001. Also
currently under consideration is a new addition to an existing community of 244
units with an estimated cost of $18 million, which is expected to begin in 2001
if development is approved. These projects are expected to be funded by the
Company's outstanding lines of credit ("Credit Lines"), selective property
dispositions and possible joint venture transactions.

     In June 1999 the Company concluded that development opportunities were
becoming less financially attractive, reduced its development commitments to
those already in process, and sold its development and construction businesses.

     ACQUISITION STRATEGY. An additional strategy of the Company is to acquire
apartment communities that meet its investment criteria and long-term strategic
objectives. Most apartment communities that the Company has identified as
available for acquisition do not meet the Company's investment objectives, and
the present status of capital markets have raised the threshold for yields. The
Company did not acquire any apartment communities in 1999 and at the present
time does not anticipate any significant investment in acquisition properties in
2000.

     JOINT VENTURE STRATEGY. An additional strategy of the Company is to sell
apartment communities to a joint venture when a favorable return can be
achieved. This allows the Company to obtain favorably-priced financing. The
Company actively is seeking attractively priced investment opportunities which
it and potential joint venture partners can invest in. At this time no
negotiations are in process.


     The following apartment communities containing an aggregate of 2,793
apartment units were sold during 1999 to the Joint Venture:



     DISPOSITION STRATEGY. The Company is committed to the selective disposition
of non-strategic assets, those apartment communities that no longer meet its
investment criteria and long-term strategic objectives. Typically the Company
selects assets for disposition that do not meet its present investment criteria
including future return on investment, location, market, potential for growth,
and capital needs.

     The following apartment communities containing an aggregate of 1,138
apartment units were sold during 1999:



SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM

     In 1999, the Company's Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up
to 4 million common shares, of which the Company has repurchased approximately
1.5 million common shares (7% of the common shares and Common Units
outstanding). From time to time the Company intends to sell assets based on its
disposition strategy outlined herein and repurchase shares when it believes that
shareholder value is enhanced. Factors affecting this determination include the
relative valuation of its share price, assets sold, cost of debt and rates of
return of alternative investments.

COMPETITION

     All of the Company's Communities are located in areas that include other
apartment communities. Occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of
competitive apartment communities in a particular area. The Company's properties
compete with numerous other multifamily properties, the owners of which may have
greater resources than the Company and whose management may have more experience
than the Company's management. Moreover, single-family rental housing,
manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide
housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities.


RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

  PROPERTY DISPOSITIONS AND ACQUISITIONS

     Subsequent to December 31, 1999, the Company sold two apartment communities
containing 368 apartment units for approximately $14,890,000 and has letters of
intent to sell three additional communities, two of which will be as a tax free
exchange for two identified acquisitions.

  DISTRIBUTION INCREASE

     In January 2000, the Company raised its quarterly distribution to common
shareholders from $.575 per share to $.58 per share, effective with its
distribution paid on January 31, 2000.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company's apartment communities principally appeal to middle and upper
income residents in mid-size cities in the southeastern United States and Texas.
Approximately 72% of the Company's apartment units are located in Georgia,
Florida, Tennessee, and Texas markets. The Company's strategic focus is to
provide its residents high quality apartment units in attractive community
settings, characterized by extensive landscaping and attention to aesthetic
detail. The Company utilizes its experience and expertise in maintenance,
landscaping, marketing and management to effectively "reposition" many of the
apartment communities it acquires to raise occupancy levels and per unit average
rentals. The average age of the Communities at December 31, 1999 was 12.9 years.

     The following table sets forth certain operating data regarding the Company
for the periods indicated where the Company owns or maintains an ownership
interest, including the 10 properties containing 2,793 apartment units owned by
the Joint Venture, at December 31, 1999. The table excludes development
communities.


                                         1999       1998       1997
                                       ---------  ---------  ---------
Apartment units at year end..........     33,901     33,831     30,579
Average monthly rental per
  apartment..........................       $610       $597       $568
Average occupancy at year end........       94.6%      94.1%      93.9%


     The following table sets forth certain historical information for the
communities the Company owned or maintained an ownership interest, including the
10 properties containing 2,793 apartment units owned by the Joint Venture, at
December 31, 1999:













- ------------

 (1) Encumbered by the AmSouth Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of $60.2
     million and a variable interest rate of 7.15% at December 31, 1999.

 (2) Encumbered by the FNMA Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of $113.2
     million and a variable interest rate of 6.28% at December 31, 1999.

 (3) These three properties are encumbered by a $9.86 million mortgage securing
     a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     6.09%.

 (4) These eight properties are encumbered by a $43.4 million mortgage with an
     interest rate of 8.65%, maturing July 01, 2001.

 (5) These three properties are encumbered by a $16.1 million mortgage securing
     a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     5.75%.

 (6) These two properties are located in Desoto County, MS, a suburb of Memphis,
     TN. The Company considers the properties a part of the Memphis, TN market.

 (7) These 26 communities are encumbered by a $142 million loan with a maturity
     of March 3, 2003 and an average interest rate of 6.376%.

 (8) These five properties are encumbered by a $47.5 million mortgage with a
     maturity of December 15, 2004 and an interest rate of 7.04%.

 (9) These three properties, and one commercial building, are encumbered by a
     $35.3 million mortgage with a maturity of April 1, 2005.

(10) These two properties are encumbered by a $14 million mortgage securing a
     tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     5.281%.

(11) Calculation excludes five of the development properties containing 942
     units which are in lease-up at December 31, 1999.


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is not presently subject to any material litigation nor, to the
Company's knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against the Company,
other than routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, some
of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance and none of which is
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition,
liquidity or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
     None.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Common Stock has been listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol
"MAA" since the Initial Offering in February 1994. On March 17, 2000, the
reported last sale price of the Company's common stock on the NYSE was $22.625
per share and there were approximately 1,700 holders of record of the Common
Stock. The Company estimates there are approximately 11,500 beneficial owners of
the Common Stock. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low
sales prices of the Common Stock as reported on the NYSE and the distributions
declared by the Company with respect to the periods indicated.

                                           SALES PRICES
                                       --------------------   DIVIDENDS
                                         HIGH        LOW       DECLARED
                                       ---------  ---------   ----------
1998:
First Quarter........................  $  29.875  $  27.500        .55
Second Quarter.......................     29.063     25.625        .55
Third Quarter........................     28.000     22.938        .55
Fourth Quarter.......................     26.000     22.625       .575
1999:
First Quarter........................     24.125     20.875       .575
Second Quarter.......................     25.000     21.188       .575
Third Quarter........................     23.125     21.000       .575
Fourth Quarter.......................     23.063     21.438        .58

     The Company's current annual distribution rate with respect to the Common
Stock is $2.32 per share. The actual distributions made by the Company will be
affected by a number of factors, including the gross revenues received from the
Communities, the operating expenses of the Company, the interest expense
incurred on borrowings and unanticipated capital expenditures.

     The Company pays a preferential regular monthly distribution on the Series
A, Series B, Series C and Series E Preferred Stock at annual rates of $2.375,
$2.21875, $2.34375 and $2.375 per share, respectively. No distribution may be
made on the Common Stock unless all accrued distributions have been made with
respect to each series of preferred stock. No assurance can be given that the
Company will be able to maintain its distribution rate on its Common Stock or
make required distributions with respect to the Series A, Series B, Series C,
and Series E Preferred Stock.

     The Company had a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the
"DRSPP") under which holders of Common Stock (and Series A, Series B, Series C
and Series E Preferred Stock) could elect automatically to reinvest their
distributions in additional shares of Common Stock and/or to make optional
purchases of Common Stock free of brokerage commissions and charges. Shares
purchased directly from the Company were purchased at up to a 3% discount from
their fair market value at the Company's discretion. To fulfill its obligations
under the DRSPP, the Company may either issue additional shares of Common Stock
or repurchase Common Stock in the open market.

     In 1999, the Company implemented the Direct Stock Purchase and Distribution
Reinvestment Plan (the "DSPDRP") which has terms substantially similar to the
above DRSPP, except for certain additional benefits offered relating to purchase
of the Company's common shares. The plan replaced the DRSPP, and its
participants were automatically enrolled in the new plan.

     Future distributions by the Company will be at the discretion of the Board
of Directors and will depend on the actual funds available for distribution of
the Company, its financial condition, capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and such other
factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.

ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following table sets forth selected financial data on an historical
basis for the Company. This data should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



- ------------

(1) Total capitalization is total debt and market capitalization of preferred
    shares, common shares and partnership units.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

  OVERVIEW

     The following is a discussion of the consolidated financial condition and
results of operations of the Company for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998, and 1997. This discussion should be read in conjunction with all of the
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     The total number of apartment units the Company owned or had an ownership
interest in, including the 10 properties containing 2,793 apartment units owned
by its 33.3% unconsolidated Joint Venture, at December 31, 1999 was 33,901 in
129 communities, compared to the 33,831 units in 129 communities owned at
December 31, 1998 and 30,579 in 116 communities owned at December 31, 1997. The
average monthly rental per apartment unit increased to $610 at December 31, 1999
from $597 at December 31, 1998 and $568 at December 31, 1997. Overall occupancy
at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 was 94.6%, 94.1% and 93.9%, respectively.

  FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

     Funds from operations ("FFO") represents net income (computed in
accordance with GAAP) excluding extraordinary items, minority interest in
Operating Partnership income, gain or loss on disposition of real estate assets,
and certain non-cash and other items, primarily depreciation and amortization,
less preferred stock dividends. Adjustments for the unconsolidated joint venture
are made to include the Company's portion of FFO in the calculation. The Company
computes FFO in accordance with NAREIT's current definition, which eliminates
amortization of deferred financing costs and depreciation of non-real estate
assets as items added back to net income when computing FFO. The Company's
policy is to expense the cost of interior painting, vinyl flooring, and blinds
as incurred for stabilized properties. During the stabilization period for
acquisition properties, these items are capitalized because they are necessary
for the continued use of the property, and, thus, are not deducted in
calculating FFO.

     At its October 27, 1999 meeting, NAREIT approved the recommendations of its
Best Financial Practices Council with respect to clarifying the definition of
FFO. The Council recommends that FFO should include all operating results, both
recurring and non-recurring, except those results defined as "extraordinary"
under GAAP. The Company plans to adopt this definition effective January 1,
2000, and will reflect this clarification for all periods presented in
subsequent financial statements.

     FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income or any other
GAAP measurement of performance, as an indicator of operating performance or as
an alternative to cash flow from operating, investing, and financing activities
as a measure of liquidity. The Company believes that FFO is helpful in
understanding the Company's results of operations in that such calculation
reflects the Company's ability to support interest payments and general
operating expenses before the impact of certain activities such as changes in
other assets and accounts payable. The Company's calculation of FFO may differ
from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized by other REITs and,
accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs. Depreciation expense
includes $385,000, $245,000 and $195,000 at December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
respectively, which relates to computer software, office furniture and fixtures
and other assets found in other industries and which is required to be
recognized, for purposes of computing funds from operations.


     Funds from operations ("FFO") decreased during 1999 by $3,947,000 to
$60,046,000 versus $63,993,000 for 1998. FFO for 1997 was $44,896,000. FFO for
the three years ending December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 is calculated as follows
(dollars in thousands):

                                           YEAR ENDING DECEMBER 31,
                                       --------------------------------
                                          1999       1998       1997
                                       ----------  ---------  ---------
Net income available for common
  shareholders.......................  $   17,458  $  15,327  $   5,975
Depreciation and amortization........      49,188     45,776     27,542
Adjustment for joint venture
  depreciation.......................         741     --         --
Minority interest....................       2,497      2,254      2,693
Gain on disposition of assets........     (10,237)      (408)    --
Extraordinary items..................          67        990      8,622
Other non-recurring items............         332         54         64
                                       ----------  ---------  ---------
Funds from operations................  $   60,046  $  63,993  $  44,896
                                       ==========  =========  =========
Weighted average shares and units:
     Basic...........................      21,794     21,717     16,419
     Diluted.........................      21,817     21,764     16,482

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 TO THE YEAR ENDED
     DECEMBER 31, 1998

     During 1999 the Company sold 10 apartment communities containing 2,793
apartment units to the Joint Venture and retained a 33.33% ownership interest
and continued to manage the units for a fee of 4% of revenue. The Company also
completed development of 1,277 total apartment units in 7 new communities and 2
existing communities and sold three communities containing 1,138 units.

     Rental revenues for 1999 increased by $11,507,000 due primarily to
increases of (i) $6,371,000 from the 8 communities acquired in 1998 and owned
throughout 1999, (ii) $12,587,000 from the development communities completed
during 1998 and 1999, and (iii) $4,281,000 from the communities owned throughout
both periods. These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i)
$9,691,000 due to the sale of 10 properties to the Joint Venture in 1999 and
(ii) $2,041,000 from the sale of Redford Park Apartments in 1998 and the sale of
Hidden Oaks Apartments, Sailwinds at Lake Magdalene Apartments and Regency Club
Apartments in 1999.

     Property operating expenses include costs for property personnel, building
repairs and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, utilities, landscaping
and other property operating related costs. As a percentage of rental revenues,
property operating expenses increased from 37.9% in 1998 to 38.2% in 1999. The
majority of the increase is related to increased real estate taxes. Reappraisals
in some of the Company's markets, coupled with changes in tax rates in Shelby
County, Tennessee, and the annexation of three of the Company's properties in
the City of Memphis were the principal causes of the increase. Certain other
expenses contributed to the increase in operating expenses, including initial
lease-up costs for the development properties, and expenses associated with
certain fires and wind damage occurring during the year. Personnel costs
remained flat as a percentage of rental revenues from 1998 to 1999. In 1999
repair and maintenance costs decreased to 4.6% of rental revenues as compared to
4.8% in 1998 primarily as a result of the Company's significant investment of
capital for the last two years to reposition the 7,600 units acquired in the
1997 FDC Merger. Also in 1999, utilities costs decreased to 4.1% of rental
revenue as compared to 4.5% for the same period in 1998 mainly due to continued
savings from the Company's program to submeter units for water usage. Property
operating expenses for 1999 increased by $4,968,000 due primarily to (i)
$2,637,000 from the 8 communities acquired in 1998 and owned throughout 1999,
(ii) $4,290,000 from the development communities completed during 1998 and 1999
and (iii) $2,530,000 from the communities owned throughout both periods. These
increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $3,609,000 due to the sale
of 10 properties to the Joint Venture in 1999 and (ii) $880,000 from the sale of
Redford Park Apartments in 1998 and the sale of


Hidden Oaks Apartments, Sailwinds at Lake Magdalene Apartments and Regency Club
Apartments in 1999.

     Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $3,882,000 primarily due
to (i) $1,448,000 from the 8 communities acquired in 1998 and owned throughout
1999, (ii) $2,232,000 from the development communities completed during 1998 and
1999, and (iii) $1,661,000 from the communities owned throughout both periods.
These increases were offset by decreases of (i) $1,793,000 due to the sale of 10
properties to the Joint Venture in 1999 and (ii) $291,000 from the sale of
Redford Park Apartments in 1998 and the sale of Hidden Oaks Apartments,
Sailwinds at Lake Magdalene Apartments and Regency Club Apartments in 1999.
Amortization of costs in excess of fair value of net assets acquired was
$849,000 and $1,474,000, for 1999 and 1998, respectively, which is included in
depreciation and amortization in the accompanying consolidated statement of
operations. The decrease is due to the write off of goodwill in connection with
the sale of FDC during 1999. Amortization of deferred financing costs was
$2,854,000 and $2,348,000 for 1999 and 1998, respectively. The majority of the
increase is due to additional financing costs related to the restructuring of
the AmSouth Credit Line and the addition of the new FNMA Credit Line.

     General and administrative expense increased by $2,519,000 mainly due to
(i) approximately $800,000 in additional property level and support management
bonuses related primarily to improved property level performance at certain
properties as compared to the prior year, (ii) approximately $700,000 in
additional training costs related to the Company's recent investment in regional
training centers, (iii) approximately $450,000 in additional administrative
costs related to recent systems initiatives and staffing changes to support the
Company's portfolio growth, (iv) approximately $250,000 from increased franchise
and excise taxes related to recent legislative changes in the state of
Tennessee, and (v) approximately $240,000 in increased employee insurance costs.

     Interest expense increased $2,598,000 due primarily increased debt related
to the 10 property acquisitions in 1998 and additional credit line funding to
complete the new development properties. The Company reduced its average
borrowing cost to 7.06% at December 31, 1999 as compared to 7.11% on December
31, 1998. The average maturity on the Company's debt was 10.7 years and 10.9
years at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

     For the year ended December 31, 1999 the Company recorded a net gain on
disposition of assets totaling $10,237,000 comprised of the following
transactions:

                                        GAIN (LOSS)
                                        -----------
Gain on sale of ten communities sold
  to Joint Venture, net of deferred
  gain of $4,581,000.................   $ 9,264,000
Gain on sale of three communities....     5,004,000
Loss on sale of FDC..................    (4,031,000)
                                        -----------
                                        $10,237,000
                                        ===========

     The Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $67,000, net of minority
interest, for 1999 related to the early extinguishment of the mortgage for
Eastview Apartments.

     As a result of the foregoing, income before minority interest and
extraordinary item for the year ended December 31, 1999 increased $6,135,000
over the same period a year earlier.

  COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 TO THE YEAR ENDED
     DECEMBER 31, 1997

     During 1998 the Company acquired 10 apartment communities containing 2,129
apartment units and completed development of 1,335 total apartment units in 6
new communities and 4 existing communities. Also, the Company sold one community
containing 212 units.

     Total revenues for 1998 increased by $76,427,000, due primarily to (i)
$7,735,000 from the 10 communities acquired in 1998, (ii) $49,386,000 from the
30 completed communities acquired through the FDC Merger, (iii) $10,717,000 from
a full years operation of the 12 communities acquired in 1997, (iv) $5,410,000
from new development communities completed in late 1997 and 1998, and (v)
$3,116,000

from communities owned throughout both periods. The remaining net increase is
mainly related to a full year of FSC management and development activities.

     Property operating expenses include costs for property personnel, building
repairs and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, utilities, landscaping
and other property related costs. Property operating expenses for 1998 increased
by $27,513,000, due primarily to (i) $3,201,000 from the 10 Communities acquired
in 1998, (ii) $17,480,000 from the 30 completed Communities acquired through the
FDC Merger, (iii) $3,715,000 from a full years operation of the 12 Communities
acquired in 1997, (iv) $2,013,000 from new development communities completed in
1997 and 1998, and (v) $1,348,000 from communities owned throughout both
periods. As a percentage of rental revenues, property operating expenses
decreased from 38.6% in 1997 to 37.9% in 1998. Personnel costs increased as a
percentage of rental revenues from 10.8% in 1997 to 11.4% in 1998, due primarily
to increased staffing to support the additional apartment units acquired in the
FDC Merger and to produce a smooth lease-up of newly developed apartment units.
As new development units are delivered, they require management, leasing, and
maintenance staff to complete lease-up on schedule and to provide customer
service. The ratio of personnel costs to revenues improves as a development
community achieves stabilized occupancy. In 1998 repair and maintenance costs
decreased to 4.8% of rental revenues as compared to 5.0% in 1997 primarily as a
result of the Company's long standing commitment to spend adequate capital
toward maintaining properties as well as the addition of the development units
to the portfolio which require less repair and maintenance. Also in 1998,
utilities costs decreased to 4.5% of rental revenue as compared to 4.7% for the
same period in 1997 mainly due to continued savings from the Company's program
to submeter units for water usage.

     General and administrative expense increased $5,358,000 for 1998 compared
to 1997. This increase is mainly attributable to the increase in the number of
employees due to the FDC Merger and the addition or expansion of certain
functions to improve productivity and the quality of the Company's management.
These additions are a one-time increase related to the acquisition and
integration of FDC and preparation for continued future growth.

     Depreciation and amortization expense increased $18,284,000 from 1997 to
1998 due primarily to additional depreciation expense of (i) $1,549,000 from the
10 Communities acquired in 1998, (ii) $10,050,000 from the 30 completed
Communities acquired through the FDC Merger, (iii) $2,583,000 from a full year
operation of the 12 Communities acquired in 1997, (iv) $998,000 from development
communities completed in 1997 and 1998, and (v) $2,055,000 from the communities
owned throughout both periods. Also, amortization of deferred financing costs
was $2,348,000 and $888,000 for 1998 and 1997, respectively. The majority of the
increase is due to additional financing costs related to the restructuring of
the Credit Line and the Bonds issued by the Company's special purpose
subsidiary. Amortization of costs in excess of fair value of net assets acquired
was $1,474,000 and $309,000, for 1998 and 1997, respectively, which are included
in depreciation and amortization in the accompanying consolidated statement of
operations.

     Interest expense increased $16,761,000 during 1998 due primarily to
additional funding required for apartment acquisitions, development projects,
and the FDC Merger. The Company reduced its average borrowing cost to 7.11% at
December 31, 1998 as compared to 7.41% on December 31, 1997. The average
maturity on the Company's debt was 10.9 years and 10.2 years at December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

     For the year ended December 31, 1998 the Company recorded a gain on
disposition of assets of $408,000 related to the sale of Redford Park
Apartments, which also resulted in a loss on early extinguishment of the related
debt. The Company recorded a total extraordinary loss of $990,000, net of
minority interest, for 1998 related to the repayment of the mortgage for Redford
Park Apartments and certain other debt.

     As a result of the foregoing, income before minority interest and
extraordinary item for the year ended December 31, 1998 increased $7,459,000
over the same period a year earlier.

  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Net cash provided by operating activities was $74,978,000 in 1999 as
compared to $80,405,000 in 1998.

     During 1999 the Company received total proceeds of $153,311,000 from the
sale of 10 properties to the Joint Venture, the sale of 3 additional properties,
and the sale of the development, construction and fee management businesses. The
Company invested $71,563,000 in the development and construction of new
properties or expansions of existing properties, $34,377,000 in total capital
improvements to existing properties, and $8,085,000 in capital and advances to
the Joint Venture.

     During 1998 the Company invested $63,732,000 in the purchase of additional
properties, $107,963,000 in the development and construction of new properties,
and $32,336,000 in total capital improvements to existing properties. Also
during 1998 the Company received total proceeds of $5,424,000 from the
disposition of properties.

     The following table summarizes the Company's communities in various stages
of lease-up, construction, development, and pre-development as of December 31,
1999 (Dollars in 000's):



     Actual capital expenditures for property improvements during 1999 are
summarized below (in 000's):

Recurring capital at stabilized
properties...........................  $  13,154
Revenue enhancing projects at
stabilized properties................      9,297
Capital improvements to
pre-stabilized properties............     10,324
Corporate overhead capital
improvements.........................      1,602
                                       ---------
                                       $  34,377
                                       =========

     During 1999 the Company used $11,260,000 for net reductions in borrowings
and to fund deferred financing costs. Also during 1999 the Company initiated its
share repurchase program and acquired 1,473,600 shares for a total cost of
$33,073,000, which represented approximately 7% of the total common shares and
Common Units outstanding. Also during the year the Company paid a total of
$66,425,000 in distributions to holders of preferred shares, common shares, and
partnership units and received $3,549,000 from issuances of common shares and
units.

     During 1998 net proceeds from borrowings were $86,920,000 and an additional
$82,411,000 was received from issuances of common and preferred shares and
Common Units, which was mainly used to fund the acquisition and development of
properties mentioned above. During 1998 the Company also distributed $58,547,000
to holders of preferred shares, common shares, and Common Units.

     At December 31, 1999, the Company had $173.4 million outstanding on the
Credit Lines. Of this $25 million is effectively fixed at 7.565% through an
interest rate swap agreement which expires in 2003. The average interest rate at
December 31, 1999 for the conventional variable rate debt, including the impact
of the interest rate swap agreement, was 7.2%. At December 31, 1999, the Company
had an additional $31.9 million tax-free variable rate debt outstanding, with an
average rate of 5.1% at December 31, 1999. All other debt was fixed rate term
debt at an average interest rate of 7.1%. In November 1999, the Company
decreased its credit limit under the AmSouth Credit Line from $200 million to
$150 million. Additionally in 1999, the Company borrowed $113.2 million from a
new FNMA Credit Line which is part of a $195 million credit facility. The
Company expects to use the credit lines for future acquisitions, development,
and to provide letters of credit as credit enhancements for tax-exempt bonds.
The Credit Lines are secured and are subject to borrowing base calculations that
effectively reduce the maximum amount that may be borrowed under the credit
lines to $235.7 million as of March 1, 2000.

     The weighted average interest rate and weighted average maturity at
December 31, 1999 for the $744.2 million of notes payable were 7.06% and 10.7
years, respectively.

     The Company believes that cash provided by operations is adequate and
anticipates that it will continue to be adequate in both the short and long-term
to meet operating requirements (including recurring capital expenditures at the
Communities) and payment of distributions by the Company in accordance with REIT
requirements under the Code.

     The Company expects to meet its long term liquidity requirements, such as
scheduled mortgage debt maturities, property developments and acquisitions,
expansions and non-recurring capital expenditures, through long and medium-term
collateralized and uncollateralized fixed rate borrowings, issuance of debt or
additional equity securities in the Company, potential asset sales or joint
venture transactions and the Credit Lines.

  INSURANCE

     In the opinion of management, property and casualty insurance is in place
which provides adequate coverage to provide financial protection against normal
insurable risks such that it believes that any loss experienced would not have a
significant impact on the Company's liquidity, financial position, or results of
operations.

  INFLATION

     Substantially all of the resident leases at the Communities allow, at the
time of renewal, for adjustments in the rent payable thereunder, and thus may
enable the Company to seek rent increases. The

substantial majority of these leases are for one year or less. The short-term
nature of these leases generally serves to reduce the risk to the Company of the
adverse effects of inflation.

  YEAR 2000

     During 1999 the Company completed all phases of an action plan designed to
minimize the impact of Year 2000 ("Y2K") issue. Currently the Company has
experienced no internal or external business disruptions associated with the Y2K
issue. There can be, however, no assurance that future unforeseen Y2K problems
will not cause disruptions to our internal business systems, or those of our
vendors.

  IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activity," as amended by SFAS No. 137, effective for
all fiscal quarters of all fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. The
accounting statement is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements. The Company plans to adopt this accounting
standard in 2001.

  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This annual report on Form 10-K, including documents incorporated herein by
reference, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe
harbors created thereby. These statements include the plans and objectives of
management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to
acquisition and development of apartment communities, future expenditures for
development projects, capital expenditures, and rehabilitation costs on the
apartment communities. Future events and actual results, financial and
otherwise, may differ materially from the results discussed in the
forward-looking statements. In particular, among the factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially are continued qualification as a real estate
investment trust, general business and economic conditions, competition,
interest rates, accessibility of debt and equity capital markets and other risks
inherent in the real estate business including resident defaults, potential
liability relating to environmental matters and illiquidity of real estate
investments. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the
forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be
inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will prove to be
accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the
forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information
should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person
that the objectives and plans of the Company will be achieved.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company's primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates
obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. At December 31, 1999, 54% of
the Company's total capitalization consisted of borrowings. The Company's
interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate
fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing
costs. To achieve this objective, the Company manages its exposure to
fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of
fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are
obtainable with such arrangements and may enter into derivative financial
instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks to mitigate its
interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively lock the
interest rate on a portion of its variable debt. The Company does not enter into
derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. Approximately
76% of the Company's outstanding debt was subject to fixed interest rates with a
weighted average rate of 7.2% at December 31, 1999. The Company regularly
reviews interest rate exposure on its outstanding borrowings in an effort to
minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The Company does not have any
other material market-sensitive financial instruments.


     The table below provides information about the Company's financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt
obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted
average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Weighted average variable
rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (Dollars in 000's).



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The Independent Auditors' Report, Consolidated Financial Statements and
Selected Quarterly
Financial Information are set forth on pages F-1 to F- of this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     There have been no disagreements with the Company's independent accountants
on any matter of accounting principles or practices or financial statement
disclosure.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     On July 23, 1997, the Company acquired its corporate headquarters for
$2,912,000. In connection with the acquisition, the Company formed a special
committee of its external directors to negotiate the transaction on its behalf
because certain executive officers of the Company were also partners in the
partnership which owned the building. The consideration consisted of $862,000
cash, 22,246 UPREIT units valued at $634,000 ($28.50 per unit) and the
assumption of an existing loan. Certain executive officers of the Company were
partners in the partnership who owned the building and received 5,831 UPREIT
units in connection with the exchange.

     All transactions involving related parties must be approved by a majority
of the disinterested members of the Company's Board of Directors. The Company
has, and expects to have, transactions in the ordinary course of its business
with directors and officers of the Company and their affiliates, including
members of their families or corporations, partnerships or other organizations
in which such officers or directors have a controlling interest, on
substantially the same terms (including price, or interest rates and collateral)
as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unrelated
parties.

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
10-K:

1.       Independent Auditors' Report.........    F-1
         Consolidated Balance Sheets as of
           December 31, 1999 and 1998.........    F-2
         Consolidated Statements of Operations
           for the years ended December 31,
           1999, 1998 and 1997................    F-3
         Consolidated Statements of
           Shareholders' Equity for the years
           ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and
           1997...............................    F-4
         Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
           for the years ended December 31,
           1999, 1998 and 1997................    F-5
         Notes to Consolidated Financial
           Statements for the years ended
           December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997...    F-6
2.       Financial Statement Schedule required
           to be filed by item 8 and Paragraph
           (d) of this item 14:
         Schedule III -- Real Estate and
           Accumulated Depreciation as of
           December 31, 1999..................   F-22



3.  The exhibits required by Item 601 of Regulation S-K, except as otherwise
    noted, have been filed with previous reports by the registrant and are
    herein incorporated by reference.


     EXHIBIT
     NUMBERS               EXHIBIT DESCRIPTION
- -------------------------------------------------------
     3.1+     --  Amended and Restated Charter of
                  Mid-America Apartment Communities,
                  Inc. dated as of January 10, 1994, as
                  filed with the Tennessee Secretary of
                  State on January 25, 1994
     3.2******--  Articles of Amendment to the Charter
                  of Mid-America Apartment Communities,
                  Inc. dated as of January 28, 1994, as
                  filed with the Tennessee Secretary of
                  State on January 28, 1994
     3.3**    --  Mid-America Apartment Communities,
                  Inc. Articles of Amendment to the
                  Amended and Restated Charter
                  Designating and Fixing the Rights and
                  Preferences of A Series of Preferred
                  Stock dated as of October 9, 1996, as
                  filed with the Tennessee Secretary of
                  State on October 10, 1996
     3.4+     --  Mid-America Apartment Communities,
                  Inc. Articles of Amendment to the
                  Amended and Restated Charter dated
                  November 17, 1997, as filed with the
                  Tennessee Secretary of State on
                  November 18, 1997
     3.5***   --  Mid-America Apartment Communities,
                  Inc. Articles of Amendment to the
                  Amended and Restated Charter
                  Designating and Fixing the Rights and
                  Preferences of A Series of Preferred
                  Stock dated as of November 17, 1997,
                  as filed with the Tennessee Secretary
                  of State on November 18, 1997
     3.6+     --  Mid-America Apartment Communities,
                  Inc. Articles of Amendment to the
                  Amended and Restated Charter dated
                  December 15, 1997, as filed with the
                  Tennessee Secretary of State on
                  December 31, 1997
     3.7+     --  Bylaws of Mid-America Apartment
                  Communities, Inc.
     3.8++    --  Mid-America Apartment Communities,
                  Inc. Articles of Amendment to the
                  Amended and Restated Charter dated
                  June 25, 1998, as filed with the
                  Tennessee Secretary of State on June
                    , 1998
     3.9++++ --   Mid-America Apartment Communities,
                  Inc. Articles of Amendment to the
                  Amended and Restated Charter dated
                  December   , 1998, as filed with the
                  Tennessee Secretary of State on
                  December   , 1998
     4.1+     --  Form of Common Share Certificate
     4.2****  --  Form of 9.5% Series A Cumulative
                  Preferred Stock Certificate
     4.3***** --  Form of 8 7/8% Series B Cumulative
                  Preferred Stock Certificate
     4.4+++  --   Form of 9.375% Series C Cumulative
                  Preferred Stock Certificate
     4.5++++ --   Form of 9.5% Series E Cumulative
                  Preferred Stock Certificate
     4.6++++ --   Shareholders' Rights Plan dated March
                  1, 1999
    10.1+     --  Second Amended and Restated Agreement
                  of Limited Partnership of Mid-America
                  Apartments, L.P., a Tennessee limited
                  partnership
    10.2+     --  1994 Restricted Stock and Stock
                  Option Plan
    10.3++++ --   Revolving Credit Agreement between
                  the Registrant and AmSouth Bank of
                  Alabama
    10.4       -- Sixth amendment to the Revolving
                  Credit Agreement between the
                  Registrant and AmSouth Bank of
                  Alabama
    10.5+     --  Note Purchase Agreement of the
                  Operating Partnership and the
                  Registrant and Prudential Insurance
                  Company of America
    10.6+     --  Amendment 1 to Note Purchase
                  Agreement of the Operating
                  Partnership and the Registrant and
                  Prudential Insurance Company of
                  America
    10.7       -- Employment Agreement between
                  Registrant and George E. Cates
    10.8       -- Employment Agreement between
                  Registrant and H. Eric Bolton
    10.9       -- Employment Agreement between
                  Registrant and Simon R.C. Wadsworth
    10.10      -- Master Credit Facility Agreement
                  between Registrant and WMF Washington
                  Mortgage Corp. dated November 10,
    11.1       -- Statement re: computation of per
                  share earnings (included within the
                  Form 10-K)
    12.1       -- Statement re: computation of ratios
                  (definition of ratios used are
                  disclosed as footnotes on the related
                  table(s) within the Form 10-K)
    21.1       -- List of Subsidiaries
    23.1       -- Consent of KPMG LLP
    27.1       -- Financial Data Schedule


                                                   (FOOTNOTES ON FOLLOWING PAGE)


- ------------

       * Filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K,
         filed with the Commission on September 19, 1997 (Commission File No.
         1-12762)

      ** Filed as Exhibit 1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
         8-A filed with the Commission on October 11, 1996

     *** Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
         8-A filed with the Commission on November 19, 1997

   **** Filed as Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
        8-A filed with the Commission on October 11, 1996

  ***** Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
        8-A filed with the Commission on November 19, 1997

 ****** Filed as an exhibit to the 1996 Annual Report of the Registrant on Form
        10-K as of March 31, 1997

******* Filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement on Form S-11 (SEC File
        No. 33-81970), as amended, of the Registrant and incorporated herein by
        reference.

       + Filed as an exhibit to the 1997 Annual Report of the Registrant on Form
         10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997

      ++ Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
         8-A filed with the Commission on June 25, 1998

     +++ Filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
         8-A filed with the Commission on June 25, 1998

   ++++ Filed as an exhibit to the 1998 Annual Report of the Registrant on Form
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     The following report was filed on Form 8-K by the registrant during the
     fourth quarter of 1999:

                                                 DATE OF
FORM            EVENTS REPORTED                   REPORT
- ------------------------------------------       --------
 8-K Announcement of an approval by the          11/22/99
     Board of Directors to authorize the
     Company to repurchase common stock

(c)  Exhibits:

     See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)  Financial Statement Schedules:

     See Item 14(a)(2) above.


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.

                                       MID-AMERICA APARTMENT
                                       COMMUNITIES, INC.

Date: March 17, 2000                   /s/ GEORGE E. CATES
                                           GEORGE E. CATES
                                           CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF
                                           EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                                           (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.


Date: March 17, 2000                   /s/ GEORGE E. CATES
                                           GEORGE E. CATES
                                           CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF
                                           EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                                           (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

Date: March 30, 2000                   /s/ SIMON R.C. WADSWORTH
                                           SIMON R.C. WADSWORTH
                                           EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT
                                           (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING
                                           OFFICER)

Date: March 17, 2000                   /s/ H. ERIC BOLTON
                                           H. ERIC BOLTON
                                           PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER

Date: March 20, 2000                   /s/ JOHN F. FLOURNOY
                                           JOHN F. FLOURNOY
                                           DIRECTOR

Date: March 20, 2000                   /s/ ROBERT F. FOGELMAN
                                           ROBERT F. FOGELMAN
                                           DIRECTOR

Date: March 21, 2000                   /s/ JOHN S. GRINALDS
                                           JOHN S. GRINALDS
                                           DIRECTOR

Date: March 20, 2000                   /s/ O. MASON HAWKINS
                                           O. MASON HAWKINS
                                           DIRECTOR

Date: March 30, 2000                   /s/ RALPH HORN
                                           RALPH HORN
                                           DIRECTOR

Date: March 19, 2000                   /s/ MICHAEL S. STARNES
                                           MICHAEL S. STARNES
                                           DIRECTOR



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Mid-America
Apartment Communities, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December
31, 1999 and 1998 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1999. In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements, we have also audited the accompanying
financial statement schedule III -- Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation.
These financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects the financial position of the Company
and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of the their
operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period
ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted accounting
principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when
considered in relationship to the basic financial statements taken as a whole,
presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.

                                          KPMG LLP

Memphis, Tennessee
February 25, 2000

                                      F-1

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1999 AND 1998
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

                                           1999          1998
                                       ------------  ------------
ASSETS:
REAL ESTATE ASSETS:
     Land............................  $    119,823  $    124,912
     Buildings and improvements......     1,172,780     1,184,611
     Furniture, fixtures and
      equipment......................        28,238        26,779
     Construction in progress........        58,840        75,776
                                       ------------  ------------
                                          1,379,681     1,412,078
     Less accumulated depreciation...      (146,611)     (117,773)
                                       ------------  ------------
                                          1,233,070     1,294,305
     Land held for future
      development....................         1,710        11,781
     Commercial properties, net......         5,217         9,282
Investment in and advances to real
  estate joint venture...............         8,054       --
                                       ------------  ------------
     REAL ESTATE ASSETS, NET.........     1,248,051     1,315,368
Cash and cash equivalents............        14,092         7,237
Restricted cash......................        12,537         9,282
Deferred financing costs, net........        10,272        10,359
Other assets.........................        13,871        24,181
                                       ------------  ------------
          TOTAL ASSETS...............  $  1,298,823  $  1,366,427
                                       ============  ============
LIABILITIES AND SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:
LIABILITIES:
     Notes payable...................  $    744,238  $    753,427
     Accounts payable................         2,122        10,384
     Accrued expenses and other
      liabilities....................        23,199        18,959
     Security deposits...............         4,739         4,917
     Deferred gain on disposition of
      properties.....................         4,581       --
                                       ------------  ------------
          TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
              DEFERRED GAIN..........       778,879       787,687
MINORITY INTEREST....................        56,060        61,441
SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY:
Preferred stock, $.01 par value,
  20,000,000 shares authorized,
  $173,470,750 or $25 per share
  liquidation preference:
          2,000,000 shares at 9.5%
              Series A Cumulative....            20            20
          1,938,830 shares at 8.875%
              Series B Cumulative....            19            19
          2,000,000 shares at 9.375%
              Series C Cumulative....            20            20
          1,000,000 shares at 9.5%
              Series E Cumulative....            10            10
Common stock, $.01 par value
  (authorized 50,000,000 shares;
  issued and outstanding 17,971,960
  and 18,877,691 shares December 31,
  1999 and 1998, respectively).......           190           189
Additional paid-in capital...........       562,537       583,154
Other................................        (1,053)       (2,237)
Accumulated distributions in excess
  of net income......................       (89,869)      (63,876)
Treasury stock at cost, 355,900,
  shares in 1999.....................        (7,990)      --
                                       ------------  ------------
          TOTAL SHAREHOLDERS'
              EQUITY.................       463,884       517,299
                                       ------------  ------------
          TOTAL LIABILITIES AND
              SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY...  $  1,298,823  $  1,366,427
                                       ============  ============

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-2

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997
                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)

                                          1999        1998        1997
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Revenues:
     Rental..........................  $  222,098  $  210,591  $  135,673
     Other...........................       3,504       3,111       3,279
     Management and development
       income, net...................         751       1,841         164
     Equity in loss of real estate
       joint venture.................         (31)     --          --
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
     Total revenues..................     226,322     215,543     139,116
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Expenses:
     Personnel.......................      25,239      24,053      14,623
     Building repairs and
       maintenance...................      10,107      10,030       6,811
     Real estate taxes and
       insurance.....................      24,561      22,459      14,465
     Utilities.......................       9,119       9,376       6,341
     Landscaping.....................       5,634       5,009       3,684
     Other operating.................      10,225       8,990       6,480
     Depreciation and amortization...      49,903      46,021      27,737
     General and administrative......      14,479      11,960       6,602
     Interest........................      48,302      45,704      28,943
     Amortization of deferred
       financing costs...............       2,854       2,348         888
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
     Total expenses..................     200,423     185,950     116,574
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Income before gain on disposition of
  properties, minority interest in
  operating partnership income and
  extraordinary item.................      25,899      29,593      22,542
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Gain on dispositions.................      10,237         408      --
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Income before minority interest in
  operating partnership income and
  extraordinary item.................      36,136      30,001      22,542
Minority interest in operating
  partnership income.................       2,497       2,254       2,693
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Income before extraordinary item.....      33,639      27,747      19,849
Extraordinary item -- loss on debt
  extinguishment, net of minority
  interest...........................         (67)       (990)     (8,622)
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Net income...........................      33,572      26,757      11,227
Dividends on preferred shares........      16,114      11,430       5,252
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
Net income available for common
  shareholders.......................  $   17,458  $   15,327  $    5,975
                                       ==========  ==========  ==========
Net income available per common
  share:
Basic (in thousands):
     Average common shares
       outstanding...................      18,784      18,725      13,892
                                       ==========  ==========  ==========
Basic earnings per share:
     Net income available per common
       share before extraordinary
       item..........................  $     0.93  $     0.87  $     1.05
     Extraordinary item..............      --           (0.05)      (0.62)
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
     Net income available per common
       share.........................  $     0.93  $     0.82  $     0.43
                                       ==========  ==========  ==========
Diluted (in thousands):
  Average common shares
     outstanding.....................      18,784      18,725      13,892
  Effect of dilutive stock options...          24          45          63
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
  Average dilutive common shares
     outstanding.....................      18,808      18,770      13,955
                                       ==========  ==========  ==========
Diluted earnings per share:
     Net income available per common
       share before extraordinary
       item..........................  $     0.93  $     0.87  $     1.05
     Extraordinary item..............      --           (0.05)      (0.62)
                                       ----------  ----------  ----------
     Net income available per common
       share.........................  $     0.93  $     0.82  $     0.43
                                       ==========  ==========  ==========

          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997
                       (DOLLARS AND SHARES IN THOUSANDS)


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-4

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)

                                             1999        1998        1997
                                          ----------  ----------  ----------
CASH FLOWS FROM OPERATING ACTIVITIES:
    Net income..........................  $   33,572  $   26,757  $   11,227
    Adjustments to reconcile net income
      to net cash provided by operating
      activities:
         Depreciation and
           amortization.................      52,757      48,369      28,746
         Amortization of unearned stock
           compensation.................         494         121         121
         Equity in loss of real estate
           joint venture................          31      --          --
         Minority interest in operating
           partnership income...........       2,497       2,254       2,693
         Extraordinary item.............          67         990       8,622
         Gain on dispositions...........     (10,237)       (408)     --
         Changes in assets and
           liabilities:
             Restricted cash............      (3,300)      4,115      (1,214)
             Other assets...............      (4,591)      1,044      (1,341)
             Accounts payable...........      (4,459)        786         140
             Accrued expenses and other
               liabilities..............       8,325      (4,031)     (4,550)
             Security deposits..........        (178)        408         474
                                          ----------  ----------  ----------
         NET CASH PROVIDED BY OPERATING
           ACTIVITIES...................      74,978      80,405      44,918
CASH FLOWS FROM INVESTING ACTIVITIES:
         Purchases of real estate
           assets.......................      --         (63,732)    (76,287)
         Improvements to properties.....     (34,377)    (32,336)    (20,205)
         Construction of units in
           progress and future
           development..................     (71,563)   (107,963)    (16,093)
         Proceeds from disposition of
           real estate assets...........     134,977       5,424      --
         Proceeds from sale of
           development and construction
           assets.......................      18,134      --          --
         Investment in and advances to
           real estate joint venture....      (8,085)     --          --
         Net cash paid in business
           combination..................      --          --         (25,678)
                                          ----------  ----------  ----------
         NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) IN
           INVESTING ACTIVITIES.........      39,086    (198,607)   (138,263)
CASH FLOWS FROM FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
         Net change in credit lines.....      56,389      71,789      14,820
         Proceeds from notes payable....      11,760     232,799     187,500
         Principal payments on notes
           payable......................     (75,989)   (210,571)   (267,003)
         Payment of deferred financing
           costs........................      (3,420)     (7,097)     (3,813)
         Repurchase of common stock.....     (33,073)     --          --
         Proceeds from issuances of
           common shares and units......       3,549       9,586     165,737
         Proceeds from issuance of
           preferred shares.............      --          72,825      46,635
         Redemption of unitholder
           interests....................      --            (150)         (8)
         Distributions to unitholders...      (6,860)     (6,285)     (5,347)
         Dividends paid on common
           shares.......................     (43,451)    (40,832)    (29,172)
         Dividends paid on preferred
           shares.......................     (16,114)    (11,430)     (5,252)
                                          ----------  ----------  ----------
         NET CASH PROVIDED (USED) BY
           FINANCING ACTIVITIES.........    (107,209)    110,634     104,097
                                          ----------  ----------  ----------
         NET INCREASE (DECREASE) IN CASH
           AND CASH EQUIVALENTS.........       6,855      (7,568)     10,752
                                          ----------  ----------  ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, beginning of
  period................................       7,237      14,805       4,053
                                          ----------  ----------  ----------
Cash and cash equivalents, end of
  period................................  $   14,092  $    7,237  $   14,805
                                          ==========  ==========  ==========
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF CASH FLOW
  INFORMATION:
    Interest paid.......................  $   49,375  $   45,607  $   27,468
SUPPLEMENTAL DISCLOSURE OF NONCASH
  INVESTING AND FINANCING ACTIVITIES:
    Increase in basis of properties
      acquired in connection with
      business combination..............  $   --      $   --      $   58,359
    Assumption of debt related to
      property acquisitions.............  $   --      $   26,231  $   63,690
    Conversion of units for common
      shares............................  $      922  $    1,785  $      974
    Issuance of units related to
      property acquisitions.............  $   --      $    1,911  $      880
    Issuance of advances in exchange for
      common shares and units...........  $      100  $    1,458  $      906
    Interest capitalized................  $    3,967  $    4,265  $      388


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-5

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999, 1998 AND 1997

1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  ORGANIZATION AND FORMATION OF THE COMPANY

     Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. ("Mid-America") is a
self-administrated and self-managed real estate investment trust which owns,
develops, constructs, acquires and operates multifamily apartment communities
mainly in the southeast and Texas. The company owns and operates 120 apartment
communities principally through its majority owned subsidiary, Mid-America
Apartments, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership") and its subsidiary, Mid-America
Capital Partners, L.P. ("MACP"). MACP is a special purpose entity established
in 1997 to issue first mortgage bonds. The Company also owns a 33.33% interest
in a real estate joint venture which owns 10 apartment communities. From the
period November 1997 through June 1999, the company conducted third party
property management, construction and development activities through its service
corporation, Flournoy Development Corporation.

  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The consolidated financial statements presented herein include the accounts
of Mid-America, the Operating Partnership, MACP, and all other subsidiaries
("the Company"). The Company owns 51% to 100% of these subsidiaries. The
Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in 20 to 50
percent-owned entities. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions
have been eliminated in consolidation.

  MINORITY INTEREST

     Minority interest in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
relates to the ownership interest in the Operating Partnership by the holders of
Class A Common Units of the Operating Partnership ("Operating Partnership
Units") Mid-America is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership.
Net income is allocated to the minority interest based on their respective
ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership. Issuance of additional common
shares or Operating Partnership Units changes the ownership of both the minority
interest and Mid-America. Such transactions and the proceeds therefrom are
treated as capital transactions and result in an allocation between
shareholders' equity and minority interest to account for the change in the
respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating
Partnership.

     The Company's Board of Directors established economic rights in respect of
each Operating Partnership Unit that were equivalent to the economic rights in
respect of each share of common stock. The holder of each unit may redeem their
units in exchange for one share of common stock or cash, at the option of the
Company. The Operating Partnership has followed the policy of paying the same
per unit distribution in respect of the units as the per share distribution in
respect of the common stock. Operating Partnership net income for 1999, 1998 and
1997 was allocated approximately 15.6%, 15.6% and 17.9%, respectively, to
holders of Operating Partnership Units and 84.4%, 84.4% and 82.1%, respectively,
to Mid-America.

  USE OF ESTIMATES

     Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions
relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses to prepare these financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

  REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Company leases multifamily residential apartments under operating
leases with terms of one year or less. Rental and other revenues are recorded
when earned.

                                      F-6

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  DEVELOPMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND FEE MANAGEMENT REVENUES

     The Company provided development, construction and property management
services to third parties from November 1997 (the date of the FDC Merger -- note
2) until June 1999 (the date of disposing of those businesses -- note 3).

     The Company provided development services related to the development of
third party properties. Development fee income was recognized as earned as the
property was developed and certain operating and financing performance
conditions were met.

     Construction contract revenues, which are presented net of construction
contract costs in the accompanying statements of operations, were recognized
using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, the percentage of
contract revenue to be recognized currently was computed based upon that
percentage of estimated total revenue that incurred costs to date bear to total
estimated costs, after giving effect to the most recent estimates of costs to
complete. Revisions in cost and revenue estimates were reflected in the period
in which the facts, which require the revision, become known. When revised cost
estimates indicate a loss on an individual contract, the total estimated loss
was provided for currently in its entirety without regard to the percentage of
completion.

     The Company provided property management services for Section 42 Housing
Tax Credit multifamily properties and conventional properties. Property
management revenue was recorded on the accrual method of accounting as earned.

  RENTAL COSTS

     Costs associated with rental activities are expensed as incurred. Certain
costs associated with the lease-up of development projects, including cost of
model units, their furnishings, signs, and "grand openings" are capitalized
and amortized over their estimated useful lives. All other costs relating to
renting development projects are expenses as incurred.

  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     The Company considers cash, investments in money market accounts and
certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less to be
cash equivalents.

  RESTRICTED CASH

     Restricted cash consists of escrow deposits held by lenders for property
taxes, insurance, debt service and replacement reserves.

  REAL ESTATE ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION

     Real estate assets are carried at the lower of depreciated cost or
estimated fair value, less cost to sell. Repairs and maintenance costs are
expensed as incurred while significant improvements, renovations, and
replacements are capitalized. The cost of interior painting, vinyl flooring, and
blinds are expensed as incurred.

     In conjunction with acquisitions of properties, the Company's policy is to
provide in its acquisition budgets adequate funds to complete any deferred
maintenance items to bring the properties to the required standard, including
the cost of replacement appliances, carpet, interior painting, vinyl flooring,
and blinds. These costs are capitalized.

     Depreciation is computed on a straight line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets which range from 8 to 40 years for land improvements
and buildings and 5 years for furniture, fixtures and equipment.

                                      F-7

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company records all gains and losses on real estate in accordance with
SFAS No. 66. The total gain for the period ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 was
approximately $10,237,000 and $408,000, respectively.

     The Company periodically evaluates its real estate asset investments to
determine whether any impairment indicators are present by comparing current
capitalized net operating income to the carrying value of the asset. If any
investment asset is considered impaired, a loss is provided to reduce the
carrying value of the property to its estimated fair value. No such losses have
been required or provided in the accompanying financial statements.

     Development projects and the related carrying costs, including interest,
property taxes, insurance and allocated development overhead during the
construction period, are capitalized and reported on the accompanying balance
sheet as "construction in progress" during the construction period. Upon
completion and certification for occupancy of individual units within a
development, amounts representing the completed unit's portion of total
estimated development costs for the project are transferred to land, buildings
and furniture, fixtures and equipment as real estate held for investment.
Capitalization of interest, property taxes, insurance and allocated development
overhead costs ceases upon the transfer, and the assets are depreciated over
their estimated useful lives. Total interest capitalized during 1999, 1998 and
1997 was $3,967,000, $4,265,000 and $388,000 respectively.

  LAND HELD FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT

     Real estate held for future development consists primarily of sites
intended for future multifamily developments and is stated at the lower of cost
or fair value less its cost to sell.

  INVESTMENT IN AND ADVANCES TO REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE

     The Company's investment in an unconsolidated real estate joint venture is
recorded on the equity method as the Company does not have a controlling
interest in the joint venture. The portion of the gain realized upon the
Company's sale of apartment communities to the joint venture was deferred in
proportion to the Company's ownership interest in the joint venture. The
deferred gain will be amortized over 20 years, which approximates the useful
life of the joint venture's real estate assets.

  DEFERRED COSTS AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

     Deferred financing costs are amortized over the terms of the related debt
using a method which approximates the interest method. Cost in excess of fair
value of net assets acquired is amortized using the straight line method over 30
years.

  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards (SFAS) No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activity," effective for years beginning after June 15,
1999. In June 1999, SFAS No. 137 was issued to defer the implementation of SFAS
No. 133 to all fiscal years beginning June 15, 2000. The accounting statement is
not expected to have a material impact on the Company's consolidated financial
statements. The Company plans to adopt this accounting standard in 2001.

  RECLASSIFICATION

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with 1999
presentation. The reclassifications had no effect on net income available for
common shareholders.

                                      F-8

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

2.  BUSINESS COMBINATIONS

     On November 25, 1997, the Company completed the merger with Flournoy
Development Company and related entities ("FDC") (the "FDC Merger")
accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Total consideration
consisted of $88,271,000, including 1,550,311 shares of common stock and 412,110
Class A common units of the Operating Partnership, valued at $56,213,000
($28.6875 per share and unit), $29,608,000 cash and transaction costs of
approximately $2,450,000. The operating results of FDC are included in the
accompanying statement of operations commencing November 25, 1997.

     The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with the merger
were recorded at their respective fair values as follows:

Fair value of assets acquired,
primarily real estate assets.........  $   411,397,000
Liabilities assumed..................      335,326,000
                                       ---------------
     Net assets acquired.............  $    76,071,000
                                       ===============

3.  SALE OF DEVELOPMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND FEE MANAGEMENT BUSINESSES

     On June 30, 1999, the Company sold its development, construction and fee
management businesses acquired in connection with the November 1997 FDC Merger
back to the principals of Flournoy Development Company ("Flournoy"). The
Company received net proceeds of $18.1 million for these assets and recorded a
net loss for approximately $4.0 million, relating mainly to the write-off of
goodwill related to the original purchase transaction as described in Note 2. In
the transaction, Flournoy reacquired the development businesses, related fixed
assets including single family development, land and property held for sale, and
the fee management business of 5,131 tax credit apartment units. The Company has
contracted with Flournoy to complete the remaining portion of its development
pipeline.

4.  REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE

     In March 1999 the Company entered into an agreement to form a joint venture
(the "Joint Venture") with Blackstone Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC
("Blackstone"), to own and operate 10 apartment communities to be completed in
two transactions. The first transaction was completed on March 31, 1999 when the
Company sold 6 apartment communities, containing 1,660 apartment units, to the
Joint Venture for approximately $64.6 million in cash. In August 1999, the
Company closed the second portion of the Joint Venture transaction with
Blackstone. The Company sold four additional properties containing 1,134
apartment units to the Joint Venture, for proceeds of approximately $33.3
million. The Company contributed cash and made an additional loan to the Joint
Venture related to this transaction bringing the total investment in the Joint
Venture to approximately $4.6 million and the total loan to $3.4 million, $3
million at an interest rate of 10% and $.4 million at a rate of 7%, both for the
life of the entity. The loan is unsecured and is presented in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets in the caption "Investments in and advances to real
estate joint venture". Interest and management fees are recorded as earned and
presented in the accompanying consolidated income statement as "Other revenue"
and "Management and development income, net", respectively.

                                      F-9

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company recognized a gain of approximately $9.0 million and deferred
gains for the Company's retained interest of approximately $4.8 million. The
Company retained a 33.33 percent ownership interest in the Joint Venture and
manages the communities for a fee of 4% of revenues. The agreement provides that
income and cash flows generated by the Joint Venture are to be allocated based
on respective ownership percentages. Summary combined unaudited financial
information for the Joint Venture for the year ended December 31, 1999 follows:

                                       ----------
Real estate assets, net..............  $   98,323
Total assets.........................  $  103,011

Long-term debt.......................  $   86,150
Total liabilities....................  $   89,313
Partners' capital....................  $   13,698

Total revenues.......................  $   11,344
Depreciation expense.................  $    2,226
Net loss.............................  $       64

5.  BORROWINGS

     At December 31, 1999 the Company has two lines of credit (the Credit Lines)
with a total outstanding balance of $173.4 million. The Credit Lines are secured
by certain of the properties and have restrictive financial covenants. The
AmSouth Credit Line has a $150 million borrowing limit at December 31, 1999 and
expires in November 2001. The AmSouth Credit Line has a tiered interest rate as
determined by the Company's percentage of total liabilities to a valuation of
the Company's investment in real estate assets ("AmSouth Ratio"), as defined by
the loan agreement, which is reviewed quarterly for interest rate adjustments.
The AmSouth Credit Line bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.45%, 1.65%, and 1.75%
based on an AmSouth Ratio less than 55%, between 55% and 60%, and over 60%,
respectively. The AmSouth Credit Line had an interest rate at December 31, 1999
of LIBOR plus 1.75% (7.75%). The FNMA Credit Line has a $195 million borrowing
limit, bears interest at the 90-day FNMA mortgage backed security rate plus .67%
(6.28% at December 31, 1999) and expires November 2004. At December 31, 1998 the
Company had $117.0 million outstanding under the AmSouth Credit Line and $25.0
million outstanding under a short-term note payable.

     During 1999, the Company paid off approximately $73.2 million of various
notes payable including $18.4 million relating to property dispositions and a
$25.0 million short-term note payable established in 1998. The Company incurred
costs of $67,000, net of minority interest, related to the early extinguishment
of one mortgage which is included in "Extraordinary item -- loss on early
extinguishment of debt" in the accompanying financial statements.

     The Company had approximately $570.8 million and $612.0 million at December
31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, outstanding under various mortgage notes and
bonds payable secured by real estate assets.

     The Company has issued $142 million aggregate principal amount of 6.376%
Bonds due 2003 (the "Bonds"). The Bonds are secured by a first priority deed
of trust, security agreement and assignment of rents and leases in respect of 26
mortgaged properties, with a net book value of $207.2 million at December 31,
1999. In anticipation of the Bond issuance, the Company entered four separate
forward interest rate lock agreements in 1997 with notional amounts aggregating
$140 million, the effect of which was to lock the interest rate on $140 million
of the Bonds at an average rate of 6.62%. In 1998 the Company realized a $1.4
million loss on the interest rate contracts. The realized loss resulting from
the change in the

                                      F-10

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


market value of these contracts is being amortized into interest expense over
the life of the related debt issuance.

     During 1998, the Company refinanced approximately $29.1 million of various
notes payable. The Company also refunded $4.8 million of bonds secured by its
Sterling Ridge Apartments and refunded $14.0 million of bonds secured by its
Hunters Ridge Apartments. The Company incurred costs of $449,000, net of
minority interest, for these combined transactions which is included in
"Extraordinary item -- loss on early extinguishment of debt" in the accompany
financial statements along with $455,000 related to extinguishment of debt due
to the sale of real estate and $86,000 related to refinancing of a bridge loan.

     During 1997, the Company extinguished a bond note, resulting in an
extraordinary loss of $771,000. At consummation of the merger with FDC, the
Company repaid certain debt primarily attributable to FDC, resulting in an
extraordinary loss of $7,851,000, net of minority interest.

     As of December 31, 1999, the Company estimated that the weighted average
interest rate on the Company's debt was 7.06% with an average maturity of 10.7
years.

     The following table summarizes the Company's indebtedness at December 31,
1999.



- ------------

* Includes $25 million of variable rate effectively fixed through the interest
  rate swap.

     Scheduled principal repayments on the borrowings at December 31, 1999 are
as follows (dollars in thousands):



     The Company's indebtedness includes various restrictive financial
covenants. The Company believes that it was in compliance with these covenants
as of December 31, 1999.

                                      F-11

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

6.  FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued
expenses and other liabilities and security deposits are carried at amounts
which reasonably approximate their fair value due to their short term nature.

     Fixed rate notes payable at December 31, 1999 and 1998 total $538.9 million
and $579.4 million, respectively, and have an estimated fair value of $516.5
million and $582.4 million (excluding prepayment penalties) based upon interest
rates available for the issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining
maturities as of December 31, 1999 and 1998. These notes were subject to
prepayment penalties in the event of repayment prior to maturity, which were not
considered in determining their estimated fair value. The carrying value of
variable rate notes payable at December 31, 1999 and 1998 total $205.3 million
and $174.0 million, respectively, and reasonably approximates their fair value
because the related variable interest rates reasonably approximate market rates.
Included in these variable rate notes are certain Multifamily Housing Renewal
bonds with rates which are less than the prime lending rates at December 31,
1999 and 1998. Approximately $32.0 million in 1999 and 1998 of these mortgages
are non-taxable and have lower rates than would be expected for taxable notes
with similar terms.

     The fair value estimates presented herein are based on information
available to management as of December 31, 1999 and 1998. Although management is
not aware of any factors that would significantly affect the estimated fair
value amounts, such amounts have not been comprehensively revalued for purposes
of these financial statements since that date, and current estimates of fair
value may differ significantly from the amounts presented herein.

7.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Company is not presently subject to any material litigation nor, to the
Company's knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against the Company,
other than routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, some
of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance and none of which is
expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
statements of the Company.

     The Company leases an aircraft to facilitate transportation between its
properties. In 1998, the Company entered a new five year aircraft lease which
generally provides for the Company to pay maintenance, insurance, and certain
other operating costs of the leased property. The agreement has been accounted
for as an operating lease. The Company incurred lease expense relating to
aircraft lease agreements for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998, and 1997
of $256,000, $138,000, and $187,000, respectively.

8.  INCOME TAXES

     No provision for federal income taxes has been made in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements. The Company has made an election to be taxed
as a Real Estate Investment Trust ("REIT") under Sections 856 through 860 of
the Code. As a REIT, the Company generally is not subject to Federal income tax
to the extent it distributes 95% of its REIT taxable income to its shareholders
and meets certain other tests relating to the number of shareholders, types of
assets and allocable income. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any
taxable year, the Company will be subject to the Federal income tax (including
any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular
corporate rates. Even though the Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the
Company may be subject to certain Federal, state and local taxes on its income
and property and to Federal income and excise tax on its undistributed income.

                                      F-12

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends to
shareholders, differ from net income reported for financial reporting purposes
primarily because of differences in depreciable lives, bases of certain assets
and liabilities and in the timing of recognition of earnings upon disposition of
properties. For federal income tax purposes, the following summarizes the
taxability of cash distributions paid on the common shares in 1998 and 1997 and
the estimated taxability for 1999:

                                        1999     1998     1997
                                        -----    -----    -----
Per common share
     Ordinary income.................   $1.40    $1.28    $1.16
     Capital gains...................     .18     --       --
     Return of capital...............     .72      .92      .98
                                        -----    -----    -----
          Total......................   $2.30    $2.20    $2.14
                                        =====    =====    =====

9.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

  SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK

     Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.375 per share, payable monthly. On and after November 1,
2001, the Series A Preferred shares will be redeemable for cash at the option of
the Company, in whole or in part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation
preference plus dividends accrued and unpaid to the redemption date.

  SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK

     Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.21875 per share, payable monthly. In November 1997 the
Company issued 1,938,830 Series B Preferred shares and received net proceeds of
$46.6 million. On and after December 1, 2002, the Series B Preferred shares will
be redeemable for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in part, at a
redemption price equal to the liquidation preference plus dividends accrued and
unpaid to the redemption date.

  SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK

     Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Series C Preferred
Stock") has a $25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential
cumulative annual distribution of $2.34375 per share, payable quarterly. In June
1998 the Company issued 2,000,000 Series C Preferred shares and received net
proceeds of $48.1 million. On and after June 30, 2003, the Series C Preferred
shares will be redeemable for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in
part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference plus dividends
accrued and unpaid to the redemption date.

  SERIES D PREFERRED STOCK -- SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS PLAN

     During December 1998, the Board of Directors authorized a Shareholders
Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan"). In implementing the Rights Plan, the Board
declared a distribution of one right for each of the Company's outstanding
common shares which would become exercisable only if a person or group (the
"Acquiring Person") becomes the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the common
shares or announces a tender or exchange offer that would result in ownership of
10% of the Company's common shares. The rights will trade with the Company's
common stock until exercisable. Each holder of a right, other than the Acquiring
Person, is in that event entitled to purchase one common share of the Company
for each right at one half of the then current price.

                                      F-13

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  SERIES E PREFERRED STOCK

     Series E Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series E Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.375 per share, payable monthly. In December 1998 the Company
issued 1,000,000 Series E Preferred shares in a direct placement with a private
investor. The Company received net proceeds of $24.7 million. After five years,
the securities may be required by the purchaser to be redeemed by the Company in
cash or common stock, at the Company's option, at the then market price. The
Series E Preferred Stock is equal in rank with the Company's other series of
Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and amounts upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up.

  COMMON STOCK OFFERINGS

     In March 1997 the Company issued 2,300,000 shares of common stock and
received net proceeds of $62.5 million. In October 1997 the Company issued
3,499,000 shares of common stock and received net proceeds of $98.2 million. The
Company contributed the net proceeds of the offerings to the Operating
Partnership in exchange for additional Operating Partnership Units.

  DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE AND DISTRIBUTION REINVESTMENT PLAN

     In January 1999 the Company adopted the DSPDRP pursuant to which the
Company's shareholders have the ability to reinvest all or part of distributions
from Mid-America common stock, preferred stock or limited partnership interests
in Mid-America Apartments, L.P. Also, the plan provides the opportunity for
shareholders to buy additional shares through an optional cash investment. This
plan replaced the Company's previous Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase
Plan (the "DRSPP"). The Company has registered with the Securities and
Exchange Commission the offer and sale of up to 1,600,000 shares of common stock
pursuant to the DSPDRP and DRSPP. Additional shares will be purchased at the
market price on the "Investment Date" each month, which shall in no case be
later than ten business days following the distribution payment date. Common
stock shares totaling 111,637, 62,175 and 24,785 were acquired by shareholders
during 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

  STOCK REPURCHASE PLAN

     In 1999, the Company's Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan
to acquire up to a total of 4.0 million shares of the Company's common shares.
In 1999, the Company repurchased approximately 1.5 million shares of common
stock, of which 1.1 million were retired, for a cost of approximately $33
million at an average price per common share of $22.40.

  EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The computation of basic earnings per share is based on the weighted
average number of common shares outstanding. The computation of diluted earnings
per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares outstanding
plus the shares resulting from the assumed exercise of all dilutive outstanding
options using the treasury stock method. The Series E Preferred Shares, which
are convertible five years from the date of issuance, are not included in the
calculation because the assumed conversion would be anti-dilutive.

     A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and
diluted earnings per share computations for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997 is presented on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

                                      F-14

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

10.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

  401 (K) SAVINGS PLAN

     The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan is a
defined contribution plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 401(a) and
401(k) of the Code. The Company may, but is not obligated to, make a matching
contribution of $.50 for each $1.00 contributed, up to 6% of the participant's
compensation. The Company's contribution to this plan was $204,200, $318,200 and
$154,300 in 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

  NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

     The Company has adopted a non-qualified deferred compensation plan for key
employees who are not qualified for participation in the Company's 401 (k)
Savings Plan. Under the terms of the plan, employees may elect to defer a
percentage of their compensation and the Company matches a portion of their
salary deferral. The plan is designed so that the employees' investment earnings
under the non-qualified plan should be the same as the earning assets in the
Company's 401 (k) Savings Plan. The Company's match to this plan in 1999, 1998
and 1997 was $17,300, $19,100 and $18,600, respectively.

  EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(the "ESPP") provides a means for employees to purchase common stock of the
Company. The board has authorized the issuance of 150,000 shares for the plan.
The ESPP is administered by the Compensation Committee who may annually grant
options to employees to purchase annually up to an aggregate of 15,000 shares of
common stock at a price equal to 85% of the market price of the common stock.
During 1999, 1998 and 1997, the ESPP purchased 6,721, 5,242 and 2,758 shares,
respectively.

  EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN

     The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(the "ESOP") which is a non-contributory stock bonus plan that satisfies the
requirements of Section 401 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Each employee of
the Company is eligible to participate in the ESOP after attaining the age of 21
years and completing one year of service with the Company. Participants' ESOP
accounts will be 100% vested after five years of continuous service, with no
vesting prior to that time. The Company contributed 22,500 shares of common
stock to the ESOP upon conclusion of the IPO. During 1999, 1998 and 1997, the
Company contributed $640,100, $448,300 and $344,000, respectively, to the ESOP
which purchased an additional 28,233, 17,156 and 11,921 shares, respectively.

  STOCK OPTION PLAN

     The Company has adopted the 1994 Restricted Stock and Stock Option Plan
(the "Plan") to provide incentives to attract and retain independent
directors, executive officers and key employees. The Plan provides for the grant
of options to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock
("Options") or grants of restricted shares of common stock ("Restricted
Stock"). The Plan also allows the Company to grant options to purchase
Operating Partnership Units at the price of the common stock on the New York
Stock Exchange on the day prior to issuance of the units (the "LESOP
Provision"). The Plan authorizes the issuance of 1,000,000 common shares or
options to acquire shares.

     The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for
granting Options and shares of Restricted Stock and for establishing the
exercise price of Options and terms and conditions of Restricted Stock. In 1997
options to purchase 75,000 shares of common stock and 110,000 Operating
Partnership Units were exercised pursuant to the LESOP Provision and the Company
advanced a portion of the purchase price of these shares and units. The employee
advances mature five years from date of issuance and accrue interest, payable in
arrears, at a rate of 7.0% per annum and are presented as a reduction of

                                      F-15

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


shareholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The
Company entered into supplemental bonus agreements with the employees which are
intended to fund the payment of the advances over a five year period. Under the
terms of the supplemental bonus agreements, the Company will pay cash bonuses to
these employees equal to 20% of the original note balance on each anniversary
date of the advances. The bonuses are limited to 15% of the aggregate purchase
price of the common shares and units.

     During 1998, the Company issued 150,000 shares of common stock and 100,000
Operating Partnership Units to certain executive officers of the Company. The
Company received approximately $5,899,250 cash and advanced the employees
approximately $1,040,750 secured by the common stock and Operating Partnership
Units of the Company. The advances bear interest at rates ranging from 5.59% to
5.68% per annum, and are presented as a reduction of shareholders' equity in the
accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

     In addition, the Company has agreed to pay a bonus to the executive
officers mentioned above for as long as they remain employed by the Company in
an amount equal to the debt service on the advances from the Company. The
advances will become due and payable and the bonus agreement will terminate if
the employees voluntarily terminate their employment with the Company.

     Additionally throughout 1998, the Company issued 69,000 shares of common
stock to certain other officers of the Company at the market price on the date
of issuance. The Company received approximately $900,000 cash and advanced the
employees approximately $900,000. The advances bear interest at 7.5% and 8.25%
per annum, are secured by the common stock of the Company and are presented as a
reduction of shareholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated balance
sheets.

     During 1999, the Company issued 9,000 shares of common stock to certain
other officers of the Company at the market price on the date of issuance. The
Company received approximately $100,000 cash and advanced the employees
approximately $100,000. The advances bear interest at 7.5% and 8.25% per annum,
are secured by the common stock of the Company and are presented as a reduction
of shareholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

     The Company has agreed to pay an annual bonus for five years to these
officers amounting to 3% of the original purchase price of the shares. The
advances will become due and payable if the employees terminate their employment
with the Company.

     In connection with the sale of the development, construction and fee
management businesses (note 3) certain executive officers of the Company
resigned. Amounts due from these officers which related to the issuances of
shares, totaling approximately $447,000, were forgiven as a part of the sale.
The effect of this debt forgiveness is included in the loss on disposition of
those businesses in the accompanying financial statements.

     At December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, the total outstanding principal
balance on the employee advances was approximately $1,296,000, $2,219,000 and
$906,000 respectively, and is presented as a reduction in the Company's
statements of shareholders' equity.

                                      F-16

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A summary of changes in Options to acquire shares of Common Stock and
Operating Partnership Units, including grants and exercises pursuant to the
LESOP provision, for the three years ended December 31, 1999 is as follows:


                                                        WEIGHTED AVERAGE
                                        OPTIONS          EXERCISE PRICE
                                       ----------       ----------------
Outstanding at December 31, 1996.....     338,650            $22.53
     Granted.........................     416,500             29.46
     Exercised.......................    (218,625)            28.17
     Forfeited.......................     (13,025)            27.91
                                       ----------
Outstanding at December 31, 1997.....     523,500             25.40
     Granted.........................     663,250             28.78
     Exercised.......................    (338,581)            28.28
     Forfeited.......................     (52,850)            27.81
                                       ----------
Outstanding at December 31, 1998.....     795,319             26.87
     Granted.........................     371,750             22.25
     Exercised.......................      (1,300)            19.75
     Forfeited.......................    (219,550)            25.47
                                       ----------
Outstanding at December 31, 1999.....     946,219
                                       ==========
Options exercisable:
     December 31, 1997...............     140,500            $21.71
     December 31, 1998...............     208,769             23.19
     December 31, 1999...............     285,694             23.34


     Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1999 ranged from
$19.75 to $29.50. The weighted average remaining contractual life of those
options is 7.3 years.

     On January 1, 1996, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation", which requires either the (i) fair value of employee
stock-based compensation plans be recorded as a component of compensation
expense in the statement of operations as of the date of grant of awards related
to such plans, or (ii) impact of such fair value on net income and earnings per
share be disclosed on a pro forma basis in a footnote to financial statements
for awards granted after December 15, 1994, if the accounting for such awards
continues to be in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," ("APB 25"). The Company will
continue such accounting under the provisions of APB 25. If the fair value
method of accounting allowed under SFAS No. 123 had been used by the Company,
the pro forma net income available to common shareholders would have been
$17,254,000, $14,681,000, $5,452,000 for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The
pro forma diluted net income available per common share would have been $0.92,
$0.78 and $0.39 for 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively. The calculation was
prepared using the Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following
factors: 1) risk free interest rate of 6.38%, 2) expected life of 7.3 years, 3)
expected volatility of 19.14%, and 4) expected dividends of 10.16%. The weighted
average fair value of all options granted during the year is $8,271,000 at a
weighted average option price of $22.25 per share.

11.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK

     The Company has only limited involvement with derivative financial
instruments and does not use them for trading purposes. The Company occasionally
utilizes derivative financial instruments as hedges in anticipation of future
debt transactions to manage well-defined interest rate risk or as protection to
hedge the interest rate risk of the Company's variable rate debt by locking the
effective rate on portions of the outstanding lines of credit.

                                      F-17

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


     In 1998 the Company entered an Interest Rate Swap Agreement which expires
on August 15, 2003 that effectively locks the interest rate the Company pays on
a portion of its AmSouth Credit Line. As of December 31, 1999, $25 million
notional amount was outstanding on this agreement with a fixed interest rate
paid by the Company of 7.57%. The fair value of this agreement at December 31,
1999 was $894,000.

12.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION

     During 1997 the Company acquired its corporate headquarters building for
$2,912,000 from a partnership whose partners included certain executive officers
of the Company. The consideration paid consisted of $862,000 cash, 22,246
Operating Partnership Units valued at $634,000 ($28.50 per unit) and the
assumption of an existing loan. Prior to acquisition the Company leased the
building from the partnership.

     Pursuant to a management contract with the Joint Venture, the Company
manages the operations of the 10 Joint Venture apartment communities for a fee
of 4% of the revenues of the Joint Venture. In 1999 the Company received
approximately $453,000 as management fees from the Joint Venture.

13.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

     At December 31, 1999, the Company owned or had an ownership interest in 130
multifamily apartment communities, including the 10 apartment communities owned
by the Joint Venture, in 13 different states from which it derives all
significant sources of earnings and operating cash flows. The Company's
operational structure is organized on a decentralized basis, with individual
property managers having overall responsibility and authority regarding the
operations of their respective properties. Each property manager individually
monitors local and area trends in rental rates, occupancy percentages, and
operating costs. Property managers are given the on-site responsibility and
discretion to react to such trends in the best interest of the Company. The
Company's chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of each
individual property based on its contribution to net operating income in order
to ensure that the individual property continues to meet the Company's return
criteria and long term investment goals. The Company defines each of its
multifamily communities as an individual operating segment. It has also
determined that all of its communities have similar economic characteristics and
also meet the other criteria which permit the communities to be aggregated into
one reportable segment, which is acquisition, development, and operation of the
multifamily communities owned.

                                      F-18

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The revenues, net operating income, assets and real estate investment
capital expenditures for the aggregated multifamily segment are summarized as
follows for the years ended as of December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997 (in 000's).
For purposes of this disclosure multifamily revenues, net operating income and
real estate assets include amounts related to the 10 properties owned by the
unconsolidated Joint Venture.

                                          1999         1998        1997
                                       -----------  -----------  ---------
Multifamily rental revenues..........  $   233,442  $   210,591  $ 135,673
Other multifamily revenues...........        2,116        2,248      1,426
                                       -----------  -----------  ---------
    Segment revenues.................      235,558      212,839    137,099
Reconciling items to consolidated
  revenues:
    Joint Venture revenues...........      (11,344)     --          --
    Management and development
      income, net....................          751        1,841        164
    Equity in loss of joint
      venture........................          (31)     --          --
    Interest income and other
      revenues.......................        1,388          863      1,853
                                       -----------  -----------  ---------
      Total revenues.................  $   226,322  $   215,543  $ 139,116
                                       ===========  ===========  =========
Multifamily net operating income.....      145,874      132,922     84,695
Reconciling items to net income
  available for common shareholders:
    Joint Venture net operating
      income.........................       (6,545)     --          --
    Management and development
      income, net....................          751        1,841        164
    Equity in loss of real estate
      joint venture..................          (31)     --          --
    Interest income and other
      revenues.......................        1,388          863      1,853
    Interest expense.................      (48,302)     (45,704)   (28,943)
    General and administrative
      expenses.......................      (14,479)     (11,960)    (6,602)
    Depreciation and amortization....      (49,903)     (46,021)   (27,737)
    Amortization of deferred
      financing costs................       (2,854)      (2,348)      (888)
    Gain on dispositions.............       10,237          408     --
    Extraordinary items, net.........          (67)        (990)    (8,622)
    Minority interest................       (2,497)      (2,254)    (2,693)
    Dividends on preferred shares....      (16,114)     (11,430)    (5,252)
                                       -----------  -----------  ---------
      Net income available for common
         shareholders................  $    17,458  $    15,327  $   5,975
                                       ===========  ===========  =========

                                          1999         1998
                                       -----------  -----------
ASSETS:
Multifamily real estate assets.......  $ 1,480,232  $ 1,412,078
Accumulated
  depreciation -- multifamily
  assets.............................     (148,839)    (117,773)
                                       -----------  -----------
                                         1,331,393    1,294,305
Reconciling items to total assets:
Joint Venture multifamily real estate
  assets, net........................      (98,323)     --
    Land held for future
      development....................        1,710       11,781
    Commercial properties, net.......        5,217        9,282
    Investment in and advances to
      real estate joint venture......        8,054      --
    Cash and Restricted Cash.........       26,629       16,519
    Other assets.....................       24,143       34,540
                                       -----------  -----------
         Total assets................  $ 1,298,823  $ 1,366,427
                                       ===========  ===========


                                          1999         1998        1997
                                       -----------  -----------  ---------
Multifamily expenditures for property
  improvements, acquisitions and
  construction.......................  $   107,508  $   204,031  $ 112,585
Less reconciling items:
    Joint Venture property
      improvements...................       (1,568)     --          --
                                       -----------  -----------  ---------
         Total expenditures for
           property improvements,
           acquisitions and
           construction..............  $   105,940  $   240,031  $ 112,585
                                       ===========  ===========  =========


                                      F-19

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


14.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)

  DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND

     The Company declared a 1999 fourth quarter common stock dividend of $0.58
per share to be paid January 31, 2000 to holders of record on January 24, 2000.

  PROPERTY DISPOSITIONS

     On February 11, 2000, the Company sold the 120-unit Pine Trails apartment
community in Clinton, Mississippi for approximately $2,815,000 for cash. On
February 25, 2000, the Company sold the 248-unit MacArthur Ridge apartment
community for approximately $12,075,000 for cash. The proceeds from both
dispositions were to be used to reduce debt, fund the development pipeline, and
as a source of capital for future share repurchases.

                                      F-20

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

15.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)





                                      F-21


                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-22

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-23

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-24

                       MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                           REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)




     Note:  This schedule excludes the dispositions.

       (1) These ten properties are encumbered by a $43.4 million note payable
           with an interest rate of 8.65% at December 31, 1999, maturing July 1,
           2001.

       (2) Encumbered by the AmSouth Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of
           $60.2 million at December 31, 1999 and a variable interest rate of
           7.15%.

       (3) Encumbered by the FNMA Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of
           $113.2 million at December 31, 1999 and a variable interest rate of
           6.28%.

       (4) These three properties are encumbered by a $9.86 million mortgage
           securing a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average
           interest rate of 6.09%.

       (5) These three properties are encumbered by a $16.1 million mortgage
           securing a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average
           interest rate of 5.75%.

       (6) The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately
           $1,015 million at December 31, 1999. The total gross amount of real
           estate assets for GAAP purposes exceeds the aggregate cost for
           Federal income tax purposes, principally due to purchase accounting
           adjustments recorded under generally accepted accounting principles.

       (7) Depreciation is on a straight line basis over the estimated useful
           asset life which ranges from 8 to 40 years for land improvements and
           buildings and 5 years for furniture, fixtures and equipment.

       (8) These 3 properties, and one commercial building, are encumbered by a
           $35.3 million mortgage with a maturity of April 1, 2005.

       (9) These 26 communities are encumbered by a $142 million loan with a
           maturity of March 3, 2003 and an average interest rate of 6.376%.

      (10) These five communities are encumbered by a $47.5 million note payable
           with a maturity of December 15, 2004 and an interest rate of 7.04%.

      (11) These two properties are encumbered by a $14 million mortgage
           securing a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average
           interest rate of 5.281%.

                                      F-25

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
              REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

     A summary of activity for real estate investments and accumulated
depreciation is as follows:


                                               YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31,
                                       ----------------------------------------
                                           1999          1998          1997
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
                                                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)
Real estate investments:
     Balance at beginning of year....  $  1,434,733  $  1,211,693  $    641,893
     Acquisitions....................       --             91,895       140,858
     Improvements and development....       105,940       136,933        36,298
     Assets acquired from business
       combination...................       --            --            392,644
     Disposition of real estate
       assets........................      (152,015)       (5,788)      --
     Investment in and advances to
       real estate joint
       venture.......................         8,085       --            --
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
          Balance at end of year.....  $  1,396,743  $  1,434,733  $  1,211,693
                                       ============  ============  ============
Accumulated depreciation:
     Balance at beginning of year....  $    117,773  $     76,989  $     49,558
     Depreciation....................        48,687        41,556        27,431
     Disposition of real estate
       assets........................       (19,849)         (772)      --
                                       ------------  ------------  ------------
          Balance at end of year.....  $    146,611  $    117,773  $     76,989
                                       ============  ============  ============


The Company's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 1999 includes
accumulated depreciation of $2,081 in the caption "Commercial properties,
net".

                 See accompanying independent auditors' report.

                                      F-26


