
10-K405


================================================================================

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

        [X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES 
            EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

                         COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 1-12762

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
               (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN CHARTER)

              TENNESSEE                           62-1543819
      (STATE OF INCORPORATION)          (I.R.S. EMPLOYER IDENTIFICATION
                                                    NUMBER)
                         6584 POPLAR AVENUE, SUITE 340
                            MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE 38138
                    (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

                                 (901) 682-6600
               REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE

          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (b) OF THE ACT:

                                                    NAME OF EXCHANGE
         TITLE OF EACH CLASS                       ON WHICH REGISTERED
- - -------------------------------------             ------------------------
  Common Stock, par value $.01 per share          New York Stock Exchange

Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock,
       par value $.01 per share                   New York Stock Exchange

Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock,
       par value $.01 per share                   New York Stock Exchange

   Series C Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Stock, par value $.01 per share         New York Stock Exchange

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (g) OF THE ACT:
                                      None

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes [X]  No __

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in PART III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of
the Registrant, (based on the closing price of such stock ($22.625 per share),
as reported on the New York Stock Exchange, on March 1, 1999) was approximately
$380,000,000 (for purposes of this calculation, directors and executive officers
are treated as affiliates).

     The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's Common Stock as of
March 1, 1999, was 18,916,423 shares, of which approximately 2,143,525 were held
by affiliates.

================================================================================

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

                               

                                       i


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

     Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. (the "Company") is a Memphis,
Tennessee-based self-administered and self-managed umbrella partnership
("UPREIT") real estate investment trust, ("REIT") which, as of December 31,
1998, owns and operates 129 apartment communities containing 33,831 apartment
units in 13 states, primarily in the Southeast, Midwest and Texas (the
"Communities"). The Company currently has 3,489 apartment units in various
stages of construction, development and pre-development in 10 new communities
and 3 additions to existing communities

     Founded in 1977 by George E. Cates, the Company's Chairman of the Board of
Directors and Chief Executive Officer, the Company's predecessor grew from an
operator of a single 252-unit apartment community in Memphis, Tennessee into a
fully-integrated owner and operator of 5,580 apartment units in 22 apartment
communities in four southeastern states immediately prior to the Company's
initial public offering in February 1994 (the "Initial Offering"). Since the
Initial Offering, the Company's portfolio has increased by 107 apartment
communities containing 28,251 apartment units, including 12 apartment
communities containing 3,212 apartment units acquired in the Company's merger
with America First REIT, Inc. ("AFR") in June 1995 (the "AFR Merger") for an
aggregate value of approximately $111 million (as measured by Common Stock
issued and AFR debt assumed) and 30 apartment communities containing 7,691
apartments acquired in the company's merger with Flournoy Development Company
and related partnerships ("FDC") on November 25, 1997 (the "FDC Merger") for
an aggregate value of $423 million. The FDC Merger resulted in the establishment
of Flournoy Service Corporation ("FSC"), whose name was later changed to
Flournoy Development Corporation, to own and operate the third-party
construction, brokerage and management activities formerly conducted by FDC. The
operations of FSC include the management of 42 properties with 5,131 apartment
units owned by third party investors, and the development and construction of
properties for the Company and for third parties. The Company believes that this
structure is permitted under the terms of the Internal Revenue Code and is the
most economically beneficial structure for these activities from a shareholder's
perspective.

     The Company's business is conducted principally through the Mid-America
Apartments, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership"). The Company is the sole
general partner of the Operating Partnership, holding, as of December 31, 1998,
193,271 Common Units or a 1% general partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership. The Company's wholly-owned qualified REIT subsidiary, MAC II of
Delaware, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a limited partner in the Operating
Partnership and, as of December 31, 1998, held 16,122,085 Common Units, or 83.4%
of all outstanding Common Units.

     In connection with the formation of the Operating Partnership and the
Initial Offering, the Operating Partnership issued 2,460,413 Common Units to the
former owners of Communities contributed to the Operating Partnership. The
Common Units held by such former owners are redeemable by the holders, at their
option, for shares of Common Stock on a one-for-one basis or, at the Company's
option, for cash. The Company has an effective shelf registration statement
relating to the resale of the Common Stock issuable in exchange for the Common
Units by the holders thereof. As of December 31, 1998, such former owners held
2,301,963 Common Units. In subsequent transactions and acquisitions of
properties, including in the FDC Merger, an additional 709,817 Common Units have
been issued, resulting in a total of 3,011,780 Common Units being owned by
outside investors.

     Certain Communities are owned by limited partnerships of which the
Operating Partnership and the Company or a wholly owned qualified REIT
subsidiary are the only partners. The Company, directly or through 9 wholly
owned qualified REIT subsidiaries, owns 103 Communities. The Company also has
established Mid-America Capital Partners, L.P., a single-purpose limited
partnership formed in 1997 to own 26 apartment communities containing 5,949
apartment units, of which the Operating Partnership owns a 99% limited
partnership interest and the Company, through a subsidiary, owns a 1% general
partnership interest.


OPERATING PHILOSOPHY

     DIVERSIFIED MARKET FOCUS.  The Company focuses on owning, operating,
developing, constructing and acquiring apartment communities mainly throughout
the southeast, mid west and Texas. The Company seeks to develop and acquire
apartment communities in its existing markets and selected new markets where it
believes there is less competition for acquisitions or new construction.

     INTENSIVE MANAGEMENT FOCUS.  The Company strongly emphasizes on-site
property management. Particular attention is paid to opportunities to increase
rents, raise average occupancy rates, and control costs, with property managers
and regional management being given the responsibility for monitoring market
trends and the discretion to react to such trends.

     DEDICATION TO CUSTOMER SERVICE.  Management's experience is that
maintaining a consistently high level of customer satisfaction leads to greater
demand for the Company's apartment units, higher occupancy and rental rates, and
increased long-term profitability. The Company, as part of its intense
management focus, has established regional training facilities to develop and
improve the skills of on-site personnel. Management believes that this
commitment to training and excellence in associates ultimately translates to
higher customer satisfaction. Also, management undertakes resident surveys and
focus groups, in order to measure customer satisfaction.

     DECENTRALIZED OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE.  The Company's operational structure
is organized on a decentralized basis. The Company's property managers have
overall operating responsibility for their specific Communities. Property
managers report to area managers or regional managers who, in turn, are
accountable to the Company's President and Chief Operating Officer. Management
believes that its decentralized operating structure capitalizes on specific
market knowledge, increases personal accountability relative to a centralized
structure and is beneficial in the acquisition, redevelopment and development
process.

GROWTH STRATEGIES

     The Company seeks to increase operating cash flow and earnings per share to
maximize shareholder value through a balanced strategy of internal and external
growth.

     OPERATING GROWTH STRATEGY.  Management's goal is to maximize its return on
investment in each Community by increasing rental rates and reducing operating
expenses while maintaining high occupancy levels. The Company seeks higher net
rental revenues by enhancing and maintaining the competitiveness of the
Communities and manages expenses through its system of detailed management
reporting and accountability in order to achieve increases in operating cash
flow. The steps taken to meet these objectives include:

      o  empowering the Company's property managers to adjust rents in response
         to local market conditions and to concentrate resident turnover in peak
         rental demand months;

      o  implementing programs to control expenses through investment in
         cost-saving initiatives, such as the installation of individual
         apartment unit water and utility meters in certain Communities;

      o  ensuring that, through monthly inspections of all Communities by senior
         management and prompt attention to maintenance and recurring capital
         needs as well as defined preventive maintenance programs conducted
         quarterly at each property, the Communities are properly maintained;

      o  improving the "curb appeal" of the Communities through extensive
         landscaping and exterior improvements and repositioning Communities
         from time to time to maintain market leadership positions;

      o  investing heavily in training programs for its property level
         personnel;

      o  compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock
         ownership programs; and

      o  maintaining a hands-on management style and "flat" organizational
         structure that emphasizes senior management's continued close contact
         with the market and employees.


     DEVELOPMENT AND ACQUISITION GROWTH STRATEGY.  The Company's growth strategy
also includes developing and acquiring additional apartment units that meet the
Company's disciplined capital investment and return criteria, and when
apartments no longer meet the Company's long-term strategic objectives or
investment criteria, to dispose of those Communities. Since the Initial
Offering, the Company has grown by 28,251 apartment units, an increase of
approximately 500% over the number of apartment units immediately prior to the
Initial Offering.

     DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY.  The Company's present emphasis is development
instead of acquisitions because of the higher long term investment returns
generated by development. Through the November 1997 FDC Merger, the Company
acquired a fully integrated developer and builder of multifamily apartments with
over 31 years of experience. Utilizing internal development capabilities adds
properties to the portfolio at a lower overall cost because the Company captures
the profit normally paid to an external contractor. As a result of the increased
yield on these internally developed properties, the Company has significantly
expanded its commitment to new development. The Company has established higher
investment return criteria for new development than for acquisitions and
generally expects that its development program will produce higher quality
assets and generate substantially higher stabilized returns on investment than
most acquisition opportunities.

     In 1998 the Company completed the development of the following 950
apartment units which are currently in various stages of lease-up:

      o  288 unit Paddock Club in Mandarin, Florida

      o  154 unit Enclave at Whisperwood in Columbus, Georgia

      o  192 unit Phase II expansion of the Paddock Club at Huntsville, Alabama

      o  316 unit Terraces at Fieldstone in Conyers, Georgia

     Including the recently announced development projects discussed in "Recent
Developments" below, the Company currently has a total of 3,489 apartment units
in various stages of development, construction, and pre-development, of which
1,570 are scheduled to be completed in 1999 with the remainder in 2000 and 2001.
The Company is continuously seeking opportunities for development in markets
which meet its disciplined investment strategy and return criteria. The Company
has several additional projects, totaling approximately 1,850 planned apartment
units, in various stages of feasibility study, and it anticipates that several
of these additional apartment communities will be approved for development later
in 1999, which will require additional funding in 1999, 2000 and 2001. The
Company anticipates a total capital investment in this development pipeline of
approximately $125 million in 1999 and approximately $120 million in 2000. These
projects are expected to be funded by the Company's line of credit ("Credit
Line"), selective property dispositions and possible joint venture
transactions.

     ACQUISITION STRATEGY.  An additional strategy of the Company is to acquire
apartment communities that meet its investment criteria and long-term strategic
objectives. Through the Company's UPREIT structure, the Company has the ability
to acquire apartment communities through the issuance of Operating Partnership
Units in tax-deferred exchanges with owners of such properties. Typically, the
Company seeks to acquire well-constructed communities with acquisition prices
below estimated replacement cost and with the potential to achieve rental rate
and occupancy increases, as well as operating expense reductions through the
application of the Company's intense management focus. Currently the Company
believes development of additional apartments is more attractive and produces
higher investment returns than the acquisition of properties. Most apartment
communities that the Company has identified as available for acquisition do not
meet the Company's investment objectives, and the present status of capital
markets have raised the threshold for yields. The Company does not anticipate
any significant investment in acquisition properties in 1999.


     The following apartment communities (the "Completed Acquisitions")
containing an aggregate of 2,129 apartment units were acquired during 1998
(dollars in millions):



- - ------------

(1) Excluding additional customary closing costs, including expenses and
    commissions.

(2) "Units" refers to Common units in the Company's Operating Partnership.

COMPETITION

     All of the Company's Communities are located in areas that include other
apartment communities. Occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of
competitive apartment communities in a particular area. The Company's properties
compete with numerous other multifamily properties, the owners of which may have
greater resources than the Company and whose management may have more experience
than the Company's management. Moreover, single-family rental housing,
manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide
housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

  JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT

     In March 1999 the Company entered into an agreement to form a joint venture
(the "Joint Venture") with Blackstone Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC, a
subsidiary of an investment management firm located in New York City, to own and
operate apartment communities. The Company simultaneously sold 6 apartment
communities to the newly formed Joint Venture for approximately $65 million
cash. The Company will retain a 33 percent ownership interest in the Joint
Venture and will continue to manage the properties for a fee. The Company
invested approximately $4.0 million in the Joint Venture and loaned the Joint
Venture $3.0 million at an interest rate of 10% for the life of the entity. The
net proceeds from the transaction will be used to pay down the Company's Credit
Line. The agreement provides that income and cash flows generated by the Joint
Venture be allocated based on the respective ownership interest. The Company
will account for its investment in the Joint Venture using the equity method of
accounting. The Company plans to sell an additional 4 apartment communities to
the Joint Venture later in the year. The proceeds of any such transaction are
expected to be used to pay down the Company's Credit Line.


  DEVELOPMENT

     Subsequent to December 31, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors approved
the development of the following two new apartment communities totaling 674
units:

      o  320-unit Kenwood Club at the Park located in Katy, Texas at an
         estimated cost of $18,129,000 with an anticipated construction start in
         April 1999

      o  354-unit Sandstone Creek located in Overland Park, Kansas at an
         estimated cost of $27,514,000 which is expected to commence
         construction in late summer 1999

     These projects are expected to be funded through the Company's Credit Line
and potential joint venture transactions.

  DISTRIBUTION INCREASE

     In January 1999, the Company raised its quarterly distribution to common
shareholders from $.55 per share to $.575 per share, effective with its
distribution paid on January 30, 1999.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company seeks to acquire and develop apartment communities appealing to
middle and upper income residents in mid-size cities in the southeastern United
States and Texas. Approximately 72% of the Company's apartment units are located
in Georgia, Florida, Tennessee, and Texas markets. The Company's strategic focus
is to provide its residents high quality apartment units in attractive community
settings, characterized by extensive landscaping and attention to aesthetic
detail. The Company utilizes its experience and expertise in maintenance,
landscaping, marketing and management to effectively "reposition" many of the
apartment communities it acquires to raise occupancy levels and per unit average
rentals. The average age of the Communities at December 31, 1998 was 12.6 years.

     The following table sets forth certain operating data regarding the company
for the periods indicated excluding development communities:



     The following table sets forth certain historical information on an
historical basis for the 129 Communities owned at December 31, 1998:


         The following table presents information concerning the properties at
     December 31, 1998:



         The following table presents information concerning the properties at
     December 31, 1998:



         The following table presents information concerning the properties at
     December 31, 1998:



         The following table presents information concerning the properties at
     December 31, 1998:


                                                   (FOOTNOTES ON FOLLOWING PAGE)




- - ------------

 (1) Encumbered by two mortgages with interest rates of 7.75% and maturities of
     September 7, 1999 and January 1, 2004.

 (2) Encumbered by the Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of $117 million
     and a variable interest rate of 7.00% at December 31, 1998.

 (3) These three properties are encumbered by a $10.1 million mortgage securing
     a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     6.09%.

 (4) These twelve properties are encumbered by a $43.4 million mortgage with an
     interest rate of 8.65%, maturing July 01, 2001.

 (5) These three properties are encumbered by a $16.4 million mortgage securing
     a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     5.75%.

 (6) These two properties are located in Desoto County, MS, a suburb of Memphis,
     TN. The Company considers the properties a part of the Memphis, TN market.

 (7) These 26 communities are encumbered by a $142 million loan with a maturity
     of March 3, 2003 and an average interest rate of 6.376%.

 (8) These six properties are encumbered by a $47.5 million mortgage with a
     maturity of December 15, 2004 and an interest rate of 7.04%.

 (9) These 4 properties, and one commercial building, are encumbered by a $35.8
     million mortgage with a maturity of April 1, 2005.

(10) These two properties are encumbered by a $14 million mortgage securing a
     tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     5.281%.






ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is not presently subject to any material litigation nor, to the
Company's knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against the Company,
other than routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, some
of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance and none of which is
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition,
liquidity or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     None.
                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

     The Common Stock has been listed and traded on the NYSE under the symbol
"MAA" since the Initial Offering in February 1994. On March 15, 1999, the
reported last sale price of the Company's common stock on the NYSE was $22.9375
per share and there were approximately 1,710 holders of record of the Common
Stock. The Company estimates there are approximately 16,000 beneficial owners of
the Common Stock. The following table sets forth the quarterly high and low
sales prices of the Common Stock as reported on the NYSE and the distributions
declared by the Company with respect to the periods indicated.



     The Company's current annual distribution rate with respect to the Common
Stock is $2.30 per share. The actual distributions made by the Company will be
affected by a number of factors, including the gross revenues received from the
Communities, the operating expenses of the Company, the interest expense
incurred on borrowings and unanticipated capital expenditures.

     The Company pays a preferential regular monthly distribution on the Series
A Preferred Stock issued in October 1996, the Series B Preferred Stock issued in
November 1997, the Series C Preferred Stock issued in June 1998, and the Series
E Preferred Stock issued in December 1998 at annual rates of $2.375, $2.21875,
$2.34375 and $2.375 per share, respectively. No distribution may be made on the
Common Stock unless all accrued distributions have been made with respect each
series of preferred stock. No assurance can be given that the Company will be
able to maintain its distribution rate on its Common Stock or make required
distributions with respect to the Series A, Series B, Series C, and Series E
Preferred Stock.

     In 1997, the Company implemented the Dividend Reinvestment and Stock
Purchase Plan (the "DRSPP") under which holders of Common Stock (and Series A,
Series B, Series C and Series E Preferred Stock) may elect automatically to
reinvest their distributions in additional shares of Common Stock and/or to make
optional purchases of Common Stock free of brokerage commissions and charges.
Shares purchased directly from the Company will be purchased at up to a 3%
discount from their fair market value at the Company's discretion. To fulfill
its obligations under the DRSPP, the Company may either issue additional shares
of Common Stock or repurchase Common Stock in the open market.

     In 1999, the Company implemented the Direct Stock Purchase and Distribution
Reinvestment Plan (the "DSPDRP") which is has terms substantially similar to
the above DRSPP, except for certain additional benefits offered relating to
purchase of the Company's common shares. This plan is intended to replace the
DRSPP, and its participants will be automatically enrolled in the new plan.

     Future distributions by the Company will be at the discretion of the Board
of Directors and will depend on the actual funds available for distribution of
the Company, its financial condition, capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Code and such other
factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.


ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

     The following table sets forth selected financial data on an historical
basis for the Company. This data should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and "Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations"
included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



- - ------------

(1) Operating data for 1994 includes 34 days of predecessor financial
    information and per share data for 1994 is for the period February 4, 1994
    through December 31, 1994.

(2) Total capitalization is total debt and market capitalization of preferred
    shares, common shares and partnership units.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

  OVERVIEW

     The following is a discussion of the consolidated financial condition and
results of operations of the Company for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997, and 1996. This discussion should be read in conjunction with all of the
financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

     The total number of apartment units owned at December 31, 1998 was 33,831
in 129 communities, compared to the 30,579 units in 116 communities owned at
December 31, 1997 and 19,280 in 73 communities owned at December 31, 1996. The
average monthly rental per apartment unit increased to $582 for December 31,
1998 from $549 for December 31, 1997 and $529 for December 31, 1996. Overall
occupancy at December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 was 94.1%, 94.3% and 95.8%,
respectively.

  FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

     Funds from operations ("FFO") increased during 1998 by $19,097,000 or 43%
to $63,993,000 verses $44,896,000 for 1997. FFO for 1996 was $35,586,000. The
following is a reconciliation of net income available for common shareholders'
to FFO.



     FFO represents net income (computed in accordance with GAAP) excluding
extraordinary items, minority interest in Operating Partnership income, gain or
loss on disposition of real estate assets, certain non-recurring items and
certain non-cash items, primarily depreciation and amortization, less preferred
stock dividends. The Company computes FFO in accordance with NAREIT's current
definition, which eliminates amortization of deferred financing costs and
depreciation of non-real estate assets as items added back to net income when
computing FFO. FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income or
any other GAAP measurement of performance, as an indicator of operating
performance or as an alternative to cash flows from operating, investing, and
financing activities as a measure of liquidity. The Company believes that FFO is
helpful in understanding the Company's results of operations in that such
calculation reflects cash flow from operating activities and the Company's
ability to support interest payments and general operating expenses before the
impact of certain activities such as changes in other assets and accounts
payable. The Company's calculation of FFO may differ from the methodology for
calculating FFO utilized by other REITs and, accordingly, may not be comparable
to such other REITs.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998 TO THE YEAR ENDED
     DECEMBER 31, 1997

     During 1998 the Company acquired 10 apartment communities containing 2,129
apartment units and completed development of 1,335 total apartment units in 6
new communities and 4 existing communities. Also, the Company sold one community
containing 212 units.

     Total revenues for 1998 increased by $76,427,000, due primarily to (i)
$7,735,000 from the 10 communities acquired in 1998, (ii) $49,386,000 from the
30 completed communities acquired through the FDC Merger, (iii) $10,717,000 from
a full years operation of the 12 communities acquired in 1997, (iv) $5,410,000
from new development communities completed in late 1997 and 1998, and (v)
$3,116,000 from communities owned throughout both periods. The remaining net
increase is mainly related to a full year of FSC management and development
activities.

     Property operating expenses include costs for property personnel, building
repairs and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, utilities, landscaping
and other property related costs. Property operating expenses for 1998 increased
by $27,513,000, due primarily to (i) $3,201,000 from the 10 Communities acquired
in 1998, (ii) $17,480,000 from the 30 completed Communities acquired through the
FDC Merger, (iii) $3,715,000 from a full years operation of the 12 Communities
acquired in 1997, (iv) $2,013,000 from new development communities completed in
1997 and 1998, and (v) $1,348,000 from communities owned throughout both
periods. As a percentage of rental revenues, property operating expenses
decreased from 38.6% in 1997 to 37.9% in 1998. Personnel costs increased as a
percentage of rental revenues from 10.8% in 1997 to 11.4% in 1998, due primarily
to increased staffing to support the additional apartment units acquired in the
FDC Merger and to produce a smooth lease-up of newly developed apartment units.
As new development units are delivered, they require management, leasing, and
maintenance staff to complete lease-up on schedule and to provide customer
service. The ratio of personnel costs to revenues improves as a development
community achieves stabilized occupancy. In 1998 repair and maintenance costs
decreased to 4.8% of rental revenues as compared to 5.0% in 1997 which is
primarily the current benefits of the Company's long standing commitment to
spend adequate capital toward maintaining properties as well as the addition of
the development units to the portfolio which require less repair and
maintenance. Also in 1998, utilities costs decreased to 4.5% of rental revenue
as compared to 4.7% for the same period in 1997 mainly due to continued savings
from the Company's program to submeter units for water usage.

     General and administrative expense increased $5,358,000 for 1998 compared
to 1997. This increase is mainly attributable to the increase in the number of
employees due to the FDC Merger and the addition or expansion of certain
functions to improve productivity and the quality of the Company's management.
These additions are a one-time increase related to the acquisition and
integration of FDC and preparation for continued future growth.

     Depreciation and amortization expense increased $18,284,000 from 1997 to
1998 due primarily to additional depreciation expense of (i) $1,549,000 from the
10 Communities acquired in 1998, (ii) $10,050,000 from the 30 completed
Communities acquired through the FDC Merger, (iii) $2,583,000 from a full year
operation of the 12 Communities acquired in 1997, (iv) $998,000 from development
communities completed in 1997 and 1998, and (v) $2,055,000 from the communities
owned throughout both periods. Also, amortization of deferred financing costs
was $2,348,000 and $888,000 for 1998 and 1997, respectively. The majority of the
increase is due to additional financing costs related to the restructuring of
the Credit Line and the Bonds issued by the Company's special purpose
subsidiary. Amortization of costs in excess of fair value of net assets acquired
was $1,474,000 and $309,000, for 1998 and 1997, respectively, which are included
in depreciation and amortization in the accompanying consolidated statement of
operations.

     Interest expense increased $16,761,000 during 1998 due primarily to
additional funding required for apartment acquisitions, development projects,
and the FDC Merger. The Company reduced its average borrowing cost to 7.11% at
December 31, 1998 as compared to 7.41% on December 31, 1997. The average
maturity on the Company's debt was 10.9 years and 10.2 years at December 31,
1998 and 1997, respectively.

     For the year ended December 31, 1998 the Company recorded a gain on
disposition of assets of $408,000 related to the sale of Redford Park
Apartments, which also resulted in a loss on early extinguishment of the related
debt. The Company recorded a total extraordinary loss of $990,000, net of
minority interest, for 1998 related to the repayment of the mortgage for Redford
Park Apartments and certain other debt.

     As a result of the foregoing, income before minority interest and
extraordinary item for the year ended December 31, 1998 increased $7,459,000
over the same period a year earlier.

  COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1997 TO THE YEAR ENDED
     DECEMBER 31, 1996

     During the 1997 period, the Company acquired 12 communities containing
3,314 apartment units. In addition, through the November 25, 1997 merger with
Flournoy Development Company, the Company acquired 30 communities containing
8,641 apartment units including 950 apartment units under development. The total
number of apartment units owned at December 31, 1997 was 30,579 in 116 apartment
communities, compared to 19,280 in 73 communities at December 31, 1996. Average
monthly rental per apartment unit increased to $549 at December 31, 1997 from
$529 at December 31, 1996 for the Company's properties owned prior to the
merger. For the communities owned prior to the merger, average occupancy for the
years ended December 31, 1997 and 1996 was 94.5% and 95.4%, respectively. For
the properties acquired through the FDC Merger, average monthly rental per
apartment unit was $613 and average occupancy was 92.2% at December 31, 1997.

     Total revenues for 1997 increased by $27,234,000, due primarily to (i)
$12,743,000 from the 12 Communities acquired in 1997, (ii) $5,342,000 from the
30 completed Communities acquired through the FDC Merger, (iii) $6,759,000 from
a full years operation of the six Communities acquired in 1996, (iv) $2,113,000
from the Communities owned throughout both periods, and (v) $277,000 from The
Woods at Post House in Jackson, Tennessee which completed development in the
Fall of 1995 and Lincoln on the Green phase II in Memphis, Tennessee which
completed development early 1998.

     Property operating expenses for 1997 increased by $9,834,000, due primarily
to (i) $4,929,000 from the 12 Communities acquired in 1997, (ii) $1,938,000 from
the 30 completed Communities acquired through the FDC Merger, (iii) $2,298,000
from a full years operation of the six Communities acquired in 1996, (iv)
$583,000 from the Communities owned throughout both periods, and (v) $86,000
from The Woods at Post House which completed development in the Fall of 1995 and
Lincoln on the Green phase II. Utility costs decreased from 5.6% of rental
revenue to 4.7% of rental revenue for the year ended December 31, 1997 compared
to the same period a year earlier, due primarily to over 13,000 units now
submetered for water usage and continued benefits from the 1996 completion of
the individual apartment unit electricity metering at Sailwinds at Lake
Magdalene.

     General and administrative expense increased $448,000 for 1997 compared to
1996 and decreased from 5.6% of rental revenue to 4.8% of rental revenue for the
year ended December 31, 1997 compared to the same period a year earlier.

     Depreciation and amortization expense increased primarily due to (i)
$2,503,000 from the 12 Communities acquired in 1997, (ii) $1,247,000 from the 30
completed Communities acquired through the FDC Merger, (iii) $1,493,000 from a
full years operation of the six Communities acquired in 1996, (iv) $1,224,000
from additional capital expenditures on Communities owned throughout both
periods, and (v) $54,000 from The Woods at Post House and Lincoln on the Green
phase II. Amortization of deferred financing costs and cost in excess of fair
value of net assets acquired for 1997 were $888,000 and $309,000, respectively.

     Interest expense increased $3,177,000 during 1997 due primarily to
apartment acquisitions and the FDC Merger. The Company reduced its average
borrowing cost to 7.41% at December 31, 1997 as compared to 7.92% at December
31, 1996. The average maturity on the Company's debt was 10.2 and 9.9 years at
December 31, 1997 and 1996, respectively. In 1997, the Company recorded an
$8,622,000 loss on early extinguishment of debt, net of minority interest,
primarily from the repayment of certain debt in connection with the FDC Merger.

     Income before minority interest and extraordinary item for the year ended
December 31, 1997 increased $5,069,000 over the same period a year earlier.


  LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Net cash provided by operating activities increased from $44,918,000 for
the year ended December 31, 1997 to $80,405,000 for the year ended December 31,
1998. The increase in net cash flow was primarily due to increased earnings and
cash flow from the apartments units acquired and developed during 1998 and the
latter portion of 1997.

     Net cash used in investing activities increased from $138,263,000 for the
year ended December 31, 1997 to $198,607,000 for the year ended December 31,
1998. The increase was primarily related to an additional $91,870,000 spending
on development and construction of apartment communities, as compared to the
same period last year. The Company currently has under development, construction
or pre-development 3,489 new apartment units in 10 new communities and 3
additions to existing communities. Of this total, 502 units have been completed
and are in initial lease-up, and an additional 1,570 are planned to be completed
during 1999.

     The following table summarizes the Company's communities in various stages
of lease-up, construction, development, and pre-development as of December 31,
1998 (Dollars in 000's):



     Capital improvements to existing properties totaled $32,336,000 for the
year ended December 31, 1998, compared to $20,205,000 for 1997. The increase is
mainly due to the increased number of units from acquisitions and development.
Actual capital expenditures for property improvements during 1998 are summarized
below (in 000's):



     Net cash provided by financing activities increased from $104,097,000
during the year ended December 31, 1997 to $110,634,000 1998. During 1998,
$71,789,000 additional borrowing was provided under the Credit Line which was
primarily used to fund acquisition and development of apartment communities. On
March 6, 1998, the Company issued $142 million aggregate principal amount of
6.376% Bonds due 2003 (the Bonds). The net proceeds from the sale of the Bonds
were utilized to repay the related bridge notes payable and utilized to fund the
costs of the offering. Additionally, the Company refinanced $29 million of
various rate notes payable with a new $36 million seven year amortizing note
payable at 7.0%, and acquired a new short-term note payable for $25 million at
6.4% which was used to pay down the Credit Line. The Company also refunded
$4,760,000 of bonds secured by Sterling Ridge Apartments and $14,040,000 of
bonds secured by Hunters Ridge of Deerwood apartments.

     During 1998, the Company received total net proceeds from equity
transactions of $82.4 million, comprised mainly of $48.0 million from the
issuance of its Series C Preferred shares, $24.7 million from a private
placement of its Series E Preferred shares and $9.6 million from the issuance of
common shares and units. This was a decrease from the total proceeds of $212.4
million received in 1997, comprised of $165.7 million from issuance of common
shares and units and $46.6 million from issuance of the Series B Preferred
shares. Additionally, total distributions for dividends on common shares, units
and preferred shares increased to $58.6 million in 1998 from $39.8 million in
1997 primarily related to the additional common shares issued in November 1997
and the additional dividends related to the Series B and Series C Preferred
shares that were outstanding during 1998.

     At December 31, 1998, the Company had $117.0 million outstanding on the
Credit Line. At December 31, 1998, the Company had $174.0 million (including the
Credit Line) of floating rate debt at an average interest rate of 6.6%; all
other debt was fixed rate term debt at an average interest rate of 7.3%. In
March 1998, the Company increased its credit limit under the Credit Line from
$110 million to $200 million. The Company expects to use the Credit Line for
future acquisitions, development, and to provide letters of credit as credit
enhancements for tax-exempt bonds. The Credit Line is secured and is subject to
borrowing base calculations that effectively reduce the maximum amount that may
be borrowed under the Credit Line to $191.9 million as of March 31, 1999.

     The weighted average interest rate and weighted average maturity at
December 31, 1998 for the $753.4 million of notes payable were 7.11% and 10.9
years, respectively.

     The Company believes that cash provided by operations is adequate and
anticipates that it will continue to be adequate in both the short and long-term
to meet operating requirements (including recurring capital expenditures at the
Communities) and payment of distributions by the Company in accordance with REIT
requirements under the Code.

     The Company expects to meet its long term liquidity requirements, such as
scheduled mortgage debt maturities, property developments and acquisitions,
expansions and non-recurring capital expenditures, through long and medium-term
collateralized and uncollateralized fixed rate borrowings, issuance of debt or
additional equity securities in the Company, sale of assets, potential joint
venture transactions and the Credit Line.

  INSURANCE

     In the opinion of management, property and casualty insurance is in place
which provides adequate coverage to provide financial protection against normal
insurable risks such that it believes that any loss experienced would not have a
significant impact on the Company's liquidity, financial position, or results of
operations.

  INFLATION

     Substantially all of the resident leases at the Communities allow, at the
time of renewal, for adjustments in the rent payable thereunder, and thus may
enable the Company to seek rent increases. The substantial majority of these
leases are for one year or less. The short-term nature of these leases generally
serves to reduce the risk to the Company of the adverse effects of inflation.

  YEAR 2000 ISSUE

     In older computer programs, to conserve storage space, only two digits were
used to identify the year. This set up has created a date sequence problem. The
computer may not know that 00 comes after 99, moreover it may not know if

00 is 1900 or 2000 ("Y2K"). The business risk of this problem is that
calculations or processes that are date dependent may not yield the correct
answer or work at all.

     Software vendors have certified all of the mission critical applications;
these vendors provide the software used for financial, network, property
management and telephone systems used by the Company. The Company does not own
any in-house development programs that require replacing or re-writing of code.

     The Company has performed a thorough assessment of its personal computers
and desktop software. All mission critical desktop hardware and software are
believed to be compliant. Remediation of non-compliant hardware and software
(none of which is mission-critical) will be completed by June 1999.

     The Company estimates that the total Y2K project cost is nominal, as
systems have been upgraded and become Y2K compliant as part of its normal course
of business. The Company believes that its Y2K initiatives are adequate to
address reasonably likely Y2K issues.

     Management believes that hardware and software upgrades made over the last
few years will reduce the possibility of interruptions to the operation.
However, the Company is dependent on the utilities infrastructure within the
United States. In the Company's view, the worst case scenario would be that the
Company might experience disruption in its operations if any of the third-party
suppliers reported a system failure.

     The Y2K contingency plan is the final phase of the project. The Company
maintains contingency plans in the normal course of business designed to be
deployed in the event of various potential business interruptions. Although the
Company believes that its contingency plans and Y2K project will reduce the risk
of significant operations disruption, due to general uncertainty over Y2K
readiness of the Company's third-party suppliers, the Company is unable to
determine at this time whether the consequences of the Y2K system failures will
have a material impact.

  IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In June 1998, SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activity," was issued effective for years beginning after June 15,
1999. This new statement is not expected to have a material impact on the
Company's consolidated financial statements. The Company plans to adopt this
accounting standard in 2000.

  RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This annual report on Form 10-K, including documents incorporated herein by
reference, contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A
of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by the safe
harbors created thereby. These statements include the plans and objectives of
management for future operations, including plans and objectives relating to
acquisition and development of apartment communities, future expenditures for
development projects, capital expenditures, and rehabilitation costs on the
apartment communities. Future events and actual results, financial and
otherwise, may differ materially from the results discussed in the
forward-looking statements. In particular, among the factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially are continued qualification as a real estate
investment trust, general business and economic conditions, competition,
interest rates, accessibility of debt and equity capital markets and other risks
inherent in the real estate business including resident defaults, potential
liability relating to environmental matters and illiquidity of real estate
investments. Although the Company believes that the assumptions underlying the
forward-looking statements are reasonable, any of the assumptions could be
inaccurate and, therefore, there can be no assurance that the forward-looking
statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K will prove to be
accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties inherent in the
forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of such information
should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or any other person
that the objectives and plans of the Company will be achieved.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

     The Company's primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates
obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. At December 31, 1998, 53% of
the Company's total capitalization consisted of borrowings. The Company's
interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate
fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing
costs. To achieve this objective, the Company manages its exposure to
fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of
fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are
obtainable with such arrangements and may enter into derivative financial
instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks to mitigate its
interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively lock the
interest rate on a portion of its variable debt. The Company does not enter into
derivative or interest rate transactions for speculative purposes. Approximately
77% of the Company's outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates with a weighted
average of 7.3% at December 31, 1998. An additional 3% of the Company's
outstanding debt at December 31, 1998 was effectively locked at an interest rate
of 5.82% through an interest rate swap agreement for a notional amount of $25
million. The Company regularly reviews interest rate exposure on its outstanding
borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate fluctuations. The
Company does not have any other material market-sensitive financial instruments.

     The table below provides information about the Company's financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt
obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted
average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Weighted average variable
rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (Dollars in 000's).



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

     The Independent Auditors' Report, Consolidated Financial Statements and
Selected Quarterly Financial Information are set forth on pages F-1 to F-25  of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     There have been no disagreements with the Company's independent accountants
on any matter of accounting principles or practices or financial statement
disclosure.



                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

     Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

     Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     On July 23, 1997, the Company acquired its corporate headquarters for
$2,912,000. In connection with the acquisition, the Company formed a special
committee of its external directors to negotiate the transaction on its behalf
because certain executive officers of the Company were also partners in the
partnership which owned the building. The consideration consisted of $862,000
cash, 22,246 UPREIT units valued at $634,000 ($28.50 per unit) and the
assumption of an existing loan. Certain executive officers of the Company were
partners in the partnership who owned the building and received 5,831 UPREIT
units in connection with the exchange.

     All transactions involving related parties must be approved by a majority
of the disinterested members of the Company's Board of Directors. The Company
has, and expects to have, transactions in the ordinary course of its business
with directors and officers of the Company and their affiliates, including
members of their families or corporations, partnerships or other organizations
in which such officers or directors have a controlling interest, on
substantially the same terms (including price, or interest rates and collateral)
as those prevailing at the time for comparable transactions with unrelated
parties.

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS
          ON FORM 8-K

(a)  The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form
     10-K:








- - ------------

       * Filed as Exhibit 10.20 to the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K,
         filed with the Commission on September 19, 1997 (Commission File No.
         1-12762)

      ** Filed as Exhibit 1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
         8-A filed with the Commission on October 11, 1996

     *** Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
         8-A filed with the Commission on November 19, 1997

   **** Filed as Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
        8-A filed with the Commission on October 11, 1996

  ***** Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
        8-A filed with the Commission on November 19, 1997

 ****** Filed as an exhibit to the 1996 Annual Report of the Registrant on Form
        10-K as of March 31, 1997

******* Filed as an exhibit to the Registration Statement on Form S-11 (SEC File
        No. 33-81970), as amended, of the Registrant and incorporated herein by
        reference.

      + Filed as an exhibit to the 1997 Annual Report of the Registrant on Form
        10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997

     ++ Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
        8-A filed with the Commission on June 25, 1998

    +++ Filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on Form
        8-A filed with the Commission on June 25, 1998

(b)  Reports on Form 8-K

     The following report was filed on Form 8-K by the registrant during the
fourth quarter of 1998:



(c)Exhibits:

       See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d)Financial Statement Schedules:

       See Item 14(a)(2) above.


                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.


Date: March 29, 1999                      /s/GEORGE E. CATES
                                          GEORGE E. CATES
                                          CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF
                                          EXECUTIVE OFFICER
                                          (PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER)

Date: March 29, 1999                      /s/SIMON R.C. WADSWORTH
                                          SIMON R.C. WADSWORTH
                                          EXECUTIVE VICE PRESIDENT
                                          (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL AND ACCOUNTING
                                          OFFICER)

Date: March 29, 1999                      /s/H. ERIC BOLTON
                                          H. ERIC BOLTON
                                          PRESIDENT AND CHIEF OPERATING OFFICER

Date:
                                          JOHN F. FLOURNOY
                                          VICE-CHAIRMAN OF THE BOARD AND CHIEF
                                          EXECUTIVE
                                          OFFICER, FLOURNOY DEVELOPMENT COMPANY

Date: March 29, 1999                      /s/ROBERT F. FOGELMAN
                                          ROBERT F. FOGELMAN
                                          DIRECTOR

Date: March 29, 1999                      /s/JOHN S. GRINALDS
                                          JOHN S. GRINALDS
                                          DIRECTOR

Date: March 29, 1999                      /s/O. MASON HAWKINS
                                          O. MASON HAWKINS
                                          DIRECTOR

Date: March 29, 1999                      /s/RALPH HORN
                                          RALPH HORN
                                          DIRECTOR

Date: March 29, 1999                      /s/MICHAEL S. STARNES
                                          MICHAEL S. STARNES
                                          DIRECTOR



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
  Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Mid-America
Apartment Communities, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December
31, 1998 and 1997 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 1998. In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements, we have also audited the accompanying
financial statement schedule III. These financial statements and the financial
statement schedule are the responsibility of the management of the Company. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and the financial statement schedule based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects the financial position of the Company
as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of the operations and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion,
the related financial statement schedule when considered in relationship to the
basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material
respects, the information set forth therein.

                                          KPMG LLP

Memphis, Tennessee
February 26, 1999

                                      F-1

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                           DECEMBER 31, 1998 AND 1997
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-2

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1997 AND 1996
                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1997 AND 1996
                       (DOLLARS AND SHARES IN THOUSANDS)


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-4

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1997 AND 1996
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-5

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1997 AND 1996

1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  ORGANIZATION AND FORMATION OF THE COMPANY

     Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. ("Mid-America") is a
self-administrated and self-managed real estate investment trust which owns,
develops, constructs, acquires and operates multifamily apartment communities
mainly in the southeast and the midwest United States and Texas. The company
owns and operates 129 apartment communities principally through its majority
owned subsidiary, Mid-America Apartments, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership")
and its subsidiary, Mid-America Capital Partners, L.P. ("MACP"). MACP is a
special purpose entity established in 1997 to issue first mortgage bonds. In
addition to owning and operating apartment communities, the company conducts
third party property management, construction and development activities through
its service corporation, Flournoy Development Corporation.

  BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     The accompanying financial statements include the accounts of Mid-America,
the Operating Partnership, and other subsidiaries (the "Company"). All
significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated in
consolidation.

  MINORITY INTEREST

     Minority interest in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
relates to the ownership interest in the Operating Partnership by the holders of
Class A Common Units of the Operating Partnership ("Operating Partnership
Units") Mid-America is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership.
Net income is allocated to the minority interest based on their respective
ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership as described below. Issuance
of additional common shares or Operating Partnership Units changes the ownership
of both the minority interest and Mid-America. Such transactions and the
proceeds are treated as capital transactions and result in an allocation between
shareholders' equity and minority interest to account for the change in the
respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating
Partnership.

     The Company's Board established economic rights in respect of each
Operating Partnership Unit that were equivalent to the economic rights in
respect of each share of common stock. The holder of each unit may redeem their
units in exchange for one share of common stock or cash, at the option of the
Company. The Operating Partnership has followed the policy of paying the same
per unit distribution in respect of the units as the per share distribution in
respect of the common stock. Prior to 1997, the Operating Partnership agreement
provided for the allocation of additional net income to the holders of Operating
Partnership Units that would otherwise be the net income of the Mid-America.
Effective January 1, 1997 the Operating Partnership agreement was amended to
eliminate the additional allocation of income to the unitholders. Operating
Partnership net income for 1998 was allocated 15.6% to holders of Operating
Partnership Units and 84.4% to Mid-America. Operating Partnership net income for
1997 was allocated 17.9% to holders of Operating Partnership Units and 82.1% to
Mid-America.

  USE OF ESTIMATES

     Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions
relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported amounts of revenues and
expenses to prepare these financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.

                                      F-6

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Company leases multifamily residential apartments under operating
leases with terms of one year or less. Rental and other revenues are recorded
when earned.

     In addition to leasing the owned Communities, the Company provides property
management services for Section 42 Housing Tax Credit multifamily properties and
conventional properties. Property management revenue is recorded on the accrual
method of accounting as earned.

     Construction contract revenues, which are presented net of construction
contract costs in the accompanying statements of operations, are recognized
using the percentage-of-completion method. Under this method, the percentage of
contract revenue to be recognized currently is computed based upon that
percentage of estimated total revenue that incurred costs to date bear to total
estimated costs, after giving effect to the most recent estimates of costs to
complete. Revisions in cost and revenue estimates are reflected in the period in
which the facts, which require the revision, become known. When revised cost
estimates indicate a loss on an individual contract, the total estimated loss is
provided for currently in its entirety without regard to the percentage of
completion.

     The Company receives development and construction fees related to the
development of third party properties. Development fees and construction income
are recognized as earned as the property is developed and certain operating and
financing performance conditions are met.

  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     The Company considers cash, investments in money market accounts and
certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less to be
cash equivalents.

  RESTRICTED CASH

     Restricted cash consists of escrow deposits held by lenders for property
taxes, insurance, debt service and replacement reserves.

  REAL ESTATE ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION

     Real estate assets are carried at the lower of depreciated cost or net
realizable value. Repairs and maintenance costs are expensed as incurred while
significant improvements, renovations, and replacements are capitalized. The
cost of interior painting, vinyl flooring, and blinds are expensed as incurred.

     In conjunction with acquisitions of properties, the Company's policy is to
provide in its acquisition budgets adequate funds to complete any deferred
maintenance items to bring the properties to the required standard. including
the cost of replacement appliances, carpet, interior painting, vinyl flooring,
and blinds. These costs are capitalized.

     Depreciation is computed on a straight line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets which range from 8 to 40 years for land improvements
and buildings and 5 years for furniture, fixtures and equipment.

     The Company periodically evaluates its real estate assets for impairment
based upon undiscounted cash flows and measures impairment based on fair value.
This determination is dependent primarily on the Company's estimates of
occupancy, rent and expense increases, which involves numerous assumptions and
judgments as to future events over a period of many years. At December 31, 1998
the Company does not hold any assets which management believes meet the
impairment criteria.

     Development projects and the related carrying costs, including interest,
property taxes, insurance and allocated development overhead during the
construction period, are capitalized and reported on the accompanying balance
sheet as "construction in progress" during the construction period. Upon
completion and certification for occupancy of individual units within a
development, amounts representing the

                                      F-7

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

completed unit's portion of total estimated development costs for the project
are transferred to land, buildings and furniture, fixtures and equipment as real
estate held for investment.

     Capitalization of interest, property taxes, insurance and allocated
development overhead costs ceases upon the transfer, and the assets are
depreciated over their estimated useful lives. Total interest capitalized during
1998, 1997 and 1996 was $4,265,000, $388,000 and $91,000 respectively.

  REAL ESTATE HELD FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT

     Real estate held for future development consists primarily of sites
intended for future multifamily developments and is stated at the lower of cost
or fair value less its cost to sell.

  DEFERRED COSTS AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

     Organization costs are amortized using the straight line method over 60
months. Deferred financing costs are amortized over the terms of the related
debt using a method which approximates the interest method. Cost in excess of
fair value of net assets acquired is amortized using the straight line method
over a range of 8 to 30 years.

  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1997, SFAS No. 130, "Reporting Comprehensive Income," was issued,
effective for years beginning after December 15, 1997. This statement
established standards for reporting and display of comprehensive income and its
components in a full set of general purpose financial statements. Although the
Company adopted this standard in 1998, none of the items identified for
presentation under the statement are currently applicable to the Company.

     In June 1998, SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activity," was issued effective for years beginning after June 15,
1999. The Company has only limited involvement with derivative financial
instruments and does not use them for trading purposes. This new accounting
statement is not expected to have a material impact on the Company's
consolidated financial statements.

  RECLASSIFICATION

     Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with 1998
presentation. The reclassification had no effect on net income available for
common shareholders.

2.  BUSINESS COMBINATION

     On November 25, 1997, the Company completed the merger with Flournoy
Development Company and related entities ("FDC") (the "FDC Merger")
accounted for using the purchase method of accounting. Total consideration
consisted of $88,271,000, including 1,550,311 shares of common stock and 412,110
Class A common units of the Operating Partnership, valued at $56,213,000
($28.6875 per share and unit), $29,608,000 cash and transaction costs of
approximately $2,450,000. The Company may also issue additional shares of Common
Stock (the "Contingent Value Shares") having a value of up to $7,500,000 if
certain agreed upon conditions are satisfied during calendar years 1998, 1999
and 2000. When and if issued, the Contingent Value Shares will be recorded as
additional purchase consideration based upon the fair value of the Common Stock
at the date of issuance. No Contingent Value Shares were issued during 1998. The
operating results of FDC are included in the accompanying statement of
operations commencing November 25, 1997.

                                      F-8

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The assets acquired and liabilities assumed in connection with the merger
were recorded at their respective fair values as follows:



     The following unaudited summarized pro forma consolidated financial
information has been prepared as if the FDC Merger, various other insignificant
acquisitions of properties during the periods presented and various financing
transaction entered into in connection with the acquisitions had occurred as of
the beginning of the period presented. The Company had no significant property
acquisitions during 1998. In management's opinion, the summarized pro forma
consolidated financial information does not purport to present what actual
results would have been had the above transactions occurred on January 1, 1997,
or to project results for any future period. The amounts presented for the year
ended December 31, 1997 are in thousands except for share amounts (unaudited):



3.  BORROWINGS

     During 1998, the Company increased the borrowing limit of its Credit Line
from $110 million to $200 million. The Credit Line is secured by certain of the
properties, bears interest at LIBOR plus 1.35% (7.0% at December 31, 1998),
expires in November 1999, and has various restrictive financial covenants. The
Company had $117.0 million and $45.2 million outstanding under the Credit Line
as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

     The Company had approximately $612.0 million and $447.0 million at December
31, 1998 and 1997, respectively, outstanding under various mortgage notes and
bonds payable secured by real estate assets and certain restricted cash
accounts.

     At December 31, 1997, the Company, through one of its subsidiaries, had
indebtedness of $140 million to Morgan Stanley Capital Inc. pursuant to a
short-term promissory note (the "Bridge Loan"). The Bridge Loan was secured by
26 properties owned by the subsidiary.

     On March 26, 1998, the Company, issued $142 million aggregate principal
amount of 6.376% Bonds due 2003 (the "Bonds"). The net proceeds from the sale
of the Bonds were applied to the Bride Loan and utilized to fund costs of the
issuance. The Bonds are secured by a first priority deed of trust, security
agreement and assignment of rents and leases in respect of the 26 mortgaged
properties, with a net book value of $210.9 million at December 31, 1998.

     During 1998, the Company refinanced approximately $29.1 million of various
notes payable with a $36.2 million, seven year amortizing note payable at 7.0%
and acquired a new short-term note payable for $25.0 million with a fixed rate
of 6.4% which was used to pay down the Credit Line. The Company also

                                      F-9

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

refunded $4.8 million of bonds secured by its Sterling Ridge Apartments. The new
30 year bonds have a variable interest rate of 5.1% at December 31, 1998, as
compared to the previous fixed rate of 8.75%. Additionally, the Company refunded
$14.0 million of bonds secured by its Hunters Ridge Apartments. The Company
incurred costs of $449,000, net of minority interest, for these combined
transactions which is included in "Extraordinary item -- loss on early
extinguishment of debt" in the accompanying financial statements along with
$455,000 related to extinguishment of debt due to the sale of real estate and
$86,000 related to refinancing of the Bridge Loan mentioned above.

     In anticipation of the March 6, 1998 Bond issuance discussed above, the
Company entered four separate forward interest rate lock agreements in 1997 with
notional amounts aggregating $140 million, the effect of which was to lock the
interest rate on $140 million of the Bonds at an average rate of 6.62%. On March
6, 1998 the Company realized a $1.4 million loss on the interest rate contracts.
The realized loss resulting from the change in the market value of these
contracts is being amortized into interest expense over the life of the related
debt issuance.

     During 1997, the Company extinguished a bond note, resulting in an
extraordinary loss of $771,000. At consummation of the merger with FDC, the
Company repaid certain debt primarily attributable to FDC, resulting in an
extraordinary loss of $7,851,000, net of minority interest.

     As of December 31, 1998, the Company estimated that the weighted average
interest rate on the Company's debt was 7.11% with an average maturity of 10.9
years.

     The following tables summarize the Company's indebtedness at December 31,
1998.



     Scheduled principal repayments on the borrowings at December 31, 1998 are
as follows (dollars in thousands):



                                      F-10

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The Company's indebtedness includes various restrictive financial
covenants. The Company believes that it was in compliance with these covenants
as of December 31, 1998.

4.  FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued
expenses and other liabilities and security deposits are carried at amounts
which reasonably approximate their fair value due to their short term nature.

     Fixed rate notes payable at December 31, 1998 and 1997 total $579.4 million
and $569.0 million, respectively, and have an estimated fair value of $569.3
million and $559.9 million (excluding prepayment penalties) based upon interest
rates available for the issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining
maturities as of December 31, 1998 and 1997. These notes were subject to
prepayment penalties in the event of repayment prior to maturity, which were not
considered in determining their estimated fair value. The carrying value of
variable rate notes payable in December 31, 1998 and 1997 total $174.0 million
and $63.2 million, respectively, and reasonably approximates their fair value
because the related variable interest rates reasonably approximate market rates.
Included in these variable rate notes are certain Multifamily Housing Renewal
bonds with rates which are less than the prime lending rates at December 31,
1998 and 1997. Approximately $32.0 million in 1998 and $16.6 million in 1997 of
these mortgages are non-taxable and have lower rates than would be expected for
taxable notes with similar terms.

     The Company has an interest rate swap agreement for $25 million notional
amount which was outstanding as of December 31, 1998. The effective rate on the
contract reasonably approximated market rates at December 31, 1998.

     The fair value estimates presented herein are based on information
available to management as of December 31, 1998 and 1997. Although management is
not aware of any factors that would significantly affect the estimated fair
value amounts, such amounts have not been comprehensively revaluated for
purposes of these financial statements since that date, and current estimates of
fair value may differ significantly from the amounts presented herein.

5.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Company is not presently subject to any material litigation nor, to the
Company's knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against the Company,
other than routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, some
of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance and none of which is
expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
statements of the Company.

     The Company leases an aircraft to facilitate transportation between its
properties. In 1998, the Company entered a new five year aircraft lease which
generally provides for the Company to pay maintenance, insurance, and certain
other operating costs of the leased property. The agreement has been accounted
for as an operating lease. The Company incurred lease expense relating to
aircraft lease agreements for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996
of $138,000, $187,000, and $185,400, respectively.

6.  INCOME TAXES

     No provision for federal income taxes has been made in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements. The Company has made an election to be taxed
as a Real Estate Investment Trust ("REIT") under Sections 856 through 860 of
the Code. As a REIT, the Company generally is not subject to Federal income tax
to the extent it distributes 95% of its REIT taxable income to its shareholders
and meets certain other tests relating to the number of shareholders, types of
assets and allocable income. If the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any
taxable year, the Company will be subject to the Federal income tax (including
any applicable alternative minimum tax) on its taxable income at regular
corporate rates. Even though the

                                      F-11

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Company qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain
Federal, state and local taxes on its income and property and to Federal income
and excise tax on its undistributed income.

     Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends to
shareholders, differ from net income reported for financial reporting purposes
primarily because of differences in depreciable lives, bases of certain assets
and liabilities and in the timing of recognition of earnings upon disposition of
properties. For federal income tax purposes, the following summarizes the
taxability of cash distributions paid on the common shares in 1997 and 1996 and
the estimated taxability for 1998.



7.  SHAREHOLDERS EQUITY

  SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK

     Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.375 per share, payable monthly. The Company issued 2,000,000
Series A Preferred shares in October 1996 and received net proceeds of $47.8
million.

  SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK

     Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.21875 per share, payable monthly. In November 1997 the
Company issued 1,938,830 Series B Preferred shares and received net proceeds of
$46.6 million.

  SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK

     Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Series C Preferred
Stock") has a $25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential
cumulative annual distribution of $2.34375 per share, payable quarterly. In June
1998 the Company issued 2,000,000 Series C Preferred shares and received net
proceeds of $48.1 million.

  SERIES D PREFERRED STOCK -- SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS PLAN

     During December 1998, the Board of Directors authorized a Shareholders
Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan"). In implementing the Rights Plan, the Board
declared a distribution of one right for each of the Company's outstanding
common shares which would become exercisable only if a person or group (the
"Acquiring Person") becomes the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the common
shares or announces a tender or exchange offer that would result in ownership of
10% of the Company's common shares. The rights will trade with the Company's
common stock until exercisable. Each holder of a right, other than the Acquiring
Person, is in that event entitled to purchase one common share of the Company
for each right at one half of the then current price.

  SERIES E PREFERRED STOCK

     Series E Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series E Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.375 per share, payable monthly. In December 1998 the Company
issued 1,000,000 Series E Preferred shares in a direct placement with a

                                      F-12

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

private investor. The Company received net proceeds of $24.7 million. After five
years, the securities may be required by the purchaser to be redeemed by the
Company in cash or common stock, at the Company's option, at the then market
price.

  COMMON STOCK OFFERINGS

     In March 1997 the Company issued 2,300,000 shares of Common Stock and
received net proceeds of $62.5 million. In October 1997 the Company issued
3,499,000 shares of Common Stock and received net proceeds of $98.2 million. The
Company contributed the net proceeds of the offerings to the Operating
Partnership in exchange for additional Operating Partnership Units.

  DIVIDEND REINVESTMENT AND STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     The Company has a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the
"DRSPP") pursuant to which the Company's shareholders will be permitted to
acquire shares of Common Stock through the reinvestment of distributions on
Common Stock, Series A Preferred Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, Series C
Preferred Stock, Series E Preferred Stock and through optional cash payments
from shareholders. The Company has registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission the offer and sale of up to 750,000 shares of Common Stock pursuant
to the DRSPP. Common Stock shares totaling 62,175 and 24,785 were acquired by
shareholders pursuant to the DRSPP during 1998 and 1997, respectively. As
described in Note 12, in January 1999 the Company adopted the Direct Stock
Purchase and Dividend Reinvestment Plan (the "DSPDRP") which will replace the
current DRSPP plan.

  EARNINGS PER SHARE

     The computation of basic earnings per share is based on the weighted,
average number of common shares outstanding. The computation of diluted earnings
per share is based on the weighted average number of common shares oustanding
plus the shares resulting from the assumed exercise of all dilutive outstanding
options using the treasury stock method.

     A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and
diluted earnings per share computations for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996 is presented on the Consolidated Statement of Operations.

     The computation of earnings per share does not include the Contingent Value
Shares which may be issued in 1998, 1999, and 2000 due to the fact that the
conditions for issuance of the shares have been satisfied. Also, the Series E
Preferred Shares, which are convertible five years from the date of issuance,
and approximately 750,000 options to acquire common shares are not included in
the calculation because the assumed conversion would be anti-dilutive.

8.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

  401(K) SAVINGS PLAN

     The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan is defined
contribution plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 401(a) and 401(k)
of the Code. The Company may, but is not obligated to, make a matching
contribution of $.50 for each $1.00 contributed, up to 6% of the participant's
compensation. The Company's contribution to this plan was $318,200, $154,300 and
$118,700 in 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

  NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

     The Company has adopted a non-qualified deferred compensation plan for key
employees who are not qualified for participation in the Company's 401(k)
Savings Plan. Under the terms of the plan, employees may elect to defer a
percentage of their compensation and the Company matches a portion of their
salary deferral. The plan is designed so that the employees' investment earnings
under the non-qualified plan

                                      F-13

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

should be the same as the earning assets in the Company's 401(k) Savings Plan.
The company's match to this plan in 1998, 1997 and 1996 was $19,100, $18,600 and
$23,600, respectively.

  EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

     The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(the "ESPP") provides a means for employees to purchase common stock of the
Company. The board has authorized the issuance of 150,000 shares for the plan.
The ESPP is administered by the Compensation Committee who may annually grant
options to employees to purchase annually up to an aggregate of 15,000 shares of
common stock at a price equal to 85% of the market price of the common stock.
During 1998, 1997 and 1996, the ESPP purchased 5,242, 2,758 and 3,176 shares,
respectively.

  EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN

     The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(the "ESOP") which is a non-contributory stock bonus plan that satisfies the
requirements of Section 401 (a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Each employee of
the Company is eligible to participate in the ESOP after attaining the age of 21
years and completing one year of service with the Company. Participants' ESOP
accounts will be 100% vested after five years of continuous service, with no
vesting prior to that time. The Company contributed 22,500 shares of Common
Stock to the ESOP upon conclusion of the IPO. During 1998, 1997 and 1996, the
Company contributed $448,300, $344,000 and $276,000, respectively, to the ESOP
which purchased an additional 17,156, 11,921 and 8,208 shares, respectively.

  STOCK OPTION PLAN

     The Company has adopted the 1994 Restricted Stock and Stock Option Plan
(the "Plan') to provide incentives to attract and retain independent directors,
executive officers and key employees. The Plan provides for the grant of options
to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock ("Options") or grants
of restricted shares of common stock ("Restricted Stock"). The Plan also
allows the Company to grant options to purchase Operating Partnership Units at
the price of the Common Stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior to
issuance of the units (the "LESOP Provision"). During the first quarter of
1997, the Company amended the Plan to increase the shares authorized from
500,000 to 1,000,000 and to remove the restriction on the number of options that
may be issued, subject to overall plan limits.

     The Compensation Committee of the Board of Directors is responsible for
granting Options and shares of Restricted Stock and for establishing the
exercise price of Options and terms and conditions of Restricted Stock. In 1997
the Company granted options to certain executive and other officers to purchase
96,000 shares of Common Stock and 110,000 Operating Partnership Units pursuant
to the LESOP Provision. In 1997 options to purchase 75,000 shares of common
stock and 110,000 Operating Partnership Units were exercised and the Company
advanced a portion of the purchase price of these shares and units. The employee
advances mature five years from date of issuance and accrue interest, payable in
arrears, at a rate of 7.0% per annum and are presented as a reduction of
shareholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The
Company entered into supplemental bonus agreements with the employees which are
intended to fund the payment of the advances over a five year period. Under the
terms of the supplemental bonus agreements, the Company will pay cash bonuses to
these employees equal to 20% of the original note balance on each anniversary
date of the advances. The bonuses are limited to 15% of the aggregate purchase
price of the common shares and units.

     During March 1998, the Company issued 50,000 shares of common stock at the
then market price of $28.0625 and 100,000 Operating Partnership Units to certain
executive officers of the Company at the then current market price of $28.125
per share. The Company received approximately $3,583,000 cash and advanced the
employees approximately $632,000 secured by the common stock and Operating
Partnership Units of the Company. The advances bear interest at 5.59% per annum,
have annual principal payments of

                                      F-14

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

approximately $126,000 and are presented as a reduction of shareholders' equity
in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

     During May 1998, the Company issued an additional 100,000 shares of common
stock to certain executive officers of the Company at the then market price of
$27.25. The Company received approximately $2,316,250 cash and advanced the
employees approximately $408,750 secured by the common stock of the Company. The
advances bear interest at 5.68% per annum, and are presented as a reduction of
shareholders' equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

     In addition, the Company has agreed to pay a bonus to the executive
officers mentioned above for as long as they remain employed by the Company in
an amount equal to the debt service on the advances from the Company. The
advances will become due and payable and the bonus agreement will terminate if
the employees voluntarily terminate their employment with the Company.

     Additionally throughout 1998 and 1997, the Company issued 69,000 shares of
common stock to certain other officers of the Company at the market price on the
date of issuance which ranges from $25.38 to $27.25 per share. The Company
received approximately $900,000 cash and advanced the employees approximately
$900,000. The advances bear interest at 7.5% and 8.25% per annum, are secured by
the stock of the Company and are presented as a reduction of shareholders'
equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. The Company has agreed
to pay an annual bonus for five years to these officers amounting to 3% of the
original purchase price of the shares. The advances will become due and payable
if the employees terminate their employment with the Company.

     At December 31, 1998 and 1997, the total outstanding principal balance on
the employee advances was approximately $2,219,000 and $906,000 respectively,
and is presented as a reduction of the Company's statements of shareholders'
equity.

     A summary of changes in Options to acquire shares of Common Stock and
Operating Partnership Units, including grants and exercises pursuant to the
LESOP provision, for the three years ended December 31, 1998 is as follows:



                                      F-15

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 1998 ranged from
$19.75 to $29.50. The weighted average remaining contractual life of those
options is 8.1 years.

     On January 1, 1996, the Company adopted SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for
Stock-Based Compensation," which requires either the (i) fair value of employee
stock-based compensation plans be recorded as a component of compensation
expense in the statement of operations as of the date of grant of awards related
to such plans, or (ii) impact of such fair value on net income and earnings per
share be disclosed on a pro forma basis in a footnote to financial statements
for awards granted after December 15, 1994, if the accounting for such awards
continues to be in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25,
"Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees," ("APB 25"). The Company will
continue such accounting under the provisions of APB 25. The pro forma effects
of stock options granted in 1998 and 1997, excluding the shares issued under the
LESOP provision, to net income per common share were $0.01 and $0.01,
respectively. There was no impact to earnings per share in 1996.

9.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK

     The Company has only limited involvement with derivative financial
instruments and does not use them for trading purposes. The Company occasionally
utilizes derivative financial instruments as hedges in anticipation of future
debt transactions to manage well-defined interest rate risk or as protection to
hedge the interest rate risk of the Company's variable rate debt by locking the
effective rate on portions of the outstanding line of credit (the "Credit
Line").

     In 1998 the Company entered an Interest Rate Swap Agreement which expires
on August 15, 2003 that effectively locks the interest rate the Company pays on
a portion of its Credit Line. As of December 31, 1998, $25 million notional
amount was outstanding on this agreement with a fixed interest rate paid by the
Company of 5.28%.

10.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTION

     During 1997 the Company acquired its corporate headquarters building for
$2,912,000 from a partnership whose partners included certain executive officers
of the Company. The consideration paid consisted of $862,000 cash, 22,246
Operating Partnership Units valued at $634,000 ($28.50 per unit) and the
assumption of an existing loan. Prior to acquisition the Company leased the
building from the partnership.

11.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

     The Company adopted SFAS No. 131, "Disclosures About Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information", in 1998. At December 31, 1998, the Company
owned and operated 129 multifamily apartment communities in 13 different states
from which it derives all significant sources of earnings and operating cash
flows. The Company's operational structure is organized on a decentralized
basis, with individual property managers having overall responsibility and
authority regarding the operations of their respective properties. Each property
manager individually monitors local and area trends in rental rates, occupancy
percentages, and operating costs. Property managers are given the on-site
responsibility and discretion to react to such trends in the best interest of
the Company. The Company's chief operating decision maker evaluates the
performance of each individual property based on its contribution to net
operating income in order to ensure that the individual property continues to
meet the Company's return criteria and long term investment goals. The Company
defines each of its multifamily communities as an individual operating segment.
It has also determined that all of its communities have similar economic
characteristics and also meet the other criteria which permit the communities to
be aggregated into one reportable segment, which is acquisition, development,
and operation of the multifamily communities owned.

                                      F-16

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The revenues, net operating income, assets and real estate investment
capital expenditures for the aggregated multifamily segment are summarized as
follows for the years ended as of December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996 (in 000's):







                                      F-17

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (UNAUDITED)

  DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND

     The Company declared a 1998 fourth quarter common stock dividend of $.575
per share to be paid January 29, 1999 to holders of record on January 22, 1999.

  DEVELOPMENT ACTIVITIES

     Since December 31, 1998, the Company has announced plans to develop four
apartment communities, two of which were recently approved by the Board of
Directors, representing a total investment of $99 million over the next two
years. The development communities include Sandstone Creek, in Overland Park,
Kansas (354 units) expected to commence in late summer of 1999; Kenwood Club, in
Katy Texas (320 units) expected to commence in April; Paddock Club, in
Melbourne, Florida (300 units) expected to commence in April of 1999; and Grande
View, in Nashville, Tennessee (433 units) already under construction.

  DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE AND DISTRIBUTION REINVESTMENT PLAN

     In January 1999 the Company adopted the DSPDRP pursuant to which the
Company's shareholders have the ability to reinvest all or part of distribution
from Mid-America common stock, preferred stock or limited partnership interests
in Mid-America Apartments, L.P. Also the plan provides the opportunity for
shareholders to buy additional shares through an optional cash investment. This
plan is intended to replace the current DRSPP, and participants of the current
plan will be automatically enrolled in the new plan.

  JOINT VENTURE AGREEMENT

     In March 1999 the Company entered into an agreement to form a joint venture
(the "Joint Venture") with Blackstone Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC, a
subsidiary of an investment management firm located in New York City, to own and
operate apartment communities. The Company simultaneously sold 6 apartments
communities to the newly formed Joint Venture for approximately $65 million in
cash. The Company will retain a 33 percent ownership in the Joint Venture and
will continue to manage the properties for a fee. The Company invested
approximately $4.0 million in the Joint Venture and loaned the Joint Venture
approximately $3.0 million at an interest rate of 10% for the life of the
entity. The net proceeds from the transaction will be used to pay down the
Company's Credit Line. The agreement provides that income and cash flows
generated by the Joint Venture be allocated based on respective ownership
percentages. The Company will account for its investment in the joint venture
using the equity method of accounting. The Company plans to sell an additional 4
apartment communities to the Joint Venture later in the year. The proceeds of
any such transaction are expected to be used to pay down the Company's Credit
Line.

                                      F-18

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

12.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)

(DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)





- - ------------

(1) During the quarter ended December 31, 1997, the Operating Partnership
    Agreement was amended to eliminate, effective January 1, 1997, the
    additional allocation of income to the Class A Common unitholders. The
    amounts previously reported for prior quarters during 1997 have been
    restated for the effect of this amendment. The effect of this amendment was
    to increase net income available for shareholders approximately $315, $257
    and $200 and to increase net income available per common share by $0.03,
    $0.02, and $0.02 for the first, second and third quarters of 1997.

                                      F-19

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1998
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-20

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1998
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-21

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1998
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-22

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1998
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-23

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1998
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


- - ------------

Note: This schedule excludes the 1998 disposition of Redford Park, Conroe,
TX.

 (1) These twelve properties are encumbered by a $43.4 million note payable with
     an interest rate of 8.65% at December 31, 1998, maturing July 1, 2001.

 (2) Encumbered by the Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of $117 million
     at December 31, 1998 and a variable interest rate of 7.00%.

 (3) These three properties are encumbered by a $10.1 million mortgage securing
     a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     6.09%.

 (4) These three properties are encumbered by a $16.4 million mortgage securing
     a tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     5.75%.

 (5) The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately $1,600
     million at December 31, 1998. The total gross amount of real estate assets
     for GAAP purposes exceeds the aggregate cost for Federal income tax
     purposes, principally due to purchase accounting adjustments recorded under
     generally accepted accounting principles.

 (6) Depreciation is on a straight line basis over the estimated useful asset
     life which ranges from 8 to 40 years for land improvements and buildings
     and 5 years for furniture, fixtures and equipment.

 (7) Includes adjacent 68-unit Mendenhall Townhomes.

 (8) These 4 properties, and one commercial building, are encumbered by a $35.8
     million mortgage with a maturity of April 1, 2005.

 (9) These 26 communities are encumbered by a $142 million loan with a maturity
     of March 3, 2003 and an average interest rate of 6.376%.

(10) These six communities are encumbered by a $47.5 million note payable with a
     maturity of December 15, 2004 and an interest rate of 7.04%.

(11) These two properties are encumbered by a $14 million mortgage securing a
     tax-exempt bond amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of
     5.281%.

                                      F-24


                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
              REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

     A summary of activity for real estate investments and accumulated
depreciation is as follows:



     The Company's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 1998 includes
accumulated depreciation of $1,592 in the caption "Commercial properties,
net".

     See accompanying independent auditor's report.

                                      F-25

