
10-K405
a2043423z10-k405.txt
10-K405



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K



                  FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 1-12762
                            ------------------------

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
               (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Charter)



                         6584 POPLAR AVENUE, SUITE 340
                            MEMPHIS, TENNESSEE 38138
                    (Address of principal executive offices)

                                 (901) 682-6600
               Registrant's telephone number, including area code

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12 (b) of the Act:



          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12 (G) OF THE ACT:
                                      None
                            ------------------------

    Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /X/  No / /

    Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in PART III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. /X/

    The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the
Registrant, (based on the closing price of such stock ($22.35 per share), as
reported on the New York Stock Exchange, on March 15, 2001) was approximately
$343,000,000 (for purposes of this calculation, directors and executive officers
are treated as affiliates).

    The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant's Common Stock as of
March 15, 2001, was 17,461,677 shares, of which approximately 2,109,790 were
held by affiliates.

    The Registrant's definitive proxy statement in connection with the 2001
Annual Meeting of Shareholders (to be filed pursuant to Regulation 14A) is
incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                               



                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

    Founded in 1994, Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. (the "Company") is
a Memphis, Tennessee-based self-administered and self-managed umbrella
partnership ("UPREIT") real estate investment trust ("REIT"). Between 1994 and
December 31, 2000, the Company increased the number of properties of which it is
the sole owner from 22 to 114 properties with 30,819 apartment units,,
representing an increase of 25,239 apartment units. The Company is also a
participant in a joint venture (the "Joint Venture") with Blackstone Real Estate
Acquisitions, LLC ("Blackstone"). The Joint Venture owned 10 properties,
representing 2,793 apartment units at December 31, 2000. The Company retains a
33.33% ownership interest in the Joint Venture and has an agreement to manage
the operations of the communities for a fee of 4% of revenues.

    The Company's business is conducted principally through Mid-America
Apartments, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership"). The Company is the sole general
partner of the Operating Partnership, holding, 181,208 Common Units or a 1%
general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership as of December 31,
2000. The Company's wholly-owned qualified REIT subsidiary, MAC II of
Delaware, Inc., a Delaware corporation, is a limited partner in the Operating
Partnership and, as of December 31, 2000, held 14,944,629 Common Units, or
82.75% of all outstanding Common Units.

    The Company employed 1,004 full time and 118 part time employees at
December 31, 2000.

OPERATING PHILOSOPHY

    INVESTMENT FOCUS.  Depending on opportunities and the real estate cycle,
Company management uses its real estate skills and experience to invest
profitably. Between 1994 and 1997, the Company focused on the acquisition and
redevelopment of existing apartments. Between 1998 and 2000, its concentration
was on development of new apartments. In 1999, the Company established and sold
assets to a joint venture. During 2000, the Company sold assets and repurchased
its common shares. Management will continue to adapt its investment focus to
opportunities and markets.

    HIGH QUALITY ASSETS.  The Company maintains its assets in excellent
condition, believing that continuous maintenance will lead to higher long-run
returns on investment. It believes that being recognized by third parties for
its quality of properties, landscaping, and property management will lead to
higher rents and profitability. The Company sells assets selectively in order to
ensure that its portfolio consists only of high quality well-located assets
within its market area.

    DIVISERSIFIED MARKET FOCUS.  The Company focuses on owning, operating,
developing, constructing and acquiring apartment communities (the "Communities")
throughout the southeast and Texas.

    INTENSIVE MANAGEMENT FOCUS.  The Company strongly emphasizes on-site
property management. Particular attention is paid to opportunities to increase
rents, raise average occupancy rates, and control costs, with property managers
and regional management being given the responsibility for monitoring market
trends and the discretion to react to such trends. The Company, as part of its
intense management focus, has established regional training facilities to
produce highly trained property managers, leasing consultants and service
technicians who work on-site at each of the Communities.

    DECENTRALIZED OPERATIONAL STRUCTURE.  The Company's operational structure is
organized on a decentralized basis. Management believes that its decentralized
operating structure capitalizes on specific market knowledge, increases personal
accountability relative to a centralized structure and is beneficial in the
acquisition, redevelopment and development process.


PROACTIVE ASSET MANAGEMENT

    The Company focuses on maximizing the return on assets and adding to the
intrinsic underlying value of each share, and routinely reviews each asset based
on its determined value and sells those which no longer fit its investment
criteria. The Company constantly evaluates the effectiveness of its capital
allocations and makes adjustments to its strategy, including investing in
acquisitions and new development, debt retirement, and repurchases of Company
shares.

STRATEGIES

    The Company seeks to increase operating cash flow and earnings per share to
maximize shareholder value through a balanced strategy of internal and external
growth.

    OPERATING GROWTH STRATEGY.  Management's goal is to maximize the Company's
return on investment in each Community by increasing rental rates and reducing
operating expenses while maintaining high occupancy levels. The Company seeks
higher net rental revenues by enhancing and maintaining the competitiveness of
the Communities and manages expenses through its system of detailed management
reporting and accountability in order to achieve increases in operating cash
flow. The steps taken to meet these objectives include:

    - empowering the Company's property managers to adjust rents in response to
      local market conditions and to concentrate resident turnover in peak
      rental demand months;

    - offering new services to residents, including telephone, cable, and
      internet access on which it generates fee and commission income;

    - implementing programs to control expenses through investment in
      cost-saving initiatives, such as the installation of individual apartment
      unit water and utility meters in certain Communities;

    - improving the "curb appeal" of the Communities through extensive
      landscaping and exterior improvements and repositioning Communities from
      time to time to maintain market leadership positions;

    - compensating employees through performance-based compensation and stock
      ownership programs;

    - maintaining a hands-on management style and "flat" organizational
      structure that emphasizes senior management's continued close contact with
      the market and employees; and

    - selling or exchanging underperforming assets and repurchasing common
      shares when cost of capital and asset values permit.

    DEVELOPMENT STRATEGY.  In late 1997, the Company's emphasis shifted from
acquisitions to development because of the higher quality assets and higher long
term investment returns generated by development. In 2001, the Company will
complete a four-year $300 million construction program of high quality
apartments in multiple markets. This represents the completion of the
development pipeline initiated in 1997. In 1999, management decided to exit the
construction and development business upon completion of the Company's existing
development pipeline after determining that market conditions were changing,
making it unlikely that future proposed projects would meet its profitability
targets.

    In 2000, the Company completed the following development projects,
consisting of a total of 934 apartment units which are currently in various
stages of lease-up:

    - 320 unit Kenwood Club in Katy, Texas

    - 370 unit Grand Reserve Lexington in Lexington, Kentucky

    - 244 unit Reserve at Dexter Lake Phase II in Memphis, Tennessee


    At December 31, 2000, the Company had two uncompleted development properties
with a total of 677 apartment units in various stages of lease-up, development,
construction, and pre-development, all scheduled to be completed in 2001, and
leased throughout 2001 and 2002. The Company anticipates an additional capital
investment in this development pipeline of approximately $17 million in 2001.
These projects are expected to be funded by the Company's outstanding lines of
credit ("Credit Lines"), selective property dispositions and possible joint
venture transactions.

    ACQUISITION STRATEGY.  One of the Company's strategies is to acquire and
redevelop apartment communities that meet its investment criteria and long-term
strategic objectives. During 2000, the Company acquired two properties, the
200-unit Huntington Chase in Warner Robins, Georgia and the 240-unit Indigo
Point in Brandon, Florida. These properties were acquired to complete a tax-free
exchange transaction related to two properties sold during the year as part of
the Company's disposition strategy, discussed below.

    JOINT VENTURE STRATEGY.  One of the Company's strategies is to sell or to
contribute apartment communities to a joint venture when a favorable return can
be achieved and to co-invest with joint venture partners in additional
redevelopment opportunities. The Company is actively seeking attractively priced
opportunities in which it and joint venture partners can invest in, and
established a joint venture in 1999 with Blackstone.

    DISPOSITION STRATEGY.  The Company is committed to the selective disposition
of non-strategic assets, defined as those apartment communities that no longer
meet its investment criteria and long-term strategic objectives. Typically, the
Company selects assets for disposition that do not meet its present investment
criteria including future return on investment, location, market, potential for
growth, and capital needs.

    The following apartment communities, containing an aggregate of 1,902
apartment units, were sold or exchanged during 2000:



SHARE REPURCHASE PROGRAM

    In 1999, the Company's Board of Directors approved an increase in the number
of shares authorized to be repurchased to 4 million common shares, of which the
Company repurchased approximately 1.7 million common shares (8% of the common
shares and Common Units outstanding) as of December 31, 2000. From time to time
the Company intends to sell assets based on its disposition strategy outlined in
this Annual Report and use the proceeds to repurchase shares when it believes
that shareholder value is enhanced. Factors affecting this determination include
the share price, asset dispositions and pricing, financing agreements and rates
of return of alternative investments.


COMPETITION

    All of the Company's Communities are located in areas that include other
apartment communities. Occupancy and rental rates are affected by the number of
competitive apartment communities in a particular area. The Company's properties
compete with numerous other multifamily properties, the owners of which may have
greater resources than the Company and whose management may have more experience
than the Company's management. Moreover, single-family rental housing,
manufactured housing, condominiums and the new and existing home markets provide
housing alternatives to potential residents of apartment communities.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

    In January 2001, the Company raised its quarterly distribution to common
shareholders from $.58 per share to $.585 per share, effective with its
distribution paid on January 31, 2001.

    In January 2001, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
with a notional amount of $25 million, the effect of which was to lock the
interest rate on $25 million of the FNMA Credit Facility at approximately 6.2%.
The swap agreement expires December 1, 2005.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

    The Company seeks to acquire and develop apartment communities appealing to
middle and upper income residents in mid-size cities in the southeastern United
States and Texas. Approximately 70% of the Company's apartment units are located
in Georgia, Florida, Tennessee and Texas markets. The Company's strategic focus
is to provide its residents high quality apartment units in attractive community
settings, characterized by extensive landscaping and attention to aesthetic
detail. The Company utilizes its experience and expertise in maintenance,
landscaping, marketing and management to effectively "reposition" many of the
apartment communities it acquires to raise occupancy levels and per unit average
rentals.

    The following table sets forth certain historical information for the
communities the Company owned or maintained an ownership interest in, including
the 10 properties containing 2,793 apartment units owned by the Joint Venture,
at December 31, 2000:
















- ------------------------------

(1) Encumbered by the FNMA Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of $83.1
    million with a variable interest rate of 7.218%, $65 million with a fixed
    rate of 7.712% and two interest rate swap agreements both for $25 million at
    7.383% and 7.360% at December 31, 2000.

(2) Encumbered by a $39.6 million mortgage with a maturity of July 1, 2001 and
    an interest rate of 8.650%

(3) Encumbered by a $142 million loan with a maturity of March 3, 2003 and an
    average interest rate of 6.376%

(4) Encumbered, along with one corporate property, by a $35.8 million mortgage
    with a maturity of April 1, 2005 and an interest rate of 7.000%

(5) Encumbered by the AmSouth Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of $7.4
    million with a variable interest rate of 8.750% at December 31, 2000.

(6) Encumbered by a $15.7 million mortgage securing a tax-exempt bond amortizing
    over 25 years with an average interest rate of 5.750%

(7) Encumbered by a $13.7 million mortgage securing a tax-exempt bond amortizing
    over 25 years with an average interest rate of 5.281%

(8) Encumbered by a $47.5 million mortgage with a maturity of December 15, 2004
    and an interest rate of 7.040%

(9) Encumbered by a $9.6 million mortgage securing a tax-exempt bond amortizing
    over 25 years with an average interest rate of 6.090%


ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

    The Company is not presently subject to any material litigation nor, to the
Company's knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against the Company,
other than routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, some
of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance and none of which is
expected to have a material adverse effect on the business, financial condition,
liquidity or results of operations of the Company.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

    None.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

    The Company's common stock has been listed and traded on the New York Stock
Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol "MAA" since its initial public offering in
February 1994. On March 15, 2001, the reported last sale price of the Company's
common stock on the NYSE was $22.35 per share, and there were approximately
1,500 holders of record of the common stock. The Company estimates there are
approximately 13,500 beneficial owners of its common stock. The following table
sets forth the quarterly high and low sales prices of the Company's common stock
as reported on the NYSE and the distributions declared by the Company with
respect to the periods indicated.



    The Company's annual distribution rate for 2001 with respect to its common
stock is expected to be $2.34 per share. The actual distributions made by the
Company will be affected by a number of factors, including the gross revenues
received from the Communities, the operating expenses of the Company, the
interest expense incurred on borrowings and unanticipated capital expenditures.

    The Company pays a preferential regular distribution on the Series A,
Series B, Series C and Series E Preferred Stock at annual rates of $2.375,
$2.21875, $2.34375 and $2.375 per share, respectively. No distribution may be
made on the Company's common stock unless all accrued distributions have been
made with respect to each series of preferred stock. No assurance can be given
that the Company will be able to maintain its distribution rate on its common
stock or make required distributions with respect to the Series A, Series B,
Series C, and Series E Preferred Stock.

    Future distributions by the Company will be at the discretion of the Board
of Directors and will depend on the actual funds available for distribution of
the Company, its financial condition, capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue Code
and such other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.


    The Company had a Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase Plan (the
"DRSPP") under which holders of common stock (and Series A, Series B, Series C
and Series E Preferred Stock) could elect automatically to reinvest their
distributions in additional shares of common stock and/or to make optional
purchases of common stock free of brokerage commissions and charges. Shares
purchased directly from the Company pursuant to the DRSPP were purchased at up
to a 3% discount from their fair market value at the Company's discretion. To
fulfill its obligations under the DRSPP, the Company may either issue additional
shares of common stock or repurchase common stock in the open market. In 1999,
the Company implemented the Direct Stock Purchase and Distribution Reinvestment
Plan (the "DSPDRP"), which has terms substantially similar to the above DRSPP,
except for certain additional benefits relating to purchase of the Company's
Common Stock. This plan replaced the DRSPP, whose participants were
automatically enrolled in the new plan.

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

    The following table sets forth selected financial data on an historical
basis for the Company. This data should be read in conjunction with the
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations" included
elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                            SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



- ------------------------------

(1) Total capitalization is total debt and market capitalization of preferred
    shares, common shares and partnership units.


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS

OVERVIEW

    The following is a discussion of the consolidated financial condition and
results of operations of the Company for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999, and 1998. This discussion should be read in conjunction with all of the
consolidated financial statements included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

    As of December 31, 2000, the total number of apartment units the Company
owned or had an ownership interest in, including the 10 properties containing
2,793 apartment units owned by the Joint Venture was 33,612 in 124 Communities,
compared to the 33,901 units in 129 Communities owned at December 31, 1999 and
33,831 in 129 Communities owned at December 31, 1998. For fully-owned
properties, the average monthly rental per apartment unit, excluding units in
lease-up, increased to $642 at December 31, 2000 from $610 at December 31, 1999
and $597 at December 31, 1998. For these same units, overall occupancy at
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998 was 94.2%, 94.6% and 94.1%, respectively.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

    Funds from operations ("FFO") represents net income (computed in accordance
with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles, or "GAAP") excluding
extraordinary items, minority interest in Operating Partnership income, gain or
loss on disposition of real estate assets, plus depreciation and amortization
related to real estate, and adjustments for the Joint Venture to reflect FFO on
the same basis. This definition of FFO is in accordance with the National
Association of Real Estate Investment Trust's ("NAREIT") recommended definition,
which was modified during 1999. The Company adopted this definition effective
January 1, 2000, and has reflected this clarification for all periods presented
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

    The Company's policy is to expense the cost of interior painting, vinyl
flooring, and blinds as incurred for stabilized properties. During the
stabilization period for acquisition properties, these items are capitalized
because they are necessary for the continued use of the property, and, thus, are
not deducted in calculating FFO.

    FFO should not be considered as an alternative to net income or any other
GAAP measurement of performance, as an indicator of operating performance or as
an alternative to cash flow from operating, investing, and financing activities
as a measure of liquidity. The Company believes that FFO is helpful in
understanding the Company's results of operations in that such calculation
reflects the Company's ability to support interest payments and general
operating expenses before the impact of certain activities such as changes in
other assets and accounts payable. The Company's calculation of FFO may differ
from the methodology for calculating FFO utilized by other REITs and,
accordingly, may not be comparable to such other REITs.

    FFO for all periods presented has been adjusted to conform with NAREIT's
clarified definition discussed above. FFO decreased during 2000 by approximately
$2,258,000 to $57,456,000 versus $59,714,000 in 1999 due to asset dispositions,
investment in new development and additional interest expense incurred to fund
share repurchases. Over the last two years, the Company has sold a total of
5,833 units under its disposition strategy, discussed earlier in this Annual
Report, and reallocated the majority of the proceeds from those sales to the
reduction of debt, the share repurchase program and the completion of the
development pipeline, all uses which management believes have increased
remaining shareholder


value. For the three years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, FFO is
calculated as follows (dollars in thousands):



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999

    During 2000 the Company completed development of 1,173 total apartment units
in 2 new communities and 4 existing communities, sold 9 communities containing
1,902 total units and purchased 2 communities containing 440 units.

    Property revenues for 2000 decreased by approximately $1,682,000 due
primarily to decreases of (i) $6,710,000 due to the sale of 10 properties to the
BRE/MAAC Associates, L.L.C. joint venture ("Joint Venture") in 1999,
(ii) $5,241,000 from the sale of the Hidden Oaks, Sailwinds at Lake Magdalene
and Regency Club apartments ("1999 Dispositions") in 1999, and (iii) $6,913,000
from the sale or exchange of the Pine Trails, MacArthur Ridge, Clearbrook
Village, Winchester Square, McKellar Woods, Whispering Oaks, Riverwind, 2000
Wynnton and Hollybrook apartments ("2000 Dispositions") in 2000. These decreases
were partially offset by increases of (i) $8,993,000 from the development
communities, (ii) $2,441,000 from the purchase of the Huntington Chase and
Indigo Point apartments ("2000 Acquisitions") in 2000, and (iii) $5,748,000 from
the communities owned throughout both periods.

    Property revenues in 2000 included approximately $787,000 of ancillary
income from an agreement made with an internet service provider. This agreement
was terminated early in 2001. The Company is currently seeking an agreement with
an alternative service provider; however, in 2001, the income from this
ancillary product line is expected to be substantially less than that earned in
2000.

    Property operating expenses include costs for property personnel, building
repairs and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, utilities, landscaping
and other property related costs. As a percentage of total property revenues,
property operating expenses decreased from 37.9% in 1999 to 37.5% in 2000. The
majority of the decrease is due to utility expenses that dropped from 4.1% of
property revenues in 1999 to 3.4% in 2000 as the Company continued to see
savings from its program to submeter units for water usage. Property operating
expenses for 2000 decreased by approximately $1,439,000 due primarily to
decreases of (i) $2,755,000 from the sale of 10 properties to the Joint Venture
in 1999, (ii) $2,578,000 from the 1999 Dispositions, and (iii) $3,018,000 from
the 2000 Dispositions. These decreases were partially offset by increases of
(i) $3,502,000 due to the development communities, (ii) $992,000 due to the 2000
Acquisitions, and (iii) $2,418,000 due to the communities owned throughout both
periods.

    Depreciation and amortization expense increased by approximately $1,941,000
primarily due to (i) $494,000 from the 2000 Acquisitions, (ii) $3,538,000 from
the development communities, and


(iii) $2,355,000 from the communities owned throughout both periods. These
increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $1,623,000 due to the sale
of 10 properties to the Joint Venture in 1999, (ii) $1,426,000 due to the 1999
Dispositions, and (iii) $1,397,000 due to the 2000 Dispositions. Amortization of
costs in excess of fair value of net assets ("goodwill") acquired was $312,000
and $849,000, for 2000 and 1999, respectively, which is included in depreciation
and amortization in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The
decrease is primarily related to reduction of goodwill originally recorded in
connection with the Flournoy Development Company ("Flournoy") acquisition, a
large portion of which was written-off in June 1999 when the development and
construction assets were sold back to the former Flournoy principals.
Amortization of deferred financing costs was $2,758,000 and $2,854,000 for 2000
and 1999, respectively.

    General and administrative expense increased 2.4% or $347,000 as compared to
the prior year. The most significant items contributing to the increase were
health insurance costs, which increased $126,000 due to recent increasing
premiums and claims experience, and airplane costs, which increased $230,000 due
to unusually high repair and maintenance experienced during the current year
coupled with other travel costs while the repairs were being made. Management
remains focused on maintaining the efficiency of the support functions, and
based on current plans expects general and administrative costs to sustain
inflationary level increases over the next year.

    Interest expense increased approximately $2,434,000 due primarily to
increased average borrowings related to the funding of the development pipeline
and the higher short term interest rate environment experienced during the early
quarters of 2000, which increased the cost of the Company's variable rate debt.
As the interest rate environment improved near the end of 2000, the Company
locked the rate on 86% of all outstanding debt versus 76% at December 31, 1999.
The Company's average borrowing cost at December 31, 2000 was 7.14% as compared
to 7.06% on December 31, 1999. The average maturity on the Company's debt was
10.9 years at December 31, 2000.

    For the year ended December 31, 2000, the Company recorded a net gain on
disposition of assets totaling $11,587,000 primarily related to the disposition
of the nine properties during the year of which two were non-taxable exchanges.

    In 2000, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of approximately
$204,000, net of minority interest, from the early extinguishment of debt
related to the property dispositions during the year.

    As a result of the foregoing, income before minority interest and
extraordinary items for the year ended December 31, 2000 decreased by $3,519,000
over 1999

COMPARISON OF YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1999 TO THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998

    During 1999 the Company sold 10 apartment communities containing 2,793
apartment units to the Joint Venture and retained a 33.33% ownership interest
and continued to manage the units for a fee of 4% of revenue. The Company also
completed development of 1,277 total apartment units in 7 new communities and 2
existing communities and sold three communities containing 1,138 units.

    Total property revenues for 1999 increased by $11,375,000 due primarily to
increases of (i) $6,424,000 from the 8 communities acquired in 1998 and owned
throughout 1999, (ii) $12,113,000 from the development communities, and
(iii) $4,587,000 from the communities owned throughout both periods. These
increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $9,687,000 due to the sale
of 10 properties to the Joint Venture in 1999, and (ii) $2,062,000 from the
sales of Redford Park apartments in 1998 and the Hidden Oaks, Sailwinds at Lake
Magdalene and Regency Club apartments in 1999.

    Property operating expenses include costs for property personnel, building
repairs and maintenance, real estate taxes and insurance, utilities, landscaping
and other property related costs. As a percentage of property revenues, property
operating expenses increased from 37.6% in 1998 to 37.9% in 1999. The


majority of the increase is related to increased real estate taxes. Reappraisals
in some of the Company's markets, coupled with changes in tax rates in Shelby
County, Tennessee, and the annexation of three of the Company's properties in
the City of Memphis were the principal causes of the increase. Certain other
expenses contributed to the increase in operating expenses, including initial
lease-up costs for the development properties, and expenses associated with
certain fires and wind damage occurring during the year. Personnel costs
remained flat as a percentage of rental revenues from 1998 to 1999. In 1999
building repairs and maintenance costs decreased to 4.6% of rental revenues as
compared to 4.8% in 1998 primarily as a result of the Company's significant
investment of capital for the last two years to reposition 7,600 units acquired
in the 1997 FDC acquisition. Also in 1999, utilities costs decreased to 4.1% of
rental revenue as compared to 4.5% for the same period in 1998 mainly due to
continued savings from the Company's program to submeter units for water usage.
Property operating expenses for 1999 increased by $4,968,000 due primarily to
(i) $2,637,000 from the 8 communities acquired in 1998 and owned throughout
1999, (ii) $4,290,000 from the development communities completed during 1998 and
1999 and (iii) $2,530,000 from the communities owned throughout both periods.
These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $3,609,000 due to the
sale of 10 properties to the Joint Venture in 1999 and (ii) $880,000 from the
sale of Redford Park Apartments in 1998 and the sale of Hidden Oaks Apartments,
Sailwinds at Lake Magdalene Apartments and Regency Club Apartments in 1999.

    Depreciation and amortization expense increased by $3,882,000 primarily due
to (i) $1,448,000 from the 8 communities acquired in 1998 and owned throughout
1999, (ii) $2,232,000 from the development communities completed during 1998 and
1999, and (iii) $1,661,000 from the communities owned throughout both periods.
These increases were partially offset by decreases of (i) $1,793,000 due to the
sale of 10 properties to the Joint Venture in 1999, and (ii) $291,000 from the
sale of Redford Park Apartments in 1998 and the sale of Hidden Oaks Apartments,
Sailwinds at Lake Magdalene Apartments and Regency Club Apartments in 1999.
Amortization of costs in excess of fair value of net assets acquired was
$849,000 and $1,474,000, for 1999 and 1998, respectively, which is included in
depreciation and amortization in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations. The decrease is due to the write off of goodwill in connection with
the sale of FDC during 1999. Amortization of deferred financing costs was
$2,854,000 and $2,348,000 for 1999 and 1998, respectively. The majority of the
increase is due to additional financing costs related to the restructuring of
the AmSouth Credit Line and the addition of the new FNMA Credit Line.

    General and administrative expense increased by $2,519,000 mainly due to
(i) approximately $800,000 in additional property level and support management
bonuses related primarily to improved property level performance at certain
properties as compared to the prior year, (ii) approximately $700,000 in
additional training costs related to the Company's recent investment in regional
training centers, (iii) approximately $450,000 in additional administrative
costs related to recent systems initiatives and staffing changes to support the
Company's portfolio growth, (iv) approximately $250,000 from increased franchise
and excise taxes related to recent legislative changes in the state of
Tennessee, and (v) approximately $240,000 in increased employee insurance costs.

    Interest expense increased $2,598,000 due primarily increased debt related
to the 10 property acquisitions in 1998 and additional credit line funding to
complete the new development properties. The Company reduced its average
borrowing cost to 7.06% at December 31, 1999 as compared to 7.11% on
December 31, 1998. The average maturity on the Company's debt was 10.7 years and
10.9 years at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.


    For the year ended December 31, 1999, the Company recorded a net gain on
disposition of assets totaling $10,237,000 comprised of the following
transactions:



    The Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $67,000, net of minority
interest, for 1999 related to the early extinguishment of the mortgage for
Eastview Apartments.

    As a result of the foregoing, income before minority interest and
extraordinary items for the year ended December 31, 1999 increased $6,135,000
over the same period a year earlier.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    During 2000, the Company invested $53,389,000 in the development pipeline,
reduced from the $71,563,000 during 1999. The Company expects to fund an
additional $17,000,000 during 2001 to complete the entire $300,000,000 pipeline
began in 1997.

    The following table summarizes the Company's remaining communities in
various stages of lease-up, construction, development, and pre-development as of
December 31, 2000 (Dollars in 000's):



    Capital improvements to existing properties totaled $17,469,000 for the year
ended December 31, 2000, as compared to $34,377,000 for 1999. The 1999
expenditures included significant costs for repositioning 1999 acquisitions and
remaining cost for the properties acquired in connection with the Flournoy
acquisition.


    Actual capital expenditures for property improvements during 2000 are
summarized below:



    Net cash used in financing activities decreased from $107,209,000 during the
year ended December 31, 1999 to $42,199,000 during 2000. During 2000, the
Company borrowed an additional funding of $27,048,000 under its Credit
Facilities and notes payable combined, mainly used to fund the development
pipeline and share repurchases. Also during 2000, the Company used a net of
$3,356,000 to repurchase common shares, and distributed a total of $63,201,000
to Common Unitholders, common shareholders, and preferred shareholders.

    As of December 31, 2000, the Company had a $295,000,000 secured credit
facility with FNMA (the "FNMA Facility") which matures in 2009. The FNMA
Facility provides for both fixed and variable rate borrowings. The interest rate
on the variable portion renews every 90 days and is based on the FNMA mortgage
backed security rate on the date of renewal, which has historically approximated
3 month LIBOR less a spread ranging from .05%-.10%, plus a fee of .67% based on
the outstanding borrowings. Borrowings under the FNMA Facility totaled
$198,070,000 at December 31, 2000, consisting of $65,000,000 under the fixed
portion at a rate of 7.712% and the remaining $133,070,000 under the variable
rate portion of the facility. The proceeds from draws under the FNMA Facility
were primarily used to pay down other credit lines and fund development.

    Additionally, the Company maintains an $85,000,000 secured credit facility
with a group of banks led by AmSouth Bank, and a $10,000,000 unsecured credit
facility with Compass Bank. As of December 31, 2000, the Company had $7,432,000
and $10,000,000 outstanding under these credit facilities, respectively.

    The two secured credit facilities are subject to borrowing base calculations
that effectively reduce the maximum amount that may be borrowed. The total
amount that could be borrowed under the Credit Lines at December 31, 2000 was
approximately $268,500,000.

    At December 31, 2000, the Company had outstanding three interest rate swap
agreements, totaling $75 million to lock the interest rate on a portion of the
Company's variable rate debt. At December 31, 2000, the Company had
$75.5 million (after considering the interest rate swaps) of conventional
floating rate debt at an average interest rate of 7.218% and an additional
$32 million of tax-free variable rate debt at an average rate of 5.812%; all
other debt was fixed rate term debt at an average interest rate of 7.19%.

    The weighted average interest rate and weighted average maturity at
December 31, 2000 for the $781.1 million of total notes payable were 7.14% and
10.9 years, respectively.

    The Company believes that cash provided by operations is adequate and
anticipates that it will continue to be adequate in both the short and long-term
to meet operating requirements (including recurring capital expenditures at the
Communities) and payment of distributions by the Company in accordance with REIT
requirements under the Code.

    The Company expects to meet its long term liquidity requirements, such as
scheduled mortgage debt maturities, property developments and acquisitions,
expansions and non-recurring capital expenditures, through long and medium-term
collateralized and uncollateralized fixed rate borrowings, issuance of debt or
additional equity securities in the Company, potential joint venture
transactions and the Credit Lines.


INSURANCE

    In the opinion of management, property and casualty insurance is in place
which provides adequate coverage to provide financial protection against normal
insurable risks such that it believes that any loss experienced would not have a
significant impact on the Company's liquidity, financial position, or results of
operations.

INFLATION

    Substantially all of the resident leases at the Communities allow, at the
time of renewal, for adjustments in the rent payable thereunder, and thus may
enable the Company to seek rent increases. The substantial majority of these
leases are for one year or less. The short-term nature of these leases generally
serves to reduce the risk to the Company of the adverse effects of inflation.

IMPACT OF RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

    In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS 133). SFAS 133 was later amended by
SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138. SFAS 133, as amended, requires recognition of the
fair value of all derivative instruments, including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively referred to as
derivatives), on the balance sheet and establishes new accounting rules for
hedging activities. The Company adopted FAS 133, as amended, on January 1, 2001.
The adoption did not impact its results of operations, cash flows or financial
position.

RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

    The Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
of Operations contains certain forward-looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, which are intended to be covered by
the safe harbors created thereby. These statements include, but are not limited
to, the plans and objectives of management for future operations, including
plans and objectives relating to capital expenditures, rehabilitation costs on
the apartment communities, future development, anticipated growth rates of
revenues and expenses, and anticipated share repurchases. Although the Company
believes that the assumptions underlying the forward-looking statements are
reasonable, any of the assumptions could be inaccurate and, therefore, there can
be no assurance that the forward-looking statements included in this report on
Form 10-K will prove to be accurate. In light of the significant uncertainties
inherent in the forward-looking statements included herein, the inclusion of
such information should not be regarded as a representation by the Company or
any other person that the objectives and plans of the Company will be achieved.

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

    The Company's primary market risk exposure is to changes in interest rates
obtainable on its secured and unsecured borrowings. At December 31, 2000, 55% of
the Company's total capitalization consisted of borrowings. The Company's
interest rate risk objective is to limit the impact of interest rate
fluctuations on earnings and cash flows and to lower its overall borrowing
costs. To achieve this objective, the Company manages its exposure to
fluctuations in market interest rates for its borrowings through the use of
fixed rate debt instruments to the extent that reasonably favorable rates are
obtainable with such arrangements and may enter into derivative financial
instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks to mitigate its
interest rate risk on a related financial instrument or to effectively lock the
interest rate on a portion of its variable debt. The Company does not enter into
derivative or interest rate transactions for trading purposes. Approximately 86%
of the Company's outstanding debt was subject to fixed rates with a weighted
average of 7.2% at December 31, 2000. The Company regularly reviews interest
rate exposure on


its outstanding borrowings in an effort to minimize the risk of interest rate
fluctuations. The Company does not have any other material market-sensitive
financial instruments.

    The table below provides information about the Company's financial
instruments that are sensitive to changes in interest rates. For debt
obligations, the table presents principal cash flows and related weighted
average interest rates by expected maturity dates. Weighted average variable
rates are based on rates in effect at the reporting date (Dollars in 000's).



- ------------------------------

*   Excluding the effect of interest rate swap agreements.

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

    The Independent Auditors' Report, Consolidated Financial Statements and
Selected Quarterly Financial Information are set forth on pages F-1 to F-28 of
this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
        FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

    There have been no disagreements with the Company's independent accountants
on any matter of accounting principles or practices or financial statement
disclosure.


                                    PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

    Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    Incorporated by reference to the Company's definitive proxy statement to be
filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) The following documents are filed as part of this Annual Report on
    Form 10-K:













- ------------------------

     ** Filed as Exhibit 1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
        Form 8-A filed with the Commission on October 11, 1996

    *** Filed as Exhibit 4.1 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
        Form 8-A filed with the Commission on November 19, 1997

   **** Filed as Exhibit 3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
        Form 8-A filed with the Commission on October 11, 1996

  ***** Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
        Form 8-A filed with the Commission on November 19, 1997

 ****** Filed as an exhibit to the 1996 Annual Report of the Registrant on
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996

      + Filed as an exhibit to the 1997 Annual Report of the Registrant on
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997

     ++ Filed as Exhibit 4.3 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
        Form 8-A filed with the Commission on June 25, 1998

    +++ Filed as Exhibit 4.2 to the Registrant's Registration Statement on
        Form 8-A filed with the Commission on June 25, 1998

   ++++ Filed as an exhibit to the 1998 Annual Report of the Registrant on
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1998

  +++++ Filed as an exhibit to the 1999 Annual Report of the Registrant on
        Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999

     # Filed as an exhibit to the Registrant's Proxy Statement for the 2000
       Annual Meeting of Shareholders

(b) Reports on Form 8-K

    The following reports were filed on Form 8-K by the registrant during the
fourth quarter of 2000:



(c) Exhibits:

    See Item 14(a)(3) above.

(d) Financial Statement Schedules:

    See Item 14(a)(2) above.


                                   SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned thereunto duly authorized.



    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed by the following persons in the capacities and on the
dates indicated.




                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

The Board of Directors and Shareholders
Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc.

    We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Mid-America
Apartment Communities, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of December 31,
2000 and 1999 and the related consolidated statements of operations,
shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year
period ended December 31, 2000. In connection with our audits of the
consolidated financial statements, we have also audited the accompanying
financial statement Schedule III: Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation.
These financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the management of the Company. Our responsibility is to
express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial
statement schedule based on our audits.

    We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

    In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects the financial position of the Company
as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of the their operations and
their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended
December 31, 2000, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted
in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule when considered in relationship to the basic financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.

                                          KPMG LLP

Memphis, Tennessee
February 23, 2001

                                      F-1

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

                           DECEMBER 31, 2000 AND 1999

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-2

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

                       (DOLLARS AND SHARES IN THOUSANDS)


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-4

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-5

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

ORGANIZATION AND FORMATION OF THE COMPANY

    Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. ("Mid-America") is a
self-administrated and self-managed real estate investment trust which owns,
develops, constructs, acquires and operates multifamily apartment communities
mainly in the southeastern United States, and in Texas. The company owns and
operates 114 apartment communities principally through its majority owned
subsidiary, Mid-America Apartments, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership") and its
subsidiary, Mid-America Capital Partners, L.P. ("MACP"). MACP is a special
purpose entity established in 1997 to issue first mortgage bonds. The Company
also owns a 33.33% interest in a real estate joint venture which owns 10
apartment communities, for which the Company provides management services. From
the period November 1997 through June 1999, the company conducted third party
property management, construction and development activities through its service
corporation, Flournoy Development Corporation.

BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The consolidated financial statements presented herein include the accounts
of Mid-America, the Operating Partnership, MACP, and all other subsidiaries
("the Company"). The Company owns 51% to 100% of all consolidated subsidiaries.
The Company uses the equity method of accounting for its investments in 20 to
50 percent-owned entities. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

MINORITY INTEREST

    Minority interest in the accompanying consolidated financial statements
relates to the ownership interest in the Operating Partnership by the holders of
Class A Common Units of the Operating Partnership ("Operating Partnership
Units"). Mid-America is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership.
Net income is allocated to the minority interest based on their respective
ownership percentage of the Operating Partnership. Issuance of additional common
shares or Operating Partnership Units changes the ownership of both the minority
interest and Mid-America. Such transactions and the proceeds therefrom are
treated as capital transactions and result in an allocation between
shareholders' equity and minority interest to account for the change in the
respective percentage ownership of the underlying equity of the Operating
Partnership.

    The Company's Board of Directors established economic rights in respect to
each Operating Partnership Unit that were equivalent to the economic rights in
respect to each share of common stock. The holder of each unit may redeem their
units in exchange for one share of common stock or cash, at the option of the
Company. The Operating Partnership has followed the policy of paying the same
per unit distribution in respect to the units as the per share distribution in
respect to the common stock. Operating Partnership net income for 2000, 1999 and
1998 was allocated approximately 16.3%, 15.6% and 15.6%, respectively, to
holders of Operating Partnership Units and 83.7%, 84.4% and 84.4%, respectively,
to Mid-America.

USE OF ESTIMATES

    Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions
relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities, the disclosure of
contingent assets and liabilities, and the reported

                                      F-6

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
amounts of revenues and expenses to prepare these financial statements in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

REVENUE RECOGNITION

    The Company leases multifamily residential apartments under operating leases
with terms of one year or less. Rental and other revenues are recorded when
earned.

RENTAL COSTS

    Costs associated with rental activities are expensed as incurred. Certain
costs associated with the lease-up of development projects, including cost of
model units, their furnishings, signs, and "grand openings" are capitalized and
amortized over their estimated useful lives. All other costs relating to renting
development projects are expensed as incurred.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

    The Company considers cash, investments in money market accounts and
certificates of deposit with original maturities of three months or less to be
cash equivalents.

RESTRICTED CASH

    Restricted cash consists of escrow deposits held by lenders for property
taxes, insurance, debt service and replacement reserves.

REAL ESTATE ASSETS AND DEPRECIATION

    Real estate assets are carried at depreciated cost. Repairs and maintenance
costs are expensed as incurred while significant improvements, renovations, and
replacements are capitalized. The cost of interior painting, vinyl flooring and
blinds are expensed as incurred.

    In conjunction with acquisitions of properties, the Company's policy is to
provide in its acquisition budgets adequate funds to complete any deferred
maintenance items to bring the properties to the required standard, including
the cost of replacement appliances, carpet, interior painting, vinyl flooring
and blinds. These costs are capitalized.

    Depreciation is computed on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful
lives of the related assets which range from 8 to 40 years for land improvements
and buildings and 5 years for furniture, fixtures and equipment.

    The Company records all gains and losses on real estate in accordance with
SFAS No. 66. The total gain for the period ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998 was approximately $11,587,000, $10,237,000 and $408,000, respectively.

                                      F-7

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND LONG-LIVED ASSETS TO BE DISPOSED OF

    The Company accounts for long-lived assets in accordance with the provisions
of SFAS No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for
Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of." This Statement requires that long-lived
assets and certain identifiable intangibles be reviewed for impairment whenever
events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset
may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured
by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to future net cash flows
expected to be generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be
impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the amount by which the
carrying amount of the assets exceeds the fair value of the assets. Assets to be
disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or fair value less
costs to sell.

    Development projects and the related carrying costs, including interest,
property taxes, insurance and allocated development overhead during the
construction period, are capitalized and reported in the accompanying balance
sheet as "construction in progress" during the construction period. Upon
completion and certification for occupancy of individual units within a
development, amounts representing the completed unit's portion of total
estimated development costs for the project are transferred to land, buildings,
and furniture, fixtures and equipment as real estate held for investment.
Capitalization of interest, property taxes, insurance and allocated development
overhead costs ceases upon the transfer, and the assets are depreciated over
their estimated useful lives. Total interest capitalized during 2000, 1999 and
1998 was $3,730,000, $3,967,000 and $4,265,000, respectively.

LAND HELD FOR FUTURE DEVELOPMENT

    Real estate held for future development consists primarily of sites intended
for future multifamily developments.

INVESTMENT IN AND ADVANCES TO REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE

    The Company's investment in an unconsolidated real estate joint venture is
recorded on the equity method as the Company does not have a controlling
interest in the joint venture. The portion of the gain realized upon the
Company's sale of apartment communities to the joint venture was deferred in
proportion to the Company's ownership interest in the joint venture. The
deferred gain will be amortized over 20 years, which approximates the useful
life of the joint venture's real estate assets.

DEFERRED COSTS AND OTHER INTANGIBLES

    Deferred financing costs are amortized over the terms of the related debt
using a method which approximates the interest method. Cost in excess of fair
value of net assets acquired is amortized using the straight-line method over
30 years.

DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    The Company has only limited involvement with derivative financial
instruments and does not use them for trading purposes. The Company utilizes
derivative financial instruments as hedges in anticipation of future debt
transactions to manage well-defined interest rate risk or as protection to hedge
the interest

                                      F-8

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

1.  ORGANIZATION AND SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES (CONTINUED)
rate risk of the Company's variable rate debt by locking the effective rate on
portions of the outstanding lines of credit.

    For interest rate swaps, the differential to be paid or received is accrued
and recognized in interest expense and may change as interest rates change. If a
swap is terminated prior to maturity, the gain or loss is recognized over the
remaining original life of the swap if the item hedged remains outstanding, or
immediately, if the item hedged does not remain outstanding. If the swap is not
terminated prior to maturity, but the underlying hedged item is no longer
outstanding, the interest rate swap is marked to market and any unrealized gain
or loss is recognized immediately.

RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

    In June 1998, the FASB issued SFAS No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative
Instruments and Hedging Activities" (SFAS 133). SFAS 133 was later amended by
SFAS No. 137 and SFAS No. 138. SFAS 133, as amended, requires recognition of the
fair value of all derivative instruments, including certain derivative
instruments embedded in other contracts (collectively referred to as
derivatives), on the balance sheet and establishes new accounting rules for
hedging activities. The Company adopted FAS 133, as amended, on January 1, 2001.
The adoption did not impact the Company's results of operations, cash flows or
financial position.

RECLASSIFICATION

    Certain prior year amounts have been reclassified to conform with 2000
presentation. The reclassifications had no effect on net income available for
common shareholders.

2.  SALE OF DEVELOPMENT, CONSTRUCTION AND FEE MANAGEMENT BUSINESSES

    On June 30, 1999, the Company sold its development, construction and fee
management businesses back to the principals of Flournoy Development Company
("Flournoy"). The Company received net proceeds of $18.1 million for these
assets and recorded a net loss of approximately $4.0 million, relating mainly to
the write-off of goodwill related to the original purchase transaction. In the
transaction, Flournoy reacquired the development businesses, related fixed
assets including single family development, land and property held for sale, and
the fee management business of 5,131 tax credit apartment units. The Company has
contracted with Flournoy to complete the remaining portion of its development
pipeline which was estimated to be approximately $17 million at December 31,
2000.

3.  REAL ESTATE JOINT VENTURE

    The Company currently owns a 33.3% interest in a joint venture (the "Joint
Venture") with Blackstone Real Estate Acquisitions, LLC ("Blackstone") which was
formed in 1999 when the Company sold 10 apartment communities containing 2,793
apartment units to the Joint Venture for $97.9 million. The Company made an
initial investment and advances to the Joint Venture totaling approximately
$8 million and manages the communities for a fee of 4% of revenues.

    The Company recognized a gain of approximately $9.0 million and deferred
gains for the Company's retained interest of approximately $4.8 million. The
Joint Venture had a total of $106 million of undepreciated gross assets and
$88 million of liabilities at December 31, 2000.

                                      F-9

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

4.  BORROWINGS

    The Company maintains an $85 million securitized credit facility with a
group of banks led by AmSouth Bank (the "Amsouth Credit Line"). The Amsouth
Credit Line bears an interest rate of LIBOR plus a spread ranging from 1.35% to
1.75% (1.35% at December 31, 2000) based on certain quarterly coverage
calculations established by the agreement. This credit line expires in May 2002
and is subject to certain borrowing base calculations that effectively reduce
the amount that may be borrowed. At December 31, 2000, the Company had
$7.4 million outstanding on the AmSouth Credit Line and had another
$31.8 million available to be borrowed under the agreement.

    The Company also maintains a $295 million secured credit facility with FNMA
(the "FNMA Facility") which matures in 2009. The FNMA Facility provides for both
fixed and variable rate borrowings. The interest rate on the variable portion
renews every 90 days and is based on the FNMA mortgage backed security rate on
the date of renewal, which has historically approximated three month LIBOR less
a spread ranging from .05%-.10%, plus a fee of .67%. Borrowings under the FNMA
Facility totaled $198.1 million at December 31, 2000, consisting of $65 million
under the fixed portion at a rate of 7.712% and the remaining $133.1 million
under the variable rate portion of the facility. During 2000, the Company
entered into two interest rate swap agreements, totaling $50 million to lock the
interest rate on a portion of the variable rate borrowings outstanding under the
FNMA Facility at approximately 7.4%. The FNMA Facility is subject to certain
borrowing base calculations that effectively reduce the amount that may be
borrowed. The total amount available under these calculations was outstanding as
of December 31, 2000.

    The Company also had outstanding at December 31, 2000 a $10 million
unsecured short-term note payable with Compass Bank, which matures in May 2001.

    At December 31, 2000, the Company had $75.5 million (after considering the
interest rate swaps) variable rate debt outstanding at an average interest rate
of 7.2% and an additional $32 million of tax-free variable rate debt outstanding
at an average rate of 5.812%; all other debt was fixed at an average interest
rate of 7.19%.

    During 2000, the Company paid off a portion of its note payable to
Prudential Mortgage, which is secured by several properties. The payment was
related to the disposition of one of the properties securing the note, and the
Company incurred a prepayment penalty of approximately $204,000, net of minority
interest, related to the early extinguishment of the mortgage which is included
in "Extraordinary items--loss on early extinguishment of debt" in the
accompanying financial statements.

    The Company had approximately $565.6 million and $570.8 million at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively, outstanding under various mortgage
notes and bonds payable secured by real estate assets.

    The Company had outstanding $142 million aggregate principal amount of
6.376% Bonds due 2003 (the "Bonds"). The Bonds are secured by a first priority
deed of trust, security agreement and assignment of rents and leases in respect
of 26 mortgaged properties, with a net book value of $201 million at
December 31, 2000.

    During 1999, the Company paid certain borrowings prior to maturity and
incurred prepayment costs of $67,000, net of minority interest, related to the
early extinguishment. During 1998, the Company refinanced certain notes payable
and refunded certain bonds incurring prepayment costs totaling $990,000, net of
minority interest, related to the early extinguishment. For 1999 and 1998, these
costs are included in "Extraordinary items--loss on early extinguishment of
debt" in the accompanying financial statements.

                                      F-10

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

4.  BORROWINGS (CONTINUED)
    As of December 31, 2000, the Company estimated that the weighted average
interest rate on the Company's debt was 7.14% with an average maturity of
10.9 years.

    The following table summarizes the Company's indebtedness at December 31,
2000.



    Scheduled principal repayments on the borrowings at December 31, 2000 are as
follows (dollars in thousands):



    The Company's indebtedness includes various restrictive financial covenants.
The Company believes that it was in compliance with these covenants as of
December 31, 2000.

5.  FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

    Cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts payable, accrued
expenses and other liabilities and security deposits are carried at amounts
which reasonably approximate their fair value due to their short term nature.

    Fixed rate notes payable at December 31, 2000 and 1999 total $673.8 million
and $563.9 million, respectively, and have an estimated fair value of
$678.71 million and $541.5 million (excluding prepayment penalties) based upon
interest rates available for the issuance of debt with similar terms and
remaining maturities as of December 31, 2000 and 1999. The carrying value of
variable rate notes payable at December 31, 2000 and 1999 total $107.3 million
and $180.3 million, respectively, which reasonably

                                      F-11

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

5.  FAIR VALUE DISCLOSURE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (CONTINUED)
approximates their fair value because the related variable interest rates
available for the issuance of debt with similar terms and remaining maturities
reasonably approximate market rates.

    The Company has three interest rate swap agreements for $25 million notional
amount each which were outstanding as of December 31, 2000. The Company
estimates that at December 31, 2000, the combined fair market value of all the
interest rate swaps outstanding was $(2.2) million.

    The fair value estimates presented herein are based on information available
to management as of December 31, 2000 and 1999. Although management is not aware
of any factors that would significantly affect the estimated fair value amounts,
such amounts have not been comprehensively revalued for purposes of these
financial statements since that date, and current estimates of fair value may
differ significantly from the amounts presented herein.

6.  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    The Company is not presently subject to any material litigation nor, to the
Company's knowledge, is any material litigation threatened against the Company,
other than routine litigation arising in the ordinary course of business, some
of which is expected to be covered by liability insurance and none of which is
expected to have a material adverse effect on the consolidated financial
statements of the Company.

    The Company had total expenses related to operating leases for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998 of $407,000, $256,000, and $138,000,
respectively.

    The Company's commitments for the next five years under operating lease
agreements outstanding at December 31, 2000 are as follows:



7.  INCOME TAXES

    No provision for federal income taxes has been made in the accompanying
consolidated financial statements. The Company has made an election to be taxed
as a Real Estate Investment Trust ("REIT") under Sections 856 through 860 of the
Code. As a REIT, the Company generally is not subject to Federal income tax to
the extent it distributes 95% (through December 31, 1999 and 90% thereafter) of
its REIT taxable income to its shareholders and meets certain other tests
relating to the number of shareholders, types of assets and allocable income. If
the Company fails to qualify as a REIT in any taxable year, the Company will be
subject to the Federal income tax (including any applicable alternative minimum
tax) on its taxable income at regular corporate rates. Even though the Company
qualifies for taxation as a REIT, the Company may be subject to certain Federal,
state and local taxes on its income and property and to Federal income and
excise tax on its undistributed income.

                                      F-12

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

7.  INCOME TAXES (CONTINUED)
    Earnings and profits, which determine the taxability of dividends to
shareholders, differ from net income reported for financial reporting purposes
primarily because of differences in depreciable lives, bases of certain assets
and liabilities and in the timing of recognition of earnings upon disposition of
properties. For federal income tax purposes, the following summarizes the
taxability of cash distributions paid on the common shares in 1999 and 1998 and
the estimated taxability for 2000:



8.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

SERIES A PREFERRED STOCK

    Series A Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series A Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.375 per share, payable monthly. The Company issued has
outstanding 2,000,000 Series A Preferred shares for which it received net
proceeds of $47.8 million. On and after November 1, 2001, the Series A Preferred
shares will be redeemable for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in
part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference plus dividends
accrued and unpaid to the redemption date.

SERIES B PREFERRED STOCK

    Series B Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series B Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.21875 per share, payable monthly. The Company issued has
outstanding 1,938,830 Series B Preferred shares for which it received net
proceeds of $46.6 million. On and after December 1, 2002, the Series B Preferred
shares will be redeemable for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in
part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference plus dividends
accrued and unpaid to the redemption date.

SERIES C PREFERRED STOCK

    Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock ("Series C Preferred Stock")
has a $25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative
annual distribution of $2.34375 per share, payable quarterly. The Company has
outstanding 2,000,000 Series C Preferred shares for which it received net
proceeds of $48.1 million. On and after June 30, 2003, the Series C Preferred
shares will be redeemable for cash at the option of the Company, in whole or in
part, at a redemption price equal to the liquidation preference plus dividends
accrued and unpaid to the redemption date.

                                      F-13

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

8.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
SERIES D PREFERRED STOCK--SHAREHOLDERS RIGHTS PLAN

    During December 1998, the Board of Directors authorized a Shareholders
Rights Plan (the "Rights Plan"). In implementing the Rights Plan, the Board
declared a distribution of one right for each of the Company's outstanding
common shares which would become exercisable only if a person or group (the
"Acquiring Person") becomes the beneficial owner of 10% or more of the common
shares or announces a tender or exchange offer that would result in ownership of
10% of the Company's common shares. The rights will trade with the Company's
common stock until exercisable. Each holder of a right, other than the Acquiring
Person, is in that event entitled to purchase one common share of the Company
for each right at one half of the then current price.

SERIES E PREFERRED STOCK

    Series E Cumulative Preferred Stock ("Series E Preferred Stock") has a
$25.00 per share liquidation preference and a preferential cumulative annual
distribution of $2.375 per share, payable monthly. The Company has outstanding
1,000,000 Series E Preferred shares issued in a direct placement with a private
investor. The Company received net proceeds of $24.7 million. In December 2003,
the securities may be required by the purchaser to be redeemed by the Company in
cash or common stock, at the Company's option, at the then market price. The
Series E Preferred Stock is equal in rank with the Company's other series of
Preferred Stock with respect to the payment of dividends and amounts upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding up.

DIRECT STOCK PURCHASE AND DISTRIBUTION REINVESTMENT PLAN

    In January 1999 the Company adopted the DSPDRP pursuant to which the
Company's shareholders have the ability to reinvest all or part of distributions
from Mid-America common stock, preferred stock or limited partnership interests
in Mid-America Apartments, L.P. Also, the plan provides the opportunity for
shareholders to buy additional shares through an optional cash investment. This
plan replaced the Company's previous Dividend Reinvestment and Stock Purchase
Plan (the "DRSPP"). The Company has registered with the Securities and Exchange
Commission the offer and sale of up to 1,600,000 shares of common stock pursuant
to the DSPDRP and DRSPP. Additional shares will be purchased at the market price
on the "Investment Date" each month, which shall in no case be later than ten
business days following the distribution payment date. Common stock shares
totaling 25,242, in 2000, 111,637 in 1999, and 62,175 in 1998 were acquired by
shareholders.

STOCK REPURCHASE PLAN

    In 1999, the Company's Board of Directors approved a stock repurchase plan
to acquire up to a total of 4.0 million shares of the Company's common shares.
Through December 31, 2000, the Company has repurchased and retired approximately
1.7 million shares of common stock for a cost of approximately $39 million at an
average price per common share of $22.56.

EARNINGS PER SHARE

    The computation of basic earnings per share is based on the weighted average
number of common shares outstanding. The computation of diluted earnings per
share is based on the weighted average

                                      F-14

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

8.  SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (CONTINUED)
number of common shares outstanding plus the shares resulting from the assumed
exercise of all dilutive outstanding options using the treasury stock method.
The Series E Preferred Shares, which may be convertible five years from the date
of issuance, are not included in the calculation because the assumed conversion
would be anti-dilutive.

    A reconciliation of the numerators and denominators of the basic and diluted
earnings per share computations for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and
1998 is presented on the Consolidated Statements of Operations.

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

401(K) SAVINGS PLAN

    The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan is a defined
contribution plan that satisfies the requirements of Section 401(a) and 401(k)
of the Code. The Company may, but is not obligated to, make a matching
contribution of $.50 for each $1.00 contributed, up to 6% of the participant's
compensation. The Company's contribution to this plan was $216,000, $204,200 and
$318,200 in 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

NON-QUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN

    The Company has adopted a non-qualified deferred compensation plan for key
employees who are not qualified for participation in the Company's 401(k)
Savings Plan. Under the terms of the plan, employees may elect to defer a
percentage of their compensation and the Company matches a portion of their
salary deferral. The plan is designed so that the employees' investment earnings
under the non-qualified plan should be the same as the earning assets in the
Company's 401(k) Savings Plan. The Company's match to this plan in 2000, 1999
and 1998 was $27,800, $17,300 and $19,100, respectively.

EMPLOYEE STOCK PURCHASE PLAN

    The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Purchase Plan
(the "ESPP") provides a means for employees to purchase common stock of the
Company. The Board has authorized the issuance of 150,000 shares for the plan.
The ESPP is administered by the Compensation Committee who may annually grant
options to employees to purchase annually up to an aggregate of 15,000 shares of
common stock at a price equal to 85% of the market price of the common stock.
During 2000, 1999 and 1998, the ESPP purchased 4,326, 6,721 and 5,242 shares,
respectively.

EMPLOYEE STOCK OWNERSHIP PLAN

    The Mid-America Apartment Communities, Inc. Employee Stock Ownership Plan
(the "ESOP") is a non-contributory stock bonus plan that satisfies the
requirements of Section 401(a) of the Internal Revenue Code. Each employee of
the Company is eligible to participate in the ESOP after attaining the age of
21 years and completing one year of service with the Company. Participants' ESOP
accounts will be 100% vested after five years of continuous service, with no
vesting prior to that time. The Company contributed 22,500 shares of common
stock to the ESOP upon conclusion of the Initial Offering. During 2000, 1999 and
1998, the Company contributed $600,400, $640,100 and $448,300, respectively, to
the ESOP which purchased an additional 25,967, 28,233 and 17,156 shares,
respectively.

                                      F-15

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
STOCK OPTION PLAN

    The Company has adopted the 1994 Restricted Stock and Stock Option Plan (the
"Plan") to provide incentives to attract and retain independent directors,
executive officers and key employees. The Plan provides for the grant of options
to purchase a specified number of shares of common stock ("Options") or grants
of restricted shares of common stock ("Restricted Stock"). The Plan also allows
the Company to grant options to purchase Operating Partnership Units at the
price of the common stock on the New York Stock Exchange on the day prior to
issuance of the units (the "LESOP Provision"). The Plan authorizes the issuance
of 2,000,000 common shares or options to acquire shares which vest over five
years. Under the terms of the Plan, the Company can advance directors, executive
officers, and key employees a portion of the cost of the common stock or units.
The employee advances mature five years from date of issuance and accrue
interest, payable in arrears, at a rate established at the date of issuance. The
Company has also entered into supplemental bonus agreements with the employees
which are intended to fund the payment of a portion of the advances over a five
year period. Under the terms of the supplemental bonus agreements, the Company
will pay bonuses to these employees equal to 3% of the original note balance on
each anniversary date of the advance, limited to 15% of the aggregate purchase
price of the shares and units. The advances become due and payable and the bonus
agreement will terminate if the employees voluntarily terminate their employment
with the Company. The Company also agreed to pay a bonus to certain executive
officers in an amount equal to the debt service on the advances for as long as
they remain employed by the Company.

    As of December 31, 2000, the Company had advances outstanding relating to
the Plan totaling $1,171,000, which is presented as a reduction to shareholders'
equity in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Advances to executive
officers totaled $840,000 at interest rates ranging from 5.59%-6.49% and
maturing at various dates from 2002 to 2005. Advances to key employees totaled
$331,000 at interest rates ranging from 7.5%-9.0% maturing at various dates from
2002 to 2005.

    Additionally in 2000, the Company issued 5,450 restricted stock shares to
current independent directors at a price of $22.1875 per share. These shares
will vest in one year. The Company also issued 10,750 restricted stock shares to
executive officers at a price of $22.1875. These shares will vest 10% each over
the next ten years. The executive officers have the option to accelerate the
vesting in lieu of bonuses.

                                      F-16

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

9.  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS (CONTINUED)
    A summary of changes in Options to acquire shares of the Company's common
stock and Operating Partnership Units, including grants and exercises pursuant
to the LESOP provision, for the three years ended December 31, 2000 is as
follows:



    Exercise prices for options outstanding as of December 31, 2000 ranged from
$19.75 to $29.50. The weighted average remaining contractual life of those
options is 7.0 years.

    The Company has adopted SFAS No. 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation", which requires either the (i) fair value of employee stock-based
compensation plans be recorded as a component of compensation expense in the
statement of operations as of the date of grant of awards related to such plans,
or (ii) impact of such fair value on net income and earnings per share be
disclosed on a pro forma basis in a footnote to financial statements for awards
granted after December 15, 1994, if the accounting for such awards continues to
be in accordance with Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting
for Stock Issued to Employees," ("APB 25"). The Company will continue such
accounting under the provisions of APB 25. If the fair value method of
accounting allowed under SFAS No. 123 had been used by the Company, the pro
forma net income available to common shareholders would have been $13,494,000,
$17,254,000, $14,681,000 for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The pro forma
diluted net income available per common share would have been $0.77, $0.92 and
$0.78 for 2000, 1999 and 1998, respectively. The calculation was prepared using
the Black-Scholes option pricing model using the following factors: 1) risk free
interest rate of 5.28% and 6.38% for 2000 and 1999, respectively, 2) expected
life of 7.0 years and 7.3 years for 2000 and 1999, respectively, 3) expected
volatility of 14.05% and 19.14% for 2000 and 1999, respectively, and
4) expected dividends of 10.16% for both 2000 and 1999. The weighted average
fair value of all options granted during the year is $8,938,000 at a weighted
average option price of $22.29 per share.

                                      F-17

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

10.  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS WITH OFF-BALANCE SHEET RISK

    The Company has only limited involvement with derivative financial
instruments and does not use them for trading purposes. The Company occasionally
utilizes derivative financial instruments as hedges in anticipation of future
debt transactions to manage well-defined interest rate risk or as protection to
hedge the interest rate risk of the Company's variable rate debt by locking the
effective rate on portions of the outstanding lines of credit.

    During 2000, the Company entered two interest rate swap agreements, each
with a notional amount of $25 million, to effectively lock the interest rate on
$50 million of the FNMA Credit Facility at approximately 7.4%. The swap
agreements expire in September of 2005 and 2006.

    In 1998, the Company entered an interest rate swap agreement which expires
on August 15, 2003 that effectively locks the interest rate the Company pays on
a portion of its AmSouth Credit Line. As of December 31, 2000, $25 million
notional amount was outstanding on this agreement with a fixed interest rate
paid by the Company of 7.17%.

11.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    Pursuant to a management contract with the Joint Venture, the Company
manages the operations of the 10 Joint Venture apartment communities for a fee
of 4% of the revenues of the Joint Venture. The Company received approximately
$737,000 and $453,000 as management fees from the Joint Venture in 2000 and
1999, respectively.

    As described in Note 2, the Company sold its development, construction and
management fee business in June 1999 to a director of the Company. The director
was a former principle of Flournoy, which was acquired by the Company in
November 1997. The Company has contracted with Flournoy to complete the
remaining portion of its development pipeline, which is expected to be
accomplished during 2001.

12.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

    At December 31, 2000, the Company owned or had an ownership interest in 124
multifamily apartment communities, including the 10 apartment communities owned
by the Joint Venture, in 13 different states from which it derives all
significant sources of earnings and operating cash flows. The Company's
operational structure is organized on a decentralized basis, with individual
property managers having overall responsibility and authority regarding the
operations of their respective properties. Each property manager individually
monitors local and area trends in rental rates, occupancy percentages, and
operating costs. Property managers are given the on-site responsibility and
discretion to react to such trends in the best interest of the Company. The
Company's chief operating decision maker evaluates the performance of each
individual property based on its contribution to net operating income in order
to ensure that the individual property continues to meet the Company's return
criteria and long term investment goals. The Company defines each of its
multifamily communities as an individual operating segment. It has also
determined that all of its communities have similar economic characteristics and
also meet the other criteria which permit the communities to be aggregated into
one reportable segment, which is acquisition, development, and operation of the
multifamily communities owned.

    The revenues, net operating income, assets and real estate investment
capital expenditures for the aggregated multifamily segment are summarized as
follows for the years ended as of December 31, 2000,

                                      F-18

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

12.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)
1999 and 1998 (in 000's): For purposes of this disclosure, multifamily revenues,
net operating income and real estate assets include amounts related to the 10
properties owned by the unconsolidated Joint Venture.



                                      F-19

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

12.  SEGMENT INFORMATION (CONTINUED)



13.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

DECLARATION OF DIVIDEND

    The Company declared a 2000 fourth quarter common stock dividend of $0.585
per share in January 2001 to be paid January 31, 2001 to holders of record on
January 24, 2001.

INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENT

    In January 2001, the Company entered into an interest rate swap agreement
with a notional amount of $25 million, the effect of which was to lock the
interest rate on $25 million of the FNMA Credit Facility at approximately 6.2%.
The swap agreement expires December 1, 2005.

                                      F-20

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)

                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000, 1999 AND 1998

14.  SELECTED QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                      QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA (UNAUDITED)
                  (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS EXCEPT PER SHARE DATA)





                                      F-21

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-22

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
              REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION (CONTINUED)
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-23

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-24

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-25

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


                                      F-26

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)


- ------------------------------

 (1) Encumbered by the FNMA Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of $83.1
     million with a variable interest rate of 7.218%, $65 million with a fixed
     rate of 7.712% and two interest rate swap agreements both for $25 million
     at 7.383% and 7.360% at December 31, 2000.

 (2) Encumbered by a $39.6 million mortgage with a maturity of July 1, 2001 and
     an interest rate of 8.650%

 (3) Encumbered by a $142 million bond with a maturity of March 3, 2003 and an
     average interest rate of 6.376%

 (4) Encumbered, along with one corporate property, by a $35.8 million mortgage
     with a maturity of April 1, 2005 and an interest rate of 7.000%

 (5) Encumbered by the AmSouth Credit Line, with an outstanding balance of $7.4
     million with a variable interest rate of 8.750% at December 31, 2000.

 (6) Encumbered by a $15.7 million mortgage securing a tax-exempt bond
     amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of 5.750%

 (7) Encumbered by a $13.7 million mortgage securing a tax-exempt bond
     amortizing over 25 years with an average interest rate of 5.281%

 (8) Encumbered by a $47.5 million mortgage with a maturity of December 15, 2004
     and an interest rate of 7.040%

 (9) Encumbered by a $9.6 million mortgage securing a tax-exempt bond amortizing
     over 25 years with an average interest rate of 6.090%

 (10) Depreciation is on a straight line basis over the estimated useful asset
      life which ranges from 8 to 40 years for land improvements and buildings
      and 5 years for furniture , fixtures and equipment.

 (11) The aggregate cost for Federal income tax purposes was approximately
      $1,416 million at December 31, 2000. The total gross amount of real estate
      assets for GAAP purposes exceeds the aggregate cost for Federal income tax
      purposes, principally due to purchase accounting adjustments recorded
      under accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
      America.

                                      F-27

                    MID-AMERICA APARTMENT COMMUNITIES, INC.

                                  SCHEDULE III

              REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION

    A summary of activity for real estate investments and accumulated
depreciation is as follows:



The Company's consolidated balance sheet at December 31, 2000 includes
accumulated depreciation of $2,251 in the caption "Commercial properties, net".

                 See accompanying independent auditors' report.

                                      F-28

