
10-K
10-K





                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549

                                    FORM 10-K

                ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                       THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

              FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
                  DECEMBER 31, 1999                   0-11757


                       J.B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                 ARKANSAS                                    71-0335111
      (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                     (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
       INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                    IDENTIFICATION NO.)

          615 J.B. HUNT CORPORATE DRIVE                        72745
                LOWELL, ARKANSAS                            (ZIP CODE)
      (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

               REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:
                                 (501) 820-0000

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                          COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF
1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO THE
FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR AT LEAST THE PAST 90 DAYS.
                                            YES __X__   NO _____

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM 405
OF REGULATION S-K (SECTION 229.405 OF THIS CHAPTER) IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN,
AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN
DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART
III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K. [ ]

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF 17,213,282 SHARES OF THE REGISTRANT'S $.01 PAR
VALUE COMMON STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF FEBRUARY 18,
2000 WAS $187,194,442 (BASED UPON $10.875 PER SHARE BEING THE CLOSING SALE
PRICE ON THAT DATE, AS REPORTED BY NASDAQ). IN MAKING THIS CALCULATION, THE
ISSUER HAS ASSUMED, WITHOUT ADMITTING FOR ANY PURPOSE, THAT ALL EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT, AND NO OTHER PERSONS, ARE AFFILIATES.

     THE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF EACH OF THE REGISTRANT'S CLASSES OF
               COMMON STOCK, AS OF FEBRUARY 18, 2000: 35,638,986.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

           CERTAIN PORTIONS OF THE NOTICE AND PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE
     ANNUAL MEETING OF THE STOCKHOLDERS TO BE HELD APRIL 20, 2000 PART II.




PART I
ITEM 1.   BUSINESS
- ------------------
GENERAL
     J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., together with its wholly-owned
subsidiaries ("JBH" or the "Company"), is a diversified transportation
services and logistics company operating under the jurisdiction of the U.S.
Department of Transportation (DOT) and various state regulatory agencies. JBH
is an Arkansas holding company incorporated on August 10, 1961. Through its
subsidiaries JBH provides a wide range of logistics and transportation
services to a diverse group of customers. The Company directly manages or
provides tailored, technology-driven solutions to a growing list of Fortune
500 companies. These customers may request specifically targeted
transportation service or outsource their entire logistics function to JBH.
The Company also directly transports full-load containerizable freight
throughout the continental United States and portions of Canada and Mexico.
Transportation services may utilize JBH equipment and employees, or may employ
equipment and services provided by unrelated third parties in the
transportation industry. For the periods presented, the Company had three
distinct operating segments: Van/Intermodal ("Van"); J.B. Hunt Logistics
("JBHL"); and Dedicated Contract Services ("DCS"). See Note (9) Segment
Information of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

     VAN
     Primary transportation service offerings classified in this segment
include full truck-load, dry-van, containerizable freight which is typically
transported utilizing company-owned revenue equipment. Freight is picked up at
the dock or specified location of the shipper and transported directly to the
location of the consignee. The load may be transported entirely by
company-owned and controlled power equipment or a portion of the movement may
be handled by a third-party motor carrier or a railroad. Approximately 46% of
Van revenue in 1999 was transported by a railroad for a portion of the
movement. If any portion of a movement is handled by a railroad, the entire
amount billed to the customer is considered to be intermodal revenue.
Typically, the charges for the entire movement are billed to the customer by
the Company and the Company, in turn, pays the railroad or third-party for
their portion of the transportation services provided. In 1993, rail
operations were expanded to utilize high-cube containers which can be
separated from the chassis and double-stacked on rail cars to provide improved
productivity. Freight may be transported by rail utilizing traditional
trailer-on-flatcar (TOFC) medium for a portion of the line-haul, or containers
separated from the chassis, double-stacked on railcars and moved as
container-on-flatcar (COFC). The Company has agreements with eight different
railroads and substantially all of the freight carried under these rail
arrangements receives priority space on trains and preferential loading and
unloading service at rail facilities.

     JBH Van has certain Canadian authorities which were initially granted in
1988 and may transport freight to and from all points in the continental
United States to Quebec, British Columbia and Ontario. The Company has
authorization to operate directly in all the Canadian provinces, but to date
has served limited points in Canada, primarily through interchange operations
with Canadian motor carriers. The Company has provided transportation services
to and from Mexico since 1989, primarily through interchange operations with
various Mexican motor carriers. A joint venture agreement with Transportacion
Maritima Mexicana, one of the largest transportation companies in Mexico, was
signed in 1992. At December 31, 1999, Van operated approximately 6,730
tractors and 35,300 trailers/containers. Van gross operating revenues were
$1,415 million in 1999, an increase of 3% over 1998.

     JBHL
     The Company formally began offering transportation logistics services in
1992. JBHL services typically refer to an arrangement whereby a shipper may
outsource a substantial portion of or their entire distribution and
transportation process to one organization. JBHL provides a wide range of
comprehensive transportation and management services including experienced
professional managers, information and optimization technology, and the actual
design or redesign of system solutions. A new JBHL customer or arrangement may
require a significant amount of up-front analysis and design time while
alternatives are considered and custom systems and software are developed.
Once a logistics arrangement is in place, JBHL may utilize Van and/or DCS
owned and controlled transportation equipment, unrelated third-party equipment
and employees, or a combination to meet the customer's service requirements.
JBHL gross operating revenues were $388 million in 1999, an increase of 22%
over 1998.




     DCS
     The Company began formally offering dedicated contract services in 1992.
DCS operations typically include company-owned revenue equipment and employee
drivers that are assigned to a specific customer, traffic lane or service. The
service is engineered and customized for the specific customer and is
typically in accordance with a written, long-term agreement. Frequently DCS
operations provide service to customers that wish to augment or outsource
their private fleet. It is common for one customer's dedicated service
requirements to relate to limited traffic lanes or freight moving in only one
direction. As a result, DCS operations frequently utilize Van freight to
provide backhauls which allow equipment to be repositioned for the DCS
customer's next movement. The DCS and Van segments also frequently share
facilities such as terminals, maintenance shops, bulk fuel locations and
trailer pools. At December 31, 1999, DCS operated approximately 2,700 tractors
and 4,150 trailers. DCS gross operating revenues were $320 million in 1999, an
increase of 51% over 1998.

     OTHER
     Prior to 1996, the Company had operated additional businesses including a
flatbed division, a business that transported small parcels, and a division
that specialized in the transportation of hazardous commodities. In early
1996, the Company embarked upon a strategy to concentrate its efforts on Van,
JBHL and DCS. In accordance with that strategy, assets and operations of other
service offerings were subsequently sold. The small parcel and hazardous
commodities businesses were sold in 1996 and the flatbed business was sold in
1997.

     The Company announced in late 1999, a decision to split the Van business
into separate intermodal and truck business segments. This separation is in
progress and the Company intends to begin reporting on four segments
(Intermodal, Truck, JBHL and DCS) in the first quarter of 2000.

MARKETING AND OPERATIONS
     JBH transports a wide range of products including automotive parts,
department store merchandise, paper and wood products, food and beverages,
plastics, chemicals and manufacturing materials and supplies. The Company's
primary customers include many of the "Fortune 500" companies, but no single
customer accounted for more than 8% of revenues during 1999. A broad
geographic dispersion and a good balance in the type of freight transported
allows JBH some protection from major seasonal fluctuations. However,
consistent with the truckload industry in general, freight is typically
stronger during the second half of the year, with peak volume occurring in
August through mid November. Revenue and earnings are also affected by bad
weather, holidays, fuel prices and railroad service levels.

     The Company generally markets all three of its service offerings through
a nationwide marketing network. All transportation services offered are
typically billed directly to the customer by JBH and all inquiries, claims and
other customer contacts are handled by the Company. Certain marketing, sales,
engineering and design functions are assigned to each operating segment.
However, marketing strategy, pricing and national account service coordination
is managed at the corporate level.

 PERSONNEL
     At December 31, 1999, JBH employed approximately 14,700 people, including
10,600 drivers. Historically the truckload transportation industry and the
Company have experienced shortages of qualified drivers. In addition, driver
turnover rates for truckload motor carriers frequently exceed 100%. In
September of 1996, J.B. Hunt announced a new compensation program for the
approximate 3,500 over-the-road Van drivers. This comprehensive package, which
was effective February 25, 1997, included an average 33% increase in wages for
this group of employees. This program was designed to attract and retain a
professional and experienced work force capable of delivering a high level of
customer service. As anticipated, this increase in driver wages and benefits
was partially offset by lower driver recruiting and training expense, reduced
accident costs and better equipment utilization. The average driver turnover
in the Van business was 49% in 1999 and 46% in 1998, down from 86% in 1996.
Drivers are frequently designated as local, regional, regular route or
dedicated and over-the-road and typically compensated on a rate-per-mile
basis, a rate-per-week basis or a combination of factors. JBH also employed
approximately 2,920 office personnel and 1,150 mechanics at December 31, 1999.
No employees are represented by collective bargaining agreements and
management believes that its relationship with its employees is excellent.




REVENUE EQUIPMENT
     At December 31, 1999, JBH owned approximately 9,460 tractors and operated
17,320 trailers and 22,150 containers. JBH believes that modern, late-model,
clean equipment differentiates quality customer service, increases equipment
utilization and reduces maintenance costs and downtime. Accordingly, the
average age of the Van tractor and trailing fleet was approximately two years
and four years, respectively, at December 31, 1999. In 1993, the Company
commenced receiving a newly-designed container and chassis combination that
could be transported over the road by truck and also be moved by rail or ship.
The container and chassis may be transported as a single unit by rail (TOFC)
or the container can be separated from the chassis and double-stacked (COFC)
on rail cars or ships for improved productivity. Containers comprised
approximately 63% of the Van trailing fleet at December 31, 1999. The
composition of the dedicated contract fleet varies with specific customer
service requirements. All JBH revenue equipment is maintained in accordance
with a specific maintenance program primarily based on age and miles traveled.
The JBHL business is non-asset based, since the revenue equipment is provided
by Van, DCS and third parties.

COMPETITION
     JBH is the largest publicly held truckload carrier in the United States.
It competes primarily with other irregular route, truckload common carriers.
Less-than-truckload common carriers and private carriers generally provide
limited competition for truckload carriers. JBH is one of a few carriers
offering nationwide logistics management and dedicated revenue equipment
services. Although a number of carriers may provide competition on a regional
basis, only a limited number of companies represent competition in all
markets. The extensive rail network developed in conjunction with the various
railroads also allows the Company the opportunity to differentiate its
services in the marketplace.

REGULATION
     Prior to December of 1995, the Company's operations in interstate
commerce were regulated by the Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC").
Commencing in January of 1996, the Interstate Commerce Commission Termination
Act closed the ICC and transferred all remaining regulatory responsibilities
to a new Surface Transportation Board and to the Federal Highway
Administration. Motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements
prescribed by the United States DOT governing interstate operation. Such
matters as weight and dimension of equipment and commercial driver's licensing
are also subject to federal and state regulations. A federal requirement that
all drivers obtain a commercial driver's license became effective in April
1992.

     The federal Motor Carrier Act of 1980 was the start of a program to
increase competition among motor carriers and limit the level of regulation in
the industry (sometimes referred to as "deregulation"). The Motor Carrier Act
of 1980 enabled applicants to obtain operating authority more easily and
allowed interstate motor carriers, such as the Company, to change their rates
by a certain percentage per year without approval. The new law also allowed
for the removal of many route and commodity restrictions regarding the
transportation of freight. As a result of the Motor Carrier Act of 1980, the
Company was able to obtain unlimited authority to carry general commodities
throughout the 48 contiguous states. Effective January 1, 1995, the federal
government issued guidelines which allow motor carriers more flexibility in
intrastate operations. Although this reduced level of state regulation
increased the level of competition in some regions, the Company believes it
has ultimately benefited from this legislation.

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES
- --------------------

     The Company's corporate headquarters are in Lowell, Arkansas. A
150,000-square-foot building was constructed and occupied in September 1990.
In addition to the corporate headquarters, the Company owns a separate 40-acre
tract in Lowell, Arkansas with two separate buildings totaling 14,000 square
feet of office space and 50,000 square feet of maintenance and warehouse
space. These buildings serve as the Lowell operations terminal, tractor
maintenance facility and additional administrative offices. A new terminal and
maintenance facility was constructed and occupied in Chicago, Illinois during
1996. A new terminal and maintenance facility was also constructed and
occupied in Kansas City, Missouri during early 1999. In 1999, a new 20,000
square foot building was constructed and occupied near the corporate
headquarters. A portion of this leased facility will serve as a backup data
center and provide disaster recovery support services.




A summary of the Company's principal facilities follows:



In addition to the above facilities, the Company leases numerous small offices
and trailer parking yards in various locations throughout the country.















ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
- ---------------------------

     The Company is involved in certain claims and pending litigation arising
from the normal conduct of business. Based on the present knowledge of the
facts and, in certain cases, opinions of outside counsel, management believes
the resolution of claims and pending litigation will not have a material
adverse effect on the financial condition or results of operations of the
Company.

ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
- -------------------------------------------------------------

     No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of 1999 to a vote of
security holders.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE COMPANY

     Information with respect to the executive officers of the Company is set
forth below:



(1)  Mr. Logan held the Chief Information Officer position until June, 1999, at
     which time Ms. Palmer assumed the Chief Information Officer
     responsibilities.

(2)  Mr. Li joined the Company in 1994 as Senior Vice President of J.B. Hunt
     Logistics. In June of 1995, he was named President of J.B. Hunt Logistics
     and in June of 1998, he was appointed to the additional post of Executive
     Vice President, Integrated Solutions.

(3)  Mr. Roberts joined the Company in 1989 as a management trainee. In
     December of 1990, he became a Regional Marketing Manager. In February of
     1996, he was named Vice President, Marketing Strategy and was appointed
     President, Dedicated Contract Services, in July of 1997. In June of 1998,
     he was appointed to the additional position of Executive Vice President
     of Enterprise Solutions.

(4)  Ms. Palmer joined the Company in 1988 as a programming specialist. In June
     of 1989, she was named Director of Application Services. In June of 1995,
     she was named Vice President of Applications. She became Senior Vice
     President of Information Services in August of 1998 and named Chief
     Information Officer in June of 1999.





PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------
MATTERS
- -------

PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK
     The Company's common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market under
the symbol "JBHT." The following table sets forth, for the calendar years
indicated, the range of high and low sales prices for the Company's common
stock as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated
Quotations National Market System ("NASDAQ").



     On February 18, 2000, the high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock as reported by the NASDAQ were $11.25 and $10.75, respectively.
As of February 18, 2000, the Company had 1,642 stockholders of record.

DIVIDEND POLICY
     On January 21, 2000, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly dividend
of $.05 per share, payable on February 17, 2000 to shareholders of record on
February 3, 2000. The Company declared and paid cash dividends of $.20 per
share in 1999 and 1998. On February 16, 2000, the Board of Directors announced
a decision to discontinue its policy of paying quarterly cash dividends. The
Board indicated an intent to repurchase up to 500,000 shares of outstanding
JBHT common stock with the cash previously used to pay dividends.









ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
- ---------------------------------
(Dollars in millions, except per share amounts)





ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
FINANCIAL CONDITION
- -------------------

     The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with
the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company and related footnotes
appearing in this annual report.

SUMMARY OF 1999
     The 1999 financial and operating results were impacted by a number of
significant items during the year. Van revenue growth was limited to 3%,
partly due to rail service delays which occurred during the second and third
quarters of the year. Intermodal load count declined approximately 3% during
1999, while truck only loads increased about 6%. Tractor count in the Van
segment was essentially flat for the year. Truck only revenue per loaded mile,
before fuel surcharges, was up approximately 1%, while intermodal rates
declined about 1%. Van revenue growth increased slightly during the fourth
quarter of 1999 due to fuel surcharges which were initiated as fuel costs
began to rise significantly. Operating income in the Van segment was reduced,
in part, by higher revenue equipment maintenance and tire costs, and
significant increases in the cost of fuel. In addition, an initiative to
separate the intermodal and truck businesses resulted in higher third party
dray expense during the latter part of the year.

     The 22% increase in JBHL segment revenue during 1999 was consistent with
the prior year. This growth reflected new logistics agreements with new
customers and growth of business volumes with existing customers. The increase
in 1999 JBHL operating income was primarily related to higher revenue levels
with some lower purchased transportation costs providing for slightly better
margins on some business. DCS segment revenue grew 51% to $320.2 million in
1999 from $211.9 million in 1998. This increase in DCS revenue was driven by
new customer contracts and projects and fleet additions to existing contracts.
The higher level of DCS operating income during 1999 was primarily due to the
growth of segment revenue. Margins in the DCS business declined slightly
during 1999, partly due to higher fuel costs and higher driver wage expense.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  1999 COMPARED WITH 1998






         The following table sets forth items in the Consolidated Statements
of Earnings as a percentage of operating revenues and the percentage increase
or decrease of those items as compared with the prior year.



OPERATING EXPENSES
     Total operating expenses in 1999 increased 13% over 1998, while total
operating revenues increased 11%. Operating expenses expressed as a percentage
of operating revenues (operating ratio) were 96.2% in 1999, compared with
94.4% in 1998. Salaries, wages and employee benefits increased 11% during 1999
and remained exactly the same percentage of operating revenue for 1999 and
1998. Purchased transportation expense increased 11.4% and also maintained a
consistent relationship with operating revenues. While fuel costs were below
prior year levels during the first quarter of 1999, cost per gallon started to
rise during March and April. During the third quarter of 1999, fuel prices
averaged nearly $.20 per gallon higher than the comparable period in 1998 and
the spread widened to nearly $.30 per gallon by November of 1999. For the year
1999, fuel and fuel taxes increased 23.1% and grew from 7.5% of operating
revenue in 1998 to 8.3% in 1999.

     Depreciation expense increased 9.9% during 1999, but declined slightly as
a percentage of operating revenues. The amount of depreciation expense on
revenue equipment increased in relative proportion to the size of the fleet.
However, total 1999 depreciation expense also increased due to lower gains on
the sale of certain assets. Gains on asset dispositions reduce depreciation
expense, while losses on dispositions increase depreciation. A net loss of
$849,000 was incurred on dispositions in 1999, which increased depreciation,
compared with gains on dispositions of $4.1 million in 1998, which reduced
depreciation expense. Depreciation expense in 1999 was reduced, in part, by a
sale and immediate leaseback of certain trailing equipment. This transaction
closed during the fourth quarter of 1999. Operating supplies and expenses
increased 22% during 1999 and rose as a percentage of operating revenues. This
increase was primarily due to higher revenue equipment maintenance and tire
expenditures during 1999.

     Insurance and claims expense, which had declined significantly from 1997
to 1998, increased approximately 24% in 1999. While the frequency of vehicle
collisions declined slightly during 1999, the severity, or cost per collision,
rose significantly during 1999. Operating taxes and licenses increased 12.9%
during 1999, partly due to the growth of the tractor fleet and increases in
licensing fees charged by certain states. General and administrative expenses
increased 7.4%, but remained the same percentage of operating revenue for both
years. A portion of this increased expense was for rental and maintenance of
computer equipment. Communication and utilities increased 10.8%, reflecting
expanded data and telecommunications networks and higher satellite
communications costs. Interest expense declined slightly and the effective
income tax rate declined to 35% in 1999 from 37% in 1998. These decreases were
due, in part, to the sale and leaseback transaction described above. The
overall impact of this sale and leaseback transaction increased 1999 earnings
per share by $.02. As a result of this sale and leaseback transaction, future
years' rent expense (included in operating supplies and expenses) will be
greater and depreciation, interest and income tax expense will be less than
what would otherwise have been reported absent the transaction.




     As a result of the above, net earnings for 1999 declined to $31.9 million,
or diluted earnings per share of $.89, compared with $46.8 million in 1998, or
$1.28 per diluted share. The average number of weighted average shares
outstanding (before the effect of dilutive stock options) remained substantially
the same for 1999 and 1998. A decrease in weighted average shares assuming
dilution resulted from the decreased effect of dilutive stock options caused by
a decline in the Company's average price of common stock during 1999.

SUMMARY OF 1998

     J.B. Hunt's 1998 financial and operating results reflected a number of
positive trends when compared with 1997. For the first time since 1996, the
Company experienced a net increase in the tractor fleet. A 9% increase in Van
tractor count and a 17% increase in the Van driver force during 1998 contributed
to a 19% increase in segment revenue. Intermodal revenue, which is included in
the Van segment, increased 12% during 1998 and also helped support revenue
growth. Van truck only revenue per loaded mile increased nearly 2% during 1998,
while intermodal rates declined nearly 3%. The significant increase in the
driver to tractor ratio also helped improve tractor utilization to 2,645 miles
per week in 1998 from 2,555 in 1997. This approximate $225 million increase in
segment revenue and higher tractor utilization contributed to the significant
increase in 1998 operating income. Van earnings were also favorably impacted in
1998 by lower fuel prices and lower insurance and claims costs.

     The 25% increase in the JBHL segment revenue during 1998 was due to new
logistics agreements with new customers and growth of business levels with
existing customers. The increase in 1998 JBHL operating income was primarily
related to the higher revenue levels, as JBHL margins remained relatively
constant. DCS segment revenue increased 41% to $211.9 million in 1998 from
$150.7 million in 1997. This increase in DCS revenue was driven by both new
customer contracts and additional projects or fleet additions to existing
contracts. The higher level of DCS operating income during 1998 was primarily
due to the growth of segment revenue and cost reduction actions in certain
projects. Lower fuel costs also contributed to higher operating income in the
DCS segment. Other revenue in 1997 included the flatbed business which was sold
in 1997.

1998 COMPARED WITH 1997





     The following table sets forth items in the Consolidated Statements of
Earnings as a percentage of operating revenues and the percentage increase or
decrease of those items as compared with the prior year.



OPERATING EXPENSES

         Total operating expenses in 1998 increased 15% over 1997, while total
operating revenues increased nearly 19% during the same period. Operating
expenses expressed as a percentage of operating revenues (operating ratio) were
94.4% in 1998, compared with 97.2% in 1997. Salaries, wages and employee
benefits increased 20% during 1998 and rose to 34.9% of revenue in 1998 from
34.4% in 1997. This increase was primarily due to an increase in driver wages
driven by the mix change of more experienced, higher paid drivers, partly offset
by lower worker's compensation claims costs. The increase in purchased
transportation expense was related to the growth of intermodal and JBHL
business, which results in higher payments to railroads and third-party motor
carriers for purchased transportation services. Significantly lower fuel costs
per gallon and slightly higher fuel miles per gallon performance helped drive
fuel and fuel tax expense down in 1998.

     Depreciation expense increased approximately 4% during 1998, but declined
to 7.4% of revenue in 1998 from 8.4% in 1997. The amount of revenue equipment
depreciation expense increased in relative proportion to the size of the fleet.
However, depreciation was reduced by gains on the sale of certain assets. Gains
on asset dispositions reduce depreciation expense and totaled $4.1 million in
1998, compared with $.7 million in 1997. Gains were recognized during 1998 on
the sale of land in Lowell, Arkansas, a small subsidiary company and certain
tractors and trailing equipment. Operating supplies and expenses include
maintenance on revenue equipment and tires and increased in relative proportion
to the fleet size. The decline in operating supplies and expenses as a
percentage of revenue was due primarily to the growth of non-asset based
revenue.

     The significant decrease in insurance and claims expense was the result of
fewer vehicle collisions during 1998 and a decline in the cost per collision.
The Company was successful in attracting and retaining experienced professional
drivers that have been involved in fewer vehicle collisions and reduced accident
costs. The decline in operating taxes and licenses was due, in part, to refunds
received from certain state taxing authorities. The increase in general and
administrative expenses was partly due to higher levels of spending for computer
rental and maintenance. This spending was related to the decision to lease
rather than purchase certain computer equipment and also for Year 2000
compliance work. Communications and utilities increased in relative proportion
to revenue growth. Interest expense increased 17%, primarily due to higher debt
levels. The effective income tax rate was 37% in 1998 and 38% in 1997.

     As a result of the above, net earnings for 1998 increased to $46.8 million,
or diluted earnings per share of $1.28, compared with $11.4 million in 1997, or
$.31 per diluted share. A decrease in the number of weighted average shares
outstanding (before the effect of dilutive stock options), was primarily due to
the Company's acquisition of treasury shares. An increase in weighted average
shares assuming dilution resulted from the increased effect of dilutive stock
options caused by the increase in the Company's average market price of common
stock during 1998.



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     The Company generates significant amounts of cash from operating
activities. Net cash provided by operating activities was $136 million in 1999,
$181 million in 1998 and $160 million in 1997. During the three year period
ended December 31, 1999, primary operating cash requirements were applied to
increases in accounts receivable, other current assets (inventories, licenses
and permits) and to pay claims. Primary sources of cash included net earnings,
depreciation, trade accounts payable and deferred income taxes.

     Net cash used in investing activities was $19 million in 1999, $259 million
in 1998 and $89 million in 1997. The primary use of funds for investing
activities was the acquisition of new revenue equipment. New tractor purchases
were approximately 2,200 in 1999, 2,900 in 1998 and 2,400 in 1997. The level of
investment spending for trailing equipment varied significantly during the three
year period ended December 31, 1999. The total number of trailing pieces of
equipment purchased was approximately 2,200 in 1999, 4,700 in 1998 and 490 in
1997. Net cash used in investing activities was also reduced during 1999 by a
financing transaction which closed during the fourth quarter. The arrangement
involved a sale and immediate leaseback of certain trailing revenue equipment.
This transaction generated approximately $175 of cash proceeds from sale of
equipment, which were used primarily to reduce outstanding debt.

     Net financing activities consumed $113 million in 1999 and $71 million in
1997, and generated $83 million in 1998. Proceeds of approximately $175 million
from the 1999 sale and leaseback transaction were used to reduce commercial
paper notes. The Company sold $100 million of 7.00% senior notes in September of
1998, which will mature in September of 2004. Financing activities also included
the purchase of treasury stock, which totaled $5.8 million in 1998 and $22.0
million in 1997. Dividends of approximately $7 million were paid during each
year of 1997 through 1999. The Company announced in February of 2000, a decision
to discontinue a policy of paying dividends and an intent to use those funds to
repurchase up to 500,000 shares of its common stock. These shares will be held
in treasury for general corporate purposes, which may include acquisitions or
employee stock options.



     The Company is authorized to issue up to $240 million in notes under a
commercial paper note program, of which $35 million was outstanding at December
31, 1999.

     From time to time the Board of Directors authorizes the repurchase of
Company common stock. Purchases of Company stock were:



     At December 31, 1999, the Company had committed to purchase approximately
$242 million of revenue and service equipment net of expected proceeds from sale
or trade-in allowances. Additional capital spending for new revenue equipment is
anticipated during 2000, however, funding for such expenditures is expected to
come from cash generated from operations and existing borrowing facilities.



YEAR 2000

     The Company utilizes and is dependent upon a wide variety of complex
information technologies (IT) to conduct daily business operations. The Year
2000 issue could have resulted in system disruptions or failures. A
comprehensive action plan was initiated in 1996 to conduct systematic reviews of
all internal hardware, software and functions to either verify that the system
was Year 2000 compliant or modify/replace the software or system as required. A
number of the primary financial systems utilized to pay vendors, track customer
accounts receivable and produce regular financial reports were converted to be
Year 2000 compliant.

     The Company focused significant resources during 1998 and 1999 on the Year
2000 issue, with the goal of no material business or system disruption related
to dates on or after January 1, 2000. In addition to the work conducted on
internal IT systems, the Company initiated formal communications and requested
certifications of Year 2000 compliance from certain significant customers and
suppliers. A Year 2000 Business Continuity Plan was developed and completed on
June 30, 1999. The Plan provided for the establishment of a Year 2000 Command
Center which was activated on December 15, 1999 to monitor critical IT and other
systems and functions.

     As of the date of this filing, the Company had not experienced any material
Year 2000 problems or disruptions with internal systems, nor had any material
problems or disruptions been experienced with key customers or suppliers. From
inception of the Company's efforts on the Year 2000 issue through December 31,
1999, total costs of approximately $1.7 million were incurred related to the
Year 2000 readiness issue. These expenses included external consultants,
professional advisors, hardware and software. These costs were charged to
operations as incurred and excluded employee salaries and fringe benefits and
certain new system acquisitions, development and upgrades that relate to ongoing
business activity.



RECENT PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, "Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities" ("SFAS 133"). SFAS 133
establishes new accounting and reporting standards for derivative financial
instruments and for hedging activities. SFAS 133 requires an entity to measure
all derivatives at fair value and to recognize them in the balance sheet as an
asset or liability, depending on the entity's rights or obligations under the
applicable derivative contract. The recognition of changes in fair value of a
derivative that affect the income statement will depend on the intended use of
the derivative. If the derivative does not qualify as a hedging instrument, the
gain or loss on the derivative will be recognized currently in earnings. If the
derivative qualifies for special hedge accounting, the gain or loss on the
derivative will either (1) be recognized in income along with an offsetting
adjustment to the basis of the item being hedged or (2) be deferred in other
comprehensive income and reclassified to earnings in the same period or periods
during which the hedged transaction affects earnings. SFAS 133 will be effective
for the Company beginning with the first fiscal quarter after June 15, 2000.
SFAS 133 may not be applied retroactively to financial statements of prior
periods. The Company has not determined the impact that Statement 133 will have
on its financial statements and believes that such determination will not be
meaningful until closer to the date of initial adoption.

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     This report contains statements that may be considered as forward-looking
or predictions concerning future operations. Such statements are based on
management's belief or interpretation of information currently available. These
statements and assumptions involve certain risks and uncertainties and
management can give no assurance that such expectations will be realized. Among
all the factors and events that are not within the Company's control and could
have a material impact on future operating results are general economic
conditions, cost and availability of diesel fuel, adverse weather conditions and
competitive rate fluctuations and availability of drivers. Current and future
changes in fuel prices could result in significant fluctuations of quarterly
earnings. Financial and operating results of the Company may fluctuate as a
result of these and other risk factors as detailed from time to time in Company
filings with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


ITEM 7a.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------

     The Company's earnings are affected by changes in short-term interest rates
as a result of its issuance of short-term commercial paper. However, due to its
selective utilization of interest rate swaps, the effects of interest rate
changes are mitigated. Risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a
near-term adverse movement of 10% in short-term market interest rates. If
short-term market interest rates average 10% more in 2000 than in 1999, there
would be no material adverse impact on the Company's results of operations. At
December 31, 1999, the Company had no interest rate swap agreements in effect.
The Company has no material future earnings or cash flow exposures from changes
in interest rates related to its long-term debt obligations as all of the
Company's long-term debt obligations have fixed rates. At December 31, 1999, the
fair value of the Company's fixed rate long-term obligations approximated
carrying value.

     Although the Company conducts business in foreign countries, international
operations are not material to the Company's consolidated financial position,
results of operations or cash flows. Additionally, foreign currency transaction
gains and losses were not material to the Company's results of operations for
the year ended December 31, 1999. Accordingly, the Company is not currently
subject to material foreign currency exchange rate risks from the effects that
exchange rate movements of foreign currencies would have on the Company's future
costs or on future cash flows it would receive from its foreign investment. To
date, the Company has not entered into any foreign currency forward exchange
contracts or other derivative financial instruments to hedge the effects of
adverse fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates.



ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
- -----------------------------------------------------





                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors
J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc.:


We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of J.B. Hunt
Transport Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and
the related consolidated statements of earnings, stockholders' equity and cash
flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1999.
These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated
financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of J.B. Hunt Transport
Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the
results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the
three-year period ended December 31, 1999, in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.


                                       KPMG LLP



Little Rock, Arkansas
February 4, 2000




                                J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                           AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                    Consolidated Balance Sheets

                                     December 31, 1999 and 1998

                        (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)





                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                           Consolidated Balance Sheets

                           December 31, 1999 and 1998

                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.



                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       Consolidated Statements of Earnings

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                 Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)





See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                                                                    (Continued)











                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                             (Dollars in thousands)






                                                                    (Continued)







                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows

                  Years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

                             (Dollars in thousands)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.











                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997


(1)    SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

       (a)    DESCRIPTION OF BUSINESS

              J. B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., together with its
              wholly-owned subsidiaries ("Company"), is a diversified
              transportation services and logistics company operating under the
              jurisdiction of the U.S. Department of Transportation and various
              state regulatory agencies.

              For the periods presented, the Company had three distinct
              operating segments: Van/Intermodal; Logistics; and Dedicated
              Contract Services. See note 9.

       (b)    PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

              The consolidated financial statements include the financial
              statements of the Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All
              significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
              eliminated in consolidation.

       (c)    CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

              For purposes of the statements of cash flows, the Company
              considers all highly liquid investments purchased with original
              maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents.

       (d)    TIRES IN SERVICE

              The Company capitalizes tires placed in service on new revenue
              equipment as a part of the equipment cost. Replacement tires and
              costs for recapping tires are expensed at the time the tires are
              placed in service.

       (e)    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

              Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated on the
              straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of 5 - 10
              years for revenue and service equipment, 10 to 40 years for
              structures and improvements, and 3 to 10 years for furniture and
              office equipment. Gains (losses) on dispositions of revenue and
              other equipment, which are included in depreciation expense, were
              approximately $(849,000), $4,051,000 and $664,000 for the years
              ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, respectively.

       (f)    REVENUE RECOGNITION

              The Company recognizes revenue based on relative transit time in
              each reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred.


                                                                    (Continued)





                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997






       (g)    INCOME TAXES

              Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability
              method. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the
              future tax consequences attributable to differences between the
              financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and
              liabilities and their respective tax bases and operating loss and
              tax credit carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are
              measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable
              income in the years in which those temporary differences are
              expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax
              assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in
              income in the period that includes the enactment date.

       (h)    EARNINGS PER SHARE

              A reconciliation of the numerator and denominator of basic and
              diluted earnings per share is shown below (in thousands, except
              per share amounts):





                                                                    (Continued)





                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997







              Options to purchase shares of common stock that were outstanding
              during each year but were not included in the computation of
              diluted earnings per share because the options' exercise price was
              greater than the average market price of the common shares are
              shown in the table below.



       (i)    CREDIT RISK

              Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to
              concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade
              receivables. Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade
              receivables are limited due to the Company's large number of
              customers and the diverse range of industries which they
              represent. As of December 31, 1999 and 1998, the Company had no
              significant concentrations of credit risk.

       (j)    DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

              The Company uses interest rate swaps to hedge the effects of
              fluctuations in interest rates. The differential paid or received
              on interest rate swap agreements is accrued as interest rates
              change and is charged or credited to interest expense over the
              life of the agreements. Any gains or losses realized upon the
              termination of an interest rate swap agreement are deferred and
              amortized over the remaining life of the original term as a charge
              or credit to interest expense.

       (k)    FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

              Local currencies are generally considered the functional
              currencies outside the United States. Assets and liabilities are
              translated at year-end exchange rates for operations in local
              currency environments. Income and expense items are translated at
              average rates of exchange prevailing during the year.

              Prior to January 1, 1997, foreign currency translation
              adjustments, which reflect foreign currency exchange rate changes
              applicable to the net assets of the Mexican operations have been
              recorded as a separate item of accumulated other comprehensive
              loss in stockholders' equity. From January 1, 1997 through
              December 31, 1998, Mexico was considered a highly inflationary
              economy as defined by Statement of Financial Accounting Standards
              ("SFAS") No. 52, FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION. Accordingly, the
              more stable currency of the reporting parent (the Company) was
              used, and the effect of exchange rates resulting in translation
              adjustments


                                                                    (Continued)






                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997



              have been recorded as a component of net earnings for the years
              ended December 31, 1998 and 1997. As of January 1, 1999, Mexico is
              no longer considered a highly inflationary economy. Accordingly,
              the local currency has been used, and the effect of exchange rates
              resulting in translation adjustments have been recorded as a
              separate item of accumulated other comprehensive loss in
              stockholders' equity for the year ended December 31, 1999.

       (l)    STOCK BASED COMPENSATION

              The Company has adopted the disclosure requirements of SFAS No.
              123, ACCOUNTING FOR STOCK-BASED COMPENSATION and, as permitted
              under SFAS No. 123, applies Accounting Principles Board Opinion
              No. 25 and related interpretations in accounting for compensation
              costs for its stock option plans. Accordingly, compensation
              expense is recognized on the date of grant only if the current
              market price of the underlying common stock at date of grant
              exceeds the exercise price.

       (m)    IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED ASSETS AND LONG-LIVED ASSETS TO BE
              DISPOSED OF

              The Company continually evaluates the carrying value of its assets
              for events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the
              carrying value may not be recoverable. Recoverability of assets to
              be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying
              amount of an asset to future net cash flows expected to be
              generated by the asset. If such assets are considered to be
              impaired, the impairment to be recognized is measured by the
              amount by which the carrying amount of the assets exceed the fair
              value of the assets. Assets to be disposed of are reported at the
              lower of the carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell.

       (n)    USE OF ESTIMATES

              Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and
              assumptions relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities
              and the disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities to prepare
              the consolidated financial statements in conformity with generally
              accepted accounting principles. Actual results could differ from
              those estimates.

       (o)    COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

              Comprehensive income consists of net earnings and foreign currency
              translation adjustments and is presented in the consolidated
              statements of stockholders' equity.


                                                                    (Continued)






                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997



       (p)    RECLASSIFICATIONS

              To conform to the 1999 presentation, certain accounts for 1998
              and 1997 have been reclassified. The reclassifications had no
              effect on net earnings.

(2)    LONG-TERM DEBT

       Long-term debt consists of (in thousands):



       Under its commercial paper note program, the Company is authorized to
       issue up to $240 million in notes. These notes are supported by two
       credit agreements, which aggregate $240 million, with a group of banks,
       of which $120 million expires March 7, 2000 and $120 million expires
       March 20, 2002. The effective rate on the commercial note program was
       5.27% and 5.70% for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998,
       respectively. The 7.84% senior notes were repaid in 1999 and the 7.80%
       senior subordinated notes are payable in five equal annual installments
       beginning October 30, 2000.

       Under the terms of the credit agreements and the note agreements, the
       Company is required to maintain certain financial covenants including
       leverage tests, minimum tangible net worth levels and other financial
       ratios. The Company was in compliance with all of the financial covenants
       at December 31, 1999.


                                                                    (Continued)







                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997




       Current maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 1999 consist of
       senior notes payable due in 2000 and the first installment of the 7.80%
       senior notes. The aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt for each
       of the five years ending December 31 are as follows (in thousands): 2000,
       $60,000; 2001, $10,000; 2002, $45,000; 2003, $108,260; and 2004,
       $105,000.

(3)    CAPITAL STOCK

       The Company maintains a Management Incentive Plan ("Plan") that provides
       various vehicles to compensate key employees with Company common stock.
       Under the original Plan, the Company was authorized to award, in
       aggregate, not more than 5,000,000 shares. During 1998, the stockholders
       of the Company amended the Plan whereby the Company is now authorized to
       award, in aggregate, not more than 6,500,000 shares. At December 31, 1999
       there were approximately 605,000 shares available for grant under the
       Plan. The Company has utilized three such vehicles to award stock or
       grant options to purchase the Company's common stock: restricted stock
       awards, restricted options and nonstatutory stock options.

       Restricted stock awards are granted to key employees subject to
       restrictions regarding transferability and assignment. Shares of Company
       common stock are issued to the key employees and held by the Company
       until each employee becomes vested in the award. Vesting of the awards
       generally occurs over a four year period of time from the award date.
       Termination of the employee for any reason other than death, disability
       or certain cases of retirement causes the unvested portion of the award
       to be forfeited.

       The Plan provides that nonstatutory stock options may be granted to key
       employees for the purchase of Company common stock for 100% of the fair
       market value of the common stock at the grant date. The options generally
       vest over a ten year period and are forfeited if the employee terminates
       for any reason.

       Compensation expense (benefit) under the Plan is charged to earnings over
       the vesting period and amounted to approximately $(5,400), $20,000, and
       $(78,000) for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997,
       respectively.


                                                                    (Continued)


                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997





       A summary of the restricted and nonstatutory options to purchase Company
       common stock follows:



       During 1995, the Board of Directors established a nonqualified stock
       option plan to provide performance based compensation to the Chairman
       of the Board. The plan allows the Chairman the option to purchase up to
       2.5 million shares of the Company's common stock at a price of $17.63 per
       share. These options vest after five years, except for special
       circumstances in which the options vest earlier. The options must be
       exercised within one year of vesting and all unexercised options will
       terminate. On January 21, 2000, the Board of Directors, pending
       stockholder approval, extended the exercise period from one year to two
       years.

       Had the Company determined compensation cost based on the fair value at
       the grant date for its stock options under SFAS No. 123, the Company's
       net earnings would have been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated
       below.



                                                                    (Continued)




                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997





       Pro forma net earnings reflects only options granted since December 31,
       1995. Therefore, the full impact of calculating compensation costs for
       stock options under SFAS No. 123 is not reflected in the pro forma net
       earnings amounts presented above because compensation cost is reflected
       over the options' vesting periods of 5 to 10 years and compensation cost
       for options granted prior to January 1, 1996 is not considered.

       The per share weighted-average fair value of stock options granted
       during 1999, 1998 and 1997 was $4.13, $13.23 and $6.86, respectively, on
       the date of grant using the Black Scholes option-pricing model with the
       following weighted-average assumptions: 1999 - expected dividend yield
       1.2%, volatility of 51.6%, risk-free interest rate of 6.5%, and an
       expected life of 7.3 years; 1998 - expected dividend yield .9%,
       volatility of 65.5%, risk-free interest rate of 4.7%, and an expected
       life of 7.7 years; 1997 - expected dividend yield 1.1%, volatility of
       34.1%, risk-free interest rate of 5.8%, and an expected life of 7.7
       years.

       The following table summarizes information about stock options
       outstanding at December 31, 1999:




       On January 21, 2000, the Company's Board of Directors declared a cash
       dividend of $.05 per share payable on February 17, 2000 to shareholders
       of record on February 3, 2000.

                                                                    (Continued)




                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                 AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997


(4)    INCOME TAXES

       Total income tax expense for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997
       and 1996 was allocated as follows (in thousands):



       Refundable income taxes at December 31, 1999 and 1998 were $3,000 and
       $937,000, respectively. These amounts have been included in other current
       assets on the balance sheet.

       Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to earnings before income taxes
       consists of (in thousands):



       The following is a reconciliation between the effective income tax rate
       and the applicable statutory Federal income tax rate for each of the
       three fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 1999:




                                                                    (Continued)




                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997


       The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant
       portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at
       December 31, 1999 and 1998 are presented below (in thousands):



       The Company believes its history of profitability and taxable income and
       its utilization of tax planning sufficiently supports the carrying amount
       of the deferred tax assets. Accordingly, the Company has not recorded a
       valuation allowance as all deferred tax benefits are more likely than not
       to be realized.

       At December 31, 1999, the Company had general business tax credit
       carryforwards of approximately $2,621,000 expiring from the year 2007 to
       2009, and alternative minimum tax credit carryforwards with no expiration
       of approximately $4,700,000.


(5)    EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

       The Company maintains a defined contribution employee retirement plan,
       which includes a 401(k) option, under which all employees are eligible to
       participate. The Company matches a specified percentage of employee
       contributions, subject to certain limitations. For the years ended
       December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, total Company contributions to the
       plan, including matching 401(k) contributions, were $7,348,000,
       $6,533,000 and $4,951,000, respectively.




                                                                    (Continued)



                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997


(6)    FAIR VALUE OF SIGNIFICANT FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

       CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, AND TRADE ACCOUNTS
       PAYABLE

       The carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short maturity
       of these instruments.

       LONG-TERM DEBT

       The carrying amount of the commercial paper debt approximates the fair
       value because of the short maturity of the commercial paper instruments.

       The fair value of the fixed rate debt is presented as the present value
       of future cash flows discounted using the Company's current borrowing
       rate for notes of comparable maturity. The calculation arrives at a
       theoretical amount the Company would pay a creditworthy third party to
       assume its fixed rate obligations and not the termination value of these
       obligations. Consistent with market practices, such termination values
       may include various prepayment and termination fees that the Company
       would contractually be required to pay if it retired the debt early.

       INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS

       The fair values of interest rate swap agreements are obtained from dealer
       quotes. These values represent the estimated amount the Company would pay
       to terminate such agreements, taking into consideration current interest
       rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties. All interest rate
       swap agreements were terminated during 1999 for an insignificant gain.

       The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are
       summarized as follows (in thousands):







                                                                    (Continued)





                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997



(7)    RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

       The Company advances premiums on life insurance policies on the lives of
       the Company's principal stockholder and his wife. All premiums paid by
       the Company, along with accrued interest thereon, are reimbursable from a
       trust which is the owner and beneficiary of the policy. The Company has a
       guarantee from the stockholder for the amount of premiums paid by the
       Company together with interest at the rate of 5% per annum. The amounts
       reimbursable to the Company amount to approximately $7,044,000 and
       $6,068,000 at December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively, and amounts are
       included in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.


(8)    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

       During 1999, the Company entered into a sale and leaseback transaction
       for a portion of its container fleet. Containers having a net book value
       of approximately $175 million were sold to third party leasing companies
       at approximate net book value. A gain on this transaction has been
       deferred and will be amortized to income in relation to rent expense
       recognized under the leases. The containers are being leased back under
       operating leases over terms of four to ten years. The Company also leases
       terminal facilities, shuttle yards and computer equipment under operating
       leases having various terms.

       The future minimum lease payments under all noncancellable leases at
       December 31, 1999, principally for revenue equipment, are shown in the
       following table (in thousands):



       Total rent expense was $39,862,000 in 1999, $28,692,000 in 1998, and
       $17,656,000 in 1997, respectively.

       At December 31, 1999, the Company had committed to purchase $242 million
       of revenue and service equipment net of expected proceeds from sale or
       trade-in allowances.

       The Company is involved in certain claims and pending litigation arising
       from the normal conduct of business. Based on the present knowledge of
       the facts and, in certain cases, opinions of outside counsel, management
       believes the resolution of claims and pending litigation will not have a
       material adverse effect on the financial condition or results of
       operations of the Company.






                                                                    (Continued)





                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997



(9)      SEGMENT INFORMATION

       Van/Intermodal services include full truck-load, dry-Van,
       container-sizable freight which is typically transported utilizing
       company-owned revenue equipment. The load may be transported entirely by
       company-owned and controlled equipment or a portion of the movement may
       be handled by a third-party motor carrier or a railroad. Logistics
       provides a wide range of comprehensive transportation and management
       services including experienced professional managers, information and
       optimization technology and the actual design or redesign of system
       solutions. Logistics may utilize Van/Intermodal and/or dedicated contract
       owned and controlled equipment, unrelated third-party equipment and
       employees, or a combination to meet the customer's service requirements.
       Dedicated Contract Services typically include company-owned revenue
       equipment and employee drivers that are assigned to a specific customer,
       traffic lane or service. The dedicated service is engineered and
       customized for the specific customer and is typically in accordance with
       a written, long-term agreement. Substantially all of the Company's
       revenues are from domestic customers. Intersegment revenues primarily
       consist of Van/Intermodal services provided to logistics. Such services
       are priced at approximately the same basis as services to external
       customers. Certain administrative and other costs are allocated among the
       segments utilizing various allocation factors which include revenues,
       equipment usage and maintenance, accounts receivable and other estimates.
       Substantially all of the Company's capital expenditures are made by the
       Van/Intermodal division with assets transferred to the dedicated contract
       division as needed. A summary of other segment information is presented
       below (in millions):


















                                                                    (Continued)



                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997



       The Company announced in late 1999, a decision to split the
       Van/Intermodal business into separate intermodal and truck business
       segments. This segregation is in progress and the Company intends to
       begin reporting on four segments (Intermodal, Truck, Logistics and
       Dedicated Contract Services) in the first quarter of 2000.





                                                                    (Continued)



                       J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                        Consolidated Financial Statements

                        December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997



(10)   QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

       Operating results by quarter for the years ended December 31, 1999 and
       1998 are as follows (in thousands, except per share data):






ITEM 9.   DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     No reports on Form 8-K have been filed within the twenty-four months prior
to December 31, 1999 involving a change of accountants or disagreements on
accounting and financial disclosure.

PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

DIRECTORS

     The schedule of directors is hereby incorporated by reference from the
Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual Stockholder's Meeting of April 20, 2000
set forth under section entitled "Proposal One Election of Directors".

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

     Information with respect to executive officers of the Company is set forth
in Item 4 of this Report under the caption "Executive Officers of the Company".

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    The information required for Items 11 and 12 is hereby incorporated by
reference from the Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual Stockholders' Meeting
of April 20, 2000 set forth under sections entitled "Stock Ownership," "Report
of the Compensation Committee on Executive Compensation," "2000 Performance
Based Compensation," and "Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider
Participation."

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

    The information required for Item 13 is hereby incorporated by reference
from Note (7) Related Party Transactions of the Notes to Consolidated Financial
Statements and from the Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual Stockholders'
Meeting of April 20, 2000 set forth under the section entitled "Compensation
Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation."

PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS

    The following documents are filed as part of this report:

    (a)  Exhibits
    The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section
of this report ("Exhibit Index").
















SIGNATURES
    Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Lowell,
Arkansas, on February 28,2000.
                                    J.B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                             (Registrant)

                             By:    /s/ Kirk Thompson
                                    ---------------------------
                                        Kirk Thompson
                                        President and Chief Executive Officer

                             By:    /s/ Jerry W. Walton
                                    ---------------------------
                                        Jerry W. Walton
                                        Executive Vice President, Finance and
                                        Administration, Chief Financial Officer

                             By:    /s/ Donald G. Cope
                                    ---------------------------
                                        Donald G. Cope
                                        Vice President, Controller,
                                        Chief Accounting Officer

    Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.






EXHIBIT INDEX










