
10-K
FORM 10-K




                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                  FORM 10-K

               ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                    THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

   FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED                     COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
      DECEMBER 31, 1995                                  0-11757


                      J.B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
           (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                 ARKANSAS                                   71-0335111
     (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                     (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
      INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                     IDENTIFICATION NO.)

           615 J.B. HUNT CORPORATE DRIVE                         72745
               LOWELL, ARKANSAS                                (ZIP CODE)
     (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

              REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:
                                 (501) 820-0000

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:
                                   NONE

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(g) OF THE ACT:
                        COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS 
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT 
OF 1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE 
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO 
THE FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR AT LEAST THE PAST 90 DAYS.
                       YES  X     NO      
                          -----     ----- 

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM  
405 OF REGULATION S-K (SS229.405 OF THIS CHAPTER) IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN, 
AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN DEFINITIVE
PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART III OF THIS
FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K.

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF 17,552,075 SHARES OF THE REGISTRANT'S $.01 PAR 
VALUE COMMON STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF FEBRUARY 29,
1996 WAS $320,325,369 (BASED UPON $18.25 PER SHARE BEING THE CLOSING SALE 
PRICE ON THAT DATE, AS REPORTED BY NASDAQ). IN MAKING THIS CALCULATION, THE 
ISSUER HAS ASSUMED, WITHOUT ADMITTING FOR ANY PURPOSE, THAT ALL EXECUTIVE 
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT, AND NO OTHER PERSONS, ARE AFFILIATES.

THE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF EACH OF THE REGISTRANT'S CLASSES OF COMMON
STOCK, AS OF FEBRUARY 29, 1996: 38,010,296.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

CERTAIN PORTIONS OF THE NOTICE AND PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 1995 ANNUAL
STOCKHOLDERS' MEETING TO BE HELD MAY 9, 1996, PART II.





PART I

ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL

     J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., together with its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries ("JBH" or the "Company") is a diversified transportation 
services and logistics company operating under the jurisdiction of the U.S. 
Department of Transportation, formerly the Interstate Commerce Commission 
("ICC"), and various state regulatory agencies. JBH is an Arkansas holding 
company incorporated on August 10, 1961.  Through its subsidiaries JBH 
transports full-load containerizable freight throughout the continental 
United States and portions of Canada and Mexico. The Company also provides 
logistics and transportation-related services which may utilize JBH equipment 
and employees or may employ equipment and services provided by unrelated 
third parties in the transportation industry.

     JBH has various operating authorities granted by the ICC and state 
regulatory agencies. The Company may transport any type of freight (except 
certain types of explosives) from any point in the continental United States 
to any other point in another state, over any route selected by the Company. 
The Company also has certain intrastate authorities, allowing pick-up and 
delivery within those states. Federal legislation was enacted effective 
January 1, 1995 which preempted each state's right to limit entry into 
intrastate operations. A wide range of products are transported including 
automotive parts, department store  merchandise, paper and paper products, 
plastics, chemicals and manufacturing materials and supplies.

     JBH was granted certain Canadian authority initially in 1988 and 
currently transports freight to and from all points in the continental United 
States to Quebec, British Columbia and Ontario. The Company has authorization 
to operate directly in all the Canadian provinces, but to date has served 
additional points in Canada primarily through interchange operations with 
Canadian motor carriers. The Company has provided transportation services to 
and from Mexico since 1989 through interchange operations with various 
Mexican motor carriers. A joint venture agreement with Transportacion 
Maritima Mexicana, the largest transportation company in Mexico, was signed 
in 1992.

     In 1990, JBH initiated intermodal operations with the Atchison, Topeka 
and Santa Fe Railway Company. In accordance with this agreement, freight may 
be transported by rail utilizing traditional trailer-on-flatcar (TOFC) or 
container-on-flatcar (COFC) medium. Since this initial agreement with Santa 
Fe, intermodal operations have been expanded to include arrangements with ten 
railroads. A number of these rail routes allow the utilization of a 
newly-designed container which can be double-stacked to provide improved 
productivity. Substantially all of the freight carried under these rail 
arrangements is guaranteed space on trains and receives preferential loading 
and unloading at rail facilities.

     The Company also offers related full truckload transportation services. 
Flatbed and special (hazardous) commodities operations were commenced in 
1991. A Texas intrastate operation was also acquired in 1991. A growing 
number of shippers are interested in logistics and dedicated equipment 
services, whereby all transportation requirements can be outsourced and 
provided by one management and services company. JBH commenced offering 
logistics services in 1992 and dedicated equipment in 1993. A new operation 
was initiated in late 1994 to provide  transportation  services to the  
direct  merchandising  industry transporting small parcels.

MARKETING AND OPERATIONS

    The truckload ("T/L") market has traditionally been a lower price, lower 
service market when compared to the less-than-truckload ("LTL") segment. The 
Company has opted to provide a premium service and charge compensating rates 
rather than compete primarily on the basis of price.

     The Company's business is well diversified and no one customer accounted 
for more than 6% of revenues during 1995 or 1994. Marketing efforts include 
significant focus on the diversified group of "Fortune 500" customers. A 
broad geographic dispersion and a good balance in the type of industries 
served allow JBH some protection from major seasonal fluctuations. However, 
consistent with the T/L industry in general, freight is typically stronger in 
the second half of the year with peak






months being August, September and October. In addition, demand for services 
is usually strong at the end of the first two calendar quarters (i.e., March 
and June). Revenue is also affected by bad weather and holidays, since 
revenue is directly related to available working days of shippers.

     The Company markets door-to-door T/L service through its nationwide 
marketing network. Services involving intermodal transportation mediums are 
billed by JBH and all inquiries, claims and other customer contact are 
handled by the Company. In late 1994, the Company reorganized its dry van and 
intermodal operations into five geographically based regions.

PERSONNEL

     At December 31, 1995, JBH employed 12,020 people, including 9,073 
drivers. The transportation industry and the Company have experienced 
shortages of qualified drivers from time to time. The Company has developed 
an extensive program to attract, train and retain drivers.

     Both experienced and non-experienced drivers are trained in all phases 
of Company policies and operations, as well as defensive driving, safety 
techniques and fuel efficient operation of equipment. During 1992, three 
distinct driving designations (local, regional or zone and over-the-road) 
were identified in order to get drivers home more frequently and provide 
specific support for intermodal and regional operations. Drivers are 
compensated based upon miles driven, a specified rate per week, or a 
combination of both. Additional compensation may be earned based upon fuel 
economy and other performance criteria. The Company also employed 
approximately 1,030 mechanics as of December 31, 1995. In the opinion of 
management, the Company's relationship with all of its employees is excellent.

REVENUE EQUIPMENT

     At December 31, 1995, JBH owned 7,706 tractors, 7,556 trailers and 
17,062 specially designed containers. The average age of the tractor and 
trailing equipment fleet was slightly more than two and one half years. In 
late 1992, the Company announced the development of a new multi-purpose 
container which can be placed on a chassis for transportation over the road 
by truck and also moved by rail or ship. The container and chassis 
combination may be transported by rail (TOFC) or the container can be 
separated from the chassis and double-stacked (COFC) on the rail for improved 
productivity. The Company intends to continue the conversion of a significant 
portion of its dry van trailer fleet to these containers.

     A periodic maintenance program is strictly enforced for all revenue 
equipment based upon the specific type and use of the equipment. JBH believes 
that modern, late-model, clean equipment differentiates quality service in 
the marketplace. A professional maintenance program minimizes downtime, 
increases utilization and enhances the trade-in value of used equipment.

COMPETITION

     JBH is the largest publicly held T/L carrier in the United States. It 
competes primarily with other irregular route, T/L common carriers. LTL 
common carriers and private carriers generally provide limited competition. 
JBH is one of a few carriers offering nationwide logistics management and 
dedicated revenue equipment services. Although a number of carriers may 
provide competition on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies 
represent competition in all markets. The extensive rail network developed in 
conjunction with the various railroads also allows the Company the 
opportunity to differentiate its services in the marketplace.

REGULATION

     The Company is a motor common carrier regulated by the United States 
Department  of Transportation (formerly the ICC). The federal government 
generally governs activities such as authority to engage in interstate motor 
carrier operations, accounting systems, certain mergers, consolidations, 
acquisitions and periodic financial reporting.







    Motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed by
the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) governing interstate
operation. Such matters as weight and dimensions of equipment and commercial
driver's licensing are also subject to federal and state regulations. A federal
requirement that all drivers obtain a commercial driver's license became
effective in April 1992.

     The federal Motor Carrier Act of 1980 was the start of a program to 
increase competition among motor carriers and limit the level of regulation 
in the industry (sometimes referred to as "deregulation"). The Motor Carrier 
Act of 1980 enabled applicants to obtain ICC operating authority more easily 
and allows interstate motor carriers, such as the Company, to change their 
rates by a certain percentage per year without ICC approval. The new law also 
allowed for the removal of  many route and commodity restrictions  
regarding  the transportation of freight. As a result of the Motor Carrier 
Act of 1980, the Company was able to obtain unlimited authority to carry 
general commodities throughout the 48 contiguous states. Effective January 1, 
1995, the federal government issued guidelines which allow motor carriers 
more flexibility in intrastate operations. Although this reduced level of 
state regulation may increase the level of competition in some regions, the 
Company believes it will ultimately benefit from this legislation.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

     The Company's corporate headquarters are in Lowell, Arkansas. A 
150,000-square-foot building was constructed and occupied in September 1990. 
The building is situated on a 127-acre tract of land.

     In addition to the corporate headquarters, the Company owns a separate 
61-acre tract in Lowell, Arkansas with three separate buildings totaling 
21,000 square feet of office space and 90,000 square feet of maintenance and 
warehouse space. These buildings serve as the Lowell operations terminal, 
tractor and trailer maintenance facilities and additional administrative 
offices.  A new terminal and maintenance facility is being constructed in 
Chicago, Illinois and will be occupied in mid 1996.

A summary of the Company's principal facilities follows:



In addition to the above facilities, the Company leases several small offices
and/or trailer parking yards in various locations throughout the country.







ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is a party to routine litigation incidental to its business, 
primarily involving claims for personal injury and property damage incurred 
in the transportation of freight. The Company maintains excess insurance 
above its self-insured levels which covers extraordinary liability resulting 
from such claims. Adverse results in one or more of these cases would not 
have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     The 1995 Annual Stockholders' Meeting was held on May 11, 1995. At that 
meeting, the following matters were submitted to a vote of security holders:

1.   To elect ten (10) directors and to fix the number of directors for the
ensuing year at ten (10).




2.   To approve the Amended Management Incentive Plan.



3.   To ratify the appointment of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP as the Company's
independent public accountants for the next fiscal year.



    No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of 1995 to a vote of
security holders.






PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
         MATTERS

PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK

     The Company's common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market 
under the symbol "JBHT". The following table sets forth, for the calendar 
periods indicated, the range of high and low sales prices for the Company's 
common stock as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers 
Automated Quotations National Market System ("NASDAQ").



     On February 29, 1996, the high and low sales prices for the Company's 
common stock as reported by the NASDAQ were $18.50 and $18.25, respectively. 
As of February 29, 1996, the Company had 2,275 stockholders of record.

DIVIDEND POLICY

     On January 24, 1996, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly 
dividend of $.05 per share, payable on February 16, 1996 to shareholders of 
record on February 2, 1996. Although it is the present intention of the Board 
of Directors to continue quarterly dividends, payment of future dividends 
will depend upon the Company's financial condition, results of operations and 
other factors deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The Company declared 
and paid cash dividends of $.20 per share in 1995 and 1994.








ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)



Percentage of Operating Revenue








ITEM  7.    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS OF OPERATIONS AND
            FINANCIAL CONDITION

        The following should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial
Data and the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements which appear elsewhere in this report.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

        The following table sets forth the change in amounts and percentage
change between years of certain revenue, expense and operating items.

(Dollars in thousands, except tractor data)



        The following table sets forth certain industry operating data of the
Company.






OPERATING REVENUES

        Operating revenues increased $144.6 million (12%) from 1994 to 1995 and
$186.7 million (18%) from 1993 to 1994. These increases in revenue were
primarily due to expansion of specialized carrier operations and continued
growth of intermodal volume. The increase in revenue between years includes the
following by type of freight:

Increase in Revenue
(millions of dollars)



        The average number of tractors in the fleet increased 7% from 1994 to
1995 and 3% from 1993 to 1994. The strategy of providing diversified
transportation services which utilize intermodal, and full-service logistics
management, which utilizes third party revenue equipment, results in revenue
growth that does not require a comparable increase in the tractor fleet. Dry
van truck freight rates decreased approximately 1% from 1994 to 1995, but
increased 4% from 1993 to 1994. Intermodal freight rates declined approximately
3% from 1994 to 1995 and were essentially flat from 1993 to 1994. These
decreases negatively impacted earnings in 1995.

        Revenue growth during 1995 and 1994 primarily reflects a focus on the
following:

          *  The Company made a commitment in 1990 to utilize intermodal as an
             integral part of dry service. Intermodal operations include
             arrangements with ten different railroads across the United States
             and portions of Canada and Mexico. Intermodal revenue increased by
             19% during 1995 and 37% during 1994.

          *  The dedicated contract services unit which commenced operations in
             1993 continued to contribute to revenue growth. Dedicated revenue
             increased approximately 110% in 1995 and more than 300% in 1994
             over a partial year of operation in 1993.

          *  Logistics services, which commenced operations in 1992, also
             continued to grow rapidly. Revenue increased 22% in 1995 and in
             excess of 150% in 1994.

        The Company expects that revenue growth is sustainable in the near term.
Management expects to continue its focus on intermodal, dedicated contract
services, logistics management and other special service offerings related to
truckload freight.








OPERATING EXPENSES

     Operating expenses as a percentage of operating revenue (operating 
ratio) were 98.4% in 1995 and 93.0% in 1994. The operating ratio excluding 
special charges recorded in 1995 was 97.1%.

     The primary reasons for the increase in operating ratio and the decrease
in operating income from 1994 to 1995 were:

      *  Special charges were recorded to reduce the carrying value of idle and
         under-performing assets primarily related to the Company's decision to
         exit the auto hauling business. These special charges, which were 
         recorded during the fourth quarter of 1995, increased operating 
         expenses and reduced operating income by $17.3 million.

      *  Gains on dispositions of revenue equipment, which are offset against
         depreciation expense, were $8.1 million in 1995 and $12.3 in 1994. 
         These lower gains in 1995 increased operating expenses and reduced 
         operating income by $4.2 million. Management expects gains on future
         equipment dispositions to be lower due to a softer used equipment 
         market and changes of salvage values and useful lives made during 1993
         and 1994 for certain revenue and service equipment. See Note 1(d) of 
         the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.

      *  Salaries, wages and employee benefits increased 13% from 1994 to 1995.
         This increase was due in part to a driver pay increase implemented in 
         April 1995 for the Company's least experienced drivers.

       * Fuel and fuel taxes increased 9% from 1994 to 1995, primarily due to a
         decrease in miles per gallon and a slight increase in cost per gallon.
         Insurance and claims expense increased 34% from 1994 to 1995. While 
         the number of accidents did not increase significantly during 1995, a
         small number of severe accidents occurred during late 1995 which fell
         within the Company's self-insured limits.

     Purchased transportation expense increased 26% from 1994 to 1995. This 
increase reflects payments to railroads and third-party companies for 
intermodal and transportation services provided to the Company. Management 
believes the increase in intermodal volume has not contributed to the overall 
increase in operating ratio and decrease in operating income, and should 
ultimately improve earnings.

     Interest expense increased approximately $5.0 million during 1995 and 
$5.9 million during 1994. These increases were primarily due to higher levels 
of debt associated with the acquisition of new containers and chassis, and 
slightly higher interest rates.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     This discussion of corporate liquidity and capital resources should be 
read in conjunction with information presented in the Consolidated Statements 
of Cash Flows and the Consolidated Balance Sheets.

     The Company generates significant cash from operating activities and has 
substantial borrowing capacity to meet its operating, committed and 
contemplated cash expenditures.

     Net cash provided by operating activities was $175 million in 1995, $172 
million in 1994 and $122 million in 1993. Net cash provided in 1993 was 
reduced by approximately $29 million of accounts receivable at December 31, 
1993 related to the sale of revenue equipment which was received in early 
1994. Trade accounts payable at December 31, 1995 includes approximately $24 
million due to revenue equipment suppliers for service equipment received in 
1995, which funds were disbursed in early 1996.

     A commitment was made in 1992 to increase levels of capital spending and 
convert the majority of the dry van trailing equipment fleet to newly 
designed multi-purpose containers and chassis. As of December 31, 1995 more 
than 80% of the dry van trailer fleet had been converted. Net capital 
expenditures declined to $155 million in 1995 from $219 million in 1994 and 
$197 million in 1993. These expenditures were funded with proceeds from 
long-term debt and cash generated from operations.







SELECTED BALANCE SHEET DATA



     While total debt levels have increased during 1994 and 1995, primarily 
due to capital expenditures, the 1993 working capital ratio was unusually 
high because no debt was classified as current at December 31, 1993. The 
Company's liquidity has essentially remained the same during 1994 and 1995.

     The Company is authorized to issue up to $250 million in notes under a 
commercial paper note program, of which $145 million was outstanding at 
December 31, 1995. The Company filed a prospectus supplement with the 
Securities and Exchange Commission in June 1995 to issue up to $150 million 
of medium-term notes, of which $50 million of senior notes were outstanding 
at December 31, 1995. In addition, the Company had approximately $166 million 
of uncommitted lines of credit, none of which were outstanding at December 
31, 1995.

     As of December 31, 1995, the Company had committed to purchase 
approximately $203 million of revenue and service equipment (net cost, after 
expected proceeds from sale or trade-in allowances of $51 million).

     In October 1995 the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase of up 
to 1.0 million shares of the Company's common stock, from time-to-time in the 
open market or through privately negotiated transactions at prevailing market 
prices. This was in addition to an authorization in October 1994 to 
repurchase up to .5 million shares. During 1995, the Company repurchased 
513,742 shares at market prices ranging from $13.125 per share to $15.625 per 
share. During 1994, the Company repurchased 134,500 shares at market prices 
ranging from $15.125 per share to $15.75 per share. The Company intends to 
hold these shares in treasury for general corporate purposes, which may 
include employee stock options and restricted stock awards.










ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                                                                     PAGE 
                                                                     ---- 

Management's and Independent Auditors' Report                          13 

Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1995 and 1994              14 

Consolidated Statements of Operations for the years ended 
 December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                                      15 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years 
 ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                                16 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended 
 December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993                                      17 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements                             18 



















MANAGEMENT'S REPORT

     Management is responsible for the financial statements and other 
information contained in its annual report. The financial statements have 
been prepared in accordance with appropriate, generally accepted  accounting 
principles, and the other information presented is consistent with the 
financial statements. In preparing these financial statements, it is 
necessary to make informed judgments and estimates regarding the expected 
effects of certain events and transactions that are currently being reported.

     To meet its financial reporting responsibilities, management depends 
upon systems of internal controls which are intended to provide reasonable 
assurance, in relationship to reasonable cost, that assets are safeguarded, 
that transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization 
and that the transactions are properly recorded so as to permit preparation 
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting 
principles. Management seeks to provide reasonable assurance that the 
objectives of internal accounting control are met by prudent selection of 
personnel, adoption of appropriate policies, effective communication to 
personnel and establishment of an effective system of authorization.

     The Board of Directors performs an oversight role with respect to 
management's financial reporting responsibilities. To ensure effective 
discharge of its responsibilities, the Board of Directors has established an 
audit committee. The majority of the committee members are nonemployees of 
the Company and its subsidiaries. The audit committee has met and reviewed 
accounting issues, financial reporting and audit matters, including those 
pertaining to the effectiveness of the Company's systems of internal control.

     The consolidated financial statements have been audited by KPMG Peat 
Marwick LLP. As part of their audit of the Company's consolidated financial 
statements, our independent accountants considered the Company's system of 
internal control structure to the extent they deemed necessary to determine 
the nature, timing and extent of their audit tests. These auditing procedures 
are intended to provide a reasonable level of assurance that the consolidated 
financial statements are fairly stated in all material respects.

Kirk Thompson                              Jerry W. Walton
President and Chief Executive Officer      Executive Vice President, Finance
                                            and Chief Financial Officer

March 15, 1996


INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of J.B. 
Hunt Transport Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 
1994, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' 
equity and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended 
December 31, 1995. These consolidated financial statements are the 
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express 
an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing 
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to 
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free 
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, 
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. 
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and 
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall 
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a 
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above 
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of J.B. Hunt 
Transport Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1995 and 1994, 
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the 
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1995, in conformity with 
generally accepted accounting principles.

Little Rock, Arkansas                  KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
February 9, 1996







                         CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

December 31, 1995 and 1994, (Dollars in thousands)



See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.







                    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 (Dollars in thousands, except per
share amounts)




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





               CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY

Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 (Dollars in thousands, except per
share amounts)



 See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.










                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993 (Dollars in thousands)




See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.







                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     J. B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., together with its wholly-owned 
subsidiaries ("Company"), is a diversified transportation services and 
logistics company operating under the jurisdiction of the U.S. Department 
of Transportation and various state regulatory agencies.

(a) USE OF ESTIMATES

     Management of the Company has made a number of estimates and assumptions 
relating to the reporting of assets and liabilities and the disclosure of 
contingent assets and liabilities to prepare the consolidated  financial 
statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

(b) PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the 
Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries.  All significant intercompany 
balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation.

(c) TIRES IN SERVICE

     The Company capitalizes tires placed in service on new revenue equipment 
as a part of the equipment cost. Replacement tires and costs for recapping 
tires are expensed at the time the tires are placed in service.

(d) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Depreciation of property and equipment is calculated on the 
straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of 5 - 10 years for 
revenue and service equipment, 10 to 40 years for structures and 
improvements, and 3 to 10 years for furniture and office equipment.  Gains on 
dispositions of revenue equipment, which are offset against depreciation 
expense, were $8,088,000, $12,251,000 and $20,092,000 for the years ended 
December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

     On April 1, 1993, the Company changed the estimated salvage value for 
some of its revenue and service equipment. The effect upon 1993 net earnings 
was an increase of approximately $2,639,000 ($.07 per share).

(e) REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The Company recognizes revenue based on relative transit time in each 
reporting period with expenses recognized as incurred.

(f) INCOME TAXES

     Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method. 
Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax 
consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement 
carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax 
bases.  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax 
rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those 
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on 
deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in 
income in the period that includes the enactment date.

(g) EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Earnings per share have been computed based on the weighted average 
number of shares outstanding during each year (38,520,323 in 1995; 38,559,528 
in 1994; and 38,276,109 in 1993). Shares issuable under employee stock 
options are excluded from the weighted average number of shares as their 
dilutive effect is less than 3%.

(h) CREDIT RISK

     Financial instruments which potentially subject the Company to 
concentrations of credit risk consist primarily of trade receivables. 
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables are limited 
due to the Company's large number of customers and the diverse range of 
industries which they represent. As of December 31, 1995, the Company had no 
significant concentrations of credit risk.





                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(i) DERIVATIVES

     The differential paid or received on interest rate swap agreements is 
accrued as interest rates change and is charged or credited to interest 
expense over the life of the agreements. Any gains or losses realized upon 
the termination of an interest rate swap agreement are deferred and amortized 
over the remaining life of the original term as a charge or credit to 
interest expense.

     The differential paid or received on fuel swap agreements is accrued as 
fuel prices change and is charged or credited to fuel expense on a monthly 
basis.

(j) FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION

     Local currencies are generally considered the functional currencies 
outside the United States. Assets and liabilities are translated at year-end 
exchange rates for operations in local currency environments. Income and 
expense items are translated at average rates of exchange prevailing during 
the year. Cumulative translation adjustments, which reflect foreign currency 
exchange rate changes applicable to Mexican operations, are recorded as a 
component of stockholders'  equity and reduced stockholders' equity  by  
approximately $6,739,000 at December 31, 1995.

(k) SPECIAL CHARGES

     The Company continually reevaluates the carrying value of its assets for 
events or changes in circumstances which indicate that the carrying value may 
not be recoverable. As part of this reevaluation, the Company estimates the 
future cash flows expected to result from the use of the asset and its 
eventual disposition.  If the sum of the expected future cash flows 
(undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount 
of the asset, an impairment loss is recognized through a charge to earnings.

(l) RECLASSIFICATIONS

     Certain 1994 and 1993 amounts have been reclassified to conform to 1995 
presentation.  These reclassifications have no effect on prior years' net 
earnings.

(2) LONG-TERM DEBT


     Under its commercial paper note program, the Company is authorized to 
issue up to $250 million in notes. These notes are supported by two credit 
agreements, which aggregate $250 million, with a group of banks, of which 
$125 million expires March 28, 1996 and $125 million expires March 31, 1999. 
The effective rate on the commercial note program was 6.11% and 5.90% for the 
years ended December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.





                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The 6.25% senior notes (face amount $100,000,000) are payable at 
maturity on September 1, 2003; the 7.75% senior notes are payable in annual 
installments of $5,000,000 on October 31; the 7.84% senior notes are payable 
in annual installments of $5,000,000 on March 31; the 7.80% senior 
subordinated notes are payable in five equal annual installments beginning 
October 30, 2000; the 6.25% senior notes (face amount $25,000,000) are 
payable at maturity on November 17, 2000; and the 6.00% senior notes are 
payable at maturity on December 12, 2000.

     Under the terms of the credit agreements and the note agreements, the 
Company is required to maintain certain financial covenants including 
leverage tests, minimum tangible net worth levels and other financial ratios. 
 During January 1996, the Company and its creditors amended certain terms of 
these agreements in consideration of the special charges described in note 
10. As a result of these amendments, the Company is in compliance with all 
financial covenants.

     The Company has approximately $166 million of uncommitted lines of 
credit, none of which were outstanding at December 31, 1995. These lines are 
with various domestic and international banks and are due on demand.  
Interest on borrowings is generally tied to the banks' prevailing base rates 
or other alternative market rates. No commitment or facility fees are paid on 
these lines of credit and the obligations are typically evidenced by 
unsecured demand notes.

     Current maturities of long-term debt at December 31, 1995 consist of 
outstanding commercial paper associated with the revolving credit agreement 
which expires March 28, 1996 and two installments of the senior notes.  The 
aggregate annual maturities of long-term debt for each of the five years 
ending December 31 are as follows (in thousands): 1996, $30,310; 1997, 
$5,000; 1998, $5,000; 1999, $130,000; and 2000, $60,000.

(3) CAPITAL STOCK

     The Company maintains a Management Incentive Plan ("Plan") that provides 
various vehicles to compensate key employees with Company common stock.  
Under the Plan, the Company is authorized to award, in aggregate, not more 
than 5,000,000 shares. At December 31, 1995 there were approximately 474,000 
shares available for granting under the Plan. The Company has utilized three 
such vehicles to award stock or grant options to purchase the Company's 
common stock: restricted stock awards, restricted options and nonstatutory 
stock options.

     Restricted stock awards are granted to key employees subject to 
restrictions regarding transferability and assignment. Shares of Company 
common stock are issued to the key employees and held by the Company until 
each employee becomes vested in the award. Vesting of the awards generally 
occurs over a four year period of time from the award date. Termination of 
the employee for any reason other than death, disability or certain cases of 
retirement causes the unvested portion of the award to be forfeited.

     Key employees have been granted restricted options to purchase stock.  
The option price is 50% of the fair market value of the stock at the date of 
grant.  Vesting of the award generally occurs over a four year period 
beginning on the grant date.  Failure to exercise a vested option within 210 
days after vesting or termination of the employee for any reason other than 
death or disability will cause unexercised and nonvested options to be 
forfeited.

     The Plan provides that nonstatutory stock options may be granted to key 
employees for the purchase of Company common stock for 100% of the fair 
market value at the grant date.  The options generally vest over a ten year 
period and are forfeited if the employee terminates for any reason.

     Compensation expense under the Plan is charged to earnings over the 
vesting period and amounted to approximately $1,100,000, $1,600,000 and 
$1,600,000 for the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 1993, respectively.






                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

A summary  of the restricted and nonstatutory options to purchase Company 
common stock follows:



     During 1995, the Board of Directors established a nonqualified stock 
option plan to provide performance based compensation to the Chairman of the 
Board. The plan must be approved by the shareholders of the Company at the 
annual meeting in May of 1996. The plan allows the Chairman the option to 
purchase up to 2.5 million shares of the Company's common stock at a price of 
$17.63 per share. These options are exercisable after five years, except for 
special circumstances in which the options vest earlier. The options must be 
exercised within one year of vesting and all unexercised options will 
terminate.

     On January 24, 1996, the Company's Board of Directors declared a cash 
dividend of $.05 per share payable on February 16, 1996 to shareholders of 
record on February 2, 1996.

(4) INCOME TAXES

     Total income tax expense (benefit) for the years ended December 31, 
1995, 1994 and 1993 was allocated as follows (in thousands):



     Income tax expense (benefit) attributable to earnings (loss) before 
income taxes consists of (in thousands):



     The following is a reconciliation between the effective income tax rate 
and the applicable statutory Federal income tax rate for each of the three 
fiscal years in the period ended December 31, 1995:








                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

     The significant components of deferred income tax expense (benefit) 
attributable to earnings (loss) before income taxes are as follows (in 
thousands):



     The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant 
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred tax liabilities at December 
31, 1995 and 1994 are presented below (in thousands):



     The Company believes its history of profitability and taxable income, 
its taxes paid within the three year carryback period and its utilization of 
tax planning sufficiently supports the value of the deferred tax assets. 
Accordingly, the Company has not recorded a valuation allowance on its books 
as all deferred tax assets are more than likely to be recovered.

     The Company had general business tax credit carryforwards of 
approximately $3 million expiring from the year 2007 to 2009, and alternative 
minimum tax credit carryforwards with no expiration of approximately $15 
million at December 31, 1995.

     Included in other prepaid expenses are refundable income taxes of 
$5,981,000 and $386,000 at December 31, 1995 and 1994, respectively.









                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

(5)  EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The Company maintains a defined contribution employee retirement plan, 
which includes a 401(k) option, under which employees are eligible to 
participate after they complete one year of service. Company contributions to 
the plan each year are made at the discretionary amount determined by the 
Company's Board of Directors. For the years ended December 31, 1995, 1994 and 
1993, total Company contributions to the plan, including matching 401(k) 
contributions were $3,400,000, $1,950,000, and $1,900,000, respectively.

(6)  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

CASH AND TEMPORARY INVESTMENTS, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, AND TRADE ACCOUNTS 
PAYABLE

     The carrying amount approximates fair value because of the short 
maturity of these instruments.

LONG-TERM DEBT
     The carrying amount of the commercial paper debt approximates the fair 
value because of the short maturity of the commercial paper instruments.

     The fair value of the fixed rate debt is presented as the present value 
of future cash flows discounted using the Company's current borrowing rate 
for notes of comparable maturity. The calculation arrives at a theoretical 
amount the Company would pay a creditworthy third party to assume its fixed 
rate obligations and not the termination value of these obligations. 
Consistent with market practices, such termination values may include various 
prepayment and termination fees that the Company would contractually be 
required to pay if it retired the debt early.

INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS (NOTE 9)
     The fair values of interest rate swap agreements are obtained from 
dealer quotes. These values represent the estimated amount the Company would 
pay to terminate such agreements, taking into consideration current interest 
rates and the creditworthiness of the counterparties.

The estimated fair values of the Company's financial instruments are 
summarized  as follows (in thousands):



(7)  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS
     The Company advances premiums on life insurance policies on the lives of 
the Company's principal stockholder and his wife. The Company has advanced 
$3,877,635 on these policies which, along with related accrued interest 
thereon of approximately $590,000, is included in other assets at December 
31, 1995. All premiums paid by the Company, along with accrued interest 
thereon, are reimbursable from a trust which is the owner and beneficiary of 
the policy. The Company has a guarantee from the stockholder securing any 
deficiency in cash surrender value if the policies are terminated before cash 
surrender value exceeds actual premium advanced. At December 31, 1995 the 
cash surrender value of such polices was approximately $2,315,000.






                 NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS


(8) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The Company has committed to purchase approximately $203 million of 
revenue and service equipment (net cost, after expected proceeds from sale or 
trade-in allowances of $51 million).

     The Company is involved in certain claims and pending litigation arising 
from the normal conduct of business. Based on the present knowledge of the 
facts and, in certain cases, opinions of outside counsel, management believes 
the resolution of claims and pending litigation will not have a material 
adverse effect on the financial condition of the Company.

(9) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     Interest rate swap agreements are used to reduce the potential impact of 
changes in interest rates on the Company's debt portfolio.  At December 31, 
1995, an interest rate swap agreement with an aggregate notional amount of 
$20 million was outstanding. The estimated fair value of the swap at December 
31, 1995 was a liability of approximately $140,000. This value was determined 
from a dealer quotation and represents the estimated amount the Company would 
pay to terminate the agreement.

    The Company uses fuel swap agreements to hedge anticipated purchases of 
diesel fuel.  Under these agreements, the Company receives or makes payments 
on the differential between a contractual index price and the actual average 
index during such period.

(10) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION

     During the fourth quarter of 1995, the Company recorded special charges 
of approximately $17,296,000 to reduce the carrying value of idle and 
under-performing assets, primarily property and equipment and inventories 
associated with the auto hauling operations. The effect of these charges 
reduced net earnings for the fourth quarter and for the year by approximately 
$10,896,000 ($.29 per share).

     Operating results (unaudited) by quarter for the years ended December 
31, 1995 and 1994 are as follows (in thousands, except per share data):









ITEM 9.  DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     No reports on Form 8-K have been filed within the twenty-four months 
prior to December 31, 1995 involving a change of accountants or disagreements 
on accounting and financial disclosure.

PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required for Items 10, 11 and 12 is hereby incorporated 
by reference from the Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual Stockholders' 
Meeting set forth under sections entitled "Proposal One Election of 
Directors," "Board Committees," "Executive Officers," "Voting Securities and 
Security Ownership of Management and Principal Stockholders," "Executive 
Compensation and Other Information," "1996 Performance Based Compensation," 
"Proposal Two Proposal to Approve the Chairman's Stock Option Incentive Plan" 
and "Proposal Three Ratification of Appointment of Auditors."

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     The information required for Item 13 is hereby incorporated by reference 
from Note (7) Related Party Transactions of the Notes to Consolidated 
Financial Statements and from the Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual 
Stockholders' Meeting set forth under the section entitled "Certain 
Transactions."

PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS

     The following documents are filed as part of this report:

     (a) Exhibits
     The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate section 
     of this report ("Exhibit Index").
















                                  SIGNATURES

    Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the Securities 
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused this Report to be signed 
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of 
Lowell, Arkansas, on the 15th day of March, 1996.

                                 J.B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                           (Registrant)

                             By: /s/ Kirk Thompson
                                 -----------------------------------------
                                     Kirk Thompson
                                     President and Chief Executive Officer

                             By: /s/ Jerry W. Walton
                                 -----------------------------------------
                                     Jerry W. Walton
                                     Executive Vice President,
                                     Finance and Chief Financial Officer

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, 
this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the 
registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated.









                                EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT
NUMBER                           DESCRIPTION
- -------                          -----------

  3A    The Company's Amended and Restated Articles of Incorporation dated
        May 19, 1988 (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4A of the
        Company's S-8 Registration Statement filed April 16, 1991;
        Registration Statement Number 33-40028).
       
  3B    The Company's Bylaws as amended (incorporated by reference from
        Exhibit 3B of the Company's S-1 Registration Statement filed November
        22, 1983; Registration Number 2-86684).
       
  3C    The Company's Amended Bylaws dated September 19, 1983 (incorporated
        by reference from Exhibit 3C of the Company's S-1 Registration
        Statement filed February 7, 1985; Registration Number 2-95714).
       
 10A    Material Contracts of the Company (incorporated by reference
        from Exhibits 10A-10N of the Company's S-1 Registration Statement
        filed February 7, 1985; Registration Number 2-95714).
       
 10B    The Company has an Employee Stock Purchase Plan filed on Form S-8
        on February 3, 1984 (Registration Number 2-93928), and a Management
        Incentive Plan filed on Form S-8 on April 16, 1991 (Registration
        Statement Number 33-40028). The Management Incentive Plan is
        incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 4B of Registration
        Statement 33-40028. The Company amended and restated its Employee
        Retirement Plan on Form S-8 (Registration Statement Number 33-57127)
        filed December 30, 1994. The Employee Retirement Plan is
        incorporated herein by reference from Exhibit 99 of Registration
        Statement Number 33-57127.
       
 21     Subsidiaries of J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc.
       
          -  J.B. Hunt Transport, Inc., a Georgia corporation
          -  L.A., Inc., an Arkansas corporation
          -  J.B. Hunt Corp., a Delaware corporation
          -  J.B. Hunt Special Commodities, Inc., an Arkansas corporation
          -  J.B. Hunt Logistics, Inc., an Arkansas corporation
          -  Comercializadora Internacional de Cargo S.A. De C.V., a Mexican
             corporation
          -  Hunt Mexicana, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican corporation
          -  Servicios de Logistica de Mexico, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican
             corporation
          -  Servicios Administratios de Logistica, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican
             corporation
          -  Asesoria Administrativa de Logistica, S.A. de C.V., a Mexican
             corporation.
          -  Queen City Express, Inc., a North Carolina corporation
          -  Lake City Express, Inc., an Arkansas Corporation
          -  FIS, Inc., a Nevada corporation

 23     Consent of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP

 27     A Financial Data Schedule for the year ended December 31, 1995.




