
10-K
FORM 10-K





                     SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C.  20549

                                 FORM 10-K

              ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF
                     THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

           FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED             COMMISSION FILE NUMBER
                DECEMBER 31, 1994                       0-11757


                      J.B.HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
           (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)

                 ARKANSAS                                 71-0335111
        (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                 (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
         INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)                IDENTIFICATION NO.)

         615 J.B. HUNT CORPORATE DRIVE                        72745
               LOWELL, ARKANSAS                             (ZIP CODE)
   (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)

             REGISTRANT'S TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE:
                               (501) 820-0000

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:
                                     NONE

         SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                        COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE

INDICATE BY CHECK MARK WHETHER THE REGISTRANT (1) HAS FILED ALL REPORTS
REQUIRED TO BE FILED BY SECTIONS 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
OF 1934 DURING THE PRECEDING 12 MONTHS (OR FOR SUCH SHORTER PERIOD THAT THE
REGISTRANT WAS REQUIRED TO FILE SUCH REPORTS), AND (2) HAS BEEN SUBJECT TO
THE FILING REQUIREMENTS FOR AT LEAST THE PAST 90 DAYS.
                             YES X    NO _____
                                ---
INDICATE BY CHECK MARK IF DISCLOSURE OF DELINQUENT FILERS PURSUANT TO ITEM
405 OF REGULATION S-K (SS229.405 OF THIS CHAPTER) IS NOT CONTAINED HEREIN,
AND WILL NOT BE CONTAINED, TO THE BEST OF REGISTRANT'S KNOWLEDGE, IN
DEFINITIVE PROXY OR INFORMATION STATEMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE IN PART
III OF THIS FORM 10-K OR ANY AMENDMENT TO THIS FORM 10-K.

THE AGGREGATE MARKET VALUE OF 18,179,616 SHARES OF THE REGISTRANT'S $.01 PAR
VALUE COMMON STOCK HELD BY NON-AFFILIATES OF THE REGISTRANT AS OF FEBRUARY
28, 1995 WAS $354,502,512 (BASED UPON $19.50 PER SHARE BEING THE CLOSING SALE
PRICE ON THAT DATE, AS REPORTED BY NASDAQ). IN MAKING THIS CALCULATION, THE
ISSUER HAS ASSUMED, WITHOUT ADMITTING FOR ANY PURPOSE, THAT ALL EXECUTIVE
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT, AND NO OTHER PERSONS, ARE
AFFILIATES.

        THE NUMBER OF SHARES OUTSTANDING OF EACH OF THE REGISTRANT'S
                        CLASSES OF COMMON STOCK, AS OF
                        FEBRUARY 28, 1995: 38,557,629.

                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE

     CERTAIN PORTIONS OF THE NOTICE AND PROXY STATEMENT FOR THE 1995
      ANNUAL STOCKHOLDERS' MEETING TO BE HELD MAY 11, 1995, PART II.






                                    PART I

                             ITEM 1.   BUSINESS

GENERAL

     J.B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., together with its wholly-
owned subsidiaries ("JBH" or the "Company") is a diversified
transportation services and logistics company operating under the
jurisdiction of the Interstate Commerce Commission ("ICC") and
various state regulatory agencies. JBH is an Arkansas holding
company incorporated on August 10, 1961. Through its subsidiaries
JBH transports full-load containerizable freight throughout the
continental United States and portions of Canada and Mexico. The
Company also provides logistics and transportation-related
services which may utilize JBH equipment and employees or may
employ equipment and services provided by unrelated third parties
in the transportation industry.

     JBH has various operating authorities granted by the ICC and state
regulatory agencies. The Company may transport any type of freight (except
certain types of explosives) from any point in the continental United States
to any other point in another state, over any route selected by the Company.
The Company also has certain intrastate authorities, allowing pick-up and
delivery within those states. Federal legislation was enacted effective
January 1, 1995 which preempted each state's right to limit entry into
intrastate operations. A wide range of products are transported including
automotive parts, department store merchandise, paper and paper products,
plastics, chemicals and manufacturing materials and supplies.


     JBH was granted certain Canadian authority initially in 1988 and
currently transports freight to and from all points in the continental United
States to Quebec, British Columbia and Ontario. Transportation services are
also provided between certain Canadian provinces. The Company has provided
transportation services to and from Mexico since 1989 through interchange
operations with various Mexican motor carriers. A joint venture agreement
with Transportacion Maritima Mexicana, the largest transportation company in
Mexico, was signed in 1992.

     In 1990, JBH initiated intermodal operations with the Atchison, Topeka
and Santa Fe Railway Company. In accordance with this agreement, freight may
be transported by rail utilizing traditional trailer-on-flatcar (TOFC) or
container-on-flatcar (COFC) medium. Since this initial agreement with Santa
Fe, intermodal operations have been expanded to include arrangements with
twelve railroads. A number of these rail routes allow the utilization of a
newly-designed container which can be double-stacked to provide improved
productivity. Substantially all of the freight carried under these rail
arrangements is guaranteed space on trains and receives preferential loading
and unloading at rail facilities.

     The Company also offers related full truckload transportation services.
Flatbed and special (hazardous) commodities operations were commenced in
1991. A Texas intrastate operation was also acquired in 1991. A growing
number of shippers are interested in logistics and dedicated equipment
services, whereby all transportation requirements can be outsourced and
provided by one management and services company. JBH organized a logistics
services unit in 1992 and a dedicated equipment operation in 1993.






MARKETING AND OPERATIONS

     The truckload market has traditionally been a lower price, lower service
market when compared to the less-than-truckload (LTL) segment. The Company
has opted to provide a premium service and charge compensating rates rather
than compete primarily on the basis of price.

     The Company's business is well diversified and no one customer accounted
for more than 6% of revenues during 1994 or 1993. Marketing efforts include
significant focus on the diversified group of "Fortune 500" customers. A broad
geographic dispersion and a good balance in the type of industries served
allow JBH some protection from major seasonal fluctuations. However, consistent
with the T/L industry in general, freight is typically stronger in the second
half of the year with peak months being August, September and October. In
addition, demand for services is usually strong at the end of the first two
calendar quarters (i.e., March and June). Revenue is also affected by bad
weather and holidays, since revenue is directly related to available working
days of shippers.

     The Company markets door-to-door T/L service through its nationwide
marketing network. Services involving intermodal transportation mediums are
billed by JBH and all inquiries, claims and other customer contact are
handled by the Company. In late 1994, the Company reorganized its dry van and
intermodal operations into five geographically based regions.

PERSONNEL

     At December 31, 1994, JBH employed 11,837 people, including 8,667
drivers. The transportation industry and the Company have experienced
shortages of qualified drivers from time to time. The Company has developed
an extensive program to attract, train and retain drivers.

     Both experienced and non-experienced drivers are trained in all phases
of Company policies and operations, as well as defensive driving, safety
techniques and fuel efficient operation of equipment. During 1992, three
distinct driving designations (local, regional or zone and over-the road)
were identified in order to get drivers home more frequently and provide
specific support for intermodal and regional operations. Drivers are
compensated based upon miles driven, a specified rate per week, or a
combination of both. Additional compensation may be earned based upon fuel
economy and other performance criteria. The Company also employed
approximately 1000 mechanics as of December 31, 1994. In the opinion of
management, the Company's relationship with all of its employees is excellent.

REVENUE EQUIPMENT

     At December 31, 1994, JBH owned 7,412 tractors, 8,636 trailers and
14,051 specially designed containers. The average age of the tractor and
trailing equipment fleet was approximately two years. In late 1992, the
Company announced the development of a new multi-purpose container which can
be placed on a chassis for transportation over-the-road by truck and also
moved by rail or ship. The container and chassis combination may be
transported by rail (TOFC) or the container can be separated from the chassis
and double-stacked (COFC) on the rail for improved productivity. The Company
intends to continue the conversion of a significant portion of its dry van
trailer fleet to these containers.






     A periodic maintenance program is strictly enforced for all revenue
equipment based upon the specific type and use of the equipment. JBH believes
that modern, late-model, clean equipment differentiates quality service in
the marketplace. A professional maintenance program minimizes downtime,
increases utilization and enhances the trade-in value of used equipment.

COMPETITION

     JBH is the largest publicly-held T/L carrier in the United States. It
competes primarily with other irregular route, T/L common carriers. LTL
common carriers and private carriers generally provide limited competition.
JBH is one of a few carriers offering nationwide logistics management and
dedicated revenue equipment services. Although a number of carriers may
provide competition on a regional basis, only a limited number of companies
represent competition in all markets. The extensive rail network developed in
conjunction with the various railroads also allows the Company the
opportunity to differentiate its services in the marketplace.

REGULATION

     The Company is a motor common carrier regulated by the ICC. The ICC
generally governs activities such as authority to engage in interstate motor
carrier operations, accounting systems, certain mergers, consolidations,
acquisitions and periodic financial reporting.

     Motor carrier operations are subject to safety requirements prescribed
by the United States Department of Transportation (DOT) governing interstate
operation. Such matters as weight and dimensions of equipment and commercial
driver's licensing are also subject to federal and state regulations. A
federal requirement that all drivers obtain a commercial driver's license
became effective in April 1992.

     The federal Motor Carrier Act of 1980 was the start of a program to
increase competition among motor carriers and limit the level of regulation
in the industry (sometimes referred to as "deregulation"). The Motor Carrier
Act of 1980 enabled applicants to obtain ICC operating authority more easily
and allows interstate motor carriers, such as the Company, to change their
rates by a certain percentage per year without ICC approval. The new law also
allowed for the removal of many route and commodity restrictions regarding
the transportation of freight. As a result of the Motor Carrier Act of 1980,
the Company was able to obtain unlimited authority to carry general
commodities throughout the 48 contiguous states. Effective January 1, 1995,
the federal government issued guidelines which allow motor carriers more
flexibility in intrastate operations. Although this reduced level of state
regulation may increase the level of competition in some regions, the Company
believes it will ultimately benefit from this legislation.

                      ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

     The Company's corporate headquarters are in Lowell, Arkansas.
A 150,000-square-foot building was constructed and occupied in September 1990.
The building is situated on a 127-acre tract of land.







     In addition to the corporate headquarters, the Company owns a separate
62-acre tract in Lowell, Arkansas with four separate buildings totaling
21,000 square feet of office space and 90,000 square feet of maintenance and
warehouse space. These buildings serve as the Lowell operations terminal,
tractor and trailer maintenance facilities and additional administrative
offices.

     A summary of the Company's principal facilities follows:




   The Company owns all of the above listed facilities except Chicago which
is leased. In addition to the above facilities, the Company leases several
small offices and/or trailer parking yards in various locations throughout
the country.

                         ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

     The Company is a party to routine litigation incidental to its business,
primarily involving claims for personal injury and property damage incurred
in the transportation of freight. The Company maintains excess insurance
above its self-insured levels which covers extraordinary liability resulting
from such claims. Adverse results in one or more of these cases would not
have a material adverse effect on the financial position of the Company.

        ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

     The 1994 Annual Stockholders' Meeting was held on May 12, 1994. At that
meeting, the following matters were submitted to a vote of security holders:







     1. To elect ten (10) directors and to fix the number of directors for the
ensuing year at ten (10).



     2. To ratify the appointment of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP as the Company's
independent public accountants for the next fiscal year.



     No matters were submitted during the fourth quarter of 1994 to a vote of
security holders.



                                   PART II

ITEM 5.   MARKET FOR THE REGISTRANT'S COMMON STOCK AND RELATED SECURITY HOLDER
MATTERS


PRICE RANGE OF COMMON STOCK

     The Company's common stock is traded in the over-the-counter market
under the symbol "JBHT". The following table sets forth, for the calendar
periods indicated, the range of high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock as reported by the National Association of Securities Dealers
Automated Quotations National Market System ("NASDAQ").



     On February 28, 1995, the high and low sales prices for the Company's
common stock as reported by the NASDAQ were $19.50 and $19.25, respectively.
As of February 28, 1995, the Company had 2,032 stockholders of record.

DIVIDEND POLICY

     On January 25, 1995, the Board of Directors declared a quarterly
dividend of $.05 per share, payable to shareholders of record on February 2,
1995. Although it is the present intention of the Board of Directors to
continue quarterly dividends, payment of future dividends will depend upon
the Company's financial condition, results of operations and other factors
deemed relevant by the Board of Directors. The Company declared and paid cash
dividends of $.20 per share in 1994 and $.20 per share in 1993.







                      ITEM 6.   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
              (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)





PERCENTAGE OF OPERATING REVENUE








          ITEM 7.   MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF RESULTS
                    OF OPERATIONS AND FINANCIAL CONDITION

     The following should be read in conjunction with the Selected Financial
Data and the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements and Notes to
Consolidated Financial Statements which appear elsewhere in this report.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The following table sets forth the change in amounts and percentage
change between years of certain revenue, expense and operating items.

(Dollars in thousands, except tractor data)



     The following table sets forth certain industry operating data
of the Company.









OPERATING REVENUES

     Operating revenues increased 18% from 1993 to 1994 and 12% from 1992 to
1993. These increases in revenue were primarily due to continued growth of
intermodal dry van volume, expansion of specialized carrier operations and
modest increases in base truck freight rates. The average number of tractors
in the fleet increased only 3% in 1994 and 7% in 1993. Due to the Company's
strategy of providing diversified transportation services including
intermodal and full-service logistics management, revenue growth is no longer
directly related to size of the tractor fleet. The $187 million increase in
revenue from 1993 to 1994 included $89 million from logistics and dedicated
contract services, $71 million of dry van volume and $27 million from other
specialized carrier operations. The increase in 1994 dry van revenue includes
intermodal revenue and an approximate 4% increase in truck freight rates. The
$109 million increase in revenue from 1992 to 1993 included $43 million from
dry van volume, $38 million of logistics and dedicated contract services and
$28 million from other specialized carrier operations. The 1993 dry van
revenue increase includes intermodal and an approximate 2% increase in truck
freight rates.

     Revenue growth during 1994 and 1993 continued to reflect a focus on
utilizing intermodal transportation services. Intermodal operations at
December 31, 1994 include arrangements with twelve different railroads across
the United States and portions of Canada and Mexico. Intermodal revenue
increased 37% in 1994 and 66% in 1993, including incremental freight and some
conversion of freight previously transported entirely by truck.

     Increased operating revenues also reflect growth of logistics management
and dedicated contract services. Customers continue to request customized
transportation solutions to their distribution needs. Since 1992, the Company
has offered customers the ability to outsource their total freight
distribution process. Revenue from these logistics and dedicated contract
services has more than doubled in each of the years 1994 and 1993.

OPERATING EXPENSES

     Salaries, wages and employee benefits expense increased 9% from 1993 to
1994, reflecting primarily additional staffing in the logistics and dedicated
contract services areas. The increase of 7% in 1993 was in proportion to the
size of the fleet. Purchased transportation expense increased significantly
during 1994 and 1993, reflecting the growth of intermodal and third- party
transportation services. Fuel and fuel tax expense remained reasonably
constant during 1994 and 1993 in relation to slight changes in the cost per
gallon of fuel. Depreciation expense increased 33% in 1994 due to
significantly lower gains on the disposition of revenue equipment and an 18%
increase in the number of trailers and containers in the fleet. The decrease
in depreciation expense in 1993 was primarily due to the amount of gains on
equipment dispositions during that year.

     Operating supplies and expenses increased 13% in 1994. This increase was
due to increased spending for tractor and trailer repairs. The increase in
operating supplies and expenses during 1993 was in relative proportion to the
size of the tractor fleet. Insurance and claims expense decreased in both
1994 and 1993. The Company has continued to focus on reducing accident
frequency and severity since late 1992. Operating taxes and licenses
decreased during 1994 due to the growth of intermodal volume and the
utilization of third-party services and certain credits recognized during the
year. The 12% increase in 1993 reflects the size of the tractor fleet and
rate increases enacted by various state regulatory agencies.








     The significant increase in general and administrative expenses during
1994 is primarily due to higher levels of driver advertising and recruitment
cost. The Company experienced a shortage of qualified drivers during the
first half of 1994. Communication and utilities expense increased 21% during
1994, primarily due to increased volume of loads and revenue. In addition,
certain satellite transmission charges related to on- board tractor
communication devices commenced during 1994. The decrease of communication
and utilities expense in 1993 was primarily due to certain rate reductions
and credits.

     Interest expense increased significantly during 1994 and 1993, primarily
due to higher levels of debt associated with the acquisition of new
containers and chassis and slightly higher interest rates.

     The effective income tax rate was 38% in 1994 and 41% in 1993. The
higher effective rate in 1993 was due to the increase in the federal tax rate
on both current and deferred income taxes which was effective retroactive to
January 1, 1993.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     In 1992, the Company committed to increased levels of capital spending
on new  technology including custom-designed on board tractor communication
devices and multi-purpose container and chassis equipment. As of December 31,
1994, more than 14,000 of the newly designed containers were in service. Net
capital expenditures were $219 million in 1994, $197 million in 1993 and $249
million in 1992, compared to $113 million in 1991. These expenditures were
funded with proceeds from long-term debt, a secondary offering of common
stock in 1992 and cash generated from operations.

     The Company is authorized to issue up to $250 million in notes, $183
million of which was outstanding at December 31, 1994.  A shelf registration
statement for an aggregate principal amount of $250 million of debt
securities was filed in 1993. At December 31, 1994, $100 million of 6.25%
unsecured notes were outstanding in connection with this registration
statement. The Company received approximately $56 million from a secondary
offering of common stock in 1992. In addition, the Company had approximately
$125 million of uncommitted lines of credit, none of which were outstanding
at December 31, 1994.

     With more than 70% of the dry van fleet converted to the new container
equipment, the level of capital spending should decline during 1995. As of
December 31, 1994, the Company had committed to purchase approximately $160
million of revenue and service equipment (net cost after expected proceeds
from the sale or trade-in allowances of $15 million). The Company expects to
fund future capital expenditures from cash provided by operating activities
and proceeds from long-term debt.









            ITEM 8.   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA






INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of J.B. Hunt
Transport Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993,
and the related consolidated statements of earnings,  stockholders' equity
and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December
31, 1994. These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on
these consolidated financial statements based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free
of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis,
evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.
An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of J.B. Hunt
Transport Services, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993,
and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
years in the three-year period ended December 31, 1994, in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles.

      As discussed in note 1(b) to the consolidated financial statements, the
Company changed its method of accounting for the cost of tires in service
during 1992.

                                              KPMG Peat Marwick LLP
                                              February 7, 1995

MANAGEMENT'S REPORT

Management is responsible for the financial statements and other information
contained in its annual report. The financial statements have been prepared
in accordance with appropriate, generally accepted accounting principles, and
the other information presented is consistent with the financial statements.
In preparing these financial statements, it is necessary to make informed
judgments and estimates regarding the expected effects of certain events and
transactions that are currently being reported.

     To meet its financial reporting responsibilities, management depends
upon systems of internal controls which are intended to provide reasonable
assurance, in relationship to reasonable cost, that assets are safeguarded,
that transactions are executed in accordance with management's authorization
and that the transactions are properly recorded so as to permit preparation
of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting
principles. Management seeks to provide reasonable assurance that the
objectives of internal accounting control are met by prudent selection of
personnel, adoption of appropriate policies, effective communication to
personnel and establishment of an effective system of authorization.

     The Board of Directors performs an oversight role with respect to
management's financial reporting responsibilities. To ensure effective
discharge of its responsibilities, the Board of Directors has established an
audit committee. The majority of the committee members are nonemployees of
the Company and its subsidiaries. The audit committee has met and reviewed
accounting issues, financial reporting and audit matters, including those
pertaining to the effectiveness of the Company's systems of internal control.

     The consolidated financial statements have been audited by KPMG Peat
Marwick LLP. As part of their audit of the Company's financial statements,
our independent accountants considered the Company's system of internal
control structure to the extent they deemed necessary to determine the
nature, timing and extent of their audit tests. These auditing procedures are
intended to provide a reasonable level of assurance that the financial
statements are fairly stated in all material respects.

Kirk Thompson                                        Jerry W. Walton
President and Chief Executive Officer                Executive Vice President,
                                                     Finance and Chief
                                                     Financial Officer
March 17, 1995




                  J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                           AND SUBSIDIARIES

                      CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                      DECEMBER 31, 1994 AND 1993
                (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PAR VALUE)



     See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.





                    J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                            AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF EARNINGS
               YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
            (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



             See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements





                   J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                           AND SUBSIDIARIES

             CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
               YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
            (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT PER SHARE AMOUNTS)



                     See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements







                   J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                            AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
              YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994, 1993 AND 1992
                         (DOLLARS IN THOUSANDS)



                See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.




               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

           Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992

(1) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     J. B. Hunt Transport Services, Inc., together with its wholly-owned
subsidiaries   ("Company"),   is   a   diversified transportation services
and logistics company operating under the jurisdiction of the Interstate
Commerce Commission ("ICC") and various state regulatory agencies.

(A) PRINCIPLES OF CONSOLIDATION

     The  consolidated financial statements include the  accounts of the
Company and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany
balances and transactions have been  eliminated  in consolidation.

(B) TIRES IN SERVICE

     Prior  to  1992,  the  cost  of  tires  placed  in  service, including
replacement tires, was capitalized and amortized on the straight-line method
over their estimated useful life.  Effective January  1, 1992, the Company
began capitalizing tires placed  in service on new revenue equipment as a
part of the equipment cost. Replacement  tires are expensed at the time they
are  placed  in service.   This  new  method of accounting for  tires  placed
in service  is consistent with frequent industry practice.   Due  to the
increasing percentage of freight transported  on  rail  cars (intermodal),
this method, in the opinion of management, provides a  better  matching  of
tire costs with revenues.   This  change increased  net earnings for 1992 by
$1,310,000 ($.04 per  share). The   cumulative  impact  of  $1,825,000  ($.05
per  share)   to retroactively  apply  the new method has also  been
credited  to earnings  for  1992.    This accounting change  resulted  in
the reduction  of  prepaid tires by $21,541,000, an increase  in  net revenue
equipment  of  $24,415,000 and an increase  in  deferred income  taxes of
$1,049,000.  The proforma amounts shown  on  the consolidated  statements of
earnings have been adjusted  for  the effect  of  retroactive application on
expenses and  the  related income taxes.

(C) PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT

     Property and equipment are stated at cost.  Depreciation  of property
and equipment is calculated on the straight-line  method over the estimated
useful lives of 5 to 10 years for revenue  and service   equipment,   10  to
25  years   for   structures   and improvements,  and  3  to  10  years  for
furniture  and  office equipment.    Gains  on  dispositions of  revenue
equipment  are offset against depreciation expense.

     On  April 1, 1993, the Company changed the estimated salvage value  for
some of its revenue and service equipment.  The effect upon   1993  net
earnings  was  an  increase  of   approximately $2,639,000 ($.07 per share).

(D) REVENUE RECOGNITION

     The  Company  recognizes revenue based on  relative  transit time  in
each  reporting  period  with  expenses  recognized  as incurred  as
permitted by the Emerging Issues Task Force  of  the Financial Accounting
Standards Board.





               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(E) INCOME TAXES

     In  February 1992, the Financial Accounting Standards  Board issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 109, ACCOUNTING FOR
INCOME TAXES. Under the  asset  and  liability method of Statement 109,
deferred tax assets and liabilities  are recognized  for  the  future  tax
consequences  attributable  to differences between the financial statement
carrying  amounts  of existing  assets and liabilities and their respective
tax  bases. Deferred  tax  assets and liabilities are measured using  enacted
tax  rates  expected to apply to taxable income in the  years  in which those
temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled.   Under
Statement 109, the effect on deferred tax assets and  liabilities of a change
in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the
enactment date.

     Effective  January  1, 1992, the Company  adopted  Statement 109.   The
effect of this change in the method of accounting  for income  taxes in the
1992 consolidated statement of  earnings  is not significant.

(F) EARNINGS PER SHARE

     Earnings  per share have been computed based on the weighted average
number of shares outstanding during each year (38,559,528 in  1994;
38,276,109 in 1993; and 35,785,692 in  1992).   Shares issuable  under
employee stock options  are  excluded  from  the weighted  average  number
of  shares  as  their  effect  is  not dilutive.

     On  January  15, 1992, the Company announced a three-for-two stock
split in the form of a 50% stock dividend payable on March 13, 1992, from
authorized and unissued shares to stockholders  of record  on February 19,
1992.  All references in the consolidated financial  statements with regard
to number of shares  of  common stock  and the per share amounts have been
retroactively restated to reflect this stock dividend.

(G) CREDIT RISK

     Financial instruments which potentially subject the  Company to
concentrations  of  credit risk consist  primarily  of  trade receivables.
Concentrations of credit risk with respect to trade receivables  are  limited
due to the Company's  large  number  of customers  and  the  diverse  range
of  industries  which   they represent.   As  of  December  31,  1994,  the
Company  had   no significant concentrations of credit risk.

(H) DERIVATIVES

     The  differential  paid or received on  interest  rate  swap agreements
is accrued as interest rates change and is charged  or credited  to  interest
expense over the life of  the  agreements. Any  gains or losses realized upon
the termination of an interest rate swap agreement are deferred and amortized
over the remaining life  of  the  original term as a charge or  credit  to
interest expense.

     The differential paid or received on fuel swap agreements is
accrued as fuel prices change and is charged or credited to  fuel expense on
a monthly basis.





               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(2) LONG-TERM DEBT

        Long-term debt consists of (in thousands):



       Under  its  commercial paper note program, the Company  is authorized
to issue up to $250 million in notes.  These notes are supported by two
credit agreements, which aggregate $250 million, with  a  group of banks, of
which $125 million expires March  31, 1995 and $125 million expires March 31,
1997.  The effective rate on  the commercial note program was 5.90% and 3.51%
for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.

     The  6.25% senior notes are payable at maturity on September 1,  2003,
the 7.75% senior notes are payable in five equal annual installments
beginning October 31, 1992, the 7.84% senior  notes are payable in five equal
annual installments beginning March 31, 1995, and the 7.80% senior
subordinated notes are payable in five equal annual installments beginning
October 30, 2000.

     Under  the  terms  of  the credit agreements  and  the  note agreements,
the Company is required to maintain certain financial covenants  including
leverage tests, minimum tangible  net  worth levels and other financial
ratios.

     The  Company  has approximately $125 million of  uncommitted lines  of
credit none of which were outstanding at December  31, 1994.   These  lines
are with various domestic and  international banks and are due on demand.
Interest on borrowings is generally tied  to  the  banks' prevailing base
rates or other  alternative market  rates.  No commitment or facility fees
are paid on  these lines  of  credit and the obligations are typically
evidenced  by unsecured demand notes.





               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

The  Company  restructured the credit facilities  supporting  its commercial
paper  note  program  by  establishing  two   credit agreements   during
1994  in  order  to  reduce   administrative expenses.  Accordingly, current
maturities of long-term  debt  at December  31,  1994  consist  of
outstanding  commercial   paper associated  with  the  revolving credit
agreement  which  expires March  31,  1995 and two installments of the senior
notes.   The aggregate  annual maturities of long-term debt for  each  of
the five  years  ending  December 31 are as follows  (in  thousands): 1995,
$68,075; 1996, $9,243; 1997, $130,000; 1998,  $5,000;  and 1999, $5,000.

(3) CAPITAL STOCK

     The  Company maintains a Management Incentive Plan  ("Plan") that
provides various vehicles to compensate key employees  with Company  common
stock.  Under the Plan, the Company is authorized to  award,  in  aggregate,
not more than  3,000,000  shares.   At December   31,  1994  there  were
approximately  70,000   shares available for granting under the Plan.  The
Company has  utilized three  such vehicles to award stock or grant options to
purchase the  Company's common stock: restricted stock awards,  restricted
options and nonstatutory stock options.

     Restricted stock awards are granted to key employees subject to
restrictions regarding transferability and assignment.  Shares of  Company
common stock are issued to the key employees and held by  the  Company until
each employee becomes vested in the award. Vesting of the awards generally
occurs over a four year period of time  from the award date.  Termination of
the employee  for  any reason   other  than  death,  disability  or  certain
cases   of retirement  causes  the  unvested portion  of  the  award  to  be
forfeited.

     Key  employees were granted restricted options  to  purchase stock.
The option price is 50% of the fair market value of  the stock  at  the  date
of grant.  Vesting of the  award  generally occurs  over  a  four year
period beginning on  the  grant  date. Failure to exercise a vested option
within 210 days after vesting or termination of the employee for any reason
other than death or disability  will cause unexercised and nonvested  options
to  be forfeited.

     The  plan  provides that nonstatutory stock options  may  be granted to
key employees for the purchase of Company common stock for 100% of the fair
market value at the grant date.  The options generally  vest over a ten year
period and are forfeited  if  the employee terminates for any reason.







               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

  A summary  of  the  restricted  and  nonstatutory  options   to
    purchase Company common stock follows:



     On  January  25,  1995,  the Company's  Board  of  Directors declared  a
cash dividend of $.05 per share payable on  February 17, 1995 to
shareholders of record on February 2, 1995.

(4) INCOME TAXES

     As discussed in note 1(e), the Company adopted Statement 109 as  of
January  1, 1992.  There was no significant  impact  upon earnings  as  a
result of this change in accounting  for  income taxes.  Total income tax
expense for the years ended December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992 was allocated as
follows (in thousands):







               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

     Income  tax  expense attributable to earnings before  income taxes  and
cumulative  effect  of change  in  accounting  method consists of (in
thousands):




     The  following  is  a reconciliation between  the  effective income  tax
rate and the applicable statutory Federal income  tax rate  for  each  of
the three fiscal years in the  period  ended December 31, 1994:




     The significant components of deferred income tax expense attributable
to earnings before income taxes and cumulative effect of change in accounting
method are as follows (in thousands):






               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  (Continued)

     The  tax effects of temporary differences that give rise  to significant
portions of the deferred tax assets and deferred  tax liabilities at December
31, 1994 and 1993 are presented below (in thousands):




     The   Company   believes   its  substantiated   history   of
profitability and taxable income, its taxes paid within the three- year
carryback  period  and  its  utilization  of  tax  planning sufficiently
supports  the value of  the  deferred  tax  assets. Accordingly,  the Company
has not recorded a valuation  allowance on  its books as all deferred tax
assets are more than likely  to be recovered.

     Included  in  other  prepaid expenses are refundable  income taxes  of
$386,000 and $428,000 at December 31, 1994  and  1993, respectively.

(5) EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS

     The   Company  maintains  bonus  compensation  programs  for certain of
its employees.  Bonuses earned under the programs  are based  on  attainment
of profit objectives  established  by  the Company's  Board  of  Directors.
Bonuses  expensed  under   the programs for 1994, 1993 and 1992 were
$4,900,000, $2,600,000  and $7,400,000, respectively.

     The   Company  maintains  a  defined  contribution  employee retirement
plan,  which includes a 401(k)  option,  under  which employees  are
eligible to participate after they  complete  one year of service.  Company
contributions to the plan each year are made  at  the  discretionary amount
determined by  the  Company's Board  of Directors.  For the year ended
December 31, 1994,  1993 and  1992,  total  Company contributions to the
plan,  including matching  401(k)  contributions were $1,950,000,  $1,900,000
and $1,850,000, respectively.




               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(6) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

CASH  AND  TEMPORARY INVESTMENTS, ACCOUNTS RECEIVABLE, AND  TRADE
    ACCOUNTS PAYABLE

     The  carrying amount approximates fair value because of  the short
maturity of these instruments.

LONG-TERM DEBT

     The   carrying   amount   of  the  commercial   paper   debt
approximates the fair value because of the short maturity of  the commercial
paper instruments.

     The  fair value of the fixed rate debt is presented  as  the present
value of future cash flows discounted using the Company's current  borrowing
rate for notes of comparable  maturity.   The calculation arrives at a
theoretical amount the Company would pay a  creditworthy third party to
assume its fixed rate  obligations and  not  the termination value of these
obligations.  Consistent with  market  practices,  such  termination  values
may  include various  prepayment and termination fees that the  Company
would contractually be required to pay if it retired the debt early.

INTEREST RATE SWAP AGREEMENTS

     The  fair  values  of  interest  rate  swap  agreements  are obtained
from  dealer  quotes.   These  values  represent   the estimated  amount  the
Company  would  pay  to  terminate   such agreements, taking into
consideration current interest rates  and the creditworthiness of the
counterparties.

     The   estimated  fair  values  of  the  Company's  financial instruments
are summarized as follows (in thousands):



(7) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

     The Company advances premiums on a life insurance policy  on the  joint
lives  of Mr. and Mrs. J.B. Hunt.   The  Company  has advanced  $3,280,000
on this policy which,  along  with  related accrued  interest thereon of
approximately $416,000, is  included in  other assets at December 31, 1994.
All premiums paid by  the Company,  along  with accrued interest thereon, are
reimbursable from a trust which is the owner and beneficiary of the policy.




               J. B. HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                        AND SUBSIDIARIES

     Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements (Continued)

(8) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

     The  Company  has  committed to purchase approximately  $160 million  of
revenue  and  service  equipment  (net  cost,  after expected  proceeds
from  sale  or  trade-in  allowances  of  $15 million).

     The  Company  is  involved  in certain  claims  and  pending litigation
arising from the normal conduct of business.  Based on the  present
knowledge  of  the facts  and,  in  certain  cases, opinions  of outside
counsel, management believes the  resolution of claims and pending litigation
will not have a material adverse effect on the financial condition of the
Company.

(9) DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     Interest  rate  swap  agreements  are  used  to  reduce  the potential
impact of changes in interest rates on  the  Company's debt  portfolio.   At
December 31, 1994, an interest  rate  swap agreement  with an aggregate
notional amount of $20  million  was outstanding.   The estimated fair value
of the swap  at  December 31,  1994  was  a liability of approximately $2.0
million.   This value  was determined from a dealer quotation and represents
the estimated   amount  the  Company  would  pay  to  terminate   the
agreement.   Included in other current liabilities  are  deferred swap  gains
of $0.8 million at December 31, 1994 and $1.1 million at December 31, 1993.

     The  Company  uses fuel swap agreements to hedge anticipated purchases
of diesel fuel.  Under these agreements,  the  Company receives  or  makes
payments  on  the  differential  between   a contractual index price and the
actual average index during  such period.

(10) QUARTERLY FINANCIAL INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

     Operating  results by quarter for the years  ended  December 31,  1994
and 1993 are as follows (in thousands, except per share data):






ITEM 9.   DISAGREEMENTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

     No reports on Form 8-K have been filed within the twenty-four months
prior to December 31, 1994, involving a change of accountants or
disagreements on accounting and financial disclosure.

                            PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF REGISTRANT

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

     The information required for Items 10, 11 and 12 is hereby incorporated
by reference from the Notice and Proxy Statement For Annual Stockholders'
Meeting set forth under sections entitled "Proposal One Election of
Directors", "Board Committees", "Executive Officers", "Voting Securities and
Security Ownership of Management and Principal Stockholders", "Executive
Compensation and Other Information", "1995 Performance Based Compensation"
and "Proposal Two Proposal to Approve the Adoption of The Executive
Performance Bonus Plan", "Proposal Three Proposal to Approve the Management
Incentive Plan", and "Proposal Four Ratification of Appointment of Auditors".

     The Proxy Statement had not yet been mailed to stockholders and was not
available as of March 17, 1995. It will be filed no later than April 30, 1995.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     None

                             PART IV

ITEM 14.   EXHIBITS


     The following documents are filed as part of this report:
     (a)  Exhibits
          The response to this portion of Item 14 is submitted as a separate
section of this report ("Exhibit Index").




SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Sections 13 or 15(d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant had duly caused
this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Lowell, Arkansas, on
the 17th day of  March, 1995.

                              J.B.HUNT TRANSPORT SERVICES, INC.
                                        (Registrant)

                         By: /s/ Kirk Thompson
                             -------------------------------------
                             Kirk Thompson
                             President and Chief Executive Officer

                         By: /s/ Jerry W. Walton
                             -------------------------------------
                             Jerry W. Walton
                             Executive Vice President
                             Finance and Chief Financial Officer


     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act
of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on
the dates indicated.


/s/ John A. Cooper, Jr.          Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    John A. Cooper, Jr.          of Directors

/s/ Fred K. Darragh, Jr.         Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    Fred K. Darragh, Jr.         of Directors

/s/ Wayne Garrison               Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    Wayne Garrison               of Directors

/s/ Gene George                  Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    Gene George                  of Directors

/s/ Thomas L. Hardeman           Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    Thomas L. Hardeman           of Directors

/s/ J. Bryan Hunt, Jr.           Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    J. Bryan Hunt, Jr.           of Directors (Vice Chairman)

/s/ J.B. Hunt                    Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    J.B. Hunt                    of Directors (Chairman)

/s/ Johnelle Hunt                Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    Johnelle Hunt                of Directors (Corporate
                                 Secretary)

/s/ Lloyd E. Peterson            Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    Lloyd E. Peterson            of Directors

/s/ Kirk Thompson                Member of the Board            March 17, 1995
------------------------------
    Kirk Thompson                of Directors (President and
                                 Chief Executive Officer)





EXHIBIT INDEX





