
10-K
POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION



                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                           WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549-1004





                                    FORM 10-K

            (MARK ONE)

/X/ ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
                                     OF 1934

                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 28, 1998

                                       OR

/ / TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
                                   ACT OF 1934

                        COMMISSION FILE NUMBER 001-13057

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)



          DELAWARE
(State or other jurisdiction of                             13-2622036
 incorporation or organization)                (IRS Employer Identification No.)

 650 MADISON AVENUE, NEW YORK, NEW YORK                       10022
(Address of principal executive offices)                    (Zip Code)

        212-318-7000



           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(B) OF THE ACT:

                                                  NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE
      TITLE OF EACH CLASS                          ON WHICH REGISTERED

Class A Common Stock, $.01 par value              New York Stock Exchange

           SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                      NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days. Yes /x/ No / /.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. / /

The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $915,070,414 at June 18, 1998.

At June 18, 1998, 34,083,302 shares of the registrant's Class A Common Stock,
$.01 par value, and 43,280,021 shares of the registrant's Class B Common Stock,
$.01 par value and 22,720,979 shares of the registrant's Class C Common Stock,
$.01 par value, were outstanding.

                       DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE


                DOCUMENT                                 WHERE INCORPORATED

  Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of                       Part III
 Stockholders to be held August 13, 1998




                                     PART I

ITEM 1.     BUSINESS.

            Unless the context requires otherwise, references to the "Company"
or to "Polo" are to Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation and its subsidiaries. Due to
the collaborative and ongoing nature of the Company's relationships with its
licensees, such licensees are referred to in this Form 10-K as "licensing
partners" and the relationships between the Company and such licensees are
referred to in this Form 10-K as "licensing alliances." Notwithstanding these
references, however, the legal relationship between the Company and its
licensees is one of licensor and licensee, and not one of partnership.

            Polo is a leader in the design, marketing and distribution of
premium lifestyle products. For more than 30 years, Polo's reputation and
distinctive image have been consistently developed across an expanding number of
products, brands and international markets. The Company's brand names, which
include "Polo," "Polo by Ralph Lauren," "Polo Sport," "Ralph Lauren," "RALPH,"
"Lauren," "Polo Jeans Co." and "Chaps," among others, constitute one of the
world's most widely recognized families of consumer brands. Directed by Ralph
Lauren, the internationally renowned designer, the Company believes it has
influenced the manner in which people dress and live in contemporary society,
reflecting an American perspective and lifestyle uniquely associated with Polo
and Ralph Lauren.

            Polo combines its consumer insight and design, marketing and imaging
skills to offer, along with its licensing partners, broad lifestyle product
collections in four categories: apparel, home, accessories and fragrance.
Apparel products include extensive collections of menswear, womenswear and
children's clothing. The Ralph Lauren Home Collection offers coordinated
products for the home including bedding and bath products, interior decor and
tabletop and gift items. Accessories encompass a broad range of products such as
footwear, eyewear, jewelry and leather goods (including handbags and luggage).
Fragrance and skin care products are sold under the Company's Polo, Lauren,
Safari and Polo Sport brands, among others.

OPERATIONS

            Polo's business consists of three integrated operations: wholesale,
retail and licensing. Each is driven by the Company's guiding philosophy of
style, innovation and quality.

            Details of the Company's net revenues are shown in the table below.



     (1)  The Company purchased certain of the assets of its former womenswear
          licensing partner in October 1995. The fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and
          fiscal 1996 net revenues reflect the inclusion of



          womenswear wholesale net sales of $98.4 million, $98.8 million and
          $36.7 million, respectively, and an elimination of licensing revenue
          associated with the operations of the womenswear business after the
          acquisition.

     (2)  Licensing revenue includes royalties received from Home Collection
          licensing partners.

     (3)  In February 1993, the Company entered into a joint venture to combine
          certain of its retail operations with those of its joint venture
          partner, Perkins Shearer Venture, to form Polo Retail Corporation
          ("PRC"). On March 21, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement,
          effective April 3, 1997, to acquire the 50% interest it did not own
          from its joint venture partner (the "PRC Acquisition"). Prior to the
          PRC Acquisition, the Company accounted for its interest in PRC under
          the equity method. Effective April 3, 1997, the Company consolidated
          the operations of PRC in fiscal 1998 and accounted for the transaction
          under the purchase method. On a pro forma basis for fiscal 1997,
          wholesale net sales by the Company to PRC are eliminated and PRC net
          revenues are reflected as retail sales. Assuming the acquisition had
          taken place at March 31, 1996, pro forma wholesale net sales and
          retail sales in fiscal 1997 would have been $623.0 million and $508.7
          million, respectively. Pro forma fiscal 1997 net revenues reflect the
          inclusion of womenswear wholesale net sales of $79.6 million and an
          elimination of licensing revenue associated with the operations of the
          womenswear business after the acquisition.

WHOLESALE

     Polo's wholesale business is subdivided into two divisions: Polo Ralph
Lauren Menswear and Ralph Lauren Womenswear. In both of its wholesale divisions,
the Company offers discrete brand offerings to compete at various price levels.
See "-- Domestic Wholesale and Home Collection Customers and Services."

POLO RALPH LAUREN MENSWEAR

     The Menswear division designs, sources, markets and distributes menswear
under its Polo by Ralph Lauren, Polo Sport, Ralph Lauren/Purple Label Collection
and Polo Golf brands. Each line is directed by a team consisting of design,
merchandising, sales and production staff who work together to conceive, develop
and merchandise product groupings organized to convey a variety of design
concepts. Generally, there are four annual seasonal presentations for each line:
Fall, Cruise/Holiday, Spring and Summer. Within each line, the Company offers
core and recurring styles complemented by fashion forward items reflecting
contemporary trends. Polo is recognized worldwide as one of the premier men's
designer collections, and Mr. Lauren was named 1996 Menswear Designer of the
Year by the Council of Fashion Designers of America ("CFDA").

     POLO BY RALPH LAUREN. The Polo by Ralph Lauren menswear collection is a
complete men's wardrobe consisting of products related by theme, style, color
and fabric. Polo by Ralph Lauren menswear is generally priced at a range of
price points within the men's premium ready-to-wear apparel market. This line is
currently sold through approximately 1,620 department store, specialty store and
Polo store doors in the United States, including approximately 1,200 department
store shop-within-shops.

     POLO SPORT. The Polo Sport line of activewear and sportswear is designed to
meet the growing consumer demand for functional sport and outdoor apparel. Polo
Sport is offered at a range of price points generally consistent with prices for
the Polo by Ralph Lauren line, and is distributed through the same channels as
Polo by Ralph Lauren.



     RALPH LAUREN/PURPLE LABEL COLLECTION. In Fall 1995, the Company introduced
its Purple Label Collection of men's tailored clothing and, in Fall 1997, to
complement the tailored clothing line, the Company launched its Purple Label
sportswear line. Purple Label Collection tailored clothing is manufactured and
distributed by a licensee, and dress shirts and ties and sportswear are sourced
and distributed by the Company. The Purple Label lines are sold through a
limited number of premier fashion retailers, currently numbering 26 doors in the
United States and eight internationally.

     POLO GOLF. The Polo Golf line is targeted at the golf and resort markets.
Price points are similar to those charged for products in the Polo Sport line.
The Polo Golf line is presently sold in the United States through approximately
1,600 leading golf clubs, pro shops and resorts, in addition to department,
specialty and Polo stores.

RALPH LAUREN WOMENSWEAR

     The Womenswear division designs, sources, markets and distributes
womenswear under its Ralph Lauren Collection and Collection Classics,
RALPH/Ralph Lauren and Ralph Lauren Polo Sport brands. Representatives from each
of the design, merchandising, sales and production staffs work together to
conceive, develop and sell product groupings organized to convey a variety of
design concepts. Each of the women's apparel lines (except Ralph Lauren
Collection) consists of core, recurring styles, complemented by more
fashion-oriented items which reflect contemporary trends. Mr. Lauren introduced
his first womenswear products in 1971 and subsequently licensed the line in
1973.

     In October 1995, to capitalize further on its position, both domestically
and internationally, as a leading designer of womenswear, Polo acquired the
business of its former licensing partner and commenced its own womenswear
wholesale operations. Since acquiring control of these operations, the Company
has centralized control of its womenswear design, merchandising and sales
activities and focused its efforts on improving the quality, production and
delivery of its products. In addition, the Company has sought to build its
womenswear business by capitalizing on the relationships developed with its
menswear customers and by devoting resources to creating and renovating
shop-within-shops and other exclusively fixtured areas within department stores.

     The womenswear industry's three basic selling seasons are Fall,
Cruise/Holiday and Spring/Summer. The women's ready-to-wear apparel market in
the United States is divided into four segments defined by price levels, ranging
from lowest to highest, as follows: moderate, better, bridge and designer. The
Company competes directly in the bridge and designer segments of the womenswear
industry, and competes through its licensing partner for the Lauren line in the
better segment.

     RALPH LAUREN COLLECTION AND COLLECTION CLASSICS. The Ralph Lauren
Collection, sold under the purple label and the Custom Collection Label (the
"Collection"), expresses the Company's up-to-the-moment fashion vision for
women. Collection Classics, sold under Ralph Lauren's black label, include
timeless versions of the Company's most successful Collection styles, as well as
newly-designed classic signature styles which tend to remain in a women's
wardrobe for several seasons. Collection and Collection Classics are offered for
limited distribution to premier fashion retailers and through Polo stores. Price
points are at the upper end or luxury ranges. The lines are currently sold by
the Company through over 86 doors in the United States by the Company and over
235 international doors by the Company and its licensing partners.



     RALPH/RALPH LAUREN. The RALPH/Ralph Lauren brand was established in 1994
and presents a distinct and more casual fashion identity for the bridge market,
while retaining a strong association with the Ralph Lauren Collection designer
image. The line is sold through approximately 145 doors in the United States and
Canada. In fall 1999, this line will be renamed and the RALPH/Ralph Lauren brand
will be relaunched and used in connection with a newly licensed young women's
(ages 16-24) line.

     RALPH LAUREN POLO SPORT. Similar to its menswear counterpart, the Ralph
Lauren Polo Sport line for women includes activewear for a variety of sports, as
well as weekend sportswear. The Ralph Lauren Polo Sport line is currently
carried by approximately 500 doors in the United States, including approximately
185 shop-within-shops, and sells at a wide range of bridge prices.

HOME COLLECTION

     With the introduction of the Ralph Lauren Home Collection in 1983, Polo
became one of the first major apparel designers to extend its design principles
and brands to a complete line of home furnishings. Today, in conjunction with
its licensing partners, Polo offers an extensive collection of home products
which both draw upon, and add to, the design themes of the Company's other
product lines, contributing to Polo's complete lifestyle concept. Products are
sold under the Ralph Lauren Home Collection brands in three primary categories:
bedding and bath, interior decor, and tabletop and gift.

     In addition to developing the Home Collection, Polo acts as sales and
marketing agent for its domestic Home Collection licensing partners. Together
with its eight domestic home product licensing partners, representatives of the
Company's design, merchandising, production and sales staffs collaborate to
conceive, develop and merchandise the various products as a complete home
furnishing collection. Polo's personnel market and sell the products to domestic
customers and certain international accounts. Polo's licensing partners, many of
which are leaders in their particular product category, manufacture, own the
inventory and ship the products. As compared to its other licensing alliances,
Polo performs a broader range of services for its Home Collection licensing
partners, which, in addition to sales and marketing, include operating showrooms
and incurring advertising expenses. Consequently, Polo receives a higher royalty
rate from its Home Collection licensing partners, which rates typically range
from 15% to 25%. Home Collection licensing alliances generally have three to
five-year terms and often grant the licensee conditional renewal options.

     Home Collection products are positioned at the upper tiers of their
respective markets and are offered at a range of price levels.

     The Company's home furnishings products generally are distributed through
department stores, specialty furniture stores, interior design showrooms,
customer catalogs and home centers. As with its other products, the use of
shop-within-shops is central to the Company's distribution strategy. Certain
licensing partners, including those selling furniture, wall coverings, blankets,
bed pillows, tabletop, flatware, home fragrance and paint, also sell their
products directly through their own staffs to reach additional customer markets.

     The home furnishings products offered by the Company and its domestic
licensing partners are listed below.







     The Company's three most significant Home Collection licensing partners    
based on aggregate licensing revenue paid to the Company are WestPoint Stevens,
Inc., Pillowtex Corporation and Henredon Furniture Industries, Inc. WestPoint
Stevens, Inc. accounted for approximately 45% of Home Collection licensing
revenue in fiscal 1998.

DOMESTIC WHOLESALE AND HOME COLLECTION CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE

     GENERAL. Consistent with the appeal and distinctive image of its products
and brands, the Company sells its menswear, womenswear and home furnishings
products primarily to leading upscale department stores, specialty stores, golf
and pro shops and Polo stores located throughout the United States which have
the reputation and merchandising expertise required for the effective
presentation of Polo products.

     The Company's wholesale and home furnishings products are distributed
through the primary distribution channels listed in the table below. In
addition, the Company also sells excess and out-of-season products through
secondary distribution channels.


                                                   

     Department stores represent the largest customer group of each wholesale
division and of Home Collection. Major department store customers include
Federated Department Stores, Inc., Dillard Department Stores, Inc. and The May
Department Stores Company. During fiscal 1998, Federated Department Stores,
Inc., Dillard Department Stores, Inc. and




The May Department Stores Company accounted for 19.1%, 16.4% and 15.8%,
respectively, of the Company's wholesale net sales.

     Menswear, womenswear and Home Collection wholesale products are primarily
sold through their respective sales forces aggregating approximately 125
salespersons employed by Polo. The Menswear division maintains its primary
showroom at Polo's New York City executive headquarters. Regional showrooms for
menswear are located in Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas and Los Angeles. An independent
sales representative promotes sales to U.S. military exchanges. The Womenswear
and Home Collection divisions maintain their primary showrooms in New York City.
Regional sales representatives for the Home Collection are located in the
Company's showrooms in Atlanta, Chicago, Dallas and Los Angeles. The Company
also operates a separate tabletop showroom in New York City.

     SHOP-WITHIN-SHOPS. As a critical element of its distribution to department
stores, the Company and its licensing partners utilize shop-within-shops to
enhance brand recognition, permit more complete merchandising of the Company's
lines and differentiate the presentation of products. The Company intends to add
approximately 230 shop-within-shops and refurbish approximately 270
shop-within-shops in fiscal 1999. At March 28, 1998, department store customers
in the United States had installed over 1,900 shop-within-shops dedicated to the
Company's products and over 1,000 shops-within-shops dedicated to Polo's
licensed products. The size of Polo shop-within-shops (excluding significantly
larger shop-within-shops in key department store locations) typically ranges
from approximately 1,000 to 1,500 square feet for menswear, from approximately
800 to 1,200 square feet for womenswear, and from approximately 800 to 1,200
square feet for home furnishings. The Company estimates that, in total,
approximately 2.0 million square feet of department store space in the United
States is dedicated to Polo shop-within-shops. In addition to shop-within-shops,
the Company utilizes exclusively fixtured areas in department stores.

     BASIC STOCK REPLENISHMENT PROGRAM. The menswear and womenswear programs
allow products such as knit shirts, chino pants, oxford cloth shirts and navy
blazers to be ordered at any time through basic stock replenishment programs.
For customers who reorder basic products, Polo generally ships these products
within one to five days of order receipt. These products accounted for
approximately 21% of menswear and womenswear wholesale net sales in fiscal 1998.
The Company has also implemented a seasonal quick response program to allow
replenishment of products which can be ordered for only a portion of each year.
Certain Home Collection licensing partners also offer a basic stock
replenishment program which includes towels, bedding and tabletop products.
Basic stock products accounted for approximately 75% of net sales of Home
Collection licensing partners in fiscal 1998.

DIRECT RETAILING

     The Company operates three types of retail stores dedicated to the sale of
Polo products. Located in prime retail areas, the Company's 29 Polo stores
operate under the Polo Ralph Lauren, Polo Sport and Polo Jeans Co. names. The
Company's 72 outlet stores are generally located in outlet malls and operate
under the Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store name.

     In addition to its own retail operations, the Company has granted licenses
to independent parties to operate 14 stores in the United States and 76 stores
internationally. The Company receives the proceeds from the sale of its menswear
and womenswear products, which are included in wholesale net sales, to these
stores and also receives royalties, which are included






in licensing revenue, from its licensing partners who sell to these stores. The
Company generally does not receive any other compensation from these licensed
store operators. See "-- Licensing Alliances."

POLO STORES

     In addition to generating sales of Polo Ralph Lauren products, Polo stores
set, reinforce and capitalize on the image of Polo's brands. The Company's two
flagship stores located on Madison Avenue in New York City showcase Polo
products and demonstrate Polo's most refined merchandising techniques. In
addition to its New York flagship stores, Polo operates 27 other Polo stores.
Ranging in size from approximately 2,000 to over 15,000 square feet, the
non-flagship stores are situated in upscale regional malls and major high street
locations generally in the largest urban markets in the United States. Polo has
also operated a Polo store on New Bond Street in London since 1983. In
aggregate, the Company operates 25 Polo Ralph Lauren stores, two Polo Sport
stores, one Polo Jeans Co. store and one Polo Country store (offering primarily
leisure and weekend apparel). Stores are generally leased for initial periods
ranging from five to fifteen years with renewal options.

     The Company plans to continue to invest in Polo stores. In fiscal 1998,
Polo Ralph Lauren stores were opened in Las Vegas, Nevada and Oakbrook, Illinois
and a Polo Jeans Co. store was opened in Garden State Plaza, New Jersey. Among
other locations, new stores are planned for Palm Beach, Florida, Point Orlando,
Florida and Burlingame, California, and new flagship stores are planned for
Chicago and London. In fiscal 1998, Polo renovated or relocated its stores in
Phoenix, Arizona, Manhasset, New York and Short Hills, New Jersey. Polo plans to
convert its Polo Ralph Lauren store in Santa Clara, California to a Polo Jeans
Co. store in fiscal 1999.

     Effective March 31, 1997, the Company entered into a joint venture
agreement with a nonaffiliated partner to acquire real property in New York
City. The Company and its partner are discussing possible concepts for such
location. Concurrent with the signing of the agreement, the Company made an
initial contribution for its 50% interest in the joint venture in the amount of
$5.0 million. On December 16, 1997, the Company entered into another joint
venture agreement with this nonaffiliated partner. The entity formed through
this joint venture entered into a long-term lease of a building located in the
Soho District of New York City.

OUTLET STORES

     Polo extends its reach to additional consumer groups through its 72 Polo
Ralph Lauren Factory Stores. Outlet stores offer selections of the Company's
menswear, womenswear, children's apparel, accessories, home furnishings and
fragrances. Ranging in size from 5,000 to 13,000 square feet, with an average of
approximately 8,000 square feet, the stores are generally located in major
outlet centers in 30 states and Puerto Rico.

     Outlet stores purchase products from Polo, its licensing partners and its
suppliers and from Polo stores in the United States. Outlet stores purchase
products from Polo generally at cost and from Polo's domestic product licensing
partners and Polo stores at negotiated prices. Outlet stores also source basic
products and styles directly from the Company's suppliers. In fiscal 1998, the
outlet stores purchased approximately 29%, 38% and 33% of products from the
Company, licensing partners and other suppliers, respectively.





     The Company plans to add ten to twenty new outlet stores (net of
anticipated store closings) over the next three years. In addition, in fiscal
1999, the Company plans to add approximately 20 factory outlet concept stores
which will carry only certain Polo brands and products and will be smaller than
typical outlet stores.

LICENSING ALLIANCES

     Through licensing alliances, Polo combines its consumer insight and design,
marketing and imaging skills with the specific product or geographic
competencies of its licensing partners to create and build new businesses. The
Company's licensing partners, who are often leaders in their respective markets,
generally contribute the majority of product development costs, provide the
operational infrastructure required to support the business and own the
inventory.

     Product and international licensing partners are granted the right to
manufacture and sell at wholesale specified products under one or more of Polo's
trademarks. International licensing partners produce and source products
independently and in conjunction with the Company and its product licensing
partners. As compensation for the Company's contributions under these
agreements, each licensing partner pays royalties to the Company based upon its
sales of Polo Ralph Lauren products, subject generally, to payment of a minimum
royalty. With the exception of Home Collection licenses, these payments
generally range from five to eight percent of the licensing partners's sales of
the licensed products. See "-- Home Collection" for a description of royalty
arrangements for Home Collection products. In addition, licensing partners are
required to allocate between two and four percent of their sales to advertise
Polo products. Larger allocations are required in connection with launches of
new products or in new territories.

     Polo works in close collaboration with its licensing partners to ensure
that products are developed, marketed and distributed to address the intended
market opportunity and present consistently to consumers worldwide the
distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with the Company's brands.
Virtually all aspects of the design, production quality, packaging,
merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of Polo products are
subject to the Company's prior approval and ongoing oversight. The result is a
consistent identity for Polo products across product categories and
international markets.

     Polo has 20 product and 11 international licensing partners. A substantial
portion of the Company's net income is derived from licensing revenue received
from its licensing partners. The Company's three largest licensing partners by
licensing revenue, WestPoint Stevens, Inc., Seibu Department Stores, Ltd. and
Jones Apparel Group, Inc. accounted for 12.5%, 11.5% and 11.4%, respectively, of
licensing revenue in fiscal 1998.

PRODUCT LICENSING ALLIANCES

     Polo has agreements with 20 product licensing partners relating to men's
and women's sportswear, men's tailored clothing, children's apparel,
personalwear, accessories and fragrances. The products offered by the Company's
product licensing partners as of March 28, 1998 are listed below.

LICENSING PARTNER                       LICENSED PRODUCT CATEGORY
Warnaco, Inc.                           Men's Chaps Sportswear






Sun Apparel, Inc.                    Men's & Women's Polo Jeans Co. Casual
                                       Apparel & Sportswear
Jones Apparel Group, Inc.            Women's Lauren Better Sportswear
Chester Barrie, Ltd.                 Men's Purple Label Tailored Clothing
Pietrafesa Co.                       Men's Polo Tailored Clothing
Peerless Inc.                        Men's Chaps Tailored Clothing
Oxford Industries, Inc.              Children's (boys) Apparel
S. Schwab Company, Inc.              Infants, Toddlers & Girls
Sara Lee Corporation                 Men's & Women's Personal Wear Apparel
The Rockport Company                 Men's & Women's Dress,
                                       Casual and Performance Athletic Footwear
Wathne, Inc.                         Handbags & Luggage
Hot Sox, Inc.                        Men's, Women's & Children's Hosiery
New Campaign, Inc.                   Belts & other Small Leather Goods
Echo Scarves, Inc.                   Scarves for Men & Women
Carolee, Inc.                        Jewelry
Swany, Inc.                          Men's, Women's & Children's Gloves
L'Oreal S.A./Cosmair, Inc.           Men's & Women's Fragrances and skin 
                                       care products
Authentic Fitness Products, Inc.     Women's & Girls' Swimwear
Burton Golf, Inc.                    Golf bags
Safilo USA, Inc.                     Eyewear


INTERNATIONAL LICENSING ALLIANCES

     The Company believes that international markets offer additional
opportunities for Polo's quintessential American designs and lifestyle image and
is committed to the global development of its businesses. International
expansion opportunities may include the roll out of new products and brands
following their launch in the U.S., the introduction of additional product
lines, the entrance into new international markets and the addition of Polo
stores in these markets. For example, following the successful launch of Polo
Jeans Co. in the U.S. in Fall 1996, the Company launched the line in Canada, the
U.K., Germany, Spain, Japan, Israel, Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. Polo works
with its 11 international licensing partners to facilitate this international
expansion. International licensing partners also operate 76 Polo stores.

     In fiscal 1998, the Company added nine new Polo stores in international
markets including a Polo Sport store, a Polo Jeans Co. store and a Polo Ralph
Lauren store in Tel Aviv, a Polo Sport store in Kuwait City, a Polo Ralph Lauren
store in Dubai, two Polo Jeans Co. stores in Singapore and one Polo Jeans Co.
store in each of Hong Kong and Taiwan. The Company is also pursuing plans for
expansion into Mexico.


     International licensing partners acquire the right to source, produce,
market and/or sell some or all Polo products in a given geographical area.
Economic arrangements are similar to those of domestic product licensing
partners. Licensed products are designed by the Company, either alone or in
collaboration with its domestic licensing partners. Domestic licensees generally
provide international licensing partners with patterns, piece goods,
manufacturing locations and other information and assistance necessary to
achieve product uniformity, for which they are, in many cases, compensated.

     The most significant international licensing partners by royalties in
fiscal 1998 were Seibu Department Stores, Ltd., which oversees distribution of
virtually all of the Company's products in Japan, L'Oreal S.A., which
distributes fragrances and toiletries outside of the United States and Poloco,
S.A., which distributes men's and boys' Polo apparel, men's and women's Polo
Jeans Co. apparel and certain accessories in Europe. The Company's ability to
maintain and increase royalties under foreign licenses is dependent upon certain
factors not within the Company's control, including fluctuating currency rates,
currency controls, withholding requirements levied on royalty payments,
governmental restrictions on royalty rates, political instability and local
market conditions.

DESIGN

     The Company's products reflect a timeless and innovative American style
associated with and defined by Polo and Ralph Lauren. The Company's consistent
emphasis on innovative and distinctive design has been an important contributor
to the prominence, strength and reputation of the Polo Ralph Lauren brands. For
some 30 years, the Company's designers have influenced, anticipated and
responded to evolving consumer tastes within the context of Polo's defining
aesthetic principles. Mr. Lauren, supported by Polo's design staff, has won
numerous awards for Polo's designs including the prestigious 1996 Menswear
Designer of the Year award and 1995 Womenswear Designer of the Year award, both
of which were awarded by the CFDA. In addition, Mr. Lauren was honored with the
CFDA Lifetime Achievement Award in 1991 and the CFDA Award for Humanitarian
Leadership in 1998, and is the only person to have won all four of these awards.

     Design teams are formed around the Company's brands and product categories
to develop concepts, themes and products for each of Polo's businesses. These
teams work in close collaboration with merchandising, sales and production staff
and licensing partners in order to gain market and other input.

     All Polo Ralph Lauren products are designed by or under the direction of
Mr. Ralph Lauren and the Company's design staff of approximately 210, which is
divided into three departments: Menswear, Womenswear and Home Collection.

     The Company operates a research, development and testing facility in
Greensboro, North Carolina, testing labs in New Jersey and Singapore and pattern
rooms in New York and New Jersey.

MARKETING

     Polo's marketing program communicates the themes and images of the Polo
Ralph Lauren brands and is an integral feature of its product offering.
Worldwide marketing is managed on a centralized basis through the Company's
advertising and public relations departments in order to ensure consistency of
presentation.



     The Company creates the distinctive image advertising for all Polo Ralph
Lauren products, conveying the particular message of each brand within the
context of Polo's core themes. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle
rather than a specific item and often include a variety of Polo products offered
by both the Company and its licensing partners. Polo's primary advertising
medium is print, with multiple page advertisements appearing regularly in a
range of fashion, lifestyle and general interest magazines including Elle,
Esquire, GQ, The New York Times Magazine, Town and Country, Vanity Fair and
Vogue. Major print advertising campaigns are conducted during the Fall and
Spring retail seasons with additions throughout the year to coincide with
product deliveries. In addition to print, certain product categories utilize
television and outdoor media in their marketing programs.

     The Company's licensing partners contribute a percentage (usually between
two and four percent) of their sales of Polo products for advertising. The
Company directly coordinates advertising placement for domestic product
licensing partners. During fiscal 1998, Polo and its licensing partners
collectively spent more than $154 million worldwide to advertise and promote
Polo products.

     Polo conducts a variety of public relations activities. Each of the Spring
and Fall womenswear collections is introduced at major fashion shows in New York
which generate extensive domestic and international media coverage. In
recognition of the increasing role menswear plays in the fashion industry, each
of the Spring and Fall menswear collections is introduced at fashion
presentations organized for the fashion press. In addition, Polo sponsors
professional golfers, organizes in-store appearances by its models and sponsors
sports teams.

SOURCING, PRODUCTION AND QUALITY

     The Company's apparel products are produced for the Company by
approximately 180 different manufacturers worldwide. The Company contracts for
the manufacture of its products and does not own or operate any production
facilities. During fiscal 1998, approximately 42% (by dollar volume) of men's
and women's products were produced in the United States and its territories and
approximately 58% (by dollar volume) of such products were produced in Hong
Kong, Malaysia and other foreign countries. Two manufacturers engaged by the
Company accounted for approximately 10% and 8%, respectively, of the Company's
total production during fiscal 1998. The primary production facilities of these
two manufacturers are located in Hong Kong and Saipan, in the case of the
manufacturer that accounted for approximately 10% of the Company's total
production during fiscal 1998 and in Malaysia, Sri Lanka, Hong Kong and
Mauritius, in the case of the manufacturer that accounted for approximately 8%
of the Company's total production during fiscal 1998. No other manufacturer
accounted for more than five percent of the Company's total production in fiscal
1998.

     Production is divided broadly into purchases of finished products, where
the supplier is responsible for the purchasing and carrying of raw materials,
and cut, make and trim ("CMT") purchasing, where the Company is responsible for
the purchasing and movement of raw materials to finished product assemblers
located throughout the world. CMT arrangements typically allow the Company more
latitude to incorporate unique detailing elements and to develop specialty
items. The Company uses a variety of raw materials, principally consisting of
woven and knitted fabrics and yarns.



     The Company must commit to manufacture the majority of its garments before
it receives customer orders. In addition, the Company must commit to purchase
fabric from mills well in advance of its sales. If the Company overestimates the
demand for a particular product which it cannot sell to its primary customers,
it may use the excess for distribution in its outlet stores or sell the product
through secondary distribution channels. If the Company overestimates the need
for a particular fabric or yarn, that fabric or yarn can be used in garments
made for subsequent seasons or made into past season's styles for distribution
in its outlet stores.

     The Company has been working closely with suppliers in recent years to
reduce lead times to maximize fulfillment (i.e., shipment) of orders and to
permit re-orders of successful programs. In particular, the Company has
increased the number of deliveries within certain brands each season so that
merchandise is kept fresh at the retail level.

     Suppliers operate under the close supervision of Polo's product management
department in the United States, and in the Far East under that of a wholly
owned subsidiary which performs buying agent functions for the Company and third
parties. All garments are produced according to Polo's specifications.
Production and quality control staff in the United States and in the Far East
monitor manufacturing at supplier facilities in order to correct problems prior
to shipment of the final product to Polo. While final quality control is
performed at Polo's distribution centers, procedures have been implemented under
Polo's vendor certification program, so that quality assurance is focused as
early as possible in the production process, allowing merchandise to be received
at the distribution facilities and shipped to customers with minimal
interruption.

     The Company retains independent buying agents in Europe and South America
to assist the Company in selecting and overseeing independent third-party
manufacturers, sourcing fabric and other products and materials, monitoring
quota and other trade regulations, as well as performing some quality control
functions.

COMPETITION

     Competition is strong in the segments of the fashion and consumer product
industries in which the Company operates. The Company competes with numerous
designers and manufacturers of apparel and accessories, fragrances and home
furnishing products, domestic and foreign, some of which may be significantly
larger and have substantially greater resources than the Company. The Company
competes primarily on the basis of fashion, quality, and service. The Company's
business depends on its ability to shape, stimulate and respond to changing
consumer tastes and demands by producing innovative, attractive, and exciting
products, brands and marketing, as well as on its ability to remain competitive
in the areas of quality and price.

DISTRIBUTION

     To facilitate distribution, men's products are shipped from manufacturers
to the Company's distribution center in Greensboro, North Carolina for
inspection, sorting, packing and shipment to retail customers. The Company's
distribution/customer service facility is designed to allow for high density
cube storage and utilizes bar code technology to provide inventory management
and carton controls. Product traffic management is coordinated from this
facility in conjunction with the Company's product management and buying agent
staffs. During fiscal 1998, womenswear distribution was provided by a "pick and
pack" facility in



New Jersey under a warehousing distribution agreement with an unaffiliated third
party. Pursuant to a warehousing distribution agreement entered into by the
Company and another unaffiliated third party on December 1, 1997, the Company
plans to move its Womenswear warehousing distribution facility to Secaucus, New
Jersey commencing on approximately April 1, 1998. This agreement provides that
the warehouse distributor will perform storage, quality control and shipping
services for the Company. In return, the Company must pay the warehouse
distributor a per unit rate and special processing charges for services such as
ticketing, bagging and steaming. The initial term of this agreement is through
December 1, 2000 and is thereafter renewable annually. Outlet store distribution
and warehousing is principally handled through the Greensboro distribution
center as well as a satellite center also located in North Carolina. Polo store
distribution is provided by a facility in Columbus, Ohio and a facility in New
Jersey which services the Company's stores in New York City and East Hampton,
New York. The Company's licensing partners are responsible for the distribution
of licensed products, including Home Collection products. The Company is
currently evaluating warehousing and distribution facilities for its retail
stores.

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM

     The Company's management information system is designed to provide, among
other things, comprehensive order processing, production, accounting and
management information for the marketing, manufacturing, importing and
distribution functions of the Company's business. The Company has installed
sophisticated point-of-sale registers in its Polo stores and outlet stores that
enable it to track inventory from store receipt to final sale on a real-time
basis. The Company believes its merchandising and financial system, coupled with
its point-of-sale registers and software programs, allow for rapid stock
replenishment, concise merchandise planning and real-time inventory accounting
practices.

     In addition, the Company utilizes an electronic data interchange ("EDI")
system to facilitate the processing of replenishment and fashion orders from its
wholesale customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and
the collection of information for planning and forecasting. The Company has EDI
relationships with customers who represent a significant majority of its
wholesale business and is working to expand its EDI capabilities to include most
of its suppliers. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations -- Impact of the Year 2000 Issue."

CREDIT CONTROL

     The Company manages its own credit and collection functions. The Company
sells its merchandise primarily to major department stores across the United
States and extends credit based on an evaluation of the customer's financial
condition, usually without requiring collateral. The Company monitors credit
levels and the financial condition of its customers on a continuing basis to
minimize credit risk. The Company does not factor its accounts receivables or
maintain credit insurance to manage the risks of bad debts. The Company's bad
debt write-offs were less than 1% of net revenues for fiscal 1998.

BACKLOG

     The Company generally receives wholesale orders for apparel products
approximately three to five months prior to the time the products are delivered
to stores. All such orders are subject to cancellation for late delivery. At
March 28, 1998, Summer and Fall backlog, presented on a pro forma basis to
reflect the PRC Acquisition, was $340.1 million and $41.3


million, as compared to $304.4 million and $28.0 million at March 29, 1997 for
men's and women's apparel, respectively. The Company's backlog depends upon a
number of factors, including the timing of the market weeks for its particular
lines, during which a significant percentage of the Company's orders are
received, and the timing of shipments. As a consequence, a comparison of backlog
from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and may not be indicative of
eventual shipments.

TRADEMARKS

     The Company is the owner of the "Polo," "Ralph Lauren" and the famous polo
player astride a horse trademarks in the United States. Additional trademarks
owned by the Company include, among others, "Chaps," "Polo Sport," "Lauren/Ralph
Lauren," "RALPH" and "RRL"and certain trademarks pertaining to fragrances and
cosmetics. In connection with the adoption of the "RRL" trademarks by the
Company, pursuant to an agreement with the Company, Mr. Lauren retained the
royalty-free right to use as trademarks "Ralph Lauren," "Double RL" and "RRL" in
perpetuity in connection with, among other things, beef and living animals. The
trademarks "Double RL" and "RRL" are currently used by the Double RL Company, an
entity wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. In addition, Mr. Lauren engages in personal
projects involving non-Company related film or theatrical productions through
RRL Productions, Inc., a Company wholly owned by Mr. Lauren.

     The Company's trademarks are the subject of registrations and pending
applications throughout the world for use on a variety of items of apparel,
apparel-related products, home furnishings and beauty products, as well as in
connection with retail services, and the Company continues to expand its
worldwide usage and registration of related trademarks. The Company regards the
license to use the trademarks and its other proprietary rights in and to the
trademarks as valuable assets in the marketing of its products and, on a
worldwide basis, vigorously seeks to protect them against infringement. As a
result of the appeal of its trademarks, Polo's products have been the object of
counterfeiting. The Company has a broad enforcement program which has been
generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the
United States and in major markets abroad.

     In markets outside of the United States, the Company's rights to some or
all of its trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of its
international expansion, the Company has experienced conflicts with various
third parties which have acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks which
include "Polo" and/or a representation of a polo player astride a horse which
would have impeded the Company's use and registration of its principal
trademarks. While such conflicts are common and may arise again from time to
time as the Company continues its international expansion, the Company has in
the past successfully resolved such conflicts through both legal action and
negotiated settlements with third-party owners of such conflicting marks.

     Two agreements by which the Company resolved conflicts with third-party
owners of other trademarks impose current restrictions or monetary obligations
on the Company. In one, the Company reached an agreement with a third party
which owned competing registrations in numerous European and South American
countries for the trademark "Polo" and a symbol of a polo player astride a
horse. By virtue of the agreement, Polo has acquired that third party's
portfolio of trademark registrations, in consideration of the payment (capped as
set forth below) of 30% of the Company's European and Mexican royalties and 50%
of its South American royalties (solely in respect of the Company's use of
trademarks which include "Polo" and the polo player symbol, and not, for
example, "Ralph Lauren"


alone, "Lauren/Ralph Lauren," "RRL," etc.). Remittances to this third party are
not reflected in licensing revenue in the Company's financial statements and
will cease no later than 2008, or sooner, when the remittances with respect to
Europe and Mexico to this third party aggregate $15.0 million. As of March 28,
1998, the Company has paid approximately $8.9 million to this third party. The
Company's obligation to share royalties with respect to Central and South
America and parts of the Caribbean expires in 2013, but the Company also has the
right to terminate this obligation at any time by paying $3.0 million. The
second agreement was reached with a third party which owned conflicting
registrations of the trademarks "Polo" and a polo player astride a horse in the
U.K., Hong Kong, and South Africa. Pursuant to the agreement, the third party
retains the right to use its "Polo" and polo player symbol marks in South Africa
and certain other African countries, and the Company agreed to restrict use of
those Polo marks in those countries to fragrances and cosmetics (as to which the
Company's use is unlimited) and to the use of the Ralph (polo player symbol)
Lauren mark on women's and girls' apparel and accessories. By agreeing to those
restrictions, the Company secured the unlimited right to use its trademarks
(without payment of any kind) in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong, and the third
party is prohibited from distributing products under those trademarks in those
countries.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     The Company's import operations are subject to constraints imposed by
bilateral textile agreements between the United States and a number of foreign
countries. These agreements, which have been negotiated bilaterally either under
the framework established by the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in
Textiles, known as the Multifiber Agreement, or other applicable statutes,
impose quotas on the amounts and types of merchandise which may be imported into
the United States from these countries. These agreements also allow the
signatories to adjust the quantity of imports for categories of merchandise
that, under the terms of the agreements, are not currently subject to specific
limits. The Company's imported products are also subject to United States
customs duties which comprise a material portion of the cost of the merchandise.

     Apparel products are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission
in the United States. Regulations relate principally to the labeling of the
Company's products. The Company believes that it is in substantial compliance
with such regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and foreign
rules and regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the
environment. There are no significant capital expenditures for environmental
control matters either estimated in the current year or expected in the near
future. The Company's licensed products and licensing partners are, in addition,
subject to additional regulation. The Company's agreements require its licensing
partners to operate in compliance with all laws and regulations, and the Company
is not aware of any violations which could reasonably be expected to have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business.

     Although the Company has not in the past suffered any material inhibition
from doing business in desirable markets, there can be no assurance that
significant impediments will not arise in the future as it expands product
offerings and additional trademarks to new markets.


EMPLOYEES

    As of March 28, 1998, the Company had approximately 5,800 employees,
including 5,500 in the United States and 300 in foreign countries. Of the total,
approximately 60 employees hold executive and administrative positions, 210 are
engaged in design, 130 are engaged in advertising, public relations and creative
services, 180 are engaged in production, 240 are engaged in wholesale sales and
merchandising, 3,200 are engaged in retail sales, 700 are engaged in
distribution and the remaining employees are engaged in other aspects of the
business. Approximately 1,000 of the Company's total employees were hired in
connection with the PRC Acquisition. Approximately 30 of the Company's United
States production and distribution employees in the womenswear business are
members of the Union of Needletrades, Industrial & Textile Employees under an
industry association collective bargaining agreement which the Company's
womenswear subsidiary has adopted. This contract was renegotiated in fiscal 1998
and extended to May 31, 2000. The Company considers its relations with both its
union and non-union employees to be good.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

    The Company does not own any real property except an undeveloped parcel of
land adjacent to its leased Greensboro, North Carolina distribution facility and
a 50% joint venture interest in a 44,000 square foot building located in the
Soho district of New York City. Certain information concerning the Company's
principal facilities in excess of 100,000 rentable square feet and of its
existing flagship stores of 20,000 rentable square feet or more, all of which
are leased, is set forth below:



    During fiscal 1998, the Company leased additional space at its two corporate
headquarters (at 650 Madison Avenue, New York City and Lyndhurst, New Jersey)
and extended the terms of such leases for an additional five-year period in each
case.

    The leases for the Company's non-retail facilities (approximately 22 in all)
provide for aggregate annual rentals of $18.6 million in fiscal 1998. The
Company anticipates that it will be able to extend those leases which expire in
the near future on terms satisfactory to the Company or, if necessary, locate
substitute facilities on acceptable terms.

    As of March 28, 1998, the Company operated 29 Polo stores and 72 outlet
stores in leased premises. Aggregate annual rent paid for retail space by the
Company in fiscal 1998 totaled $29.7 million. Except for approximately two
outlet stores for which the Company will not seek renewal upon lease expiration,
the Company anticipates that it will be able to extend those leases which expire
in the near future on satisfactory terms or to relocate to more desirable
locations.


    The Company is currently re-evaluating its warehousing and distribution
needs for its retail operations. The Company believes that its existing
facilities are well maintained and in good operating condition, and plans to
expand its warehousing and distribution capacity over the next two fiscal years.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

    The Company is a defendant in a purported national class action lawsuit
filed in the Delaware Supreme Court in July 1997. The plaintiff has brought the
action allegedly on behalf of a class of persons who purchased products at the
Company's outlet stores throughout the United States at any time since July 15,
1991. The complaint alleges that advertising and marketing practices used by the
Company in connection with the sales of its products at its outlet stores
violate guidelines established by the Federal Trade Commission and the consumer
protection statutes of Delaware and other states with statutes similar to
Delaware's Consumer Fraud Act and Delaware's Consumer Contracts Act. The lawsuit
seeks, on behalf of the class, compensatory and punitive damages as well as
attorneys' fees. The Company intends to vigorously defend this lawsuit and
believes that it has substantial and meritorious defenses.

    The Company is involved from time to time in legal claims involving
trademark and intellectual property, licensing, employee relations and other
matters incidental to its business. See "Item 1. Business -- Trademarks." In the
opinion of the Company's management, the resolution of any matter currently
pending will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition or results of operations.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

    No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the quarter
ended March 28, 1998.



                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

    The Company's Class A Common Stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock
Exchange under the symbol "RL." The following table sets forth the high and low
sales prices for each quarterly period from June 11, 1997 (i.e., the day the
Class A Common Stock was priced in the initial public offering) through March
27, 1998 as reported on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape. The Company
did not declare any cash dividends during fiscal 1998 on its Common Stock other
than dividends declared to holders of Class B Common Stock and Class C Common
Stock in connection with the Company's Reorganization (as defined) on June 9,
1997. See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and Capital Resources."




    The Company anticipates that all of its earnings in the foreseeable future
will be retained to finance the continued growth and expansion of its business
and has no current intention to pay cash dividends on its Common Stock.

    As of June 18, 1998, there were approximately 34,083,302 record holders of
Class A Common Stock, 43,280,021 record holders of Class B Common Stock and
22,720,979 record holders of Class C Common Stock.




ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

    The selected historical financial data presented below as of and for each of
the fiscal years in the five-year period ended March 28, 1998 have been derived
from the Company's audited Consolidated Financial Statements. The following
table also includes unaudited pro forma statements of income for fiscal 1998 and
fiscal 1997 which give effect to the Reorganization, the initial public offering
and the PRC Acquisition as if they had occurred on March 31, 1996. The financial
data should be read in conjunction with "Item 7. Management's Discussion and
Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations," the Consolidated
Financial Statements and Notes thereto and other financial data included
elsewhere herein.




Pro Forma Statements of
Income (Unaudited) (1):









(1) The pro forma statements of income present the effects on the historical
financial statements of certain transactions as if they had occurred at the
beginning of the period. These statements reflect adjustments for: (i) income
taxes based upon pro forma pre-tax income as if the Company had been subject to
additional Federal, state and local income taxes calculated using a pro forma
effective tax rate of approximately 40.8% and 42.0% for the year ended March 28,
1998 and March 29, 1997, respectively; (ii) the reduction of interest expense
resulting from the application of the net proceeds from the initial public
offering to outstanding indebtedness; and (iii) the PRC Acquisition, including
the consolidation of PRC's operations, the amortization of goodwill over 25
years associated with the acquisition and the elimination of the Company's
equity in the net loss of PRC for the year ended March 29, 1997.




ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.

    The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the
Company's consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto which are
included herein. The Company utilizes a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the
Saturday nearest March 31. Accordingly, fiscal years 1998, 1997, 1996, 1995 and
1994 ended on March 28, 1998, March 29, 1997, March 30, 1996, April 1, 1995 and
April 2, 1994, respectively.

    Certain statements in this Form 10-K and in future filings by the Company
with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in the Company's press releases,
and in oral statements made by or with the approval of an authorized executive
officer constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995 (the "Reform Act"). Such
forward-looking statements involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and
other factors, which may cause the actual results, performance or achievements
of the Company to be materially different from any future results, performance
or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Such
factors include, among others, the following: risks associated with changes in
the competitive marketplace, including the introduction of new products or
pricing changes by the Company's competitors; changes in global economic
conditions; risks associated with the Company's dependence on sales to a limited
number of large department store customers and risks related to extending credit
to customers; risks associated with the Company's dependence on its licensing
partners for a substantial portion of its net income and risks associated with a
lack of operational and financial control over licensed businesses; risks
associated with consolidations, restructurings and other ownership changes in
the retail industry; uncertainties relating to the Company's ability to
implement its growth strategy; risks associated with the possible adverse impact
of the Company's unaffiliated manufacturers inability to manufacture in a timely
manner, to meet quality standards or to use acceptable labor practices; risks
associated with changes in social, political, economic and other conditions
affecting foreign operations and sourcing; and, the possible adverse impact of
changes in import restrictions. The Company undertakes no obligation to publicly
update or revise any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new
information, future events or otherwise.



OVERVIEW

    The Company began operations in 1968 as a designer and marketer of premium
quality men's clothing and sportswear. Since inception, the Company, through
internal operations and in conjunction with its licensing partners, has grown
through increased sales of existing product lines, the introduction of new
brands and products, expansion into international markets and development of its
retail operations. Over the last five years, net revenues have increased to
nearly $1.5 billion in fiscal 1998 from $810.7 million in fiscal 1994, while
income from operations has grown to $199.8 million in fiscal 1998 from $81.4
million in fiscal 1994. The Company's net revenues are generated from its three
integrated operations: wholesale, direct retail and licensing alliances.
Licensing revenue includes royalties received from Home Collection licensing
partners.




    (1) The Company purchased certain of the assets of its former womenswear
        licensing partner in October 1995. The fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and
        fiscal 1996 net revenues reflect the inclusion of womenswear wholesale
        net sales of $98.4 million, $98.8 million and $36.7 million,
        respectively, and an elimination of licensing revenue associated with
        the operations of the womenswear business after the acquisition.

    (2) Prior to the PRC Acquisition, the Company accounted for its interest in
        PRC under the equity method. Effective April 3, 1997, the Company
        consolidated the operations of PRC in fiscal 1998 and accounted for the
        transaction under the purchase method. On a pro forma basis for fiscal
        1997, wholesale net sales by the Company to PRC are eliminated and PRC
        net revenues are reflected as retail sales. Assuming the acquisition had
        taken place at March 31, 1996, pro forma wholesale net sales and retail
        sales in fiscal 1997 would have been $623.0 million and $508.7 million,
        respectively.

    (3) Pro forma financial information presented above gives effect to the PRC
        Acquisition as if it had occurred on March 31, 1996, the first day of
        fiscal 1997. Pro forma fiscal 1997 net revenues reflect the inclusion of
        womenswear wholesale net sales of $79.6 million, and an elimination of
        licensing revenue associated with the operations of the womenswear
        business after the acquisition.

    Wholesale net sales result from the sale by the Company of men's and women's
apparel to wholesale customers, principally to major department stores,
specialty stores and non-Company operated Polo stores located throughout the
United States. Net sales for the wholesale division have increased to $733.1
million in fiscal 1998 from $508.4 million in fiscal 1994. This increase is a
result of growth in sales of the Company's menswear products driven by the
introduction of new brands such as Polo Sport and growth in sales of products
under existing brands.



    Polo's retail sales are generated from the Polo stores and outlet stores
operated by the Company. Since the beginning of fiscal 1994, the Company has
added 26 Polo stores (net of store closings, including 21 Polo stores acquired
in connection with the PRC Acquisition), and 32 outlet stores (net of store
closings). At March 28, 1998, the Company operated 29 Polo stores and 72 outlet
stores. Retail sales have grown to $570.8 million in fiscal 1998 from $218.2
million in fiscal 1994.

    Licensing revenue consists of royalties paid to the Company under its
licensing alliances. In fiscal 1998, Product, International and Home Collection
licensing alliances accounted for 47.0%, 24.6% and 28.4% of total licensing
revenue, respectively. Through these alliances, Polo combines its core skills
with the product or geographic competencies of its licensing partners to create
and develop specific businesses. The growth of existing and development of new
businesses under licensing alliances has resulted in an increase in licensing
revenue to $167.1 million in fiscal 1998 from $84.2 million in fiscal 1994.

    On June 9, 1997, the partners and certain of their affiliates contributed to
Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation all of the outstanding stock of, and partnership
interests in, the entities which comprised the predecessor group of companies in
exchange for common stock and cash (the "Reorganization"). Prior to the
Reorganization, the Company's operations were conducted predominantly through a
partnership structure. Accordingly, the earnings of the Company (other than
earnings of certain retail operations) were included in the taxable income of
the Company's partners for Federal and certain state income tax purposes, and
the Company has generally not been subject to income tax on such earnings, other
than certain state and local franchise and similar taxes. In connection with the
Reorganization, on June 9, 1997, the Company became fully subject to such taxes.
As a result, the Company recorded a deferred tax asset and a corresponding tax
benefit in the amount of $27.4 million in its consolidated financial statements
in the first quarter of fiscal 1998 in accordance with the provisions of
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 109, Accounting for
Income Taxes. The Company's pro forma effective tax rate, excluding the
non-recurring tax benefit discussed above, for fiscal 1998 was 40.8%. The effect
of taxes is not discussed in Results of Operations below because the historic
taxation of the operations of the Company is not meaningful with respect to
periods following the Reorganization.

    In connection with the Company's growth strategy, the Company plans to
introduce new products and brands and expand its retail operations, including
the opening of flagship stores. Implementation of these strategies may require
significant investments for advertising, furniture and fixtures, infrastructure,
design and additional inventory. There can be no assurance, notwithstanding the
Company's investment, that its growth strategies will be successful.


PRO FORMA COMBINED STATEMENT OF INCOME FOR FISCAL 1997

    The following table sets forth for fiscal 1997: (i) actual combined
statement of income; (ii) pro forma adjustments to reflect the PRC Acquisition,
the initial public offering and the Reorganization as if they had occurred on
March 31, 1996; and (iii) pro forma combined statement of income:



    (1) Effective April 3, 1997, the Company acquired the remaining 50% interest
        in PRC. The adjustments above reflect the PRC Acquisition which is
        accounted for under the purchase method. As a result of this
        transaction, the Company's combined statement of income has been
        adjusted to reflect the consolidation of PRC's operations from March 31,
        1996, the amortization of goodwill over 25 years and the elimination of
        the Company's equity in net loss of PRC.

    (2) Adjustment to reduce interest expense, assuming the application of the
        net proceeds from the initial public offering were used to repay
        outstanding indebtedness of the Company as of March 31, 1996.

    (3) Adjustment to reflect income taxes based upon pro forma pre-tax income
        as if the Company had been subject to additional Federal, state and
        local income taxes, calculated using a pro forma effective tax rate of
        42.0% for fiscal 1997.




RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

    The following discussion of the Company's results of operations for fiscal
1998 compared to fiscal 1997 is presented on a pro forma basis for fiscal 1997,
assuming the PRC Acquisition had occurred as of March 31, 1996. The discussion
of the Company's results of operations for fiscal 1997 compared to fiscal 1996
is presented on a historical basis. Additionally, as a result of the Company's
initial public offering and the use of a portion of the net proceeds therefrom
to reduce outstanding indebtedness, historical interest expense is not discussed
below because the results are not meaningful.

    The table below sets forth the percentage relationship to net revenues of
certain items in the Company's statements of income for fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997
and fiscal 1996 presented on a historical and pro forma basis, as indicated:



    FISCAL 1998 (HISTORICAL BASIS) COMPARED TO FISCAL 1997 (PRO FORMA BASIS)

    NET SALES. Net sales increased 15.2% to $1.304 billion in fiscal 1998 from
$1.132 billion in fiscal 1997. Wholesale net sales increased 17.7% to $733.1
million in fiscal 1998 from $623.0 million in fiscal 1997. Wholesale growth
primarily reflects increased menswear sales resulting from growth in the
Company's basic stock replenishment program, improved sales in existing brands,
a shift in the sales mix to higher priced wholesale products and sales from the
Company's third party wholesale trading business which began operations in the
fourth quarter of fiscal 1997. Wholesale growth also reflects increased
womenswear sales due to the introduction of Polo Sport in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1997. Retail sales increased 12.2% to $570.8 million in fiscal 1998 from
$508.6 million in fiscal 1997. Of this increase, $60.9 million is attributable
to the opening of two new Polo stores (net of one store closing) and seven new
outlet stores (net of three store closings) in fiscal 1998 and the benefit of a
full year of operations for three new Polo stores and ten new outlet stores
opened in fiscal 1997.



    LICENSING REVENUE. Licensing revenue increased 21.9% to $167.1 million in
fiscal 1998 from $137.1 million in fiscal 1997. This increase reflects the
benefit of a full year of licensing revenue in fiscal 1998 from the launch of
the Lauren women's line in the second quarter of fiscal 1997. Additionally,
licensing revenue improved due to an overall increase in sales of existing
licensed products, particularly Chaps and Home Collection, both of which
introduced new product categories.

    GROSS PROFIT. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased to
48.6% in fiscal 1998 from 45.8% in fiscal 1997. This increase was attributable
to improvements in each of the Company's integrated operations. Wholesale gross
margins increased significantly in fiscal 1998 over fiscal 1997 as a direct
result of increased fulfillment of customer orders, improved supply chain
management and a planned reduction in off-price sales. Retail gross margins also
increased significantly in fiscal 1998 as compared to fiscal 1997 primarily due
to the benefit of operating five new Polo stores (net of one store closing)
which were opened in fiscal 1998 and fiscal 1997, and an improved initial
markup. Licensing revenue, which has no associated cost of goods sold, increased
as a percentage of net revenues to 11.4% in fiscal 1998 from 10.8% in fiscal
1997.

    SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. Selling, general and
administrative ("SG&A") expenses increased to $515.5 million or 35.0% of net
revenues in fiscal 1998 from $429.2 million or 33.8% of net revenues in fiscal
1997. This increase as a percentage of net revenues was attributable to
increased depreciation expense associated with the Company's shop-within-shops
development program, increased advertising, marketing and public relations
expenditures to support the Company's brands and a one-time charge under terms
of a long-term contract with a former executive.

    FISCAL 1997 (HISTORICAL BASIS) COMPARED TO FISCAL 1996 (HISTORICAL BASIS)

    NET SALES. Net sales increased 14.7 % to $1.043 billion in fiscal 1997 from
$909.7 million in fiscal 1996. Wholesale net sales increased 9.5 % to $663.4
million in fiscal 1997 from $606.0 million in fiscal 1996. This increase
primarily reflects the benefit of a full year of womenswear sales in fiscal 1997
compared to five and one-half months in fiscal 1996. Retail sales increased by
25.1% to $380.0 million in fiscal 1997 from $303.7 million in fiscal 1996. Of
this increase, $58.8 million is attributable to the opening of three new Polo
stores and seven new outlet stores (net of four outlet store closings) in fiscal
1997 and the benefit of a full year of operations for seven outlet stores opened
in fiscal 1996. Comparable store sales in fiscal 1997 increased 6.3% or $17.5
million. Comparable store sales represent net sales of stores open in both
reporting periods for the full duration of such periods.

    LICENSING REVENUE. Licensing revenue increased 24.4 % to $137.1 million in
fiscal 1997 from $110.2 million in fiscal 1996. This increase reflects the
launch of Polo Jeans Co. in fiscal 1997 and an overall increase in sales of
licensed products, particularly Chaps, accessories and Home Collection.



    GROSS PROFIT. Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased to
45.1% in fiscal 1997 from 42.8% in fiscal 1996. The increase was primarily
attributable to the increase, as a percentage of total net revenues, in net
sales of the Company's higher margin retail sales (relative to wholesale sales)
and to increased licensing revenue. In fiscal 1997, wholesale gross margins
improved slightly while retail gross margins increased significantly due to a
reduction in markdowns as compared to fiscal 1996.

    SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES. SG&A expenses increased to
$374.5 million or 31.8% of net revenues in fiscal 1997 from $309.2 million or
30.3% of net revenues in fiscal 1996. This increase as a percentage of net
revenues was primarily attributable to investment in organizational
infrastructure to support growth, increased advertising, marketing and public
relations expenditures to support the Company's brands, and personnel and
start-up costs associated with the opening of three Polo stores in fiscal 1997.
Additionally, SG&A expenses in fiscal 1997 include a full year of womenswear
SG&A expenses as compared to five and one-half months in the prior period.

    EQUITY IN NET LOSS OF JOINT VENTURE. Equity in net loss of joint venture
represents the Company's 50% equity interest in PRC. Such losses increased to
$3.6 million in fiscal 1997 from $1.1 million in fiscal 1996, primarily as a
result of lost revenues and expenses associated with temporary store closings
for renovations in fiscal 1997.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

    The Company's main sources of liquidity historically have been cash flows
from operations, credit facilities and, prior to the Reorganization, partners'
financing. The Company's capital requirements primarily derive from working
capital needs, construction and renovation of shop-within-shops, retail
expansion and other corporate activities.

    Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $96.2 million in
fiscal 1998 from $203.6 million in fiscal 1997. This decrease is primarily a
result of increases in inventory levels during fiscal 1998 due to the timing of
wholesale shipments and the overall growth of the business, and a planned
reduction in wholesale inventory levels in fiscal 1997. Net cash used in
investing activities increased to $74.9 million in fiscal 1998 from $38.6
million in fiscal 1997. This increase principally reflects an increase in
capital expenditures, the use of $8.6 million in cash to acquire the operations
of PRC and investments in joint ventures with nonaffiliated partners. Net cash
provided by financing activities increased to $7.8 million in fiscal 1998 from
net cash used in financing activities of $149.0 million in fiscal 1997. This
increase primarily reflects the net proceeds received from the initial public
offering, offset by the application of a portion of the net proceeds to repay
outstanding indebtedness and an increase in scheduled debt and subordinated note
repayments.

    As a result of the initial public offering, the Company's cash flow needs
reflect the elimination of ongoing distributions to the partners. Partially
offsetting these changes will be the application of funds for the payment of
additional Federal, state and local income taxes.



    Simultaneously with the closing of the Reorganization, the Company entered
into a new financing arrangement (the "New Credit Facility") providing for a
$375.0 million revolving line of credit available for the issuance of letters of
credit, acceptances or direct borrowings. Upon the closing of the initial public
offering, the amount available under the revolving line of credit was reduced to
$225.0 million. The New Credit Facility matures on December 31, 2002. Borrowings
under the New Credit Facility were used to refinance the Polo Ralph Lauren, L.P.
and subsidiaries credit facility of $104.5 million and to repay in full $56.7
million of aggregate borrowings outstanding under The Ralph Lauren Womenswear,
L.P. and subsidiaries credit facility and the PRC credit facility.

    Borrowings under the New Credit Facility bear interest, at the Company's
option, at a Base Rate (the "Base Rate") equal to the higher of (i) the Federal
Funds Rate, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, plus 1/2 of
one percent, and (ii) the prime commercial lending rate of The Chase Manhattan
Bank in effect from time to time, or at the London Interbank Offered Rate plus
an interest margin. The agreement contains customary representations,
warranties, covenants and events of default, including covenants regarding
maintenance of net worth and leverage ratios, limitations on indebtedness and
incurrences of liens, and restrictions on sales of assets and transactions with
affiliates. Additionally, the agreement provides that an event of default will
occur if Mr. Lauren and related entities fail to maintain a specified minimum
percentage of the voting power of the Company's common stock. As of March 28,
1998, the Company had no direct borrowings and $19.9 million in outstanding
letters of credit under the New Credit Facility.

    On June 17, 1997, the Company completed the sale of 11,170,000 shares of its
Class A Common Stock at $26.00 per share in its initial public offering. The net
proceeds from the initial public offering, after deducting underwriting
discounts and commissions and offering expenses, aggregated $268.8 million. The
net proceeds from the initial public offering increased liquidity of the Company
by reducing indebtedness as follows: (i) by repayment of borrowings outstanding
under the Company's New Credit Facility in the amount of $163.5 million; (ii) by
payment of a dividend declared and reorganization notes issued by the Company in
connection with the Reorganization in the amount of $43.0 million to Mr. Lauren
and related entities and certain investment funds affiliated with The Goldman
Sachs Group, L.P. (collectively, the "GS Group"); and (iii) by repayment of
subordinated notes and interest thereon in the amount of $24.3 million to Mr.
Lauren and the GS Group. The remaining $38.0 million has been used for other
general corporate purposes.

    Capital expenditures were $63.1 million, $35.3 million and $5.6 million in
fiscal 1998, fiscal 1997 and fiscal 1996, respectively. The increase in capital
expenditures in fiscal 1998 represents primarily expenditures associated with
the Company's shop-within-shops development program which includes new shops,
renovations and expansions as well as expenditures incurred in connection with
the expansion of the Company's retail operations. The Company plans to invest
approximately $120.0 million, net of landlord incentives, over the next fiscal
year for its retail stores, including flagship stores, the shop-within-shops
development program and other capital projects.

    In March 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase, subject to
market conditions, of up to $100.0 million of the Company's Class A Common
Stock. Share repurchases under this plan will be made from time to time in the
open market over a two-year period commencing April 1, 1998. Shares acquired
under the repurchase program will be used for stock option programs and for
other corporate purposes.



    The Company extends credit to its customers, including those which have
accounted for significant portions of its net revenues. The Company had three
customers, Dillard Department Stores, Inc., Federated Department Stores, Inc.
and The May Department Stores Company, which in aggregate constituted 53.0% and
48.0% of trade accounts receivable outstanding at March 28, 1998 and March 29,
1997, respectively. Additionally, the Company had three licensing partners,
WestPoint Stevens, Inc. ("WPS"), Seibu Department Stores, Ltd. ("Seibu") and
Jones Apparel Group, Inc., which in aggregate constituted approximately 35.0% of
licensing revenue in fiscal 1998. WPS, Seibu and L'Oreal S.A./Cosmair Inc.
constituted, in aggregate, 39.0% and 43.0% of licensing revenue in fiscal 1997
and fiscal 1996, respectively. Accordingly, the Company may have significant
exposure in collecting accounts receivable from its customers. The Company has
credit policies and procedures which it uses to manage its credit risk.

    Management believes that cash from ongoing operations and funds available
under the New Credit Facility will be sufficient to satisfy the Company's
current level of operations, capital requirements and stock repurchase program
for the next 12 months. Additionally, the Company does not currently intend to
pay dividends on its Common Stock in the next 12 months.

SEASONALITY AND QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS

    The Company's business is affected by seasonal trends, with higher levels of
wholesale sales in its second and fourth quarters and higher retail sales in its
second and third quarters. These trends result primarily from the timing of
seasonal wholesale shipments to retail customers and key vacation travel and
holiday shopping periods in the retail segment. As a result of the PRC
Acquisition and growth in the Company's retail operations and licensing revenue,
historical quarterly operating trends and working capital requirements may not
accurately reflect future performances. In addition, fluctuations in sales and
operating income in any fiscal quarter may be affected by the timing of seasonal
wholesale shipments and other events affecting retail.

EXCHANGE RATES

    Inventory purchases from contract manufacturers in the Far East are
primarily denominated in United States dollars; however, purchase prices for the
Company's products may be affected by fluctuations in the exchange rate between
the United States dollar and the local currencies of the contract manufacturers,
which may have the effect of increasing the Company's cost of goods sold in the
future. During the last two years, exchange rate fluctuations have not had a
material impact on the Company's inventory cost. Additionally, certain
international licensing revenue could be materially affected by currency
fluctuations. From time to time, the Company hedges certain exposures to foreign
currency exchange rate changes arising in the ordinary course of business.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

    In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued SFAS
No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income. This Statement establishes standards
for reporting of comprehensive income and its components (revenues, expenses,
gains and losses) in the financial statements. SFAS No. 130 requires an
enterprise to: (i) reconcile net income to comprehensive income; (ii) classify
items of other comprehensive income (e.g., foreign currency translation
adjustments, unearned compensation, etc.) by their nature in a financial
statement; and (iii) display the accumulated balance of other comprehensive
income separately from retained earnings and additional paid-in-capital in the
equity section of a statement of financial position. SFAS No.130 is effective
for the Company's first quarter of fiscal year ending April 3, 1999.

    In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments of an
Enterprise and Related Information. This Statement establishes standards for
reporting selected financial data and descriptive information about an
enterprise's reportable operating segments (as defined). This Statement also
requires the reconciliation of total segment information presented to the
corresponding amounts in the general purpose financial statements. Additionally,
SFAS No. 131 establishes




standards for related disclosures about products and services, geographic areas
and major customers. SFAS No. 131 is effective for the Company's fiscal year
ending April 3, 1999. The Company has not yet determined what additional
disclosures, if any, may be required in connection with adopting this Statement.

    In April 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
("AICPA") Accounting Standards Executive Committee issued Statement of Position
No. 98-5 ("SOP 98-5"), Reporting on the Costs of Start-up Activities. SOP 98-5
requires that costs of start-up activities, including organization costs and
retail store openings, be expensed as incurred. SOP 98-5 is effective for the
Company's fiscal year ending April 1, 2000. The Company has not yet determined
whether the application of SOP 98-5 will have a material impact on the Company's
financial position or results of operations.

IMPACT OF THE YEAR 2000 ISSUE

    The Year 2000 Issue is the result of computer programs being written using
two digits rather than four to define the applicable year. Certain of the
Company's computer programs have date-sensitive software which may recognize a
date using "00" as the year 1900 rather than the year 2000. This situation could
result in a system failure or miscalculations causing disruptions of operations,
including, among other things, a temporary inability to process transactions,
send invoices or engage in similar normal business activities.

    Based on an internal assessment, the Company determined that it will be
required to modify or replace portions of its software applications so that its
computer systems will properly utilize dates beyond December 31, 1999. The
Company presently believes that with modifications to existing software and
conversions to new software, the Year 2000 Issue can be mitigated. However, if
such modifications and conversions are not made or are not timely completed, the
Year 2000 Issue could have a material impact on the operations of the Company.

    The Company has initiated formal communications with its significant
suppliers, licensees, transportation carriers, general service providers and
large customers to determine the extent to which the Company is vulnerable to
those third parties' failure to remediate their own Year 2000 Issue. In
addition, third party vendors of hardware and packaged software have been
contacted about their products' compliance status. There can be no guarantee
that the systems of other companies on which the Company's systems rely will be
timely converted, or that a failure to convert by another company, or a
conversion that is incompatible with the Company's systems, would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company.

    The Company will utilize both internal and external resources to reprogram,
replace and test the software for Year 2000 modifications. The Company plans to
complete the major initiatives of its Year 2000 project within the current
fiscal year. To date, the Company has incurred expenses of approximately $1.1
million related to the assessment of, and preliminary efforts in connection
with, its Year 2000 project and the development of a remediation plan. The total
remaining cost of the Year 2000 project is estimated at $5.0 to $6.0 million and
is being funded through operating cash flows. Of the total project cost,
approximately $0.5 million is attributable to the purchase of new software which
will be capitalized. The remainder will be expensed as incurred.

    The costs of the project and the date on which the Company plans to complete
the Year 2000 modifications are based on management's best estimates, which were
derived utilizing numerous assumptions of future events including the continued
availability of certain resources, third party modification plans and other
factors. However, there can be no guarantee that these estimates will be
achieved, and actual results could differ materially from those plans.


ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

    The information required by this item appears beginning on page F-1.




ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING
         AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

    Not applicable.




                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

    The other information required to be included herein by Item 10 of Form 10-K
will be included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual Meeting of
Stockholders which will be filed within 120 days after the close of the
Company's fiscal year ended March 28, 1998 and such information is incorporated
herein by reference to such Proxy Statement.

    The following table sets forth certain information with respect to the
directors and executive officers of the Company as of June 11, 1998.





    RALPH LAUREN has been a director of the Company since prior to the
commencement of the Company's initial public offering and a member of the
Advisory Board or Board of Directors of the Company's predecessors since their
organization. Mr. Lauren is the Company's Chairman and Chief Executive Officer.
He founded Polo in 1968 and has provided leadership in the design, marketing and
operational areas since such time.

    MICHAEL J. NEWMAN has been a director of the Company since prior to the
commencement of the Company's initial public offering and a member of the
Advisory Board of the Company's predecessor since April 1995. Mr. Newman has
been Vice Chairman and Chief Operating Officer of the Company since 1995. He was
President and Chief Operating Officer of the Company's Menswear operations from
1991 to 1994, and Executive Vice President from 1989 to 1991. Mr. Newman joined
Polo as Vice President of Finance and Chief Financial Officer in 1987. Prior to
joining the Company, Mr. Newman was Senior Vice President of Finance at
Kaiser-Roth Apparel.

    RICHARD A. FRIEDMAN has been a director of the Company since prior to the
commencement of the Company's initial public offering and a member of the
Advisory Board of the Company's predecessor since 1994. Mr. Friedman is a
Managing Director of Goldman, Sachs & Co., and head of the Principal Investment
Area. He joined Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1981. Mr. Friedman is a member of the
Board of Directors of AMF Bowling, Inc., AMF Bowling Worldwide, Inc., and
Diamond Cable Communications PLC.




    FRANK A. BENNACK, JR. has been a director of the Company since January
1998. Mr. Bennack has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of The
Hearst Corporation since 1979. He is a member of the Board of Directors of The
Hearst Corporation, Hearst-Argyle Television, Inc., American Home Products
Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Corporation and The Chase Manhattan Bank.

    ALLEN QUESTROM who was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
Federated Department Stores, Inc. from February 1990 to May 1997, has been a
Director of the Company since September 1997. He is a member of the Board of
Directors of Interpublic Group of Companies, Inc. and AEA Investors, Inc.

    TERRY S. SEMEL has been a director of the Company since September 1997.
Mr. Semel has been the Chairman of the Board and Co-Chief Executive Officer of
the Warner Bros. Division of Time Warner Entertainment LP ("Warner Brothers"),
since March 1994 and of Warner Music Group since November 1995. For more than
ten years prior to that he was President of Warner Brothers or its predecessor,
Warner Bros. Inc. Mr. Semel is a member of the Board of Directors of Revlon,
Inc.

    PETER STROM has been a director of the Company since September 1997 and was
a member of the Advisory Board of the Company's predecessor from October 1994
until his retirement in April 1995. Mr. Strom was an initial officer of Polo in
1968 and held various management positions in the Company, including, at the
time of his retirement, serving as the Company's Vice Chairman and Chief
Operating Officer.

    VICTOR COHEN has been Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary
of the Company since 1996. Mr. Cohen joined Polo in 1983 as its senior legal
officer responsible for all legal and corporate affairs. Prior to joining the
Company, he was associated with the law firm of Skadden, Arps, Slate, Meagher &
Flom.

    NANCY A. PLATONI POLI has been Chief Financial Officer of the Company
since 1996 and Senior Vice President since 1997. Ms. Poli was Vice President and
Controller from 1989 to 1996, and assumed responsibility for treasury functions
in addition to her controller functions in 1995. Prior to that, she was
Controller of Retail Finance. Ms. Poli joined the Company in 1984.

    KAREN L. ROSENBACH has been Senior Vice President, Human Resources and
Administration of the Company since 1996. Ms. Rosenbach joined the Company in
1988 as Vice President of Human Resources. Prior to joining the Company, she was
Vice President of Human Resources, Real Estate Group at Chemical Bank.

    Each executive officer serves for a one-year term ending at the next annual
meeting of the Company's Board of Directors, subject to his or her applicable
employment agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.


    The information required to be included herein by Items 11 through 13 of
Form 10-K will be included in the Company's Proxy Statement for the 1998 Annual
Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed within 120 days after the close of
the Company's fiscal year ended March 28, 1998 and such information is
incorporated herein by reference to such Proxy Statement.



                                     PART IV

ITEM 14.     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.


         (a)      1, 2. Financial Statements and Schedules.  See index on Page
                  F-1.

                  3. Exhibits --








- ------------------------------------


*        Incorporated herein by reference.

+        Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

**       Portions of Exhibits 10.4 - 10.11 and 10.25 and 10.26 have been omitted
         pursuant to a request for confidential treatment and have been filed
         separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.

(b)      The Company filed no reports on Form 8-K during the last quarter of the
         period covered by this report.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
                                        (Registrant)


                                By:     /s/ Ralph Lauren
                                        --------------------------------------
                                        Ralph Lauren
                                        Chairman of the Board of Directors and
                                        Chief Executive Officer

Date: June 26, 1998

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.





                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the required
information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto.


                                      F-1

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation
New York, New York

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheet as of March 28, 1998
and the combined balance sheet as of March 29, 1997 of Polo Ralph Lauren
Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") and the related consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for the year ended
March 28, 1998 and the combined statements of income, partners' capital, and
cash flows for the year ended March 29, 1997. These financial statements are the
responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an
opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated and combined financial statements present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of
March 28, 1998 and March 29, 1997, and the results of their operations and their
cash flows for the years then ended in conformity with generally accepted
accounting principles.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New York, New York
May 15, 1998


                                      F-2

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT



The Partners
Polo Ralph Lauren Enterprises, L.P.

         We have audited the accompanying combined statements of income,
partners' capital, and cash flows of Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation (the
"Company" as defined in Note 1(a)) for the year ended March 30, 1996. These
combined financial statements are the responsibility of management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these combined financial statements
based on our audit.

         We conducted our audit in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

         In our opinion, the combined financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the results of operations and cash
flows of Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation for the year ended March 30, 1996 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.



/s/ Mahoney Cohen Rashba & Pokart, CPA, PC

MAHONEY COHEN RASHBA & POKART, CPA, PC
New York, New York
June 21, 1996
except as to Note 1(a)
dated March 14, 1997


                                      F-3

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)




                 See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       F-4

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)






                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       F-5

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY AND PARTNERS' CAPITAL
                        (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT SHARE DATA)






                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       F-6

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)




                                      F-7

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)













                See accompanying notes to financial statements.

                                       F-8




1    BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND ORGANIZATION

     (a) BASIS OF PRESENTATION
         Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation ("PRLC") was incorporated in Delaware in
     March 1997. PRLC and its subsidiaries are collectively referred to herein
     as "Polo." On June 9, 1997, the partners and certain of their affiliates
     contributed to PRLC all of the outstanding stock of, and partnership
     interests in, the entities which comprised the predecessor group of
     companies in exchange for common stock and cash (the "Reorganization"). The
     accompanying combined financial statements for the years ended March 29,
     1997 and March 30, 1996 include the accounts of Polo Ralph Lauren
     Enterprises, L.P. ("Enterprises"), Polo Ralph Lauren, L.P. and subsidiaries
     ("Polo Partnership"), The Ralph Lauren Womenswear Company, L.P. and
     subsidiaries ("Womenswear") and Polo Retail Corporation and subsidiaries
     ("PRC"), a 50% joint venture with a previously nonaffiliated partner
     (collectively, the "Predecessor Company"). The controlling interests of the
     Predecessor Company were held by Mr. Ralph Lauren, with a 28.5% interest
     held by certain investment funds affiliated with The Goldman Sachs Group,
     L.P. (collectively, the "GS Group").

         The accompanying consolidated financial statements as of and for the
     year ended March 28, 1998 include the combined results of operations of the
     Predecessor Company through June 9, 1997 and the consolidated results of
     operations of Polo thereafter (Polo, together with the Predecessor Company,
     is referred to herein as the "Company"). The financial statements of PRLC
     have not been included prior to the Reorganization as PRLC was a shell
     company with no business operations.

         The financial statements of the Predecessor Company are being presented
     on a combined basis because of their common ownership. The combined
     financial statements have been prepared as if the entities had operated as
     a single consolidated group since their respective dates of organization.

         All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been
     eliminated. The equity method of accounting was used for the Company's
     investment in PRC during the period in which 50% of PRC was owned by a
     previously nonaffiliated partner (years ended March 29, 1997 and March 30,
     1996). Subsequent to the Company's acquisition of the remaining 50%
     interest in PRC effective April 3, 1997, as discussed further in Note 1 (d)
     below, the results of operations of PRC have been consolidated and the
     acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase.



                                      F-9

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

     (b) INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING

         On June 17, 1997, PRLC completed the sale of 11.17 million shares of
     its Class A Common Stock at $26.00 per share in connection with its initial
     public offering. The net proceeds from the initial public offering, after
     deducting underwriting discounts and commissions and offering expenses,
     aggregated $268.8 million. The net proceeds from the initial public
     offering were used as follows: (i) to repay borrowings outstanding under
     the Company's New Credit Facility (as defined - see Note 7) in the amount
     of $163.5 million; (ii) to pay the Dividend and Reorganization Notes (as
     defined - see Note 1 (c)) in the amount of $43.0 million to Mr. Lauren and
     related entities and the GS Group; and (iii) to repay subordinated notes
     and interest thereon (see Note 8) in the amount of $24.3 million to Mr.
     Lauren and the GS Group. The remaining $38.0 million was used for other
     general corporate purposes.

     (c) DIVIDEND AND REORGANIZATION NOTES
         On June 9, 1997, in connection with the Reorganization, the Company
     declared a dividend and issued reorganization notes aggregating $43.0
     million to Mr. Lauren and the GS Group representing estimated undistributed
     earnings of the Predecessor Company through the closing of the
     Reorganization ("Dividend and Reorganization Notes"). The Dividend and
     Reorganization Notes were paid with a portion of the net proceeds of the
     initial public offering (see Note 1 (b)). Effective June 9, 1997, the
     Company declared a second dividend (the "Second Dividend") to Mr. Lauren
     and the GS Group in an amount representing the difference between the
     actual amount of undistributed earnings through the closing of the
     Reorganization and the estimated amount of the Dividend and Reorganization
     Notes. The Second Dividend amounted to $5.4 million and was paid in the
     fourth quarter of fiscal 1998.

     (d) ACQUISITIONS
         Simultaneously with the Reorganization, the Company acquired from a
     partnership of which Mr. Lauren is the sole general partner, the
     partnership's sole membership interest in an entity which holds the
     trademarks and other rights under a license agreement relating to the
     Company's U.S. fragrance business and the interest which the Company did
     not previously own in the entity that holds the trademarks relating to the
     Company's international licensing business in exchange for shares of Class
     B Common Stock. The operating results of these entities have been included
     in the results of operations of the Predecessor Company for all periods
     presented based on their common ownership.

          On March 21, 1997, the Company entered into purchase agreements with
     its joint venture partners to acquire the remaining 50% interest in PRC,
     effective April 3, 1997, for consideration aggregating $10.4 million in
     cash and Class A Common Stock of PRLC ("PRC Acquisition"). The PRC
     Acquisition was completed simultaneously with the Company's initial public
     offering.

         On October 16, 1995, Womenswear acquired the assets of Ralph Lauren
     Womenswear, Inc. ("RLW"), a nonaffiliated licensee, at book value which
     approximated fair value, consisting principally of inventories ($19.7
     million) and accounts receivable ($18.2 million) for $40.3 million in cash.
     This acquisition was accounted for as a purchase.


                                      F-10

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)




     (e) BUSINESS
         The Company designs, licenses, contracts for the manufacture of,
     markets and distributes men's and women's apparel, accessories, fragrances,
     skin care products and home furnishings. The Company's sales are
     principally to major department and specialty stores located throughout the
     United States. Additionally, the Company also sells directly to consumers
     through Company-owned Polo stores, including flagship stores in New York
     City, and outlet stores located throughout the United States. A substantial
     portion of the Company's net revenues and income from operations are
     derived from, and identifiable assets are located in, the United States.

         The Company is party to licensing agreements which grant the licensee
     exclusive rights to use the various trademarks owned by the Company in
     connection with the manufacture and sale of designated products in
     specified geographical areas. The license agreements typically provide for
     designated terms with renewal options based on achievement of specified
     sales targets. The agreements also require that certain minimum amounts be
     spent on advertising for licensed products. Additionally, as part of the
     licensing arrangements, each licensee is typically required to enter into a
     design services agreement pursuant to which design and other creative
     services are provided. The license and design services agreements provide
     for payments based on specified percentages of net sales. Additionally, the
     Company has granted royalty-free licenses to independent parties to operate
     Polo stores to promote the sale of merchandise of the Company and its
     licensees both domestically and internationally.

         A significant amount of the Company's products are produced in the Far
     East, through arrangements with independent contractors. As a result, the
     Company's operations could be adversely effected by political instability
     resulting in the disruption of trade from the countries in which these
     contractors are located, or by the imposition of additional duties or
     regulations relating to imports or by the contractors' inability to meet
     the Company's production requirements.

     (f) PRO FORMA ADJUSTMENTS (UNAUDITED)
         The pro forma statement of income data for the years ended March 28,
     1998 and March 29, 1997 presents the effects on the historical financial
     statements of certain transactions as if they had occurred at March 31,
     1996. The pro forma statement of income data reflects adjustments for: (i)
     income taxes based upon pro forma pre-tax income as if the Company had been
     subject to additional Federal, state and local income taxes, calculated
     using a pro forma effective tax rate of 40.8% for the year ended March 28,
     1998 and 42.0% for the year ended March 29, 1997 (see Note 9); (ii) the
     reduction of interest expense resulting from the application of a portion
     of the net proceeds from the initial public offering to outstanding
     indebtedness; and (iii) the PRC Acquisition, including the consolidation of
     PRC's operations, the amortization of goodwill over 25 years associated
     with the acquisition and the elimination of the Company's equity in net
     loss of PRC for the year ended March 29, 1997.


                                      F-11

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)



     (g) PRO FORMA NET INCOME PER SHARE (UNAUDITED)
         Pro forma net income per share has been computed in accordance with
     Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 128, Earnings Per
     Share. Pro forma net income per share was calculated by dividing pro forma
     net income by the weighted average number of shares outstanding during the
     period, assuming the initial public offering had been completed on March
     31, 1996. For comparison purposes only, the weighted average number of
     shares outstanding immediately following the completion of the initial
     public offering were considered to be outstanding in the years ended March
     28, 1998 and March 29, 1997.

2    SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

     FISCAL YEAR
         The Company's fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to March 31. All
     references herein to "1998," "1997" and "1996" represent the 52 week fiscal
     years ended March 28, 1998, March 29, 1997 and March 30, 1996,
     respectively.

     USE OF ESTIMATES
         The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
     accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain
     estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and
     liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date
     of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and
     expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from
     those estimates.

     RECLASSIFICATIONS
         For comparative purposes, certain prior period amounts have been
     reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.

     CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS
         Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments with an
     original maturity of three months or less.

     INVENTORIES
         Wholesale inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in,
     first-out method) or market. Retail inventories are valued using the retail
     method.

     STORE PREOPENING COSTS
         Costs associated with the opening of a new store are deferred and
     amortized within one year commencing from the date of the store opening.


                                      F-12

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)



     PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION
         Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation of furniture
     and fixtures and machinery and equipment is calculated using the
     straight-line method over estimated average useful lives of approximately
     five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line
     method over the lesser of the term of the related lease or the estimated
     useful life. Major additions and betterments are capitalized, and repairs
     and maintenance are charged to operations in the period incurred.
     Additionally, the Company capitalizes its share of the cost of constructing
     shop-within-shops under agreements with retailers and amortizes such costs
     using the straight-line method over the lesser of their estimated useful
     lives or the life of the underlying agreement.

     GOODWILL
         Goodwill represents the excess of purchase cost over the fair value of
     net assets of businesses acquired. The Company amortizes goodwill over its
     estimated useful life of 25 years on a straight-line basis.

     IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS
         The Company assesses the carrying value of long-lived and intangible
     assets as current facts and circumstances suggest that they may be
     impaired. In evaluating the fair value and future benefits of such assets,
     the Company performs an analysis of the anticipated undiscounted future net
     cash flows of the individual assets over the remaining amortization period
     and would recognize an impairment loss if the carrying value exceeded the
     expected future cash flows. The impairment loss would be measured based
     upon the fair value. The Company has determined that its long-lived and
     intangible assets presented in the accompanying balance sheet at March 28,
     1998 are not impaired.

     OFFICERS' LIFE INSURANCE
         The Company maintains key man life insurance policies on several of its
     senior executives, the majority of which contain split dollar arrangements.
     The key man policies are recorded at their cash surrender value, while the
     policies with split dollar arrangements are recorded at the lesser of their
     cash surrender value or premiums paid. Amounts recorded under these
     policies aggregated $28.2 million and $25.0 million, net of loans of $0 and
     $5.8 million, at March 28, 1998 and March 29, 1997, respectively, and are
     included in other assets in the accompanying balance sheets.

     REVENUE RECOGNITION
         Sales are recognized upon shipment of products to customers and, in the
     case of sales by Company-owned outlet and retail stores, when goods are
     sold to customers. Allowances for estimated uncollectible accounts and
     discounts are provided when sales are recorded. Licensing revenue is
     recognized as earned.



                                      F-13

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

     CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK
         The Company sells its merchandise primarily to major upscale department
     stores across the United States and extends credit based on an evaluation
     of the customer's financial condition without requiring collateral. Credit
     risk is driven by conditions or occurrences within the economy and the
     retail industry and is principally dependent on each customer's financial
     condition. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any
     substantial customer to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from
     the Company or to cease carrying its products could have a material adverse
     effect on the Company. The Company had three customers who in aggregate
     constituted 53% and 48% of trade accounts receivable outstanding at March
     28, 1998 and March 29, 1997, respectively.

         The Company had one significant customer that accounted for
     approximately 11% of net sales in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996. Additionally,
     the Company had three significant licensees (one of which was new in fiscal
     1998) who in aggregate constituted approximately 35%, 39% and 43% of
     licensing revenue in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

         The Company monitors credit levels and the financial condition of its
     customers on a continuing basis to minimize credit risk. The Company
     believes that adequate provision for credit loss has been made in the
     accompanying financial statements.

         The Company is also subject to concentrations of credit risk with
     respect to its cash and cash equivalents which it minimizes by placing
     these funds with major banks and financial institutions and investing in
     high-quality instruments.

     ADVERTISING
         The Company expenses the production costs of advertising, marketing and
     public relations expenses upon the first showing of the related
     advertisement. These expenses amounted to $68.5 million, $55.5 million and
     $44.5 million in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.

     INCOME TAXES
         The Company accounts for income taxes under the liability method.
     Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized based on differences
     between financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using
     presently enacted tax rates.

         The entities which comprised the Predecessor Company included
     principally partnerships which were not subject to Federal or certain state
     income taxes. Therefore, no provision was made in the accompanying combined
     financial statements through June 9, 1997, as taxes were the liability of
     the partners. However, Federal, state and local taxes have been provided on
     the income of all domestic C corporations in the Predecessor Company.
     Foreign income taxes have also been provided on the income of the foreign
     entities in the Predecessor Company.


                                      F-14

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)



     DEFERRED RENT OBLIGATIONS
         The Company accounts for rent expense under noncancellable operating
     leases with scheduled rent increases and landlord incentives on a
     straight-line basis over the lease term. The excess of straight-line rent
     expense over scheduled payment amounts and landlord incentives are recorded
     as a deferred liability. Unamortized deferred rent obligations amounted to
     $28.1 million and $22.6 million at March 28, 1998 and March 29, 1997,
     respectively, and are included in accrued expenses and other, and other
     noncurrent liabilities in the accompanying balance sheets.

     FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS
         The Company from time to time uses derivative financial instruments to
     reduce its exposure to changes in foreign exchange rates. While these
     instruments are subject to risk of loss from changes in exchange rates,
     those losses would generally be offset by gains on the related exposure.
     The Company generally does not hold or issue financial instruments for
     trading or speculative purposes.

     FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSLATION
         The financial position and results of operations of a foreign
     subsidiary of the Company is measured using the local currency as the
     functional currency. Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange
     rate in effect at each year end. Results of operations are translated at
     the average rate of exchange prevailing throughout the period. Translation
     adjustments arising from differences in exchange rates from period to
     period are included in the cumulative translation adjustment account. Gains
     and losses from foreign currency transactions are included in operating
     results and were not considered by the Company to be material in fiscal
     1998, 1997 and 1996.

     STOCK OPTIONS
         The Company uses the intrinsic value method to account for stock-based
     compensation in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion
     No. 25, Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and has adopted the
     disclosure-only provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based
     Compensation.

     RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS
         In June 1997, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
     SFAS No. 130, Reporting Comprehensive Income. This Statement establishes
     standards for reporting of comprehensive income and its components
     (revenues, expenses, gains and losses) in the financial statements. SFAS
     No. 130 requires an enterprise to: (i) reconcile net income to
     comprehensive income; (ii) classify items of other comprehensive income
     (e.g., foreign currency translation adjustments, unearned compensation,
     etc.) by their nature in a financial statement; and (iii) display the
     accumulated balance of other comprehensive income separately from retained
     earnings and additional paid-in-capital in the equity section of a
     statement of financial position. SFAS No.130 is effective for the Company's
     first quarter of fiscal year ending April 3, 1999.



                                      F-15

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)



         In June 1997, the FASB issued SFAS No. 131, Disclosures about Segments
     of an Enterprise and Related Information. This Statement establishes
     standards for reporting selected financial data and descriptive information
     about an enterprise's reportable operating segments (as defined). This
     Statement also requires the reconciliation of total segment information
     presented to the corresponding amounts in the general purpose financial
     statements. Additionally, SFAS No. 131 establishes standards for related
     disclosures about products and services, geographic areas and major
     customers. SFAS No. 131 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending
     April 3, 1999. The Company has not yet determined what additional
     disclosures, if any, may be required in connection with adopting this
     Statement.

         In April 1998, the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
     ("AICPA") Accounting Standards Executive Committee issued Statement of
     Position No. 98-5 ("SOP 98-5"), Reporting on the Costs of Start-up
     Activities. SOP 98-5 requires that costs of start-up activities, including
     organization costs and retail store openings, be expensed as incurred. SOP
     98-5 is effective for the Company's fiscal year ending April 1, 2000. The
     Company has not yet determined whether the application of SOP 98-5 will
     have a material impact on the Company's financial position or results of
     operations.

  3  INVENTORIES

     

         Merchandise inventories of $130.9 million and $93.9 million at March
     28, 1998 and March 29, 1997, respectively, were valued utilizing the retail
     method and are included in finished goods.


                                      F-16

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)



4    PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT



5    INVESTMENTS IN AND ADVANCES TO JOINT VENTURES

         Effective March 31, 1997, the Company entered into a joint venture
     agreement with a nonaffiliated partner to acquire real property in New York
     City. Concurrent with the signing of the agreement, the Company made an
     initial contribution for its 50% interest in the joint venture in the
     amount of $5.0 million. On December 16, 1997, the Company entered into a
     second 50/50 joint venture agreement with this nonaffiliated partner. The
     entity formed through this joint venture entered into a long-term lease of
     a building located in the Soho District of New York City. The Company
     accounts for its 50% interest in these joint ventures under the equity
     method commencing from the effective dates of the agreements.

         At March 29, 1997, investments in and advances to joint ventures
     reflect the Company's 50% interest in PRC. Sales by the Company to PRC were
     $40.3 million and $38.9 million in fiscal 1997 and 1996, respectively.
     Purchases by the Company from PRC amounted to $6.7 million and $5.7 million
     in fiscal 1997 and 1996, respectively. At March 29, 1997, the Company had
     $20.3 million due from PRC which is included in prepaid expenses and other
     in the accompanying balance sheet.

6    ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER



                                      F-17

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

7   FINANCING AGREEMENTS

    Long-term debt consists of the following:



          On June 9, 1997, the Company entered into a new financing arrangement
    (the "New Credit Facility") providing for a $375.0 million revolving line
    of credit available for the issuance of letters of credit, acceptances or
    direct borrowings. Upon the closing of the Company's initial public
    offering, the amount available under the revolving line of credit was
    reduced to $225.0 million. The New Credit Facility matures on December 31,
    2002. Borrowings under the New Credit Facility were used to refinance the
    Polo Partnership credit facility of $104.5 million and to repay in full
    $56.7 million of aggregate borrowings outstanding under the Womenswear
    credit facility and the PRC credit facility. Such borrowings were repaid    
    from the net proceeds of the initial public offering (see Note 1 (b)).
        
          Borrowings under the New Credit Facility bear interest, as determined
    by the Company, at either the lender's Base Rate (as defined) or at the
    London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") plus an interest margin. The New
    Credit Facility is collateralized by trade accounts receivable and contains
    restrictive covenants relating to, among other things, net worth and
    leverage ratios, limitations on indebtedness and incurrences of liens, and
    restrictions on sales of assets and transactions with affiliates.
    Additionally, the New Credit Facility provides that an event of default
    will occur if Mr. Lauren and related entities fail to maintain a specified
    minimum percentage of the voting power of Polo's Common Stock (as defined
    herein). At March 28, 1998, the Company had no borrowings outstanding under 
    the New Credit Facility.                                         
        

                                      F-18

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

         On October 31, 1994, the Polo Partnershhip entered into a six-year 
    financing arrangement with commercial banks providing for a $125.0 million
    revolving credit facility and $80.0 million in term loans. The revolving
    credit facility was available for the issuance of letters of credit,
    acceptances or direct borrowings and was limited to a borrowing base
    calculated on eligible accounts receivable, inventory and letters of
    credit. Any unused portion of the available credit line ($103.2 million at
    March 29, 1997) was subject to a 3/8% commitment fee. Notes and acceptances
    payable under this facility amounted to $4.7 million at March 29, 1997 and
    bore interest based on either the prime rate or LIBOR plus 1.75%, as
    permitted by the agreement (ranging from 5.5% to 6.25% at March 29, 1997).
    The credit facility and term loans were collateralized by trade wholesale
    accounts receivable, retail inventories and assignments of licensing
    revenue and certain trademarks.  
        
         In fiscal 1996, Womenswear entered into a five-year financing
    arrangement with a financial institution providing for a $30.0 million
    revolving credit facility and a $10.0 million term loan. In February 1997,
    Womenswear amended its credit facility to increase its revolving credit
    facility to $40.0 million. The revolving credit facility was available for
    the issuance of letters of credit, acceptances or direct borrowings and was
    limited to a borrowing base calculated on eligible accounts receivable,
    inventory and accrued royalties. Any unused portion of the available credit
    line ($11.2 million at March 29, 1997) was subject to a 3/8% commitment
    fee. Notes and acceptances payable under this facility amounted to $22.1
    million at March 29, 1997 and bore interest at the institution's reference
    rate (8.25% at March 29, 1997). The credit facility was collateralized by
    substantially all of the assets of Womenswear.

         The Polo Partnership term loans bore interest primarily at LIBOR  plus 
    1.75% ranging from 6.9% to 8.25% at March 29, 1997) and the Womenswear term
    loan bore interest at the institution's reference rate plus 0.5% (8.75% at
    March 29, 1997). The weighted average interest rate on borrowings under
    revolving credit facilities was 8.0%, 7.7% and 8.4% in fiscal 1998, 1997 and
    1996, respectively.
                
8   SUBORDINATED NOTES

         The subordinated notes were payable to Mr. Lauren in the amount of 
    $20.0 million and to Mr. Lauren and the GS Group in the aggregate amount of 
    $24.0 million. The subordinated note payable to Mr. Lauren was repaid on 
    April 30, 1997 and the remaining notes were repaid to Mr. Lauren and the 
    GS Group upon closing of the initial public offering (see Note 1 (b)). 
    These notes bore interest at the prime rate (8.5% at March 29, 1997) and 
    were subordinated to the Polo Partnership's credit facility and term notes. 
    Interest expense on the subordinated notes amounted to $.6 million, $3.6 
    million and $3.8 million in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
        

                                      F-19

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)


9   INCOME TAXES

         Concurrent with the Reorganization and the termination of the Company's
    partnership status, the Company became fully subject to Federal, state and
    local income taxes. As a result and in accordance with the provisions of
    SFAS No. 109, Accounting for Income Taxes, the Company recorded a deferred
    tax asset and a corresponding tax benefit in the amount of $27.4 million in
    its consolidated financial statements in the first quarter of fiscal 1998.
    The deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effect of temporary
    differences, primarily accounts receivable, uniform inventory
    capitalization, depreciation and other accruals, between the carrying
    amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and the amounts
    used for income tax purposes.
        
         Pursuant to the PRC Acquisition, the Company acquired $7.9 million of
    deferred tax assets.

         The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows:




                                      F-20

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)


         The foreign and domestic components of income before income taxes were
     as follows:



         Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary
    differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for 
    financial reporting and income tax purposes. The components of the net 
    deferred tax asset at March 28, 1998 and March 29, 1997 were as follows:



         The Company had available Federal net operating loss carryforwards of
    approximately $10.7 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of
    approximately $35.4 million for tax purposes to offset future taxable
    income. The net operating loss carryforwards expire beginning in fiscal
    2007. The utilization of the Federal net operating loss carryforwards is
    subject to the limitations of Internal Revenue Code Section 382 which
    applies following certain changes in ownership of the entity generating the
    loss carryforward. Management believes that the Company will more likely
    than not generate sufficient future taxable income to realize the entire
    deferred tax asset prior to expiration of any of these net operating loss
    carryforwards.
        

                                      F-21

                         POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)


         Also, the Company has available additional state net operating loss
    carryforwards of approximately $37.3 million for which no deferred tax
    asset has been recognized. A full valuation allowance has been recorded
    since management does not believe that the Company will more likely than
    not be able to utilize these carryforwards to offset future taxable income.
    Subsequent recognition of the deferred tax asset relating to these net
    operating loss carryforwards would result in a reduction of goodwill
    recorded in connection with the PRC Acquisition.
        
         Provision has not been made for United States or additional foreign 
    taxes on approximately $21.0 million of undistributed earnings of foreign
    subsidiaries. Those earnings have been and will continue to be reinvested.
    These earnings could become subject to tax if they were remitted as
    dividends, if foreign earnings were lent to a PRLC or a U.S. affiliate, or
    if the stock of the subsidiaries were sold. Determination of the amount of
    unrecognized deferred tax liability with respect to such earnings is not
    practical. Management believes that the amount of the additional taxes that
    might be payable on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries, if remitted,
    would be partially offset by United States foreign tax credits.
        
         The pro forma provision for income taxes represents the income tax
    provisions that would have been reported had the Company been subject to
    additional Federal, state and local income taxes for the entire fiscal
    year. The pro forma effective tax rate was 40.8% and 42.0% in fiscal 1998
    and fiscal 1997, respectively, which consisted of the following:
        



                                      F-22

                         POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)


         The pro forma provision for income taxes differs from the amounts
    computed by applying the statutory Federal income tax rate to income before
    income taxes due to the following:



10  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

         In fiscal 1995, the Company entered into an interest rate swap 
    agreement with a commercial bank which expires on October 14, 1999 to 
    hedge against interest rate fluctuations. The swap agreement effectively
    converted the outstanding balance of the Polo Partnership's term loan from
    variable rate borrowings to fixed rate obligations. Under the terms of this
    agreement, the Company makes payments at a fixed rate of 6.955% and
    receives payments from the counterparty based on the notional amount ($40.0
    million at March 28, 1998), adjusted for scheduled loan repayments, at a
    variable rate based on LIBOR. The net interest paid or received on this
    arrangement is included in interest expense. The fair value of this
    agreement was $.5 million and $.6 million at March 28, 1998 and March 29,
    1997, respectively, based upon the estimated amount that the Company would
    pay to terminate the agreement, as determined by a financial institution.
    The Company terminated this agreement and paid $.5 million, representing
    the fair value of the agreement.
        
         The Company from time to time enters into forward foreign exchange
    contracts as hedges relating to identifiable currency positions to reduce
    the risk from exchange rate fluctuations. Gains and losses on these
    contracts are deferred and recognized as adjustments to the bases of those
    assets. Such gains and losses were not material in fiscal 1998, 1997 and
    1996.
        
         At March 28, 1998, the Company had a forward foreign exchange contract
    outstanding with Goldman, Sachs & Co. ("GS& Co.") to deliver 1.0 billion
    yen on April 15, 1998 in exchange for $9.1 million. At March 29, 1997, the
    Company had a forward foreign exchange contract outstanding with GS& Co. to
    deliver 825.0 million yen on April 15, 1997 in exchange for $8.1 million.
    These contracts are hedges relating to foreign licensing revenues. At March
    28, 1998 and March 29, 1997, the fair value of these contracts approximated
    carrying value due to their short-term maturities.
        

                                      F-23

                         POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)


         The Company is exposed to credit losses in the event of nonperformance
    by the counterparties to the forward foreign exchange contract, but it does
    not expect any counterparties to fail to meet their obligations.
        
         The carrying amounts of financial instruments reported in the
    accompanying balance sheets at March 28, 1998 and March 29, 1997
    approximated their estimated fair values primarily due to either the
    short-term maturity of the instruments or their adjustable market rate of
    interest. Considerable judgment is required in interpreting certain market
    data to develop estimated fair values for certain financial instruments.
    Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative
    of the amounts that the Company could realize in a current market exchange.
        
11  EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

    PROFIT SHARING RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLANS
         The Company sponsors two defined contribution benefit plans covering
    substantially all eligible U.S. employees not covered by a collective
    bargaining agreement. The plans include a savings plan feature under
    Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. The Company makes
    discretionary contributions to the plans and contributes an amount equal to
    50% of the first 6% of an employee's contribution. Under the terms of the
    plans, a participant is 100% vested in the Company's matching and
    discretionary contributions after five years of credited service.
    Contributions under these plans approximated $6.0 million, $5.0 million and
    $4.6 million in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
        
    UNION PENSION
         Womenswear participates in a multi-employer pension plan and is
    required to make contributions to the International Ladies Garment Workers'
    Union (the "Union") for dues based on wages paid to union employees. A
    portion of such dues are allocated by the Union to a Retirement Fund which
    provides defined benefits to substantially all unionized workers.
    Womenswear does not participate in the management of the plan and has not
    been furnished with any information with respect to the type of benefits
    provided, vested and nonvested benefits or plan assets.
        
         Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended,
    an employer, upon withdrawal from or termination of a multi-employer plan,
    is required to continue funding its proportionate share of the plan's
    unfunded vested benefits. Such withdrawal liability was assumed in
    conjunction with the acquisition of certain assets from RLW (see Note 1 
    (d)). Womenswear has no current intention of withdrawing from the plan.
        

                                      F-24

                        POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

    DEFERRED COMPENSATION
         The Company has deferred compensation arrangements for certain key
    executives which generally provide for payments upon retirement, death or
    termination of employment. The amounts accrued under these plans were $14.2
    million and $10.5 million at March 28, 1998 and March 29, 1997,
    respectively, and are reflected in other noncurrent liabilities in the
    accompanying balance sheets. Total compensation expense recorded was $4.9
    million, $3.2 million and $2.1 million in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996,
    respectively. The Company funds a portion of these obligations through the
    establishment of trust accounts on behalf of the executives participating
    in the plans. The trust accounts are reflected in other assets in the
    accompanying balance sheets.
        
12  COMMON STOCK

         Polo's Class B Common Stock is owned by Mr. Lauren and related entities
    and its Class C Common Stock is owned by the GS Group. Shares of Class B
    Common Stock are convertible at any time into shares of Class A Common
    Stock on a one-for-one basis and may not be transferred to anyone other
    than affiliates of Mr. Lauren. Shares of Class C Common Stock are
    convertible at any time into shares of Class A Common Stock on a
    one-for-one basis and may not be transferred to anyone other than among
    members of the GS Group or, until April 15, 2002, any successor of a member
    of the GS Group. The holders of Class A Common Stock generally have rights
    identical to holders of Class B Common Stock and Class C Common Stock,
    except that holders of Class A Common Stock and Class C Common Stock are
    entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B Common Stock are
    entitled to ten votes per share. Holders of all classes of Common Stock (as
    hereinafter defined) entitled to vote, will vote together as a single class
    on all matters presented to the stockholders for their vote or approval
    except for the election and the removal of directors and as otherwise
    required by applicable law. Class A Common Stock, Class B Common Stock and
    Class C Common Stock are collectively referred to herein as "Common Stock."
        
13  STOCK INCENTIVE PROGRAM

         On June 9, 1997, the Board of Directors adopted the 1997 Long-Term
    Stock Incentive Plan (the "Stock Incentive Plan"). The Stock Incentive Plan
    authorizes the grant of awards to any officer or other employee, consultant
    to, or director of the Company or any of its subsidiaries with respect to a
    maximum of 10.0 million shares of the Company's Class A Common Stock (the
    "Shares"), subject to adjustment to avoid dilution or enlargement of
    intended benefits in the event of certain significant corporate events,
    which awards may be made in the form of: (i) nonqualified stock options;
    (ii) stock options intended to qualify as incentive stock options under
    Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code; (iii) stock appreciation rights;
    (iv) restricted stock and/or restricted stock units; (v) performance
    awards; and (vi) other stock-based awards. At March 28, 1998, the Company
    had an additional 5.9 million Shares reserved for issuance under this plan.
        

                                      F-25

                        POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

         Stock options were granted in fiscal 1998 under the Stock Incentive
    Plan with an exercise price equal to the stock's fair market value on the
    date of grant. These options vest in equal installments primarily over
    three years for officers and other key employees and over two years for all
    remaining employees. The options expire ten years from the date of grant.
    No compensation cost has been recognized in the accompanying financial
    statements in accordance with APB No. 25. If compensation cost had been
    recognized for stock options granted under the Stock Incentive Plan based
    on the fair value of the stock options at the grant date in accordance with
    SFAS No. 123, the Company's pro forma net income and pro forma net income
    per share for fiscal 1998 would have been reduced to the following pro
    forma amounts:
        
    Pro forma net income                                                $108,985
    Pro forma net income per share - Basic and Diluted                     $1.09

         The weighted average fair value of stock options granted in fiscal 1998
    was $12.62 per share. The fair value was estimated on the date of grant
    using a Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following assumptions:
    risk-free interest rate of 6.45%; dividend yield of 0%; volatility factor
    of 42.0%; and weighted average expected lives of 5.45 years.
        
         On June 9, 1997, the Board of Directors adopted the 1997 Stock Option
    Plan for Non-Employee Directors (the "Non-Employee Directors Plan"). Under
    the Non-Employee Directors Plan, grants of options to purchase shares of
    Class A Common Stock of up to 500,000 shares may be granted to non-employee
    directors. Stock options vest in equal installments over two years and
    expire ten years from the date of grant. In fiscal 1998, the Board of
    Directors granted options to purchase 30,000 shares of Class A Common Stock
    with exercise prices equal to the stock's fair market value on the date of
    grant. At March 28, 1998, the Company had 470,000 options reserved for
    issuance under this plan.
        
         Stock option activity for the Stock Incentive Plan and Non-Employee
    Directors Plan in fiscal 1998 was as follows:




                                      F-26

                        POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

         At March 28, 1998, the weighted average remaining contractual life of
    outstanding options was 9.2 years and .5 million shares were exercisable at
    an exercise price of $26.00 per share. The price range of options granted
    and outstanding at March 28, 1998 was $22.91 to $29.81.
        
         In March 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase,
    subject to market conditions, of up to $100.0 million of the Company's
    Class A Common Stock. Share repurchases under this plan will be made from
    time to time in the open market over a two-year period commencing April 1,
    1998. Shares acquired under the repurchase program will be used for stock
    option programs and other corporate purposes. The shares acquired will be
    accounted for as treasury stock at cost.
        
14  COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

    LEASES
         The Company leases office, warehouse and retail space and office
    equipment under operating leases which expire through 2021. These leases
    typically provide the Company with the option after the initial lease term
    to either renew the lease at the current fair rental value or purchase the
    equipment at the current fair value. The Company generally expects that
    leases will be renewed or replaced by other leases in the normal course of
    business.
        
         As of March 28, 1998, aggregate minimum annual rental payments under
    noncancelable operating leases with lease terms in excess of one year were
    payable as follows:
        


         Rent expense charged to operations was $53.9 million, $40.8 million and
    $34.5 million, net of sublease income of $1.5 million, $2.1 million and
    $2.1 million, respectively, in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
    Substantially all outlet and retail store leases provide for contingent
    rentals based upon sales and require the Company to pay taxes, insurance
    and occupancy costs. Certain rentals are based solely on a percentage of
    sales and one significant lease requires a fair market value adjustment at
    January 1, 2004. Contingent rental charges included in rent expense were
    $3.2 million, $3.7 million and $3.2 million in fiscal 1998, 1997 and 1996,
    respectively.
        

                                      F-27

             NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued)
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

LETTERS OF CREDIT
         At March 28, 1998, the Company is contingently liable for unexpired
bank letters of credit of $19.9 million related to commitments for the purchase
of inventories and in connection with its leases.

EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS
         The Company is party to employment agreements with certain executives
which provide for compensation and certain other benefits. The agreements also
provide for severance payments under certain circumstances.

LEGAL MATTERS
         The Company initiated an arbitration proceeding in San Francisco in
November 1996 for a declaration of rights under its license agreement with The
Magnin Company, Inc., an independent free-standing retail licensee which
operates a Polo store in Beverly Hills, California. The licensee had previously
claimed that the Company breached its license agreement when the Company refused
last year to authorize the opening of a free-standing Polo concession at Los
Angeles International Airport by the licensee. The licensee in a counterclaim
had sought compensatory and punitive damages. On September 8, 1997, the
arbitration panel determined that the Company had made its decisions in good
faith and fully in accordance with its rights and obligations under the license
agreement and awarded the declaration sought by the Company. In addition, the
panel determined that the licensee should take nothing by reason of its
counterclaim.

         The Company is a defendant in a purported national class action lawsuit
filed in the Delaware Supreme Court in July 1997. The plaintiff has brought the
action allegedly on behalf of a class of persons who purchased products at the
Company's outlet stores throughout the United States at any time since July 15,
1991. The complaint alleges that advertising and marketing practices used by the
Company in connection with the sales of its products at its outlet stores
violate guidelines established by the Federal Trade Commission and the consumer
protection statutes of Delaware and other states with statutes similar to
Delaware's Consumer Fraud Act and Delaware's Consumer Contracts Act. The lawsuit
seeks, on behalf of the class, compensatory and punitive damages as well as
attorneys' fees. The Company intends to vigorously defend this lawsuit and
believes that it has substantial and meritorious defenses.

         The Company is from time to time involved in legal claims, involving
trademark and intellectual property, licensing, employee relations and other
matters incidental to its business. In the opinion of the Company's management,
the resolution of any matter currently pending will not have a material effect
on the financial condition or results of operations of the Company.


                                      F-28

                        POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)
 
15  QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

         The following is a summary of certain unaudited quarterly financial
    information for fiscal 1998 and 1997:





         The pro forma data presents the effects on the historical financial
    statements of the adjustments described in Note 1 (f) as if they had
    occurred at March 31, 1996. Net income per share represents both the basic
    and diluted computation in accordance with SFAS No. 128, Earnings per
    Share. For comparison purposes only, the weighted average number of shares
    outstanding immediately following the completion of the initial public
    offering of 100.2 million were considered to be outstanding in the quarter
    ended June 28, 1997 and in fiscal 1997. The actual weighted average number
    of shares outstanding of 100.2 million was used for the computation of
    basic net income per share for the remainder of fiscal 1998. The weighted
    average number of shares outstanding used in the computation of diluted net
    income per share was 100.2 million, 100.3 million and 100.4 million for the
    quarter ended September 27, 1997, December 27, 1997 and March 28, 1998,
    respectively. The difference between the basic and diluted weighted average
    shares outstanding is due to the dilutive effect of stock options issued
    under the Company's stock option plans.
        

                                      F-29

                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation:
New York, New York

         We have audited the consolidated financial statements as of and for the
year ended March 28, 1998 and the combined financial statements as of and for
the year ended March 29, 1997 of Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation and subsidiaries
(the "Company"), and have issued our report thereon dated May 15, 1998; such
report is included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the
consolidated and combined financial statement schedule of Polo Ralph Lauren
Corporation and subsidiaries, listed in Item 14. This consolidated and combined
financial statement schedule is the responsibility of the Company's management.
Our responsibility is to express an opinion based on our audits. In our opinion,
such consolidated and combined financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ Deloitte & Touche LLP

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
New York, New York
May 15, 1998



                                      S-1


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITOR'S REPORT

The Partners
Polo Ralph Lauren Enterprises, L.P.

         We have audited, in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards, the combined statements of income, partners' capital, and cash flows
of Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation for the year ended March 30, 1996 included in
Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation's Annual Report to Stockholders included in this
Form 10-K, and have issued our report thereon dated June 21, 1996. Our audit was
made for the purpose of forming an opinion on those statements taken as a whole.
The schedule listed on the index in Item 14(a) 2 of this Form 10-K is the
responsibility of the Company's management and is presented for the purposes of
complying with the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and is not a part
of the basic financial statements. The financial data for the fiscal year ended
March 30, 1996 included in the schedule has been subjected to the auditing
procedures applied in the audit of the basic financial statements and, in our
opinion, fairly states in all material respects the financial data for the
fiscal year ended March 30, 1996 required to be set forth therein in relation to
the basic financial statements taken as a whole.

/s/ Mahoney Cohen Rashba & Pokart, CPA, PC

MAHONEY COHEN RASHBA & POKART, CPA, PC
New York, New York
June 21, 1996



                                      S-2



                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



- ----------------------------

(a) ACCOUNTS WRITTEN-OFF AS UNCOLLECTIBLE.


                                      S-3

                                 EXHIBIT INDEX
                                 -------------







- ------------------------------------


*        Incorporated herein by reference.

+        Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

**       Portions of Exhibits 10.4 - 10.11 and 10.25 and 10.26 have been omitted
         pursuant to a request for confidential treatment and have been filed
         separately with the Securities and Exchange Commission.


