
10-K405
y50404e10-k405.txt
POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION




- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                          WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549-1004

                            ------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K

(MARK ONE)

[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                    FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED MARCH 31, 2001

                                       OR

[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE
      SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

                       COMMISSION FILE NUMBER: 001-13057

                         POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
             (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)



          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(b) OF THE ACT:



        Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(g) OF THE ACT: NONE

     Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes  [X]  No  [ ]

     Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  [X]

     The aggregate market value of the registrant's voting stock held by
nonaffiliates of the registrant was approximately $895,040,546 at June 7, 2001.

     At June 7, 2001, 31,540,998 shares of the registrant's Class A Common
Stock, $.01 par value, 43,280,021 shares of the registrant's Class B Common
Stock, $.01 par value and 22,720,979 shares of the registrant's Class C Common
Stock, $.01 par value, were outstanding.

                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE



- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS.

     In this Annual Report, references to "Polo," "ourselves," "we," "our," and
"us" refer to Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation and its subsidiaries, unless the
context requires otherwise. Due to the collaborative and ongoing nature of our
relationships with our licensees, such licensees are referred to in this Annual
Report as "licensing partners" and the relationships between ourselves and these
licensees are referred to as "licensing alliances." Notwithstanding these
references, however, the legal relationship between ourselves and our licensees
is not one of partnership, but of licensor and licensee.

     We are a leader in the design, marketing and distribution of premium
lifestyle products. For 34 years, Polo's reputation and distinctive image have
been consistently developed across an expanding number of products, brands and
international markets. Our brand names which include "Polo," "Polo by Ralph
Lauren," "Ralph Lauren Purple Label," "Polo Sport," "Ralph Lauren," "RALPH,"
"Lauren," "Polo Jeans Co.," "RL," "Chaps," and "Club Monaco," among others,
constitute one of the world's most widely recognized families of consumer
brands. We believe that, under the direction of Ralph Lauren, the
internationally renowned designer, Polo has influenced the manner in which
people dress and live in contemporary society, reflecting an American
perspective and lifestyle uniquely associated with Polo and Ralph Lauren.

     Polo combines its consumer insight and design, marketing and imaging skills
to offer, along with our licensing partners, broad lifestyle product collections
in four categories:

     - Apparel: Products include extensive collections of men's, women's and
       children's clothing.

     - Home: The Ralph Lauren Home Collection offers coordinated products for
       the home, including bedding and bath products, interior decor, furniture
       and tabletop and gift items.

     - Accessories: Accessories encompass a broad range of products such as
       footwear, eyewear, jewelry and leather goods (including handbags and
       luggage).

     - Fragrance: Fragrance and skin care products are sold under our Polo,
       Lauren, Romance, Safari and Polo Sport brands, among others.

RECENT DEVELOPMENTS

     In January 2000, we completed the acquisition of stock and certain assets
of Poloco S.A.S. and some of its affiliates that hold licenses in Europe to sell
our men's and boys' apparel, our men's and women's Polo Jeans apparel and
certain of our accessories. In acquiring Poloco's wholesale business, we also
acquired from Poloco one flagship store located on Place de la Madeleine in
Paris and six outlet stores located in France, the United Kingdom and Austria.
In addition, Poloco sublicenses various of its rights to companies in the Middle
East and Israel.

     In February 2000, we announced the formation of Ralph Lauren Media, LLC, a
joint venture between ourselves and the National Broadcasting Corporation, Inc.
("NBC")and some of its affiliated companies. RL Media was created to bring our
American lifestyle experience to consumers via multiple media platforms,
including the Internet, broadcast, cable and print. Under the 30-year joint
venture agreement, RL Media is owned 50% by us and 50% by NBC and some of its
affiliated companies.

     RL Media's premier initiative is Polo.com, an Internet Website dedicated to
the American lifestyle that includes original content, commerce and a strong
community component. Polo.com launched in the third quarter of fiscal 2001 and
includes an assortment of men's, women's and children's products across the
Ralph Lauren family of brands as well as unique gift items.



OPERATIONS

     We operate in three integrated segments: wholesale, retail and licensing.
Each is driven by our guiding philosophy of style, innovation and quality.

     Details of our net revenues are shown in the table below.



WHOLESALE

     Our wholesale business is divided into two groups: Polo Brands and
Collection Brands. In both these wholesale groups, we offer several discrete
brand offerings. Each collection is directed by teams consisting of design,
merchandising, sales and production staff who work together to conceive, develop
and merchandise product groupings organized to convey a variety of design
concepts. In addition, our subsidiary, Club Monaco, operates a cosmetics
business, Club Monaco Cosmetics, which in addition to distributing its products
through Club Monaco stores, sells its products to domestic and international
specialty stores.

  POLO BRANDS

     The Polo Brands group sources, markets and distributes products under the
following brands:

     POLO BY RALPH LAUREN.  The Polo by Ralph Lauren menswear collection is a
complete men's wardrobe consisting of products related by theme, style, color
and fabric. Polo by Ralph Lauren menswear is generally priced at a range of
price points within the men's premium ready-to-wear apparel market. We currently
sell this collection through approximately 2,100 department store, specialty
store and Polo store doors in the United States, including approximately 1,550
department store shop-within-shops.

     POLO SPORT.  The Polo Sport collection of men's activewear and sportswear
is designed to meet the growing consumer demand for apparel for the active
lifestyle. Polo Sport is offered at a range of price points generally consistent
with prices for the Polo by Ralph Lauren line, and is distributed through the
same channels as Polo by Ralph Lauren.

     LAUREN RALPH LAUREN.  Lauren men's sportswear and dress furnishings,
distributed through department stores, offers accessible classics in the
tradition of Ralph Lauren. Lauren Ralph Lauren launched with dress furnishings
in Winter 1999 and introduced sportswear in Spring 2000. Lauren Ralph Lauren is
offered through approximately 600 doors.

     RALPH LAUREN SPORT.  Similar to its menswear counterpart, the Ralph Lauren
Sport collection for women includes activewear, as well as weekend sportswear.
The Ralph Lauren Sport collection is currently carried by approximately 390
doors in the United States, including approximately 165 shop-within-shops, and
sells at a wide range of bridge prices.

     POLO GOLF.  The Polo Golf collection of men's and women's golf apparel is
targeted at the golf and resort markets. Price points are similar to those
charged for products in the Polo Sport



line. We sell the Polo Golf collection in the United States through
approximately 1,950 leading golf clubs, pro shops and resorts, in addition to
department, specialty and Polo stores.

     RLX POLO SPORT.  The RLX Polo Sport collection of menswear and womenswear
consists of functional sport and outdoor apparel for running, cross-training,
skiing, snowboarding and cycling. We sell RLX Polo Sport in the United States
through approximately 480 athletic specialty stores, in addition to limited
department and Polo stores, at price points competitive with those charged by
other authentic sports apparel companies.

  COLLECTION BRANDS

     Our Collection Brands group sources, markets and distributes products under
the Women's Ralph Lauren Collection and Ralph Lauren Black Label brands and the
Men's Ralph Lauren/ Purple Label Collection brand.

     RALPH LAUREN COLLECTION AND RALPH LAUREN BLACK LABEL.  The Ralph Lauren
Collection expresses our up-to-the-moment fashion vision for women. Ralph Lauren
Black Label includes timeless versions of our most successful Collection styles,
as well as newly designed classic signature styles. Collection and Black Label
are offered for limited distribution to premier fashion retailers and through
Polo stores. Price points are at the upper end or luxury ranges. The lines are
currently sold by us through 120 doors in the United States and over 210
international doors by us and our licensing partners.

     RALPH LAUREN/PURPLE LABEL COLLECTION.  In Fall 1995, we introduced our
Purple Label collection of men's tailored clothing and, in Fall 1997, to
complement the tailored clothing line, we launched our Purple Label sportswear
line. Purple Label collection tailored clothing is manufactured and distributed
by a licensee, and dress shirts and ties and sportswear are sourced and
distributed by us. We sell the Purple Label collection through a limited number
of premier fashion retailers, currently through approximately 105 doors in the
United States and 18 internationally.

  CLUB MONACO COSMETICS

     Capturing a modern spirit of beauty, Club Monaco Cosmetics' easy-to-apply
and easy-to-wear line of neutral and fashion colors was launched in 1996. The
line consists of makeup and makeup accessories and skin treatments. We sell Club
Monaco Cosmetics through Club Monaco retail stores and currently through
approximately 65 specialty store doors.

DOMESTIC CUSTOMERS AND SERVICE

     General.  Consistent with the appeal and distinctive image of our products
and brands, we sell our menswear, womenswear and home furnishings products
primarily to leading upscale department stores, specialty stores, golf and pro
shops and non-company operated Polo stores located throughout the United States,
which have the reputation and merchandising expertise required for the effective
presentation of Polo products. See " -- Our Licensing Alliances -- Product
Licensing Alliances."

     Our wholesale and home furnishings products are distributed through the
primary distribution channels in the United States listed in the table below. In
addition, we also sell excess and out-of-season products through secondary
distribution channels.





     Department stores represent the largest customer group of our wholesale
group. Major department store customers of ours (together with the percentage of
wholesale net sales that they represented in fiscal 2001) are:

     - Federated Department Stores, Inc. 20.4%,

     - Dillard Department Stores, Inc. 19.4%, and

     - The May Department Stores Company 18.5%.

     Collection Brands, Polo Brands and our Ralph Lauren Home products are
primarily sold through their respective sales forces, which employ approximately
150 salespersons. An independent sales representative promotes sales to U.S.
military exchanges. Our Collection Brands group and Home division maintain their
primary showrooms in New York City. Regional showrooms for the Polo brands and
regional sales representatives for the Ralph Lauren Home are located in our
showrooms in:



     We also operate a separate tabletop showroom in New York City. The Club
Monaco cosmetics showroom is located in Toronto, Canada.

     SHOP-WITHIN-SHOPS.  As a critical element of our distribution to department
stores, we and our licensing partners utilize shop-within-shops to enhance brand
recognition, to permit more complete merchandising of our lines and to
differentiate the presentation of products. In fiscal 2001 we added
approximately 70 shop-within-shops and refurbished approximately 155 shop-
within-shops. At March 31, 2001, in the U.S. we had approximately 2,400
shop-within-shops dedicated to our products and over 3,000 shop-within-shops
dedicated to our licensed products. Excluding significantly larger
shop-within-shops in key department store locations, the size of Polo
shop-within-shops typically ranges from approximately 1,000 to 1,500 square feet
for Polo Brands, from approximately 800 to 1,200 square feet for our Collection
Brands, and from approximately 300 to 900 square feet for home furnishings. In
total, we estimate that approximately 2.2 million square feet of department
store space in the United States is dedicated to Polo shop-within-shops. In
addition to shop-within-shops, we use exclusively fixtured areas in department
stores.

     BASIC STOCK REPLENISHMENT PROGRAM.  Basic products such as knit shirts,
chino pants and oxford cloth shirts can be ordered at any time through our basic
stock replenishment programs. For customers who reorder basic products, we
generally ship these products within one to five days of order receipt. These
products accounted for approximately 9.1% of our wholesale net sales in fiscal
2001. We have also implemented a seasonal quick response program to allow
replenishment of products which can be ordered for only a portion of each year.
Some Ralph Lauren Home licensing partners also offer a basic stock replenishment
program which includes towels, bedding and tabletop products. Basic stock
products accounted for approximately 73% of our net sales of our Ralph Lauren
Home licensing partners in fiscal 2001.



DIRECT RETAILING

     We operate retail stores dedicated to the sale of our products. Located in
prime retail areas, our 91 full-price stores operate under the following names:



     Our 138 outlet stores are generally located in outlet malls and operate
under the Polo Ralph Lauren Factory Store, Polo Jeans Co. Factory Store, Ralph
Lauren Home Factory Store and Club Monaco Outlet names.

     In addition to our own retail operations, as of March 31, 2001 we had
granted licenses to independent parties to operate two stores in the United
States and 108 stores internationally. We receive the proceeds from the sale of
our products, which are included in wholesale net sales, to these stores and
also receive royalties, which are included in licensing revenue, from our
licensing partners who sell to these stores. We generally do not receive any
other compensation from these licensed store operators. See " -- Our Licensing
Alliances."

  FULL-PRICE STORES

     In addition to generating sales of our products, full-price stores set,
reinforce and capitalize on the image of our brands. Polo's six flagship stores
include:

     - two stores located on Madison Avenue in New York City,

     - one store located on Rodeo Drive in Beverly Hills,

     - one store located on Michigan Avenue in Chicago,

     - one store located on New Bond Street in London, and

     - one store located on Place de la Madeleine in Paris.

     These stores showcase our products and demonstrate our most refined
merchandising techniques. We also operate 85 other full-price stores. Ranging in
size from approximately 2,000 to over 30,000 square feet, the non-flagship
stores are situated in upscale regional malls and major high street locations
generally in large urban markets. In total, we operate 56 Club Monaco stores and
35 Polo Ralph Lauren stores consisting of:



Our stores are generally leased for initial periods ranging from five to 15
years with renewal options.

     In fiscal 2001, we acquired from our licensee a Polo Ralph Lauren store in
Naples, Florida. In addition, we opened a Polo Concept store in Costa Mesa,
California and converted our Polo Jeans Co. store in Burlingame, California to a
Polo Ralph Lauren store. In addition, we closed 12 Polo Jeans Co. stores.

     We opened eight new Club Monaco stores and closed 17 Club Monaco stores
during fiscal 2001. We opened Club Monaco stores in South Beach, Miami, Florida;
Las Vegas, Nevada; Sunset Boulevard in Los Angeles, California; on Fifth Avenue
in New York City; and in Calgary, Alberta. In addition, we opened Club Monaco
Caban stores in Montreal, Quebec; Toronto, Ontario; and Vancouver, British
Columbia.

     We are a party to a joint venture agreement with a nonaffiliated partner to
acquire real property in New York City. Together with our partner, we are
discussing possible development concepts for this location. When we signed the
agreement, we made an initial contribution of $5.0



million for our 50% interest in the joint venture. We have a second joint
venture with this same partner, in which we entered into a long-term lease of a
building located in the Soho District of New York City, where the Polo Sport
store that opened in fiscal 2000 is located.

  OUTLET STORES

     We extend our reach to additional consumer groups through our 95 Polo Ralph
Lauren Factory stores, 26 Polo Jeans Co. Factory stores, nine Club Monaco outlet
stores and eight European outlet stores.

     - Polo Ralph Lauren Factory stores offer selections of our menswear,
       womenswear, children's apparel, accessories, home furnishings and
       fragrances. Ranging in size from 3,000 to 20,000 square feet, with an
       average of approximately 8,900 square feet, the stores are principally
       located in major outlet centers in 33 states and Puerto Rico.

     - Polo Jeans Co. Factory stores carry all classifications within the Polo
       Jeans Co. line, including denim, knit and woven tops, sweaters,
       outerwear, casual bottoms and accessories. Polo Jeans Co. Factory stores
       range in size from 3,000 to 5,000 square feet, with an average of 3,750
       square feet, and are principally located in major outlet centers in 19
       states.

     - Club Monaco outlet stores range in size from 6,000 to 18,500 square feet,
       with an average of 9,500 square feet, and offer basic and fashion Club
       Monaco items.

     Outlet stores purchase products from us directly, our licensing partners
and our suppliers and from our stores in the United States. Outlet stores
purchase products from us generally at cost, and from our domestic product
licensing partners and our retail stores at negotiated prices. Outlet stores
also source basic products and styles directly from our suppliers. During fiscal
2001, our domestic outlet stores purchased approximately 21% of their products
from us, 44% from our licensing partners and 35% from other suppliers of
products. In addition, during fiscal 2001, we added 16 new outlet stores (net of
store closings).

OUR LICENSING ALLIANCES

     Through licensing alliances, we combine our consumer insight and design,
marketing and imaging skills with the specific product or geographic
competencies of our licensing partners to create and build new businesses. We
seek out licensing partners who typically:

     - are leaders in their respective markets,

     - contribute the majority of our product development costs,

     - provide the operational infrastructure required to support the business,
       and

     - own the inventory.

     We grant product and international licensing partners the right to
manufacture and sell at wholesale specified products under one or more of our
trademarks. Our international licensing partners produce and source products
independently, as well as in conjunction with us and our product licensing
partners. As compensation for our contributions under these agreements, each
licensing partner pays us royalties based upon its sales of our products,
subject generally, to payment of a minimum royalty. Other than our Home
Collection licenses, these payments generally range from five to eight percent
of the licensing partners' sales of the licensed products. In addition,
licensing partners are required to allocate between two and four percent of
their sales to advertise our products. Larger allocations are required in
connection with launches of new products or in new territories.

     We work closely with our licensing partners to ensure that products are
developed, marketed and distributed to address the intended market opportunity
and present consistently to



consumers worldwide the distinctive perspective and lifestyle associated with
our brands. Virtually all aspects of the design, production quality, packaging,
merchandising, distribution, advertising and promotion of Polo products are
subject to our prior approval and continuing oversight. The result is a
consistent identity for Polo products across product categories and
international markets.

     As of March 31, 2001 we had 16 product and 10 international licensing
partners. We derive a substantial portion of our net income from licensing
revenue we receive from our licensing partners. Our largest licensing partners
in fiscal 2001 by licensing revenue were:

     - Jones Apparel Group, Inc. (accounting for 26.9% of licensing revenue),

     - WestPoint Stevens, Inc. (accounting for 10.3% of licensing revenue), and

     - Seibu Department Stores, Ltd. (accounting for 10.1% of licensing
       revenue).

  PRODUCT LICENSING ALLIANCES

     As of March 31, 2001 we had agreements with 16 product licensing partners
relating to our men's and women's sportswear, men's tailored clothing,
children's apparel, personalwear, accessories and fragrances. The products
offered by our product licensing partners are listed below.



  RALPH LAUREN HOME

     Together with our licensing partners, we offer an extensive collection of
home products which draw upon, and add to, the design themes of our other
product lines, contributing to our complete lifestyle concept. Products are sold
under the Ralph Lauren Home brands in three primary categories:

    - bedding and bath,
    - home decor, and
    - home improvement.



     In addition to designing and developing the creative concepts and products
for Ralph Lauren Home, we manage the marketing and distribution of our brands,
and, in some cases, the sales of our products for our licensees. Together with
our eight domestic and three international home product licensing partners,
representatives of our design, merchandising, product development and sales
staffs collaborate to conceive, develop and merchandise the various products as
a complete home furnishing collection. Our personnel market and sell the
products to domestic customers and certain international accounts. In general,
our licensing partners manufacture, own the inventory and ship the products. One
exception to the licensing structure of the Ralph Lauren Home lines is that
during fiscal 2001 we took direct control of all aspects of the design,
manufacturing and sale of Ralph Lauren Home crystal, glass and ceramic
tableware, dinnerware and giftware, as well as new lines of lighting, window and
bath hardware and decorative accessories.

     We perform a broader range of services for our Ralph Lauren Home licensing
partners, as compared to our other licensing partners, including design,
marketing and sales. As a result, we receive a higher royalty rate from our
Ralph Lauren Home licensing partners, typically ranging from 15% to 20%. Our
Ralph Lauren Home licensing alliances generally have three to five year terms
and often grant the licensee conditional renewal options. The services we
perform are:



     Ralph Lauren Home products are positioned at the upper tiers of their
respective markets and are offered at a range of price levels. These are
generally distributed through several channels of distribution, including:



     As with our other products, our use of shop-within-shops is central to our
distribution strategy. Certain licensing partners, including those selling
furniture, wall coverings, blankets, bed pillows, tabletop, flatware, home
fragrance and paint, also sell their products directly through their own staffs
to reach additional customer markets.

     The Ralph Lauren Home products offered by us and our domestic licensing
partners are:





     Based on aggregate licensing revenue paid to us during fiscal 2001, our
three most significant Ralph Lauren Home licensing partners are:

     - WestPoint Stevens, Inc.,

     - Pillowtex Corporation, and

     - Henredon Furniture Industries, Inc.

WestPoint Stevens, Inc. accounted for approximately 52.0% of Ralph Lauren Home
licensing revenue in fiscal 2001.

  INTERNATIONAL LICENSING ALLIANCES

     We believe that international markets offer additional opportunities for
our quintessential American designs and lifestyle image. We are committed to the
global development of our businesses. International expansion opportunities may
include:

     - the roll out of new products and brands following their launch in the
       U.S.,

     - the introduction of additional product lines,

     - the entrance into new international markets, and

     - the addition of Polo stores in these markets.

     For example, following the launch of Polo Jeans Co. in the U.S. in the fall
of 1996, we launched the line in Canada, the U.K., Germany, Spain, Japan,
Israel, Hong Kong, Singapore and Taiwan. We work with our ten international
licensing partners to facilitate this international expansion. International
licensing partners also operate stores, including 65 Polo Ralph Lauren stores,
five Polo Sport stores, 14 Polo Jeans Co. stores, one Polo Ralph Lauren
Children's store, 13 Polo outlet stores and ten Club Monaco stores.

     In fiscal 2000, we added five new Polo Ralph Lauren stores in international
markets, including two in Australia, and one in each of Hong Kong, Mexico and
Japan. In fiscal 2001, we added four Polo Jeans Co. stores in international
markets, including one in Australia, two in the Philippines and one in Korea.

     Our international licensing partners acquire the right to source, produce,
market and/or sell some or all of our products in a given geographical area.
Economic arrangements are similar to those of our domestic product licensing
partners. We design licensed products, either alone or in collaboration with our
domestic licensing partners. Domestic licensees generally provide international
licensing partners with product or patterns, piece goods, manufacturing
locations and other information and assistance necessary to achieve product
uniformity, for which they are often compensated.

     Our most significant international licensing partnerships by royalties in
fiscal 2001 were:

     - Seibu Department Stores, Ltd. (which oversees distribution of virtually
       all of our products in Japan), and

     - L'Oreal S.A. (which distributes fragrances and toiletries outside of the
       United States).

     Our ability to maintain and increase royalties under foreign licenses is
dependent upon certain factors not within our control, including:





See "Risk Factors -- Our business is exposed to domestic and foreign currency
fluctuations" and "Risk Factors -- Our business is subject to risks associated
with importing products."

DESIGN

     Our products reflect a timeless and innovative American style associated
with and defined by Polo and Ralph Lauren. Our consistent emphasis on innovative
and distinctive design has been an important contributor to the prominence,
strength and reputation of the Polo Ralph Lauren brands.

     We form design teams are formed around our brands and product categories to
develop concepts, themes and products for each of Polo's businesses. These teams
work in close collaboration with merchandising, sales and production staff and
licensing partners in order to gain market and other input.

     All Polo Ralph Lauren products are designed by or under the direction of
Ralph Lauren and our design staff, which is divided into five departments:



     Club Monaco's design staff is located in Toronto and New York and is
divided into three teams:

    - Menswear,
    - Womenswear, and
    - Home.

     We operate a research, development and testing facility in Greensboro,
North Carolina, testing labs in New Jersey and Singapore and pattern rooms in
New York, New Jersey and Singapore.

MARKETING

     Our marketing program communicates the themes and images of the Polo Ralph
Lauren brands and is an integral feature of our product offering. Worldwide
marketing is managed on a centralized basis through our advertising and public
relations departments in order to ensure consistency of presentation.

     We create the distinctive image advertising for all our Polo Ralph Lauren
products, conveying the particular message of each brand within the context of
Polo's core themes. Advertisements generally portray a lifestyle rather than a
specific item and often include a variety of Polo products offered by both
ourselves and our licensing partners. Our primary advertising medium is print,
with multiple page advertisements appearing regularly in a range of fashion,
lifestyle and general interest magazines. Major print advertising campaigns are
conducted during the fall and spring retail seasons with additions throughout
the year to coincide with product deliveries. In addition to print, some product
categories utilize television and outdoor media in their marketing programs.
During the last year RL Media ran television commercials to promote Polo.com. We
believe the commercials developed brand awareness and provided traffic to our
many businesses.

     Our licensing partners typically contribute between two and four percent of
their sales of our products for advertising. We directly coordinate advertising
placement for domestic product licensing partners. During fiscal 2001, we and
our licensing partners collectively spent more than $179 million worldwide to
advertise and promote Polo products.



     Polo conducts a variety of public relations activities. Each of our spring
and fall womenswear collections are presented at major fashion shows in New York
which typically generate extensive domestic and international media coverage. We
introduce each of the spring and fall menswear collections at presentations
organized for the fashion press. In addition, we organize in-store appearances
by our models and sponsors, professional golfers, snowboarders, triathletes and
sports teams.

SOURCING, PRODUCTION AND QUALITY

     Over 330 different manufacturers worldwide produce our apparel products. We
contract for the manufacture of our products and do not own or operate any
production facilities of our own. During fiscal 2001, approximately 24% (by
dollar volume) of our products were produced in the United States and its
territories and approximately 76% (by dollar volume) were produced in Hong Kong,
Canada and other foreign countries.

     Two manufacturers engaged by us each accounted for approximately 12% and
11% of our total production during fiscal 2001. The primary production
facilities of these two manufacturers are located in Hong Kong. Two other
manufacturers each accounted for approximately six percent of our total
production in fiscal 2001.

     Production is divided broadly into two segments:

     - purchases of finished products (FOB), where the supplier is responsible
       for the purchasing and carrying of raw materials, and

     - cut, make and trim or "CMT" purchasing, where we are responsible for
       purchasing and moving raw materials to finished product assemblers
       located around the world.

     We must commit to manufacture the majority of our garments before we
receive customer orders. We also must commit to purchase fabric from mills well
in advance of our sales. If we overestimate the demand for a particular product
which we cannot sell to our primary customers, we may use the excess for
distribution in our outlet stores or sell the product through secondary
distribution channels. If we overestimate the need for a particular fabric or
yarn, that fabric or yarn can be used in garments made for subsequent seasons or
made into past season's styles for distribution in our outlet stores.

     We have been working closely with suppliers in recent years to reduce lead
times to maximize fulfillment (i.e., shipment) of orders and to permit re-orders
of successful programs. In particular, we have increased the number of
deliveries within certain brands each season so that merchandise is kept fresh
at the retail level.

     Suppliers operate under the close supervision of our product management
department in the United States. In the Far East our suppliers are supervised by
our wholly owned subsidiary which performs buying agent functions for us and
third parties. All garments are produced according to our specifications.
Production and quality control staff in the United States and in the Far East
monitor manufacturing at supplier facilities in order to correct problems prior
to shipment of the final product. Procedures have been implemented under our
vendor certification program, so that quality assurance is focused as early as
possible in the production process, allowing merchandise to be received at the
distribution facilities and shipped to customers with minimal interruption.

     We retain independent buying agents in Europe and South America to assist
us in selecting and overseeing independent third-party manufacturers, sourcing
fabric and other products and materials, monitoring quota and other trade
regulations, as well as performing some quality control functions.



COMPETITION

     Competition is strong in the segments of the fashion and consumer product
industries in which we operate. We compete with numerous designers and
manufacturers of apparel and accessories, fragrances and home furnishing
products, domestic and foreign, some of which may be significantly larger and
have substantially greater resources than us. We compete primarily on the basis
of fashion, quality, and service. Our business depends on our ability to shape,
stimulate and respond to changing consumer tastes and demands by producing
innovative, attractive, and exciting products, brands and marketing, as well as
on our ability to remain competitive in the areas of quality and price. See
"Risk Factors -- Risks Relating to the Industry in Which we Compete."

DISTRIBUTION

     To facilitate distribution, men's products are shipped from manufacturers
to our distribution center in Greensboro, North Carolina for inspection,
sorting, packing and shipment to retail customers. Our distribution/customer
service facility is designed to allow for high density cube storage and utilizes
bar code technology to provide inventory management and carton controls. Product
traffic management is coordinated from this facility. During fiscal 2001,
distribution of our women's product was provided by a "pick and pack" facility
under a warehousing distribution agreement with an unaffiliated third party.
This agreement provides that the warehouse distributor will perform storage,
quality control and shipping services for us. In return, we must pay the
warehouse distributor a per unit rate and special processing charges for
services such as ticketing, bagging and steaming. The initial term of this
agreement is through December 1, 2001 and the agreement is thereafter renewable
annually.

     Outlet store distribution and warehousing is principally handled through
the Greensboro distribution center. Our store distribution is provided by the
facility in Greensboro, North Carolina and a facility in New Jersey which
services our stores in New York City and East Hampton, New York. During fiscal
2001 we completed a significant expansion of our Greensboro facility to handle
increased volume and reduce reliance upon satellite facilities.

     Club Monaco utilizes third party distribution facilities in Mississauga,
Ontario and Los Angeles, California. Our licensing partners are responsible for
the distribution of licensed products.

     We continually evaluate the adequacy of our warehousing and distribution
facilities.

MANAGEMENT INFORMATION SYSTEM

     We design our management information system to make the marketing,
manufacturing, importing and distribution functions of our business operate more
efficient by providing, among other things:

     - comprehensive order processing,

     - production information,

     - accounting information, and

     - management information, for the marketing, manufacturing, importing and
       distribution functions of our business.

     We have installed sophisticated point-of-sale registers in our stores and
outlet stores that enable us to track inventory from store receipt to final sale
on a real-time basis. We believe our merchandising and financial system, coupled
with our point-of-sale registers and software programs, allow for rapid stock
replenishment, concise merchandise planning and real-time inventory accounting
practices.



     We also utilize an electronic data interchange, or EDI, system to
facilitate the processing of replenishment and fashion orders from our wholesale
customers, the movement of goods through distribution channels, and the
collection of information for planning and forecasting. We have EDI
relationships with customers who represent a significant majority of our
wholesale business, and we are working to expand our EDI capabilities to include
most of our suppliers.

CREDIT CONTROL

     We manage our own credit and collection functions. We sell our merchandise
primarily to major department stores across the United States and extend credit
based on an evaluation of the customer's financial condition, usually without
requiring collateral. We monitor credit levels and the financial condition of
our customers on a continuing basis to minimize credit risk. We do not factor
our accounts receivables or maintain credit insurance to manage the risks of bad
debts. Our bad debt write-offs were less than one percent of net revenues for
fiscal 2001. See "Risk Factors -- Our business could be negatively impacted by
the financial stability of our customers."

BACKLOG

     We generally receive wholesale orders for apparel products approximately
three to five months prior to the time the products are delivered to stores. All
such orders are subject to cancellation for late delivery. As of March 31, 2001,
summer and fall backlog was $427.6 million and $19.6 million for Polo Brands and
Collection Brands, as compared to $426.9 million and $16.8 million at April 1,
2000. Our backlog depends upon a number of factors, including the timing of the
market weeks for our particular lines, during which a significant percentage of
our orders are received, and the timing of shipments. As a consequence, a
comparison of backlog from period to period is not necessarily meaningful and
may not be indicative of eventual shipments.

TRADEMARKS

     We own the "Polo," "Ralph Lauren" and the famous polo player astride a
horse trademarks in the United States. Other trademarks we own include, among
others:



     In acquiring the "RRL" trademarks, we agreed to allow Mr. Lauren to retain
the royalty-free right to use as trademarks "Ralph Lauren," "Double RL" and
"RRL" in perpetuity in connection with, among other things, beef and living
animals. The trademarks "Double RL" and "RRL" are currently used by the Double
RL Company, an entity wholly owned by Mr. Lauren. In addition, Mr. Lauren has
the right to engage in personal projects involving film or theatrical
productions (not including or relating to our business) through RRL Productions,
Inc., a company wholly owned by Mr. Lauren.

     Our trademarks are the subjects of registrations and pending applications
throughout the world for use on a variety of items of apparel, apparel-related
products, home furnishings and beauty products, as well as in connection with
retail services, and we continue to expand our worldwide usage and registration
of related trademarks. We regard the license to use the trademarks and our other
proprietary rights in and to the trademarks as valuable assets in marketing our
products and, on a worldwide basis, vigorously seek to protect them against



infringement. As a result of the appeal of our trademarks, Polo's products have
been the object of counterfeiting. We have a broad enforcement program which has
been generally effective in controlling the sale of counterfeit products in the
United States and in major markets abroad.

     In markets outside of the United States, our rights to some or all of our
trademarks may not be clearly established. In the course of our international
expansion, we have experienced conflicts with various third parties which have
acquired ownership rights in certain trademarks including "Polo" and/or a
representation of a polo player astride a horse which would have impeded our use
and registration of our principal trademarks. While such conflicts are common
and may arise again from time to time as we continue our international
expansion, we have successfully resolved such conflicts in the past through both
legal action and negotiated settlements with third-party owners of the
conflicting markets. See -- "Risk Factors -- Our trademarks and other
intellectual property rights may not be adequately protected outside the U.S."

     Two agreements by which we resolved conflicts with third-party owners of
other trademarks impose current restrictions or monetary obligations on us. In
one, we reached an agreement with a third party which owned competing
registrations in numerous European and South American countries for the
trademark "Polo" and a symbol of a polo player astride a horse. By virtue of the
agreement, we have acquired that third party's portfolio of trademark
registrations in exchange for the payment of our royalties in Central America
and South America and parts of the Caribbean solely in respect of our use of
trademarks which include "Polo" and the polo player symbol, and not, for
example, "Ralph Lauren" alone, "Lauren/Ralph Lauren," "RRL," and others. This
obligation to share royalties with respect to Central and South America and
parts of the Caribbean expires in 2013, but we also have the right to terminate
this obligation at any time by paying $3.0 million.

     The second agreement was reached with a third party which owned conflicting
registrations of the trademarks "Polo" and a polo player astride a horse in the
U.K., Hong Kong, and South Africa. Under the agreement, the third party retains
the right to use the "Polo" and polo player symbol marks in South Africa and
certain other African countries, and we agreed to restrict use of those Polo
marks in those countries to fragrances and cosmetics, as to which our use is
unlimited, and to the use of the polo player symbol mark on women's and girls'
apparel and accessories. By agreeing to those restrictions, we secured the
unlimited right to use our trademarks in the United Kingdom and Hong Kong
without payment of any kind, and the third party is prohibited from distributing
products under those trademarks in those countries.

GOVERNMENT REGULATION

     Our import operations are subject to constraints imposed by bilateral
textile agreements between the United States and a number of foreign countries.
These agreements, which have been negotiated bilaterally either under the
framework established by the Arrangement Regarding International Trade in
Textiles, known as the "Multifiber Agreement," or other applicable statutes,
impose quotas on the amounts and types of merchandise which may be imported into
the United States from these countries. These agreements also allow the
signatories to adjust the quantity of imports for categories of merchandise
that, under the terms of the agreements, are not currently subject to specific
limits. Our imported products are also subject to United States customs duties
which comprise a material portion of the cost of the merchandise. See, "Risk
Factors -- Our business is subject to risks associated with importing products."

     Apparel products are subject to regulation by the Federal Trade Commission
in the United States. Regulations relate principally to the labeling of our
products. We believe that we are in substantial compliance with these
regulations, as well as applicable federal, state, local, and foreign rules and
regulations governing the discharge of materials hazardous to the environment.
We do not estimate any significant capital expenditures for environmental
control matters either



in the current year or expected in the near future. Our licensed products and
licensing partners are also subject to additional regulation. Our agreements
require our licensing partners to operate in compliance with all laws and
regulations, and we are not aware of any violations which could reasonably be
expected to have a material adverse effect on our business.

     Although we have not in the past suffered any material inhibition from
doing business in desirable markets in the past, we cannot assure you that
significant impediments will not arise in the future as we expand product
offerings and additional trademarks to new markets.

EMPLOYEES

     As of March 31, 2001, we had approximately 10,400 employees, including
approximately 8,100 in the United States and approximately 2,300 in foreign
countries. Approximately 33 of our United States production and distribution
employees in the womenswear business are members of the Union of Needletrades,
Industrial & Textile Employees under an industry association collective
bargaining agreement, which our womenswear subsidiary has adopted. We consider
our relations with both our union and non-union employees to be good.

               SPECIAL NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS

     Various statements in this Annual Report or incorporated by reference into
this Annual Report and in future filings by us with the SEC, in our press
releases and in oral statements made by or with the approval of authorized
personnel constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the
Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are
based on the current expectations and are indicated by words or phrases such as
"anticipate," "estimate," "expect," "project," "we believe," "is or remains
optimistic," "currently envisions" and similar words or phrases and involve
known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause actual
results, performance or achievements to be materially different from any future
results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such
forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that would affect our financial
performance or cause actual results to differ from our estimates in, or
underlying, such forward-looking statements are set forth under the heading of
"Risk Factor." Forward-looking statements include statements regarding, among
other items,

     - our anticipated growth strategies,

     - our intention to introduce new products and enter into new licensing
       alliances,

     - our plans to open new retail stores,

     - anticipated effective tax rates in future years,

     - future expenditures for capital projects,

     - our ability to continue to maintain our brand image and reputation,

     - our ability to continue to initiate cost cutting efforts and improve
       profitability,

     - our plans to expand internationally, and

     - our efforts to improve the efficiency of our distribution system.

     These forward-looking statements are based largely on our expectations and
are subject to a number of risks and uncertainties, many of which are beyond our
control. Actual results could differ materially from these forward-looking
statements as a result of the facts described in "Risk Factors" including, among
others, changes in the competitive marketplace, including the introduction of
new products, or pricing changes by our competitors, and changes in the economy.
We undertake no obligation to publicly update or revise any forward-looking
statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise.
In light of these



risks and uncertainties, we cannot assure you that the forward-looking
information contained in this prospectus will in fact transpire.

                                  RISK FACTORS

     The following risk factors should be read carefully in connection with
evaluating our business and the forward-looking statements contained in this
Annual Report. Any of the following risks could materially adversely affect our
business, our operating results, our financial condition and the actual outcome
of matters as to which forward-looking statements are made in this Report.

                         RISKS RELATED TO OUR BUSINESS

THE LOSS OF THE SERVICES OF MR. RALPH LAUREN OR OTHER KEY PERSONNEL COULD HAVE A
MATERIAL ADVERSE EFFECT ON OUR BUSINESS.

     Mr. Ralph Lauren's leadership in the design, marketing and operational
areas has been a critical element of our success. The loss of his services, and
any negative market or industry perception arising from his loss, could have a
material adverse effect on our business. Our other executive officers have
substantial experience and expertise in our business and have made significant
contributions to our growth and success. The unexpected loss of services of one
or more of these individuals could also adversely affect us. We are currently
not protected by a material amount of key-man or similar life insurance covering
Mr. Lauren or any of our other executive officers. We have entered into
employment agreements with Mr. Lauren and several other of our executive
officers.

A SUBSTANTIAL PORTION OF OUR NET SALES AND GROSS PROFIT IS DERIVED FROM A SMALL
NUMBER OF LARGE CUSTOMERS.

     Certain of our department store customers, including some under common
ownership, account for significant portions of our wholesale net sales. We
believe that a substantial portion of sales of our licensed products by our
domestic licensing partners, including sales made by our sales force of Ralph
Lauren Home products, are also made to our largest department store customers.
Our ten largest customers accounted for approximately 82.7% of our wholesale net
sales during fiscal 2001, of which Federated Department Stores, Inc. accounted
for 20.4%, Dillard Department Stores, Inc. accounted for 19.4% and The May
Department Stores Company accounted for 18.5%. We do not enter into long-term
agreements with any of our customers but instead we enter into a number of
purchase order commitments with our customers for each of our lines every
season. A decision by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any other
significant customer, whether motivated by competitive conditions, financial
difficulties or otherwise, to decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from
us or our licensing partners, or to change their manner of doing business with
us or our licensing partners could have a material adverse effect on our
financial condition and results of operations. See "Business --
Operations -- Domestic Customers and Service."

OUR BUSINESS COULD BE NEGATIVELY IMPACTED BY THE FINANCIAL INSTABILITY OF OUR
CUSTOMERS.

     We sell our merchandise primarily to major department stores across the
United States and extend credit based on an evaluation of each customer's
financial condition, usually without requiring collateral. However, financial
difficulties of a customer could cause us to curtail business with that
customer. We may also assume more credit risk relating to that customer's
receivables. We had three customers, Dillard Department Stores, Inc., Federated
Department Stores, Inc. and The May Department Stores Company, which in
aggregate constituted 52.0% of trade accounts receivable outstanding at March
31, 2001 and 54.0% at April 1, 2000. Our inability



to collect on our trade accounts receivable from any one of these customers
could have a material adverse effect on our business or financial condition. See
"Business -- Credit Control."

OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER AS A RESULT OF A MANUFACTURER'S INABILITY TO PRODUCE
OUR GOODS ON TIME AND TO OUR SPECIFICATIONS.

     We do not own or operate any manufacturing facilities and therefore depend
upon independent third parties for the manufacture of all of our products. Our
products are manufactured to our specifications by both domestic and
international manufacturers. During fiscal 2001, approximately 24% (by dollar
value) of our men's and women's products were manufactured in the United States
and approximately 76% (by dollar value) of these products were manufactured in
Hong Kong and other foreign countries. The inability of a manufacturer to ship
orders of our products in a timely manner or to meet our quality standards could
cause us to miss the delivery date requirements of our customers for those
items, which could result in cancellation of orders, refusal to accept
deliveries or a reduction in purchase prices, any of which could have a material
adverse effect on our financial condition and results of operations.

OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER IF WE NEED TO REPLACE MANUFACTURERS.

     We compete with other companies for the production capacity of our
manufacturers and import quota capacity. Some of these competitors have greater
financial and other resources than we have, and thus may have an advantage in
the competition for production and import quota capacity. If we experience a
significant increase in demand, or if an existing manufacturer of ours needs to
be replaced, we may have to expand our manufacturing capacity. We cannot assure
you that this additional capacity will be available when required on third-party
terms acceptable to us. See "Business -- Sourcing, Production and Quality."
Although we enter into a number of purchase order commitments each season
specifying a time for delivery, method of payment, design and quality
specifications and other standard industry provisions, we do not have long-term
contracts with any manufacturer. None of the manufacturers we use produces our
products exclusively.

IF A MANUFACTURER OF OURS FAILS TO USE ACCEPTABLE LABOR PRACTICES, OUR BUSINESS
COULD SUFFER.

     Two of the manufacturers engaged by us accounted for approximately 12% and
11% of our total production during fiscal 2001. The primary production
facilities of these two manufacturers are located in Hong Kong. Two other
manufacturers each accounted for six percent of our total production in fiscal
2001. We require our licensing partners and independent manufacturers to operate
in compliance with applicable laws and regulations. While our internal and
vendor operating guidelines promote ethical business practices and our staff
periodically visits and monitors the operations of our independent
manufacturers, we do not control these manufacturers or their labor practices.
The violation of labor or other laws by an independent manufacturer of ours, or
by one of our licensing partners, or the divergence of an independent
manufacturer's or licensing partner's labor practices from those generally
accepted as ethical in the United States, could interrupt, or otherwise disrupt
the shipment of finished products to us or damage our reputation. Any of these,
in turn, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition and
results of operations.



WE ARE DEPENDENT UPON THE REVENUE GENERATED BY OUR LICENSING ALLIANCES.

     A substantial portion of our net income is derived from licensing revenue
received from our licensing partners. Approximately 47.3% of our licensing
revenue in fiscal 2001 was derived from three licensing partners:

     - Jones Apparel Group, Inc., which accounted for 26.9% of licensing
       revenue;

     - Westpoint Steven's, Inc., which accounted for 10.3% of licensing revenue;
       and

     - Seibu Department Stores, Ltd., which accounted for 10.1% of licensing
       revenue.

We had no other licensing partner that accounted for more than 10% of our
licensing revenue. The interruption of the business of any one of our licensing
partners due to any of the factors discussed immediately below could adversely
affect our licensing revenues and net income.

WE RELY ON OUR LICENSING PARTNERS TO PRESERVE THE VALUE OF OUR LICENSES.

     The risks associated with our own products apply to our licensed products
as well, in addition to any number of possible risks specific to a licensing
partner's business, including, for example, risks associated with a particular
licensing partner's ability to:

     - obtain capital,

     - manage its labor relations,

     - maintain relationships with suppliers,

     - manage its credit risk effectively, and

     - maintain relationships with its customers.

Although some of our license agreements prohibit licensing partners from
entering into licensing arrangements with our competitors, generally our
licensing partners are not precluded from offering, under other brands, the
types of products covered by their license agreements with us. A substantial
portion of sales of our products by our domestic licensing partners are also
made to our largest customers. While we have significant control over our
licensing partners' products and advertising, we rely on our licensing partners
for, among other things, operational and financial control over their
businesses.

FAILURE TO MAINTAIN LICENSING PARTNERS COULD HARM OUR BUSINESS.

     Although we believe in most circumstances we could replace existing
licensing partners if necessary, our inability to do so for any period of time
could adversely affect our revenues both directly from reduced licensing revenue
received and indirectly from reduced sales of our other products. See
"Business -- Operations -- Our Licensing Alliances."

OUR BUSINESS IS SUBJECT TO RISKS ASSOCIATED WITH IMPORTING PRODUCTS.

     We currently source a significant portion of our products outside the
United States through arrangements with over 215 foreign manufacturers in 26
different countries. During fiscal 2001, we purchased approximately 84% of our
piece goods from sources outside the United States, including Italy, England,
Hong Kong and other foreign countries. In that same period, approximately 24%
(by dollar volume) of our products were produced in the United States and its
territories and approximately 76% (by dollar volume) of these products were
produced in Hong Kong and other foreign countries. Risks inherent in importing
products include:

     - quotas imposed by bilateral textile agreements,

     - changes in social, political and economic conditions which could result
       in the disruption of trade from the countries in which our manufacturers
       or suppliers are located,



     - the imposition of additional regulations relating to imports,

     - the imposition of additional duties, taxes and other charges on imports,

     - significant fluctuations of the value of the dollar against foreign
       currencies, and

     - restrictions on the transfer of funds.

Any one of these factors could have a material adverse effect on our financial
condition and results of operations. See "Business -- Sourcing, Production and
Quality."

OUR TRADEMARKS AND OTHER INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY RIGHTS MAY NOT BE ADEQUATELY
PROTECTED OUTSIDE THE U.S.

     We believe that our trademarks and other proprietary rights are important
to our success and our competitive position. We devote substantial resources to
the establishment and protection of our trademarks on a worldwide basis. In the
course of our international expansion, we have, however, experienced conflict
with various third parties that have acquired or claimed ownership rights in
certain trademarks which include Polo and/or a representation of a polo player
astride a horse, or have otherwise contested our rights to our trademarks. We
have in the past successfully resolved these conflicts through both legal action
and negotiated settlements, none of which we believe has had a material impact
on our financial condition and results of operations. Nevertheless, we cannot
assure you that the actions we have taken to establish and protect our
trademarks and other proprietary rights will be adequate to prevent imitation of
our products by others or to prevent others from seeking to block sales of our
products as a violation of the trademarks and proprietary rights of others.
Also, we cannot assure you that others will not assert rights in, or ownership
of, trademarks and other proprietary rights of ours or that we will be able to
successfully resolve these types of conflicts to our satisfaction. In addition,
the laws of certain foreign countries may not protect proprietary rights to the
same extent as do the laws of the U.S. See "Business -- Trademarks."

WE CANNOT ASSURE THE SUCCESSFUL IMPLEMENTATION OF OUR GROWTH STRATEGY.

     As part of our growth strategy, we seek to extend Polo's brands, expand
Polo's geographic coverage and enhance Polo operations. We cannot assure you
that our growth strategies will be successful or that our revenues or
profitability will increase as a result of the implementation of our expected
strategies.

OUR BUSINESS IS EXPOSED TO DOMESTIC AND FOREIGN CURRENCY FLUCTUATIONS.

     We generally purchase our products in U.S. dollars. However, we source a
significant amount of our products overseas and, as such, the cost of these
products may be affected by changes in the value of the relevant currencies.
Furthermore, our international licensing revenue generally is derived from sales
in foreign currencies including the Japanese yen and the Euro, and this revenue
could be materially affected by currency fluctuations. In fiscal 2001,
approximately 24.2% of our licensing revenue was received from international
licensing partners. Changes in currency exchange rates may also affect the
relative prices at which we and our foreign competitors sell products in the
same market. Although we hedge some exposures to changes in foreign currency
exchange rates arising in the ordinary course of business, we cannot assure you
that foreign currency fluctuations will not have a material adverse impact on
our financial condition and results of operations. See "Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations -- Liquidity and
Capital Resources."



OUR ABILITY TO CONDUCT BUSINESS IN INTERNATIONAL MARKETS MAY BE AFFECTED BY
LEGAL, REGULATORY, POLITICAL AND ECONOMIC RISKS.

     Our ability to capitalize on growth in new international markets and to
maintain the current level of operations in our existing international markets
is subject to risks associated with international operations. These include:

     - the burdens of complying with a variety of foreign laws and regulations,

     - unexpected changes in regulatory requirements, and

     - new tariffs or other barriers to some international markets.

     We are also subject to general political and economic risks in connection
with our international operations, including:

     - political instability,

     - changes in diplomatic and trade relationships, and

     - general economic fluctuations in specific countries or markets.

     We cannot predict whether quotas, duties, taxes, or other similar
restrictions will be imposed by the United States, the European Union, Japan, or
other countries upon the import or export of our products in the future, or what
effect any such actions would have on our business, financial condition or
results of operations. Changes in regulatory, geopolitical policies and other
factors may adversely affect our business in the future or may require us to
modify our current business practices.

               RISKS RELATING TO THE INDUSTRY IN WHICH WE COMPETE

WE FACE INTENSE COMPETITION IN THE WORLDWIDE APPAREL INDUSTRY.

     We face a variety of competitive challenges from other domestic and foreign
fashion-oriented apparel and casual apparel products, some of which may be
significantly larger and more diversified and have greater financial and
marketing resources than we have. We compete with these companies primarily on
the basis of:

     - anticipating and responding to changing consumer demands in a timely
       manner,

     - maintaining favorable brand recognition,

     - developing innovative, high-quality products in sizes, colors and styles
       that appeal to consumers,

     - appropriately pricing products,

     - providing strong and effective marketing support,

     - creating an acceptable value proposition for retail customers,

     - ensuring product availability and optimizing supply chain efficiencies
       with manufacturers and retailers, and

     - obtaining sufficient retail floor space and effective presentation of our
       products at retail.

We also face increasing competition from companies selling apparel and home
products through the Internet. Increased competition in the worldwide apparel,
accessories and home product industries, including Internet-based competitors,
could reduce our sales, prices and margins and adversely affect our results of
operations.



THE SUCCESS OF OUR BUSINESS DEPENDS ON OUR ABILITY TO RESPOND TO CONSTANTLY
CHANGING FASHION TRENDS AND CONSUMER DEMANDS.

     Our success depends in large part on our ability to originate and define
fashion product and home product trends as well as to anticipate, gauge and
react to changing consumer demands in a timely manner. Our products must appeal
to a broad range of consumers whose preferences cannot be predicted with
certainty and are subject to rapid change. We cannot assure you that we will be
able to continue to develop appealing styles or successfully meet constantly
changing consumer demands in the future. Any failure on our part to anticipate,
identify and respond effectively to changing consumer demands and fashion trends
could adversely affect retail and consumer acceptance of our products and leave
us with a substantial amount of unsold inventory or missed opportunities. If
that occurs, we may be forced to rely on markdowns or promotional sales to
dispose of excess, slow-moving inventory, which may harm our business. At the
same time, our focus on tight management of inventory may result, from time to
time, in our not having an adequate supply of products to meet consumer demand
and cause us to lose sales. See "Business -- Sourcing, Production and Quality."

A DOWNTURN IN THE ECONOMY MAY AFFECT CONSUMER PURCHASES OF DISCRETIONARY ITEMS
AND LUXURY RETAIL PRODUCTS, WHICH COULD ADVERSELY AFFECT OUR SALES.

     The industries in which we operate are cyclical. Many factors affect the
level of consumer spending in the apparel, cosmetic, fragrance and home products
industries, including, among others:

     - general business conditions,

     - interest rates,

     - the availability of consumer credit,

     - taxation, and

     - consumer confidence in future economic conditions.

Consumer purchases of discretionary items and luxury retail products, including
our products, may decline during recessionary periods and also may decline at
other times when disposable income is lower. A downturn in the economies in
which we, or our licensing partners, sell our products, whether in the U.S. or
abroad, may adversely affect our sales.

OUR BUSINESS COULD SUFFER AS A RESULT OF CONSOLIDATIONS, RESTRUCTURINGS AND
OTHER OWNERSHIP CHANGES IN THE RETAIL INDUSTRY.

     In recent years, the retail industry has experienced consolidation and
other ownership changes. Some of our customers have operated under the
protection of the federal bankruptcy laws. Recently, one of our licensing
partners, Warnaco, Inc., filed for bankruptcy protection under the federal
bankruptcy laws; however, we cannot determine what impact, if any, this filing
will have on our financial condition, results of operations or cash flows. In
the future, retailers in the United States and in foreign markets may undergo
changes that could decrease the number of stores that carry our products or
increase the ownership concentration within the retail industry, including:

     - consolidating their operations,

     - undergoing restructurings,

     - undergoing reorganizations, or

     - realigning their affiliations.



While to date these changes in the retail industry have not had a material
adverse effect on our business or financial condition, our business can be
materially affected by these changes in the future.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES.

     We do not own any real property except for our distribution facility in
Greensboro, North Carolina, the parcel of land adjacent to the facility, and a
50% joint venture interest in a 44,000 square foot building located in the SoHo
district of New York City. Certain information concerning our principal
facilities in excess of 100,000 rentable square feet and of our existing
flagship stores of 20,000 rentable square feet or more, all of which are leased,
is as follows:



     Prior to its expiration, we expect to renew our lease at 867 Madison Avenue
for an additional ten years. The leases for our non-retail facilities
(approximately 56 in all) provide for aggregate annual rentals of approximately
$20.9 million in fiscal 2001. We anticipate that we will be able to extend those
leases which expire in the near future on terms satisfactory to us or, if
necessary, locate substitute facilities on acceptable terms.

     As of March 31, 2001, we operated 35 Polo stores, 129 outlet stores and 56
Club Monaco stores and nine Club Monaco outlet stores on leased premises.
Aggregate annual rentals for retail space in fiscal 2001 totaled approximately
$54.6 million. We anticipate that we will be able to extend those leases which
expire in the near future on satisfactory terms, or relocate to more desirable
locations.

     We believe that our existing facilities are well maintained and in good
operating condition.

ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.

     In January 1999, two actions were filed in California naming as defendants
more than a dozen United States-based companies that source apparel garments
from Saipan (Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands) and a large number of
Saipan-based factories. The actions assert that the Saipan factories engage in
unlawful practices relating to the recruitment and employment of foreign workers
and that the apparel companies, by virtue of their alleged relationships with
the factories, have violated various Federal and state laws.



     One action, filed in California Superior Court in San Francisco by a union
and three public interest groups, alleges unfair competition and false
advertising and seeks equitable relief, unspecified amounts for restitution and
disgorgement of profits, interest and an award of attorneys' fees. The second,
filed in Federal court for the Central District of California and subsequently
transferred to the United States District Court for the District of Hawaii was
brought on behalf of a purported class consisting of the Saipan factory workers.
It alleges claims under the Federal civil RICO statute, Federal peonage and
involuntary servitude laws, the Alien Tort Claims Act, and state tort law, and
seeks equitable relief and unspecified damages, including treble and punitive
damages, interest and an award of attorney's fees.

     Although we were not named as a defendant in these suits, we source
products in Saipan, and counsel for the plaintiffs in these actions informed us
that we are a potential defendant in these or similar actions. We have since
entered into an agreement to settle any claims for nonmaterial consideration.
The settlement agreement is subject to court approval. We have denied any
liability and are not at this preliminary stage in a position to evaluate the
likelihood of a favorable or unfavorable outcome if the settlement is not
approved and litigation proceeds against us.

     As part of the settlement, we have since been named as a defendant, along
with certain other apparel companies in a State Court action in California
styled Union of Needletrades Industrial and Textile Employees, et al. v.
Brylane, L.P., et al., in the San Francisco County Superior Court, and in a
Federal Court action styled Doe I. et al. v. Brylane, L.P., et al. in the United
States District Court for the District of Hawaii, that mirror portions of the
larger State and Federal Court actions but do not include RICO and certain of
the other claims alleged in those actions. The newly filed actions against us
are expected to remain inactive unless settlement is not finally approved by the
Federal Court.

     We are otherwise involved from time to time in legal claims involving
trademark and intellectual property, licensing, employee relations and other
matters incidental to our business. See "Item 1. Business -- Trademarks." We
believe that the resolution of any matter currently pending will not have a
material adverse effect on our financial condition or results of operations.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS.

     No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the year
ended March 31, 2001.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.

     Our Class A common stock is publicly traded on the New York Stock Exchange
under the symbol "RL." The below table sets forth the high and low closing sales
prices for each quarterly period indicated through March 30, 2001, as reported
on the New York Stock Exchange Composite Tape. Since our initial public
offering, we have not declared any cash dividends on our common stock other than
dividends declared in fiscal 1998 in the amount of $27.4 million and paid to
holders of Class B common stock and Class C common stock in connection with our
reorganization just prior to our initial public offering.





     We anticipate that all of our earnings in the foreseeable future will be
retained to finance the continued growth and expansion of its business and has
no current intention to pay cash dividends on our common stock.

     As of June 7, 2001, there were approximately 1,226 record holders of Class
A common stock, four record holders of Class B common stock and five record
holders of Class C common stock.



ITEM 6.  SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.

     The table below provides selected consolidated financial data for the five
fiscal years in the period ended March 31, 2001. We derived the data for the
three fiscal years in the period ended March 31, 2001 from our consolidated
financial statements and accompanying notes, which were audited by Deloitte &
Touche LLP, independent auditors, contained elsewhere in this Form 10-K. We
derived the data for the two fiscal years in the period ended March 28, 1998
from the audited consolidated financial statements of Polo Ralph Lauren
Corporation and subsidiaries contained in our annual report on Form 10-K for the
year ended March 28, 1998 not included in this prospectus. You should read this
selected consolidated financial data together with our consolidated financial
statements and the notes to those financial statements as well as the discussion
under the caption "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition
and Results of Operations" included elsewhere in this Form 10-K.







ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
        OF OPERATIONS.

     The following discussion and analysis is a summary and should be read
together with our consolidated financial statements and related notes which are
included in this Annual Report and the information under the caption "Risk
Factors." We use a 52-53 week fiscal year ending on the Saturday nearest March
31. Fiscal 2001 and fiscal 2000 reflect a 52-week period and fiscal 1999
reflects a 53-week period.

OVERVIEW

     We began operations in 1968 as a designer and marketer of premium quality
men's clothing and sportswear. Since our inception, we have grown through
increased sales of existing product lines, the introduction of new brands and
products, expansion into international markets, development of our retail
operations, and acquisitions. Over the last five years, our net revenues have
grown to approximately $2.2 billion in fiscal 2001 from approximately $1.2
billion in fiscal 1997, while income from operations, excluding restructuring
and special charges, has grown to approximately $300.3 million in fiscal 2001
from approximately $157.4 million in fiscal 1997. Our net revenues are generated
from our three integrated operations: wholesale, retail and licensing. The
following table sets forth net revenues for the last five fiscal years:



     Wholesale net sales result from the sale of our men's and women's apparel
to wholesale customers, principally to major department stores, specialty stores
and non-company operated Polo stores located throughout the United States and
Europe. Net sales for the wholesale division increased to $1.1 billion in fiscal
2001 from $671.1 million in fiscal 1997. This increase is primarily a result of
growth in sales of our existing Polo Brands' and Collection Brands' products and
the introduction of new brands. Additionally, this expansion reflects the
acquisition of the wholesale operations of Poloco in January 2000.

     We generate retail sales from our full price Polo stores, outlet stores and
Club Monaco stores. Net sales for the retail division have grown to $928.6
million in fiscal 2001 from $380.0 million in fiscal 1997. This increase is
primarily a result of our expansion of our existing retail operations and growth
through acquisitions. Since the beginning of fiscal 1997, we have added, net of
store closings, 32 full price Polo stores, 71 outlet stores and 65 Club Monaco
stores. This expansion reflects 21 full price Polo stores acquired in the fiscal
1997 acquisition of the 50% interest we did not own in Polo Retail Corporation,
70 freestanding Club Monaco stores (57 in Canada and 13 in the United States)
acquired in fiscal 2000 and seven Polo stores (one flagship and six outlets)
acquired in January 2000 in connection with the Poloco transaction. At March 31,
2001, we operated 35 Polo stores, 129 outlet stores and 65 Club Monaco stores.

     Licensing revenue consists of royalties paid to us under our agreements
with our licensing partners. In fiscal 2001, product, international and Home
Collection licensing alliances accounted for 56.0%, 24.2% and 19.8% of total
licensing revenue. Through these alliances, we combine our core skills with the
product or geographic competencies of our licensing partners to create and
develop specific businesses. The growth of existing and development of new
businesses under licensing alliances has resulted in an increase in licensing
revenue to $243.4 million in fiscal 2001 from $137.1 million in fiscal 1997.



     During our last two fiscal years, we undertook the following:

     - In February 2000, we announced the formation of Ralph Lauren Media, LLC,
       a joint venture between ourselves, and National Broadcasting Company,
       Inc. and certain of its affiliated companies. We own 50% of this joint
       venture.

     - In January 2000, we completed the acquisition of stock and certain assets
       of Poloco S.A.S. and certain of its affiliates, which hold licenses to
       sell men's and boys' Polo apparel, our men's and women's Polo Jeans
       apparel, and certain of our accessories in Europe. In addition to
       acquiring Poloco's wholesale business, we acquired one flagship store in
       Paris and six outlet stores located in France, the United Kingdom and
       Austria.

     - In 1999, we acquired Club Monaco, Inc. Founded in 1985, Club Monaco is an
       international specialty retailer of casual apparel and other accessories
       which are sold under the "Club Monaco" brand name and associated
       trademarks. In addition, Club Monaco franchises three freestanding stores
       in Canada, one freestanding store in Israel, four freestanding stores and
       15 shop-within-shops in Japan and two freestanding stores and 16 shop-
       within-shops in Korea and other parts of Asia.

     In connection with our growth strategies, we plan to introduce new products
and brands and expand our retail operations. Implementation of these strategies
may require significant investments for advertising, furniture and fixtures,
infrastructure, design and additional inventory. Notwithstanding our investment,
we cannot assure you that our growth strategies will be successful.

RESTRUCTURINGS AND SPECIAL CHARGES

  FISCAL 2001 RESTRUCTURING AND SPECIAL CHARGES

     During fiscal 2001, we completed an internal operational review and
formalized our plans to enhance the growth of our worldwide luxury retail
business, to better manage inventory and increase our overall profitability. The
major initiatives of the operational review included:

     - refining our retail strategy;

     - developing efficiencies in our supply chain; and

     - consolidating corporate business functions and internal processes.

     We will continue to refine our retail strategy by expanding the presence of
our full-line luxury stores, both in North America and abroad, and by building a
profitable portfolio of Club Monaco stores in key urban locations that fully
emphasize and capitalize on its fashion-forward merchandising strategy. In
connection with this initiative, we closed all 12 Polo Jeans Co. full price
retail stores and 11 under-performing Club Monaco retail stores.

     Additionally, as a result of changes in market conditions combined with our
change in retail strategy in certain locations in which we operate full price
retail stores, we performed an evaluation of the recoverability of the assets of
certain of these stores. We concluded from the results of this evaluation that a
significant permanent impairment of long-lived assets had occurred. Accordingly,
we recorded a write down of these assets (primarily leasehold improvements) to
their estimated fair value based on discounted future cash flows.

     In connection with the implementation of the operational review discussed
above, we recorded a pretax restructuring charge of $123.6 million. The major
components of the charge included asset write downs of $98.8 million, lease and
contract termination costs of $15.7 million, severance and termination benefits
of $8.0 million and other restructuring costs of $1.1 million.

     Our operational review also targeted our supply chain management as one of
the most important areas for improvement. The development of operating
efficiencies in our worldwide



logistics and supply chain management will better support our growing and
increasingly global retail operations. In connection with initiating this aspect
of the operational plan, we recorded $41.5 million of inventory write downs in
fiscal 2001 associated with our planned acceleration in the reduction of aged
inventory.

     Total severance and termination benefits as a result of the operational
review related to approximately 550 employees, 450 of whom have been terminated
as of March 31, 2001. We expect to complete the implementation of the
operational review by the end of the second quarter of fiscal 2002.

  FISCAL 1999 RESTRUCTURING

     During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, we formalized our plans to
streamline operations within our wholesale and retail operations and reduce our
overall cost structure. The major initiatives of our restructuring plan
included:

     - an evaluation of our retail operations and site locations;

     - the realignment and operational integration of our wholesale operating
       units; and

     - the realignment and consolidation of corporate strategic business
       functions and internal processes.

     In fiscal 2000, we closed three Polo stores and three outlet stores that
were not performing at an acceptable level and converted two Polo stores and
five outlet stores to new concepts expected to be more productive. Costs
associated with this aspect of our restructuring plan included lease and
contract termination costs, store fixed asset (primarily leasehold improvements)
and intangible asset write downs and severance and termination benefits.

     Our wholesale operations were realigned into two new operating units: Polo
Brands and Collection Brands. Aspects of this realignment included:

     - the reorganization of the sales force and retail development areas;

     - the streamlining of the design and development process; and

     - the consolidation of the customer service departments.

We also integrated the sourcing and production of our Polo Brands, outlet store
and licensees' products into one consolidated unit. Costs associated with the
wholesale realignment consisted primarily of severance and termination benefits
and lease and contract termination costs.

     Our review of our corporate business functions and internal processes
resulted in a new management structure designed to better align businesses with
similar functions and to identify and eliminate duplicative processes. Costs
associated with the corporate realignment consisted primarily of severance and
termination benefits and lease and contract termination costs.

     We recorded a restructuring charge of $58.6 million on a pretax basis in
our fourth quarter of fiscal 1999. The major components of the restructuring
charge included lease and contract termination costs of $24.7 million, asset
write downs of $17.8 million, severance and termination benefits of $15.3
million and other restructuring costs of $0.8 million. Total severance and
termination benefits as a result of our restructuring plan related to
approximately 280 employees, all of whom have been terminated. We completed the
implementation of our restructuring plan in fiscal 2000.



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

     The table below sets forth the percentage relationship to net revenues of
certain items in our statements of income for our last three fiscal years:



  FISCAL 2001 COMPARED TO FISCAL 2000

     NET SALES.  Net sales increased 15.3% to $2.0 billion in fiscal 2001 from
$1.7 billion in fiscal 2000. Wholesale net sales increased 19.0% to $1.1 billion
in fiscal 2001 from $885.2 million in fiscal 2000. Wholesale growth primarily
reflected the benefit of one year of operations for Poloco's wholesale division
included in operating results for the first time in fiscal 2001 and increased
unit sales of our luxury products.

     Retail sales increased by 11.3% to $928.6 million in fiscal 2001 from
$834.0 million in fiscal 2000. This increase was primarily attributable to a
$131.7 million benefit from the following:

     - new stores in fiscal 2001 (37 stores, prior to 34 store closures in late
       fiscal 2001);

     - a full year of revenues from new stores opened in fiscal 2000; and

     - the inclusion of the results of one flagship and six outlet stores
       purchased in connection with the acquisition of Poloco.

Although our stores remained highly productive, comparable store sales, which
represent net sales of stores open in both reporting periods for the full
portion of such periods, decreased by 5.3%. The decline was due to a mature and
promotionally driven outlet environment and lower sales in Club Monaco's
Canadian stores.

     LICENSING REVENUE.  Licensing revenue increased 3.0% to $243.4 million in
fiscal 2001 from $236.3 million in fiscal 2000. This increase is primarily
attributable to increases in sales of existing men's, women's, and children's
apparel, accessories and fragrance products. These gains were partially offset
by decreases in sales of Home Collection products.

     GROSS PROFIT.  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues decreased to
47.8% in fiscal 2001 from 48.7% in fiscal 2000. This decrease was mainly
attributable to $41.5 million of inventory write downs recorded in fiscal 2001
in connection with the implementation of our operational review and our decision
to accelerate the disposition of aged inventory. Excluding these special
charges, gross profit as a percentage of net revenues was 49.6%. This
improvement reflects increased wholesale gross margins as a result of the
acquisition of Poloco, which generates higher margins than our domestic
wholesale operations. Additionally, gross profit was favorably impacted by the
increase in licensing revenue in fiscal 2001. These



improvements were offset by declines in our retail gross margins as we incurred
higher markdowns in fiscal 2001.

     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.  Selling, general and
administrative ("SG&A") expenses as a percentage of net revenues increased to
36.9% in fiscal 2001 from 35.2% in fiscal 2000. This increase in SG&A expenses
as a percentage of net revenues was primarily due to a charge of $18.1 million
recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2001 relating to nonrecurring charges
associated with targeted opportunities for improvement, including the
termination of operating contracts, streamlining of certain corporate and
operating functions, and employee-related matters. Additionally, SG&A expenses
as a percentage of net revenues increased due to an increase in depreciation and
amortization expense, start-up costs associated with the expansion of our retail
operations and the acquisition of Poloco.

     INTEREST EXPENSE.  Interest expense increased to $25.1 million in fiscal
2001 from $15.0 million in fiscal 2000. This increase was due to a higher level
of borrowings during the current period attributable to the additional financing
used for the acquisition of Poloco.

     INCOME TAXES.  The effective tax rate decreased to 39.5% in fiscal 2001
from 40.8% in fiscal 2000. This decline is primarily a result of the benefit of
tax strategies implemented by us. We expect to lower our effective tax rate to
38.5% in fiscal 2002 as a result of tax strategies implemented.

  FISCAL 2000 COMPARED TO FISCAL 1999

     NET SALES.  Net sales increased 13.2% to $1.7 billion in fiscal 2000 from
$1.5 billion in fiscal 1999. Wholesale net sales increased 3.0% to $885.2
million in fiscal 2000 from $859.5 million in fiscal 1999. Wholesale growth
primarily reflected increased unit sales of our existing brands and luxury
products. These unit increases were partially offset by a decline in average
selling prices resulting from changes in product mix.

     Retail sales increased by 26.5% to $834.0 million in fiscal 2000 from
$659.4 million in fiscal 1999. This increase was primarily attributable to a
$209.9 million benefit from the following:

     - new store openings in fiscal 2000 (23 stores, net of closures);

     - a full year impact of new stores opened in fiscal 1999; and

     - the acquisition of 70 Club Monaco stores in the quarter ended July 3,
       1999.

Although our stores remained highly productive, comparable store sales, which
represent net sales of stores open in both reporting periods for the full
portion of such periods, decreased by 4.6%, excluding the unfavorable impact of
a 53rd week in fiscal 1999. The decline was due to a promotionally driven retail
environment, an inadequate inventory of leading products and the effects of a
mature and challenging outlet store environment.

     LICENSING REVENUE.  Licensing revenue increased 13.6% to $236.3 million in
fiscal 2000 from $208.0 million in fiscal 1999. This increase is primarily
attributable to increases in sales of existing licensed products, particularly
Lauren, Polo Jeans and Home Collection.

     GROSS PROFIT.  Gross profit as a percentage of net revenues increased to
48.7% in fiscal 2000 from 47.6% in fiscal 1999. This increase was attributable
to an increase in retail gross margins due to a higher concentration of retail
sales to net revenues in the current period as a result of the acquisition of
Club Monaco in fiscal 2000 and lower markdowns taken in fiscal 2000. Retail
gross margins were negatively impacted by higher markdowns in fiscal 1999 as we
implemented a strategic initiative in our fourth fiscal quarter of 1999 to
reduce inventory levels and move excess product. Additionally, gross profit was
favorably impacted by the increase in licensing revenue in fiscal 2000.
Wholesale gross margins were consistent with prior years.



     SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE EXPENSES.  SG&A expenses as a
percentage of net revenues were 35.2% in both fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999.
Despite increases in depreciation expense from the shop-within-shop development
program and start-up costs incurred with the expansion of our retail operations,
these expenses, as a percentage of net revenues, were consistent with the prior
year period as we were able to achieve expense leveraging from revenue growth in
fiscal 2000.

     INTEREST EXPENSE.  Interest expense increased to $15.0 million in fiscal
2000 from $2.8 million in fiscal 1999. This increase was due to a higher level
of borrowings incurred during the current period to fund the acquisitions of
Club Monaco and Poloco.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

     Our cash requirements primarily derive from working capital needs,
construction and renovation of shop-within-shops, retail expansion and other
corporate activities. Our main sources of liquidity are cash flows from
operations, credit facilities and other borrowings.

     Net cash provided by operating activities decreased to $100.3 million in
fiscal 2001 from $242.7 million in fiscal 2000. Net cash provided by operations
was negatively impacted by the cash portion of charges recorded in our second
quarter of fiscal 2001 in connection with the implementation of our operational
review and increases in inventories and accounts receivable due to timing of
shipments. Net cash used in investing activities decreased to $182.0 million in
fiscal 2001 from $318.3 million in fiscal 2000. The decrease principally
reflects the use of funds to acquire Poloco in fiscal 2000. Net cash used by
financing activities was $25.9 million in fiscal 2001 as compared to cash
provided of $201.6 million in fiscal 2000. This change is primarily due to
proceeds received from the Euro offering in fiscal 2000.

     In June 1997, we entered into a credit facility with a syndicate of banks
which provides for a $225.0 million revolving line of credit available for the
issuance of letters of credit, acceptances and direct borrowings and matures on
December 31, 2002. Borrowings under the syndicated bank credit facility bear
interest, at our option, at a base rate equal to the higher of the Federal Funds
rate, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, plus 1/2 of one
percent, and the prime commercial lending rate of The Chase Manhattan Bank in
effect from time to time, or at the Eurodollar rate plus an interest margin.

     In March 1999, in connection with our acquisition of Club Monaco, we
entered into a $100.0 million senior credit facility with a syndicate of banks
consisting of a $20.0 million revolving line of credit and an $80.0 million term
loan. The revolving line of credit is available for working capital needs and
general corporate purposes and matures on June 30, 2003. The term loan was used
to finance the acquisition of all of the outstanding common stock of Club Monaco
and to repay indebtedness of Club Monaco. The term loan is also repayable on
June 30, 2003. Borrowings under the 1999 syndicated bank credit facility bear
interest, at our option, at a base rate equal to the higher of the Federal Funds
rate, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, plus 1/2 of one
percent, and the prime commercial lending rate of The Chase Manhattan Bank in
effect from time to time, or at the Eurodollar rate plus an interest margin. In
April 1999, we entered into interest rate swap agreements with a notional amount
of $100.0 million to convert the variable interest rate on our 1999 senior
credit facility to a fixed rate of 5.5%.

     The syndicated bank credit facility and our 1999 senior bank credit
facility contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and events of
default, including covenants regarding maintenance of net worth and leverage
ratios, limitations on indebtedness, loans, investments and incurrences of
liens, and restrictions on sales of assets and transactions with affiliates.
Additionally, the agreements provide that an event of default will occur if Mr.
Ralph Lauren and related entities fail to maintain a specified minimum
percentage of the voting power of our common stock.



     In November 1999, we issued Euro 275.0 million of 6.125% notes due November
2006. Our Euro debt is listed on the London Stock Exchange. The net proceeds
from the Euro offering were $281.5 million based on the Euro exchange rate on
the issuance date. Interest on the Euro debt is payable annually. A portion of
the net proceeds from the issuance was used to acquire Poloco while the
remaining net proceeds were retained for general corporate purposes. We acquired
Poloco for an aggregate cash consideration of $209.7 million, plus the
assumption of $10.0 million in short-term debt.

     During fiscal 2001, we repurchased Euro 27.5 million, or $25.3 million
based on Euro exchange rates, of our outstanding Euro debt.

     As of March 31, 2001, we had $86.1 million outstanding in direct
borrowings, $80.0 million outstanding under the term loan and $217.0 million
outstanding in Euro debt based on the year-end Euro exchange rate. We were also
contingently liable for $34.2 million in outstanding letters of credit related
primarily to commitments for the purchase of inventory. The weighted average
interest rate on borrowings at March 31, 2001, was 5.9%.

     During the second quarter of fiscal 2001, we completed an internal
operational review and formalized our plans to enhance the growth of our
international luxury retail business, to better manage inventory and to increase
our overall profitability. Total cash outlays related to the operational review
are expected to be approximately $24.7 million, $16.8 million of which has been
paid through March 31, 2001. We expect to settle the remaining liabilities in
accordance with contract terms which extend until fiscal 2003. On October 18,
2000, we received consent from our lenders under the credit facilities
permitting us to incur the charges we recorded in connection with the
operational review (see Note 3 to our consolidated financial statements) up to
specified thresholds.

     Total cash outlays related to the 1999 restructuring plan are approximately
$39.5 million, $33.5 million of which has been paid through March 31, 2001. The
remaining obligations approximated $6.0 million at March 31, 2001 and primarily
relate to severance and lease termination agreements, which extend until fiscal
2003.

     Capital expenditures were $105.2 million in fiscal 2001, $122.0 million in
fiscal 2000 and $141.7 million in fiscal 1999. Capital expenditures primarily
reflect costs associated with the following:

     - the expansion of our distribution facilities;

     - the shop-within-shops development program which includes new shops,
       renovations and expansions;

     - the expansion of our retail operations;

     - our information systems; and

     - other capital projects.

We plan to invest approximately $90.0 million, net of landlord incentives, over
the next fiscal year primarily for our retail stores, our European expansion,
the shop-within-shops development program, our information systems and other
capital projects.

     In March 1998, the Board of Directors authorized the repurchase, subject to
market conditions, of up to $100.0 million of our Class A common stock. Share
repurchases under this plan were made in the open market over the two-year
period which commenced April 1, 1998. On March 2, 2000, the Board of Directors
authorized a two-year extension of the stock repurchase program. Shares acquired
under the repurchase program will be used for stock option programs and for
other corporate purposes. As of March 31, 2001, we had repurchased 3,771,806
shares of our Class A common stock at an aggregate cost of $71.2 million.



     We extend credit to our customers, including those who have accounted for
significant portions of our net revenues. We had three customers, Dillard
Department Stores, Inc., Federated Department Stores, Inc. and The May
Department Stores Company, who in aggregate constituted approximately 52.0% and
54.0% of trade accounts receivable outstanding at March 31, 2001 and April 1,
2000. Additionally, we had four licensing partners, Jones Apparel Group, Inc.,
WestPoint Stevens, Inc., Seibu Department Stores, Ltd. and Warnaco, Inc., who in
aggregate constituted approximately 53.0%, 58.0% and 55.0% of licensing revenue
in fiscal 2001, fiscal 2000 and fiscal 1999. Accordingly, we may have
significant exposure in collecting accounts receivable from our wholesale
customers and licensees. We have credit policies and procedures which we use to
manage our credit risk.

     We believe that cash from ongoing operations and funds available under our
credit facilities and from our Euro offering will be sufficient to satisfy our
current level of operations, the operational review, the restructuring plan,
capital requirements, stock repurchase program and other corporate activities
for the next 12 months. We do not currently intend to pay dividends on our
common stock in the next 12 months.

SEASONALITY AND QUARTERLY FLUCTUATIONS

     Our business is affected by seasonal trends, with higher levels of
wholesale sales in our second and fourth quarters and higher retail sales in our
second and third quarters. These trends result primarily from the timing of
seasonal wholesale shipments to retail customers and key vacation travel and
holiday shopping periods in the retail segment. As a result of growth in our
retail operations and licensing revenue, historical quarterly operating trends
and working capital requirements may not accurately reflect future performances.
In addition, fluctuations in sales and operating income in any fiscal quarter
may be affected by the timing of seasonal wholesale shipments and other events
affecting retail.

NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS No. 133"). This Statement,
as amended and interpreted, establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts, and for hedging activities. It requires the recognition of all
derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, as either
assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position and measurement of
those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of
a derivative is dependent upon the intended use of the derivative. SFAS No. 133
defines new requirements for designation and documentation of hedging
relationships as well as ongoing effectiveness assessments in order to use hedge
accounting. For a derivative that does not qualify as a hedge, changes in fair
value will be recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 133 is effective for our first
quarter of fiscal 2002.

     We have entered into interest rate swap agreements and forward foreign
exchange contracts which qualify as cash flow hedges under SFAS No. 133. In
accordance with SFAS No. 133, we will record the fair value of these derivatives
at April 1, 2001 and the resulting net unrealized gain, after taxes, of
approximately $4.2 million will be recorded in other comprehensive income as a
cumulative transition adjustment.

     In April 2001, the FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on
Issue No. 00-25, Vendor Income Statement Characteristics of Consideration Paid
to a Reseller of the Vendor's Products ("EITF No. 00-25"). EITF No. 00-25
concluded that consideration from a vendor to a reseller of the vendor's
products is presumed to be a reduction of the selling prices of the vendor's
products and, therefore, should be characterized as a reduction of revenue when
recognized in the vendor's income statement. That presumption is overcome and
the



consideration characterized as a cost incurred if a benefit is or will be
received from the recipient of the consideration if certain conditions are met.
This pronouncement is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2003. We have
not yet determined the impact of adopting this pronouncement on our financial
position or results of operations.

ITEM 7A.  QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.

     The market risk inherent in our financial instruments represents the
potential loss in fair value, earnings or cash flows arising from adverse
changes in interest rates or foreign currency exchange rates. We manage these
exposures through operating and financing activities and, when appropriate,
through the use of derivative financial instruments. Our policy allows for the
use of derivative financial instruments for identifiable market risk exposures,
including interest rate and foreign currency fluctuations. We do not enter into
derivative financial contracts for trading or other speculative purposes. The
following quantitative disclosures were derived using quoted market prices and
theoretical pricing models obtained through independent pricing sources for the
same or similar types of financial instruments, taking into consideration the
underlying terms and maturities. The quantitative disclosures discussed below do
not represent the maximum possible loss nor any expected loss that may occur
since actual results may differ from those estimates.

FOREIGN CURRENCY EXCHANGE RATES

     Foreign currency exposures arise from transactions, including firm
commitments and anticipated contracts, denominated in a currency other than an
entity's functional currency and from foreign-denominated revenues translated
into U.S. dollars. From time to time, we hedge exposures to foreign currency
exchange rate fluctuations with forward foreign exchange contracts. With respect
to foreign operations, substantially all of our foreign subsidiaries operate in
their respective functional currencies. Our primary foreign currency exposures
relate to our Euro debt and Euro investments. The potential loss in value at
March 31, 2001 on our Euro debt and Euro investments based on a hypothetical
10.0% adverse change in the Euro rate would have been $21.7 million and $4.5
million. As of March 31, 2001, a hypothetical immediate 10.0% adverse change in
the Euro rate on the Euro debt and Euro investments would have a $1.3 million
and $0.2 million unfavorable impact on our earnings and cash flows in fiscal
2002.

INTEREST RATES

     Our primary interest rate exposure relates to our fixed and variable rate
debt. The fair value of our fixed Euro debt was $217.1 million based on its
quoted market price as listed on the London Stock Exchange and using exchange
rates in effect as of March 31, 2001. The potential loss in value at March 31,
2001 on our fixed Euro debt based on a hypothetical 10.0% adverse change in the
interest rate would have been $21.7 million. At March 31, 2001, the carrying
value of amounts outstanding of $166.1 million under our variable debt borrowing
arrangements under our bank credit facilities approximated their fair value. We
employ an interest rate hedging strategy utilizing swaps to effectively fix a
portion of our interest rate exposure on our floating rate financing
arrangements. At March 31, 2001, we had interest rate swap agreements with a
notional amount of $100.0 million which fixed the interest rate on our variable
rate debt at 5.5%. As of March 31, 2001, a hypothetical immediate 10.0% adverse
change in interest rates relating to our unhedged portion of our variable rate
debt would have a $0.4 million unfavorable impact on our earnings and cash flows
in fiscal 2002.

ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.

     The information required by this item appears beginning on page F-1.



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
         FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.

     Not applicable.

                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT.

     The other information required to be included by this Item 10 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K will be included in our proxy statement for the 2001
Annual Meeting of Stockholders which will be filed within 120 days after the
close of our fiscal year ended March 31, 2001 and that information is
incorporated into this Form 10-K by reference to that proxy statement.

     The following table sets forth certain information with respect to our
directors and executive officers as of June 21, 2001.



     RALPH LAUREN has been a director of Polo since prior to the commencement of
our initial public offering and was a member of the advisory board of our
predecessors since their organization. Mr. Lauren is our Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer. He founded Polo in 1968 and has provided leadership in the
design, marketing, advertising and operational areas since that time.

     F. LANCE ISHAM has been Vice Chairman and a director of Polo since April
2000. He was our President from November 1998 to April 2000, prior to which he
served as Group President of our menswear operations. Mr. Isham joined us in
1982, and has held a variety of sales positions with us including Executive Vice
President of Sales and Merchandising.

     ROGER N. FARAH has been our President, Chief Operating Officer and a
director since April 2000. Mr. Farah was Chairman of the Board of Venator Group,
Inc. from December 1994 to April 2000 and was Chief Executive Officer of Venator
Group, Inc. from December 1994 to August 1999. Mr. Farah served as President and
Chief Operating Officer of R.H. Macy & Co., Inc. from July 1994 to October 1994.
He also served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Federated
Merchandising Services, the central buying and product development arm of
Federated Department Stores, Inc. from June 1991 to July 1994.



     RICHARD A. FRIEDMAN has been a director of Polo since prior to the
commencement of our initial public offering and was a member of the advisory
board of our predecessor since 1994. Mr. Friedman is also a Managing Director of
Goldman, Sachs & Co., and head of the Principal Investment Area. He joined
Goldman, Sachs & Co. in 1981. Mr. Friedman is a member of the Board of Directors
of AMF Bowling, Inc. and Carmike Cinemas Inc.

     FRANK A. BENNACK, JR. has been a director of Polo since January 1998. Mr.
Bennack has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of The Hearst
Corporation since 1979. He is also a member of the Board of Directors of The
Hearst Corporation, Hearst-Argyle Television, Inc., American Home Products
Corporation, The Chase Manhattan Corporation and The Chase Manhattan Bank.

     DR. JOYCE F. BROWN has been a director of Polo Since May 2001. Dr. Brown
has been the President of the Fashion Institute of Technology, or "FIT", since
1998. She was a Professor of Clinical Psychology at the Graduate School and
University Center of the City University of New York from 1994 to 1998. Dr.
Brown is also a member of the Board of Directors of the United States Enrichment
Corp.

     JOEL L. FLEISHMAN has been a director of Polo since January 1999. Mr.
Fleishman has been a Professor of Law and Public Policy, Terry Sanford Institute
of Public Policy at Duke University since 1971 and the Director of the Samuel
and Ronnie Heyman Center for Ethics, Public Policy and the Professions at Duke
University since 1987. Mr. Fleishman is also a member of the Board of Directors
of Boston Scientific Corporation.

     JUDITH A. MCHALE has been a director of Polo since February 2001. Ms.
McHale has been President and Chief Operating Officer of Discovery
Communications, Inc., parent company of cable television's Discovery Channel,
since 1995. From 1989 to 1995 she served as Executive Vice President and General
Counsel for Discovery Communications, Inc. Ms. McHale is a member of the Board
of Directors of John Hancock Financial Services, Inc. and the Potomac Electric
Power Company.

     ALLEN QUESTROM has been a director of Polo since September 1997. Mr.
Questrom has been the President and Chief Executive Officer of J.C. Penney
Company, Inc. since September 2000. He was the Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Barneys New York, Inc. from May 1999 to September 2000 and
was the Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Federated Department Stores,
Inc. from February 1990 to May 1997. He is also a member of the Board of
Directors of Barneys New York, Inc. and J.C. Penney Company, Inc.

     TERRY S. SEMEL has been a director of Polo since September 1997. Mr. Semel
has been Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of Yahoo! Inc. since May 2001. He
was Chairman of Windsor Media, Inc., Los Angeles, a diversified media company,
from October 1999 to April 2001. Mr. Semel was Chairman of the Board and
Co-Chief Executive Officer of the Warner Bros. division of Time Warner
Entertainment LP, Los Angeles, from March 1994 until October 1999 and of Warner
Music Group, Los Angeles, from November 1995 until October 1999. For more than
ten years prior to that he was President of Warner Brothers or its predecessor,
Warner Bros. Inc. Mr. Semel is also a member of the Board of Directors of
Revlon, Inc. and Yahoo! Inc.

     GERALD M. CHANEY has been Senior Vice President of Finance and Chief
Financial Officer of Polo since November 2000. Mr. Chaney was Vice President of
Finance and Chief Financial Officer of Kellwood Company, a publicly held apparel
manufacturing, marketer and merchandiser from December 1998 to November 2000.
From April to December 1998, Mr. Chaney was Executive Vice President, Chief
Administrative Officer and Chief Financial Officer of Petrie Retail, Inc.

     MITCHELL A. KOSH has been Senior Vice President of Human Resources since
July 2000. Mr. Kosh was Senior Vice President and Chief Human Resources Officer
of Conseco, an insurance and financial services company in Carmel, Indiana from
February 2000 to July 2000.



Prior to that he was with the Venator Group, Inc. where since 1996 he held
executive human resource positions including serving as Senior Vice President of
Human Resources for Foot Locker Worldwide.

     DOUGLAS L. WILLIAMS has been Corporate Group President since February 2001.
From April 2000 to February 2001 Mr. Williams was corporate Group President,
Global Business Development. Mr. Williams began his career with us in 1988 as a
retail analyst. He has held various sales and merchandising positions with us,
including Vice President of men's sales from 1993 to 1997 and Senior Vice
President of men's sales from 1997 to 1998. Mr. Williams was promoted to
Divisional President of product licensing in 1998 and in 1999 was further
promoted to President of global licensing and new business development.

     Each executive officer serves a one-year term ending at the next annual
meeting of our Board of Directors, subject to his or her applicable employment
agreement and his or her earlier death, resignation or removal.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.

     See Item 13.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT.

     See Item 13.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS.

     The information required to be included by Items 11 through 13 of this Form
10-K Report will be included in our proxy statement for the 2001 Annual Meeting
of Stockholders, which will be filed within 120 days after the close of our
fiscal year ended March 31, 2001 and that information is incorporated herein by
reference to that proxy statement.

                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K.

     (a) 1, 2. Financial Statements and Schedules. See index on Page F-1.

         3. Exhibits











- ---------------
 * Incorporated herein by reference.

 + Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

** Portions of Exhibits 10.5 - 10.14 have been omitted pursuant to a request for
   confidential treatment and have been filed separately with the Securities and
   Exchange Commission.

     (b) Although not within the last quarter covered by this report, on October
5, 2000, a current report on Form 8-K dated October 5, 2000 was filed by us with
the Securities and Exchange Commission announcing that we had completed an
operational review and, as a result, we would record a $110 - $115 million
after-tax charge due to initiatives stemming from such review.



                                   SIGNATURES

     Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                          POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
                                          (Registrant)

                                          By: /s/     RALPH LAUREN

                                            ------------------------------------
                                                        Ralph Lauren
                                             Chairman of the Board of Directors
                                                and Chief Executive Officer

Date: June 12, 2001

     Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated.





                   INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



     All other schedules are omitted because they are not applicable or the
required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or notes
thereto.

                                       F-1


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
NEW YORK, NEW YORK

     We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Polo Ralph
Lauren Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of March 31, 2001 and
April 1, 2000 and the related consolidated statements of income, stockholders
equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended March 31,
2001. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company's
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial
statements based on our audits.

     We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

     In our opinion, such financial statements present fairly, in all material
respects, the financial position of Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation and
subsidiaries as of March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, and the results of their
operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended
March 31, 2001, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in
the United States of America.

     As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, effective
April 4, 1999, the Company changed its method of accounting for the costs of
start-up activities.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
- ---------------------------------------------------------
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York
May 23, 2001

                                       F-2


                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-3


                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-4


                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY


          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-5


                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-6


                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
                                       F-7


                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
                (IN THOUSANDS, EXCEPT WHERE OTHERWISE INDICATED)

1 BASIS OF PRESENTATION AND ORGANIZATION

  (A) BASIS OF PRESENTATION

     Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation ("PRLC") was incorporated in Delaware in
March 1997. The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of PRLC
and its wholly and majority owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and
transactions have been eliminated. PRLC and its subsidiaries are collectively
referred to herein as "we," "us," "our" and "ourselves."

     We have included the December 31, 2000 consolidated balance sheet and
January 6, 2000 combined balance sheet of Poloco (as defined), our wholly owned
subsidiary, in the accompanying March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, consolidated
balance sheets. We also have consolidated the results of operations of Poloco
for the year ended December 31, 2000, in the March 31, 2001 consolidated
statements of income, stockholders' equity and cash flows.

  (B) ACQUISITIONS AND JOINT VENTURE

     On February 7, 2000, we announced the formation of Ralph Lauren Media, LLC
("RL Media"), a joint venture between National Broadcasting Company, Inc. and
certain affiliated companies ("NBC") and ourselves. RL Media was created to
bring our American lifestyle experience to consumers via multiple media
platforms, including the Internet, broadcast, cable and print. Under the 30-year
joint venture agreement, RL Media will be owned 50% by us and 50% by NBC. In
exchange for a 50% interest, we will provide marketing through our annual print
advertising campaign, make our merchandise available at initial cost of
inventory and sell RL Media's excess inventory through our outlet stores, among
other things. NBC will contribute $110.0 million of television and online
advertising. NBC will also contribute $40.0 million in online distribution and
promotion and a cash funding commitment up to $50.0 million. Under the terms of
the joint venture agreement, for tax purposes, we will not absorb any losses
from the joint venture up to the first $50.0 million incurred and will share
proportionately in the net income or losses thereafter. Additionally, we will
receive a royalty on the sale of our products by RL Media based on specified
percentages of net sales over a predetermined threshold, subject to certain
limitations; to date, no such royalty income has been recognized. RL Media's
managing board will have equal representation from NBC and us. The joint venture
has been accounted for under the equity method from the effective date of its
formation. We have not recognized any losses in excess of our financial basis.

     On January 6, 2000, we completed the acquisition of stock and certain
assets of Poloco S.A.S. and certain of its affiliates ("Poloco"), which hold
licenses to sell our men's and boys' apparel, our men's and women's Polo Jeans
apparel, and certain of our accessories in Europe. In addition to acquiring
Poloco's wholesale business, we acquired one flagship store in Paris and six
outlet stores located in France, the United Kingdom and Austria. We acquired
Poloco for an aggregate cash consideration of $209.7 million, plus the
assumption of $10.0 million in short-term debt. We used a portion of the net
proceeds from the Eurobond Offering (as defined) to finance this acquisition.
During the quarter ended July 1, 2000, the final 10% of the acquisition price
for Poloco in the amount of $20.9 million was distributed in accordance with the
terms of the agreement. This acquisition has been accounted for as a purchase.
The purchase price has been allocated based upon the fair values of the net
assets acquired at the date of acquisition. This allocation resulted in an
excess of purchase price over the estimated fair value of net assets acquired of
$198.3 million, which has been recorded as goodwill and is being amortized on a
straight-line basis over an estimated useful life of 40 years.

                                       F-8

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The following table sets forth unaudited pro forma combined statement of
income information for fiscal 2000 had the acquisition of Poloco occurred at the
beginning of the period:



     The unaudited pro forma information above has been prepared for comparative
purposes only and includes certain adjustments to our historical statements of
income, such as additional amortization as a result of goodwill and increased
interest expense on acquisition debt. The results do not purport to be
indicative of the results of operations that would have resulted had the
acquisition occurred at the beginning of the period, or of future results of
operations of the consolidated entities.

     On April 6, 1999, PRL Acquisition Corp., a Nova Scotia unlimited liability
corporation and our wholly owned subsidiary, acquired, through a tender offer,
98.83% of the outstanding shares of Club Monaco Inc. ("Club Monaco"), a
corporation organized under the laws of the Province of Ontario, Canada. On May
3, 1999, PRL Acquisition Corp. acquired the remaining outstanding 1.17% shares
pursuant to a statutory compulsory acquisition. The total purchase price was
$51.0 million in cash based on foreign exchange rates in effect on the dates
indicated. We used funds from our credit facility to finance this acquisition
and to repay in full assumed debt of Club Monaco of $35.0 million. We have
accounted for this acquisition as a purchase and have consolidated the
operations of Club Monaco in the accompanying financial statements from the
effective date of the transaction. The purchase price has been allocated based
upon the fair values of the net assets acquired at the date of the acquisition.
This allocation resulted in an excess of purchase price over the estimated fair
value of net assets acquired of $44.5 million, which has been recorded as
goodwill and is being amortized on a straight-line basis over an estimated
useful life of 40 years.

  (C) BUSINESS

     We design, license, contract for the manufacture of, market and distribute
men's and women's apparel, accessories, fragrances, skin care products and home
furnishings. Our sales are principally to major department and specialty stores
located throughout the United States and Europe. We also sell directly to
consumers through full price, flagship, outlet and Club Monaco stores located
throughout the United States, Canada, Europe, Great Britain and Asia.

     We are party to licensing agreements which grant the licensee exclusive
rights to use our various trademarks in connection with the manufacture and sale
of designated products in specified geographical areas. The license agreements
typically provide for designated terms with renewal options based on achievement
of specified sales targets. The agreements also require that certain minimum
amounts be spent on advertising for licensed products. Additionally, as part of
the licensing arrangements, each licensee is typically required to enter into a
design services agreement pursuant to which design and other creative services
are provided. The license and design services agreements provide for payments
based on specified percentages of net sales of licensed products. Additionally,
we have granted royalty-free licenses to independent parties to operate Polo
stores to promote the sale of our merchandise and our licensees' merchandise
both domestically and internationally.

                                       F-9

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     A significant amount of our products are produced in the Far East, through
arrangements with independent contractors. As a result, our operations could be
adversely affected by political instability resulting in the disruption of trade
from the countries in which these contractors are located, by the imposition of
additional duties or regulations relating to imports, by the contractors'
inability to meet our production requirements or by other factors.

2 SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

  FISCAL YEAR

     Our fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to March 31. All references to
"2001," "2000" and "1999" represent the 52- or 53-week fiscal years ended March
31, 2001, April 1, 2000 and April 3, 1999. Fiscal 2001 and 2000 reflect a
52-week period and fiscal 1999 reflects a 53-week period.

  USE OF ESTIMATES

     The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make certain estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial
statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the
reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The most
significant estimates embodied in the consolidated financial statements include
reserves for accounts receivable, inventories and restructuring.

  CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS

     Cash and cash equivalents include all highly liquid investments with an
original maturity of three months or less.

  MARKETABLE SECURITIES

     We determine the appropriate classification of our investments in debt
securities at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determinations at each
balance sheet date. At March 31, 2001, we had invested in debt securities which
we do not intend to hold to maturity. Accordingly, these investments are
classified as available-for-sale securities and are carried at fair value, with
the unrealized gains and losses, net of income taxes, reported in stockholders'
equity. The amortized cost of available-for-sale securities approximated their
fair value at March 31, 2001. Gross realized gains and losses on sales of
available-for-sale securities were not material.

     Our investments in debt securities are diversified among high-credit
quality securities in accordance with our risk management policy. The following
is a summary of our investments in available-for-sale marketable securities at
March 31, 2001:



                                       F-10

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The contractual maturities of debt securities at March 31, 2001, are as
follows: $44.6 million due in one year or less and $6.1 million due between one
and two years. Expected maturities may differ from contractual maturities
because the issuers of the securities may have the right to prepay obligations
without prepayment penalties.

  INVENTORIES

     Inventories are valued at the lower of cost (first-in, first-out ("FIFO")
method) or market. Effective April 4, 1999, we changed our method of valuing our
retail inventories from the retail method to the FIFO method. The impact of this
change was not material.

  STORE PRE-OPENING COSTS

     Effective April 4, 1999, we adopted the provisions of Statement of Position
No. 98-5 ("SOP No. 98-5"), Reporting on the Costs of Start-up Activities. SOP
No. 98-5 requires that costs of start-up activities, including store pre-opening
costs, be expensed as incurred. Prior to the adoption of SOP No. 98-5, our
accounting policy was to capitalize store pre-opening costs as prepaid expenses
and amortize such costs over a 12-month period following store opening. As a
result of adopting SOP No. 98-5, we recorded a charge of $4.0 million, after
taxes, in fiscal 2000 as the cumulative effect of a change in accounting
principle in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

  PROPERTY, EQUIPMENT, DEPRECIATION AND AMORTIZATION

     Property and equipment are carried at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation is provided over the estimated useful lives of the related assets
on a straight-line basis. The range of useful lives is as follows:
buildings -- 37.5 years; furniture and fixtures and machinery and equipment -- 3
to 10 years. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method
over the lesser of the term of the related lease or the estimated useful life
(up to 28 years). Major additions and betterments are capitalized, and repairs
and maintenance are charged to operations in the period incurred. Additionally,
we capitalize our share of the cost of constructing shop-within-shops under
agreements with retailers and amortize such costs using the straight-line method
over their estimated useful lives of 3 to 5 years.

  GOODWILL

     Goodwill represents the excess of purchase cost over the fair value of net
assets of businesses acquired. We amortize goodwill on a straight-line basis
over its estimated useful life, ranging from 11 to 40 years. Amortization
expense was $8.0 million, $3.7 million and $1.6 million in fiscal 2001, 2000 and
1999. Accumulated amortization was $13.9 million and $5.9 million at March 31,
2001 and April 1, 2000.

  IMPAIRMENT OF LONG-LIVED AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS

     We assess the carrying value of long-lived and intangible assets, including
unamortized goodwill, as current facts and circumstances indicate that they may
be impaired. In evaluating the fair value and future benefits of such assets, we
perform an analysis of the anticipated undiscounted future net cash flows of the
individual assets over the remaining amortization period and would recognize an
impairment loss if the carrying value exceeded the expected future cash flows.
The impairment loss would be measured based upon the difference between the fair
value of the asset and its recorded carrying value. See Note 3 for long-lived
and

                                       F-11

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

intangible asset write downs recorded in connection with our fiscal 2001
Operational Plan (as defined -- see Note 3) and fiscal 1999 Restructuring Plan
(as defined -- see Note 3).

  OFFICERS' LIFE INSURANCE

     We maintain key man life insurance policies on several of our senior
executives, the majority of which contain split dollar arrangements. The key man
policies are recorded at their cash surrender value, while the policies with
split dollar arrangements are recorded at the lesser of their cash surrender
value or premiums paid. Amounts recorded under these policies aggregated $42.0
million and $36.9 million at March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, and are included
in other assets in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

  REVENUE RECOGNITION

     Sales are recognized upon shipment of products to customers since title
passes upon shipment and, in the case of sales by our retail and outlet stores,
when goods are sold to consumers. Allowances for estimated uncollectible
accounts and discounts are provided when sales are recorded. Licensing revenue
is recognized based upon shipment of licensed products sold by our licensees,
net of allowances.

  ADVERTISING

     We expense the production costs of advertising, marketing and public
relations expenses upon the first showing of the related advertisement. Total
advertising expenses, including cooperative advertising, amounted to $88.8
million, $73.6 million and $76.2 million in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999.

  INCOME TAXES

     We account for income taxes under the liability method. Deferred tax assets
and liabilities are recognized based on differences between financial statement
and tax bases of assets and liabilities using presently enacted tax rates. A
valuation allowance is recorded to reduce a deferred tax asset to that portion
which is expected to more likely than not be realized.

  DEFERRED RENT OBLIGATIONS

     We account for rent expense under noncancelable operating leases with
scheduled rent increases and landlord incentives on a straight-line basis over
the lease term. The excess of straight-line rent expense over scheduled payment
amounts and landlord incentives is recorded as a deferred liability. Unamortized
deferred rent obligations amounted to $46.8 million and $52.9 million at March
31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, and are included in accrued expenses and other, and
other noncurrent liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

  FOREIGN CURRENCY TRANSACTIONS AND TRANSLATIONS

     The financial position and results of operations of our foreign
subsidiaries are measured using the local currency as the functional currency.
Assets and liabilities are translated at the exchange rate in effect at each
year end. Results of operations are translated at the average rate of exchange
prevailing throughout the period. Translation adjustments arising from
differences in exchange rates from period to period are included in other
comprehensive income, net of taxes, except for certain foreign-denominated debt.
We have designated a portion of our Eurobond (as

                                       F-12

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

defined -- See Note 7) debt as a hedge of our net investment in a foreign
subsidiary. Transaction gains or losses on the unhedged portion resulting from
changes in the euro rate are recorded in income and amounted to $5.8 million in
fiscal 2001. Gains and losses from other foreign currency transactions are
included in operating results and were not material.

  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     We, from time to time, use derivative financial instruments to reduce our
exposure to changes in foreign exchange and interest rates. While these
instruments are subject to risk of loss from changes in exchange or interest
rates, those losses generally would be offset by gains on the related exposure.

     In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards ("SFAS") No. 133, Accounting for
Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities ("SFAS No. 133"). This Statement,
as amended and interpreted, establishes accounting and reporting standards for
derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments embedded in
other contracts, and for hedging activities. It requires the recognition of all
derivatives, whether designated in hedging relationships or not, as either
assets or liabilities in the statement of financial position, and measurement of
those instruments at fair value. The accounting for changes in the fair value of
a derivative is dependent upon the intended use of the derivative. SFAS No. 133
defines new requirements for designation and documentation of hedging
relationships as well as ongoing effectiveness assessments in order to use hedge
accounting. For a derivative that does not qualify as a hedge, changes in fair
value will be recognized in earnings. SFAS No. 133 is effective for our first
quarter of our fiscal year ending March 30, 2002.

     As described further in Note 9, we have entered into interest rate swap
agreements and forward foreign exchange contracts which qualify as cash flow
hedges under SFAS No. 133. In accordance with SFAS No. 133, we will record the
fair value of these derivatives at April 1, 2001 and the resulting net
unrealized gain, after taxes, of approximately $4.2 million will be recorded in
other comprehensive income as a cumulative transition adjustment.

  STOCK OPTIONS

     We use the intrinsic value method to account for stock-based compensation
in accordance with Accounting Principles Board ("APB") Opinion No. 25,
Accounting for Stock Issued to Employees and have adopted the disclosure-only
provisions of SFAS No. 123, Accounting for Stock-Based Compensation.

  COMPREHENSIVE INCOME

     Other comprehensive income consists of foreign currency translation
adjustments, net of taxes, and is reflected in the consolidated statements of
stockholders' equity.

  SHIPPING AND HANDLING COSTS

     We reflect shipping and handling costs as a component of selling, general
and administrative expenses in the consolidated statements of income. These
costs approximated 2.0% of net sales in each of the fiscal years presented. We
bill our wholesale customers for shipping and handling costs and record such
revenues in net sales upon shipment.

                                       F-13

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

  NET INCOME PER SHARE

     Basic net income per share was calculated by dividing net income by the
weighted average number of shares outstanding during the period, excluding any
potential dilution. Diluted net income per share was calculated similarly but
includes potential dilution from the exercise of stock options and awards. The
difference between the basic and diluted weighted average shares outstanding is
due to the dilutive effect of stock options and restricted stock awards issued
under our stock option plans.

  RECENT ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS

     In April 2001, the FASB's Emerging Issues Task Force reached a consensus on
Issue No. 00-25, Vendor Income Statement Characteristics of Consideration Paid
to a Reseller of the Vendor's Products ("EITF No. 00-25"). EITF No. 00-25
concluded that consideration from a vendor to a reseller of the vendor's
products is presumed to be a reduction of the selling prices of the vendor's
products and, therefore, should be characterized as a reduction of revenue when
recognized in the vendor's income statement. That presumption is overcome and
the consideration characterized as a cost incurred if a benefit is or will be
received from the recipient of the consideration if certain conditions are met.
This pronouncement is effective for our first quarter in the year ending March
29, 2003. We have not yet determined the impact of adopting this pronouncement
on our consolidated results of operations.

  RECLASSIFICATIONS

     For comparative purposes, certain prior period amounts have been
reclassified to conform to the current period's presentation.

3 RESTRUCTURING AND SPECIAL CHARGES

  (a) 2001 OPERATIONAL PLAN

     During the second quarter of fiscal 2001, we completed an internal
operational review and formalized our plans to enhance the growth of our
worldwide luxury retail business, to better manage inventory and to increase our
overall profitability (the "Operational Plan"). The major initiatives of the
Operational Plan included: refining our retail strategy; developing efficiencies
in our supply chain; and consolidating corporate strategic business functions
and internal processes.

     In connection with refining our retail strategy, we closed all 12 Polo
Jeans Co. full-price retail stores and 11 under-performing Club Monaco retail
stores. Costs associated with this aspect of the Operational Plan included lease
and contract termination costs, store fixed asset write downs (primarily
leasehold improvements of $21.5 million) and severance and termination benefits.

     Additionally, as a result of changes in market conditions combined with our
change in retail strategy in certain locations in which we operate full-price
retail stores, we performed an evaluation of the recoverability of the assets of
certain of these stores in accordance with SFAS No. 121, Accounting for the
Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to be Disposed of. We
concluded from the results of this evaluation that a significant permanent
impairment of long-lived assets had occurred. Accordingly, we recorded a write
down of these assets (primarily leasehold improvements) to their estimated fair
value based on discounted future cash flows.

                                       F-14

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     In connection with the implementation of the Operational Plan, we recorded
a pretax restructuring charge of $128.6 million in our second quarter of fiscal
2001. After extensive review of the Operational Plan, and changes in business
conditions in certain markets in which we operate, we made an adjustment to the
Operational Plan in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2001. We recorded a $5.0
million reduction of the liability for lease and contract termination costs
resulting from the overestimation of costs associated with the closure of our
retail stores due to market conditions that were more favorable than originally
estimated. The major components of the charge and the activity through March 31,
2001, were as follows:



     Our operational review also targeted our supply chain management as one of
the most important areas for improvement. In connection with initiating this
aspect of the Operational Plan, we recorded $37.9 million of inventory write
downs in our second quarter of fiscal year 2001 associated with our planned
acceleration in the reduction of aged inventory. In the fourth quarter of fiscal
2001, we determined that the original provision was not sufficient and recorded
additional inventory write downs of $3.6 million. These charges are reflected in
cost of goods sold in the accompanying consolidated statement of income.

     Our Operational Plan also included the consolidation of certain corporate
strategic business functions and internal processes. Costs associated with this
aspect of the plan included the termination of operating contracts, streamlining
of certain corporate and operating functions, and employee related matters.
These costs aggregated $18.1 million and are included in selling, general and
administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statement of income.

     Total severance and termination benefits as a result of the Operational
Plan related to approximately 550 employees, 450 of whom have been terminated as
of March 31, 2001. Total cash outlays related to the Operational Plan are
expected to be approximately $24.7 million, $16.8 million of which have been
paid to date. We expect to complete the implementation of the Operational Plan
by the end of our second quarter of fiscal 2002 and expect to settle the
remaining liabilities in accordance with contract terms which extend until
fiscal 2003.

  (b) 1999 RESTRUCTURING PLAN

     During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1999, we formalized our plans to
streamline operations within our wholesale and retail operations and reduce our
overall cost structure (the "Restructuring Plan"). The major initiatives of the
Restructuring Plan included the following: an evaluation of our retail
operations and site locations; the realignment and operational integration of
our wholesale operating units; and the realignment and consolidation of
corporate strategic business functions and internal processes.

     In an effort to improve the overall profitability of our retail operations,
we closed three Polo stores and three outlet stores that were not performing at
an acceptable level. Additionally, we converted two Polo stores and five outlet
stores to new concepts expected to be more productive. Costs associated with
this aspect of the Restructuring Plan included lease and

                                       F-15

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

contract termination costs, store fixed asset (primarily leasehold improvements)
and intangible asset write downs and severance and termination benefits.

     Our wholesale operations were realigned into two new operating units: Polo
Brands and Collection Brands. Aspects of this realignment included: (i) the
reorganization of the sales force and retail development areas; (ii) the
streamlining of the design and development process; and (iii) the consolidation
of the customer service departments. Additionally, we integrated the sourcing
and production of our Polo Brands, outlet store and licensees' products into one
consolidated unit. Costs associated with the wholesale realignment consisted
primarily of severance and termination benefits and lease termination costs. Our
review of our corporate business functions and internal processes resulted in a
new management structure designed to better align businesses with similar
functions and to identify and eliminate duplicative processes. Costs associated
with the corporate realignment consisted primarily of severance and termination
benefits and lease and contract termination costs.

     In connection with the implementation of the Restructuring Plan, we
recorded a pretax restructuring charge of $58.6 million in our fourth quarter of
fiscal 1999. The major components of the restructuring charge and the activity
through March 31, 2001, were as follows:



     After extensive review of the Restructuring Plan, and changes in business
conditions in certain markets in which we operate, we made adjustments to the
Restructuring Plan and incurred other restructuring related costs in fiscal
2000. These adjustments included the following: (i) a $0.9 million reduction of
the liability for lease and contract termination costs resulting from the
overestimation of costs associated with the closure and conversion of our retail
stores due to improved market conditions; and (ii) a $0.9 million charge for the
underestimation of severance and termination benefits recorded in the
Restructuring Plan. The above adjustments had no net impact.

     Total severance and termination benefits as a result of the Restructuring
Plan related to 280 employees, all of whom have been terminated. Total cash
outlays related to the Restructuring Plan are approximately $39.5 million, $33.5
million of which have been paid to date. We completed the implementation of the
Restructuring Plan in fiscal 2000 and expect to settle the remaining liabilities
in accordance with contract terms which extend until fiscal 2003.

                                       F-16

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4 INVENTORIES



5 PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT



6 ACCRUED EXPENSES AND OTHER



7 FINANCING AGREEMENTS

     On June 9, 1997, we entered into a credit facility with a syndicate of
banks which consists of a $225.0 million revolving line of credit available for
the issuance of letters of credit, acceptances and direct borrowings and matures
on December 31, 2002 (the "Credit Facility"). Borrowings under the Credit
Facility bear interest, at our option, at a Base Rate equal to the higher of the
Federal Funds Rate, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, plus
 1/2 of one percent, and the prime commercial lending rate of The Chase
Manhattan Bank in effect from time to time, or at the Eurodollar Rate plus an
interest margin.

     On March 30, 1999, in connection with our acquisition of Club Monaco, we
entered into a $100.0 million senior credit facility (the "1999 Credit
Facility") with a syndicate of banks consisting of a $20.0 million revolving
line of credit and an $80.0 million term loan (the "Term Loan"). The revolving
line of credit is available for working capital needs and general corporate
purposes and matures on June 30, 2003. The Term Loan was used to finance the
acquisition of

                                       F-17

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

the stock of Club Monaco and to repay existing indebtedness of Club Monaco. The
Term Loan is repayable on June 30, 2003. Borrowings under the 1999 Credit
Facility bear interest, at our option, at a Base Rate equal to the higher of the
Federal Funds Rate, as published by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, plus
 1/2 of one percent, and the prime commercial lending rate of The Chase
Manhattan Bank in effect from time to time, or at the Eurodollar Rate plus an
interest margin. In April 1999, we entered into interest rate swap agreements
with a notional amount of $100.0 million to convert the variable interest rate
on the 1999 Credit Facility to a fixed rate of 5.5% (see Note 9).

     The Credit Facility and 1999 Credit Facility (the "Credit Facilities")
contain customary representations, warranties, covenants and events of default,
including covenants regarding maintenance of net worth and leverage ratios,
limitations on indebtedness, loans, investments and incurrences of liens, and
restrictions on sales of assets and transactions with affiliates. Additionally,
the agreements provide that an event of default will occur if Mr. Lauren and
related entities fail to maintain a specified minimum percentage of the voting
power of our common stock. On October 18, 2000, we received consent from our
lenders under the Credit Facilities permitting us to incur the charges we
recorded in connection with the Operational Plan (see Note 3) up to specified
thresholds.

     On November 22, 1999, we issued Euro 275.0 million of 6.125 percent Notes
(the "Eurobonds") due November 2006 (the "Eurobond Offering"). The Eurobonds are
listed on the London Stock Exchange. The net proceeds from the Eurobond Offering
were $281.5 million based on the Euro exchange rate on the issuance date. A
portion of the net proceeds from the issuance was used to finance the
acquisition of stock and certain assets of Poloco while the remaining net
proceeds were retained for general corporate purposes. Interest on the Eurobonds
is payable annually. During fiscal 2001, we repurchased 27.5 million of our
outstanding Eurobonds, or $25.3 million based on Euro exchange rates. The loss
on this early extinguishment of debt was not material.

     As discussed in Note 2 (b), in connection with the Poloco acquisition, we
assumed borrowings under short-term facilities which represent overdraft
positions on bank accounts. These borrowings bore interest at .5% to 1.0% over
the Euro Overnight Indexed Average which was 5.16% and 3.75% at March 31, 2001
and April 1, 2000.

     At March 31, 2001, we had $86.1 million outstanding in direct borrowings,
$80.0 million outstanding under the Term Loan and $217.0 million outstanding in
Eurobonds based on the year- end Euro exchange rate. We were also contingently
liable for $34.2 million in outstanding letters of credit related primarily to
commitments for the purchase of inventory. At April 1, 2000, we had $86.1
million outstanding in direct borrowings, $80.0 million outstanding under the
Term Loan and $262.7 million outstanding in Eurobonds based on the year-end Euro
exchange rate. The Credit Facilities bore interest primarily at the
institution's prime rate (ranging from 5.9% to 8.5% at March 31, 2001 and 6.9%
to 9.0% at April 1, 2000). The weighted average interest rate on borrowings was
6.3%, 6.1% and 7.4% in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999.

                                       F-18

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

8 INCOME TAXES

     The components of the provision for income taxes were as follows:



     The foreign and domestic components of income (loss) before income taxes
were as follows:



                                       F-19

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     The deferred tax assets reflect the net tax effect of temporary
differences, primarily net operating loss carryforwards, property and equipment
and accounts receivable, between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities
for financial reporting and the amounts used for income tax purposes. The
components of the net deferred tax assets at March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000,
were as follows:



     We have available Federal net operating loss carryforwards of approximately
$17.2 million and state net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $202.2
million for tax purposes to offset future taxable income. The net operating loss
carryforwards expire beginning in fiscal 2004. The utilization of the Federal
net operating loss carryforwards is subject to the limitations of Internal
Revenue Code Section 382 which applies following certain changes in ownership of
the entity generating the loss carryforward. As a result of the limitation of
Section 382, we believe that approximately $3.2 million of the federal net
operating loss carryforwards will expire and not be utilized. A valuation
allowance has been recorded against such net operating losses.

     Also, we have available additional state and foreign net operating loss
carryforwards of approximately $15.0 million and $20.4 million for which no net
deferred tax asset has been recognized. A full valuation allowance has been
recorded since we do not believe that we will more likely than not be able to
utilize these carryforwards to offset future taxable income. Subsequent
recognition of a substantial portion of the deferred tax asset relating to these
Federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards would result in a
reduction of goodwill recorded in connection with acquisitions. Additionally, we
have recorded a valuation allowance against certain other deferred tax assets
relating to our Canadian operations. Subsequent recognition of these deferred
tax assets, as well as a portion of the foreign net operating loss
carryforwards, would result in an income tax benefit in the year of such
recognition.

     Provision has not been made for United States or additional foreign taxes
on approximately $49.0 million of undistributed earnings of foreign
subsidiaries. Those earnings have been and will continue to be reinvested. These
earnings could become subject to tax if they were remitted as dividends, if
foreign earnings were lent to PRLC or a subsidiary or U.S. affiliate of PRLC, or
if the

                                       F-20

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

stock of the subsidiaries were sold. Determination of the amount of unrecognized
deferred tax liability with respect to such earnings is not practical. We
believe that the amount of the additional taxes that might be payable on the
earnings of foreign subsidiaries, if remitted, would be partially offset by
United States foreign tax credits.

     The historical provision for income taxes in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999
differs from the amounts computed by applying the statutory Federal income tax
rate to income before income taxes due to the following:



9 FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     In April 1999, we entered into interest rate swap agreements with
commercial banks which expire in 2003 to hedge against interest rate
fluctuations. The swap agreements effectively convert borrowings under the 1999
Credit Facility from variable rate to fixed rate obligations. Under the terms of
these agreements, we make payments at a fixed rate of 5.5% and receive payments
from the counterparty based on the notional amount of $100.0 million at a
variable rate based on the London Inter-Bank Offer Rate ("LIBOR"). The net
interest paid or received on this arrangement is included in interest expense.
The fair value of these agreements was an unrealized loss of $1.4 million and an
unrealized gain of $4.4 million at March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, based upon
the estimated amount that we would have to pay or would receive to terminate the
agreements, as determined by the financial institutions.

     We entered into forward foreign exchange contracts as hedges relating to
identifiable currency positions to reduce our risk from exchange rate
fluctuations. Gains and losses on these contracts are deferred and recognized as
adjustments to the basis of those assets. These gains and losses were not
material. At March 31, 2001, we had foreign exchange contracts outstanding as
follows: (i) to receive 60 million French Francs in fiscal 2001 in exchange for
5.6 million British Pounds; (ii) to deliver 279 million French Francs in fiscal
2001 in exchange for $50.0 million; (iii) to deliver 1.5 million British Pounds
in fiscal 2001 in exchange for Euro 2.5 million; and (iv) to deliver $1.3
million in fiscal 2001 in exchange for Euro 1.5 million. The fair value of these
contracts resulted in an unrealized gain of approximately $10.0 million at March
31, 2001.

     The carrying amounts of financial instruments reported in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets at March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, approximated
their estimated fair values, except for the Eurobonds, primarily due to either
the short-term maturity of the instruments or their adjustable market rate of
interest. The fair value of the Eurobonds, net of discounts, was $217.1 million
and $258.6 million as of March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, based on its quoted
market price as listed on the London Stock Exchange. Considerable judgment is
required in interpreting certain market data to develop estimated fair values
for certain financial instruments.

                                       F-21

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Accordingly, the estimates presented herein are not necessarily indicative of
the amounts that we could realize in a current market exchange.

10 CONCENTRATION OF CREDIT RISK

     We sell our merchandise primarily to major upscale department stores across
the United States and extend credit based on an evaluation of the customer's
financial condition generally without requiring collateral. Credit risk is
driven by conditions or occurrences within the economy and the retail industry
and is principally dependent on each customer's financial condition. A decision
by the controlling owner of a group of stores or any substantial customer to
decrease the amount of merchandise purchased from us or to cease carrying our
products could have a material adverse effect. We had three customers who in
aggregate constituted approximately 52.0% and 54.0% of trade accounts receivable
outstanding at March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000.

     We had three significant customers who accounted for approximately 11.0%,
10.0% and 10.0% each of net sales in fiscal 2001, and for approximately 12.0%,
11.0% and 10.0% each of net sales in fiscal 2000. We had two significant
customers who accounted for approximately 10.0% each of net sales in fiscal
1999. Additionally, we had four significant licensees who in aggregate
constituted approximately 53.0%, 58.0% and 55.0% of licensing revenue in fiscal
2001, 2000 and 1999.

     We monitor credit levels and the financial condition of our customers on a
continuing basis to minimize credit risk. We believe that adequate provision for
credit loss has been made in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.

     We are also subject to concentrations of credit risk with respect to our
cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, interest rate swap agreements
and forward foreign exchange contracts which we attempt to minimize by entering
into these arrangements with major banks and financial institutions and
investing in high-quality instruments. We do not expect any counterparties to
fail to meet their obligations.

11 EMPLOYEE BENEFITS

  PROFIT SHARING RETIREMENT SAVINGS PLANS

     We sponsor two defined contribution benefit plans covering substantially
all eligible U.S. employees not covered by a collective bargaining agreement.
The plans include a savings plan feature under Section 401(k) of the Internal
Revenue Code. We make discretionary contributions to the plans and contribute an
amount equal to 50% of the first 6% of an employee's contribution. Under the
terms of the plans, a participant is 100% vested in our matching and
discretionary contributions after five years of credited service. Contributions
under these plans approximated $7.4 million, $4.3 million and $8.7 million in
fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999.

  UNION PENSION

     We participate in a multi-employer pension plan and are required to make
contributions to the Union of Needletrades Industrial and Textile Employees (the
"Union") for dues based on wages paid to union employees. A portion of these
dues is allocated by the Union to a retirement fund which provides defined
benefits to substantially all unionized workers. We do not participate in the
management of the plan and have not been furnished with information with respect
to the type of benefits provided, vested and nonvested benefits or assets.

                                       F-22

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended, an
employer, upon withdrawal from or termination of a multi-employer plan, is
required to continue funding its proportionate share of the plan's unfunded
vested benefits. Such withdrawal liability was assumed in conjunction with the
acquisition of certain assets from a nonaffiliated licensee. We have no current
intention of withdrawing from the plan.

  DEFERRED COMPENSATION

     We have deferred compensation arrangements for certain key executives which
generally provide for payments upon retirement, death or termination of
employment. The amounts accrued under these plans were $18.1 million and $16.7
million at March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, and are reflected in other
noncurrent liabilities in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets. Total
compensation expense recorded was $3.2 million, $2.6 million and $2.7 million in
fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999. We fund a portion of these obligations through the
establishment of trust accounts on behalf of the executives participating in the
plans. The trust accounts are reflected in other assets in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.

12 COMMON STOCK

     All of our outstanding Class B Common Stock is owned by Mr. Ralph Lauren
and related entities and all of our outstanding Class C Common Stock is owned by
certain investment funds affiliated with The Goldman Sachs Group, Inc.
(collectively, the "GS Group"). Shares of Class B Common Stock are convertible
at any time into shares of Class A Common Stock on a one-for-one basis and may
not be transferred to anyone other than affiliates of Mr. Lauren. Shares of
Class C Common Stock are convertible at any time into shares of Class A Common
Stock on a one-for-one basis and may not be transferred to anyone other than
among members of the GS Group or, until April 15, 2002, any successor of a
member of the GS Group. The holders of Class A Common Stock generally have
rights identical to holders of Class B Common Stock and Class C Common Stock,
except that holders of Class A Common Stock and Class C Common Stock are
entitled to one vote per share and holders of Class B Common Stock are entitled
to ten votes per share. Holders of all classes of Common Stock entitled to vote
will vote together as a single class on all matters presented to the
stockholders for their vote or approval except for the election and the removal
of directors and as otherwise required by applicable law. Class A Common Stock,
Class B Common Stock and Class C Common Stock are collectively referred to
herein as "Common Stock."

13 STOCK INCENTIVE PLANS

     On June 9, 1997, our Board of Directors adopted the 1997 Long-Term Stock
Incentive Plan (the "Stock Incentive Plan"). The Stock Incentive Plan authorizes
the grant of awards to any officer or other employee, consultant to, or director
with respect to a maximum of 10.0 million shares of our Class A Common Stock
(the "Shares"), subject to adjustment to avoid dilution or enlargement of
intended benefits in the event of certain significant corporate events, which
awards may be made in the form of: (i) nonqualified stock options; (ii) stock
options intended to qualify as incentive stock options under Section 422 of the
Internal Revenue Code; (iii) stock appreciation rights; (iv) restricted stock
and/or restricted stock units; (v) performance awards; and (vi) other
stock-based awards. On June 13, 2000, our Board of Directors increased the
maximum number of Shares that can be granted under the Stock Incentive Plan to
20.0 million shares. At March 31, 2001, we had an additional 11.0 million Shares
reserved for issuance under this plan.

                                       F-23

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     On June 9, 1997, our Board of Directors adopted the 1997 Stock Option Plan
for Non-Employee Directors (the "Non-Employee Directors Plan"). Under the
Non-Employee Directors Plan, grants of options to purchase up to 500,000 Shares
may be granted to non-employee directors. Stock options vest in equal
installments over two years and expire ten years from the date of grant. In
fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, our Board of Directors granted options to purchase
12,250, 12,000 and 28,500 Shares with exercise prices equal to the stock's fair
market value on the date of grant. At March 31, 2001, we had 417,250 options
reserved for issuance under this plan.

     Stock options were granted in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999 under the plans
with an exercise price equal to the stock's fair market value on the date of
grant. These options vest in equal installments primarily over three years for
officers and other key employees and over two years for all remaining employees
and non-employee directors. The options expire ten years from the date of grant.
No compensation cost has been recognized in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements in accordance with APB No. 25. If compensation cost had
been recognized for stock options granted under the plans based on the fair
value of the stock options at the grant date in accordance with SFAS No. 123,
our historical net income and net income per share in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999
would have been reduced to the following pro forma amounts:



     We used the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to determine the fair value
of grants made. The weighted average fair value of options granted was $11.14,
$12.33 and $14.02 per share in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999. The following
assumptions were applied in determining the fair value of options granted:



                                       F-24

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Stock option activity for the Stock Incentive Plan and Non-Employee
Directors Plan in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999 was as follows:



     Additional information relating to options outstanding as of March 31,
2001, was as follows:



     In March 1998, our Board of Directors authorized the repurchase, subject to
market conditions, of up to $100.0 million of our Shares. Share repurchases were
made in the open market over the two-year period which commenced April 1, 1998.
On March 2, 2000, our Board of Directors authorized a two-year extension to the
stock repurchase program. Shares acquired under the repurchase program will be
used for stock option programs and other corporate purposes. The repurchased
Shares have been accounted for as treasury stock at cost. At March 31, 2001, we
had repurchased 3,771,806 Shares at an aggregate cost of $71.2 million.

14 COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

  LEASES

     We lease office, warehouse and retail space and office equipment under
operating leases which expire through 2029. As of March 31, 2001, aggregate
minimum annual rental payments

                                       F-25

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

under noncancelable operating leases with lease terms in excess of one year were
payable as follows:



     Rent expense charged to operations was $75.6 million, $66.7 million and
$59.6 million, net of sublease income of $2.2 million, $1.7 million and $1.6
million, in fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999. Substantially all outlet and retail
store leases provide for contingent rentals based upon sales and require us to
pay taxes, insurance and occupancy costs. Certain rentals are based solely on a
percentage of sales, and one significant lease requires a fair market value
adjustment at January 1, 2004. Contingent rental charges included in rent
expense were $6.1 million, $5.3 million and $4.1 million in fiscal 2001, 2000
and 1999.

  EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENTS

     We are party to employment agreements with certain executives which provide
for compensation and certain other benefits. The agreements also provide for
severance payments under certain circumstances.

  TAXES

     The predecessor of Poloco, which we acquired in January 2000, has been
subject to a tax audit in France for the years 1996, 1997 and 1998. In late
December 1999, the French tax authorities issued a notification preliminarily
advising that additional taxes, penalties and interest would be due for the
years in question. Poloco and its former parent, S.A. Louis Dreyfus ("Dreyfus")
are contesting the assessment. We are indemnified by Dreyfus under the purchase
agreement.

  LEGAL MATTERS

     In January 1999, two actions were filed in California naming as defendants
more than a dozen United States-based companies that source apparel garments
from Saipan (Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands) and a large number of
Saipan-based factories. The actions assert that the Saipan factories engage in
unlawful practices relating to the recruitment and employment of foreign workers
and that the apparel companies, by virtue of their alleged relationships with
the factories, have violated various Federal and state laws. One action, filed
in California Superior Court in San Francisco by a union and three public
interest groups, alleges unfair competition and false advertising and seeks
equitable relief, unspecified amounts for restitution and disgorgement of
profits, interest and an award of attorney's fees. The second, filed in Federal
Court for the Central District of California and subsequently transferred to the
United States District Court for the District of Hawaii, is brought on behalf of
a purported class consisting of the Saipan factory workers. It alleges claims
under the Federal civil RICO statute,

                                       F-26

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

Federal peonage and involuntary servitude laws, the Alien Tort Claims Act, and
state tort law, and seeks equitable relief and unspecified damages, including
treble and punitive damages, interest and an award of attorney's fees. Although
we were not named as a defendant in these suits, we source products in Saipan,
and counsel for the plaintiffs in these actions informed us that we are a
potential defendant in these or similar actions. We have since entered into an
agreement to settle any claims for nonmaterial consideration. The settlement
agreement is subject to court approval. We have denied any liability and are not
in a position to evaluate the likelihood of a favorable or unfavorable outcome
if the settlement is not approved and litigation proceeds.

     As part of the settlement, we have since been named as a defendant, along
with certain other apparel companies, in a State Court action in California
styled Union of Needletrades Industrial and Textile Employees, et al. v.
Brylane, L.P., et al., in the San Francisco County Superior Court for the
District of Hawaii, that mirrors portions of the larger State and Federal Court
actions but does not include RICO and certain of the other claims alleged in
those actions. The newly filed actions are expected to remain inactive unless
settlement is not finally approved by the Federal Court.

     We are from time to time involved in legal claims, involving trademark and
intellectual property, licensing, employee relations and other matters
incidental to our business. In our opinion, the resolution of any matter
currently pending will not have a material adverse effect on our consolidated
financial condition or results of operations.

15 QUARTERLY INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)

     The following is a summary of certain unaudited quarterly financial
information for fiscal 2001 and 2000:





                                       F-27

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

16 SEGMENT REPORTING

     We have three reportable business segments: wholesale, retail and
licensing. Our reportable segments are individual business units that offer
different products and services. The segments are managed separately because
each segment requires different strategic initiatives, promotional campaigns,
marketing, and advertising, based upon its own individual positioning in the
market. Additionally, these segments reflect the reporting basis used internally
by senior management to evaluate performance and the allocation of resources.

     Our wholesale segment consists of two operating units: Polo Brands and
Collection Brands. Each unit designs, sources, markets and distributes discrete
brands. Both units primarily sell products to major department and specialty
stores and to our owned and licensed retail stores.

     The retail segment operates two types of stores: outlet and full price
stores, including flagship stores. The stores sell our products purchased from
our wholesale segment, our licensees and our suppliers.

     The licensing segment, which consists of product, international and home
collection, generates revenues from royalties through its licensing alliances.
The licensing agreements grant the licensee rights to use our various trademarks
in connection with the manufacture and sale of designated products in specified
geographical areas.

     The accounting policies of the segments are consistent with those described
in Note 2, Significant Accounting Policies. Intersegment sales and transfers are
recorded at cost and treated as a transfer of inventory. All intercompany
revenues and profits or losses are eliminated in consolidation. We do not review
these sales when evaluating segment performance. We evaluate each segment's
performance based upon income or loss from operations before interest,
nonrecurring gains and losses and income taxes. Corporate overhead expenses are
allocated to each segment based upon each segment's usage of corporate
resources.

                                       F-28

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Our net revenues, income from operations, depreciation and amortization
expense and capital expenditures for fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, and total
assets as of March 31, 2001, April 1, 2000 and April 3, 1999, for each segment
were as follows:





                                       F-29

                 POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION AND SUBSIDIARIES

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

     Our net revenues for fiscal 2001, 2000 and 1999, and our long-lived assets
as of March 31, 2001 and April 1, 2000, by geographic location were as follows:





                                       F-30


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

TO THE BOARD OF DIRECTORS AND STOCKHOLDERS OF POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
NEW YORK, NEW YORK

     We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Polo Ralph Lauren
Corporation and subsidiaries (the "Company"), as of March 31, 2001 and April 1,
2000, and for each of the three years in the period ended March 31, 2001, and
have issued our report thereon dated May 23, 2001 (which report expresses an
unqualified opinion and includes an explanatory paragraph relating to a change
in a method of accounting), such financial statements and report are included
elsewhere in this Form 10-K. Our audits also included the consolidated financial
statement schedule of Polo Ralph Lauren Corporation and subsidiaries, listed in
Item 14. This consolidated financial statement schedule is the responsibility of
the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on this
consolidated financial statement schedule based on our audits. In our opinion,
such consolidated financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

/s/ DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP
- ------------------------------------------------
DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

New York, New York
May 23, 2001

                                       S-1


                                                                     SCHEDULE II

                         POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION
                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS
                                 (IN THOUSANDS)



- ---------------
(a) Accounts written-off as uncollectible.

                                       S-2


                         POLO RALPH LAUREN CORPORATION

                               INDEX TO EXHIBITS



                                       S-3




                                       S-4




- ---------------
 * Incorporated herein by reference.

 + Exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement.

** Portions of Exhibits 10.5 - 10.14 have been omitted pursuant to a request for
   confidential treatment and have been filed separately with the Securities and
   Exchange Commission.

                                       S-5

