
10-K
FORM 10-K



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
 
(MARK ONE)
[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934 [FEE REQUIRED]
 
FOR THE FISCAL YEAR ENDED       AUGUST 29, 1996
 
                                      OR
 
[_] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934 [NO FEE REQUIRED]
 
FOR THE TRANSITION PERIOD FROM        TO
 
COMMISSION FILE NUMBER              1-10658
 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
            (EXACT NAME OF REGISTRANT AS SPECIFIED IN ITS CHARTER)
 
                  DELAWARE                               75-1618004
       (STATE OR OTHER JURISDICTION OF                (I.R.S. EMPLOYER
       INCORPORATION OR ORGANIZATION)               IDENTIFICATION NO.)
 
8000 S. FEDERAL WAY, P.O. BOX 6, BOISE, IDAHO            83707-0006
  (ADDRESS OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICES)               (ZIP CODE)
 
REGISTRANTS TELEPHONE NUMBER, INCLUDING AREA CODE      (208) 368-4000
 
  SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION     NAME OF EACH EXCHANGE ON WHICH
              12(B) OF THE ACT:                          REGISTERED
             TITLE OF EACH CLASS                  NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE
   COMMON STOCK, PAR VALUE $.10 PER SHARE
 
          SECURITIES REGISTERED PURSUANT TO SECTION 12(G) OF THE ACT:
                                     NONE
                               (TITLE OF CLASS)
 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]
 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained to
the best of registrants knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K. [X]
 
  The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by nonaffiliates of the
registrant, based upon the closing price of such stock on August 29, 1996, as
reported by the New York Stock Exchange, was approximately $3.9 billion.
Shares of Common Stock held by each officer and director and by each person
who owns 5% or more of the outstanding Common Stock have been excluded in that
such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate
status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.
 
  The number of outstanding shares of the registrants Common Stock on August
29, 1996 was 208,834,820.
 
                      DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE
 
  Portions of the Proxy Statement for registrant's 1996 Annual Meeting of
Shareholders to be held on November 18, 1996, are incorporated by reference
into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                    PART I
 
ITEM 1. BUSINESS
 
  The following discussion contains trend information and other forward-
looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The
actual results of Micron Technology, Inc. ("MTI") could differ materially from
MTI's historical results of operations and those discussed in the forward-
looking statements. Factors that could cause actual results to differ
materially include, but are not limited to, those identified in "Item 7.
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations--Certain Factors." All period references are to MTI's fiscal
periods ended August 29, 1996, August 31, 1995 or September 1, 1994, unless
otherwise indicated.
 
GENERAL
 
  Micron Technology, Inc. and its subsidiaries (hereinafter referred to
collectively as "MTI" or the "Company") principally design, develop,
manufacture and market semiconductor memory products, personal computers
("PCs") and custom complex printed circuit board, memory module and system
level assemblies.
 
  Micron's semiconductor memory operations focus on the design, development,
manufacture and marketing of semiconductor memory components primarily for use
in PCs. The Company's primary semiconductor products are dynamic random access
memory ("DRAM") components. Micron Semiconductor Products, Inc., which began
operations on August 30, 1996, Micron Europe Limited, and Micron Semiconductor
Asia Pacific Pte., Ltd., are all wholly-owned subsidiaries of MTI, which
provide sales and support services for the Company's semiconductor operations
in North America, Europe and Asia Pacific, respectively.
 
  Micron Electronics, Inc. ("MEI") is a majority-owned, publicly traded
subsidiary of MTI. As of August 29, 1996, MTI owned approximately 79% of the
outstanding common stock of MEI. MEI's businesses include the Company's PC,
contract manufacturing and component recovery operations. MEI's PC operations
design, develop, market, manufacture and support the Micron brand name PC
systems and related hardware incorporating third-party operating systems and
application software. MEI's contract manufacturing operation provides a full
range of turnkey manufacturing services, including the assembly and test of
complex printed circuit boards, memory modules and system level assemblies,
design layout and product engineering, materials procurement, inventory
management, quality assurance and just-in-time delivery. The component
recovery operation recovers nonstandard memory components for specific
applications.
 
  Additional majority-owned subsidiaries of MTI include Micron Communications,
Inc., which designs and develops remote intelligent communications products;
Micron Construction, Inc., which provides construction management and general
contractor services; Micron Display Technology, Inc., which designs and
develops field emission flat panel displays; and Micron Quantum Devices, Inc.,
which designs and develops non-volatile semiconductor memory ("Flash")
devices.
 
  MTI was incorporated in Idaho in 1978 and reincorporated in Delaware in
1984. The Company's executive offices and principal manufacturing operations
are located at 8000 South Federal Way, Boise, Idaho, 83707-0006 and its
telephone number is (208) 368-4000.
 
PRODUCTS
 
  The Company's principal product categories are semiconductor memory products
(primarily DRAM), PC systems and custom complex printed circuit board
assemblies.
 
 

 
 SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY PRODUCTS
 
  The Company's semiconductor manufacturing operations focus primarily on the
design, development and manufacture of semiconductor memory products for
standard memory applications, with various packaging and configuration
options, architectures and performance characteristics.
 
  DYNAMIC RANDOM ACCESS MEMORY. A DRAM is a semiconductor device which stores
digital information in the form of bits and provides high speed storage and
retrieval of data. A DRAM is a high density, low cost per bit random access
memory component, and is the most widely used semiconductor memory component
in most PC systems. The Company's primary product during fiscal 1996 was the 4
Meg DRAM which sells in multiple configurations, speeds and package types.
More recently, the Company has begun to transition its manufacturing resources
to 16 Meg DRAM. At fiscal 1996 year end, approximately 50% of DRAM wafer
starts were 4 Meg and 50% were 16 Meg. The transition to the 16 Meg DRAM as
the Company's primary memory device is expected to occur in late calendar
1996. The Company is developing its 64 Meg DRAM and is in the design phase of
its 256 Meg DRAM. DRAM sales represented approximately 57%, 68% and 73% of the
Company's total net sales in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
Manufacture of the Company's DRAM products utilizes proprietary advanced
complementary metal-oxide-semiconductor ("CMOS") silicon-gate process
technology.
 
  The Company's DRAM products use Extended Data Out ("EDO") and Fast Page Mode
("FPM") technology, which in 1996 accounted for approximately 92% of all DRAM
sales in the industry. The Company expects a gradual transition by PC
manufacturers to faster types of DRAM-based main memory over the next several
years. Conventional FPM and EDO DRAM are not expected to meet the bandwidth
required for future CPU and video/graphics designs. To that end, the Company
is developing synchronous DRAM ("SDRAM") devices expected to be ready for
volume production in fiscal 1998. SDRAM is a next generation memory component
that operates faster than regular DRAM, due in part to the addition of a clock
input that synchronizes all operations and allows PC systems to run faster.
The Company is currently sampling an 8 Meg SDRAM that is designed specifically
for graphics applications and which is referred to as the synchronous graphics
random access memory ("SGRAM"). The Company continues to investigate other
designs which will allow future DRAM devices to run even faster than current
SDRAM devices.
 
  FLASH MEMORY. Flash memory devices are non-volatile semiconductor devices
which retain the contents of their memory when the power is turned off and are
electrically erasable and reprogrammable. This means Flash memory can be
updated in the system, with new revisions of code, different user parameters
or settings and data collected over time. The Company is currently sampling
the 2 Meg and 4 Meg SmartVoltage Technology Boot Block Flash. Internal
qualification of both parts is expected to occur in the fall of 1996. The
Company is also working on higher density Flash memory products to expand the
boot block family to 8 Meg and introduce lower programming voltages. The major
growth areas for Flash are expected to be in digital cellular phones and
networking applications. Workstations, servers and PC manufacturers use Flash
memory for BIOS storage with remote update facility, while combined
Flash/modem/LAN PCMCIA cards are satisfying applications requiring high
density, small packaged devices. Flash memory cards provide code and data file
storage advantages to embedded systems and portable electronics systems.
 
  STATIC RANDOM ACCESS MEMORY ("SRAM"). A SRAM is a semiconductor device which
performs memory functions much the same as a DRAM, but does not require its
memory cells to be electronically refreshed. In addition, a SRAM can be
designed to operate faster than a DRAM. A SRAM contains more complex
electronic circuitry than a DRAM, and consequently has higher per bit
production costs. The Company's SRAM family focuses on the high-performance,
or "Very Fast," sector of the SRAM market which supports cache memory
requirements in computers. Very Fast SRAM provides access times approximately
five times faster than those of a DRAM. The market for
 

 
Very Fast SRAM has grown with the number of applications that require a
"buffer" or "cache" of high speed memory between the central processing unit
and the main DRAM-based memory. The Company manufactures its SRAM products
utilizing CMOS silicon-gate process technology. The Company sells primarily 1
and 2 Meg SRAM components in a variety of configurations, speeds and package
types, and has a 4 Meg SRAM under development. SRAM sales represented 2%, 6%
and 8% of the Company's total net sales in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The Company reduced its SRAM sales due to lower profitability
relative to DRAM sales.
 
 PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS
 
  The Company designs, develops, markets, manufactures, sells and supports a
range of memory intensive, high performance desktop and notebook PC systems
and network servers under the Micron brand name. These systems use Intel
Pentium and Pentium Pro microprocessors and are assembled to order with
differing memory and storage capacities as well as operating and applications
software. The Company also offers a variety of peripheral products with its PC
systems, including monitors, modems, graphics cards, accelerators and CD-ROM
drives.
 
  The Company's assemble-to-order PC system sales and manufacturing structure
enables customers to order custom system configurations and provides customers
the flexibility to select modifications to certain standard configurations
including, among others, a wide variety of Intel Pentium and Pentium Pro
microprocessors, EDO main system memory in 8MB increments generally up to
128MB, Enhanced IDE or SCSI hard disk drives ranging from 1.0GB to 9.0GB, and
monitors ranging from 14 inch to 21 inch.
 
 CONTRACT MANUFACTURING
 
  The Company's contract manufacturing operations specialize in custom complex
printed circuit board, memory module and system level assemblies. The
manufacture of electronic products has become increasingly sophisticated and
complex and requires substantial capital investment. In response, many
original equipment manufacturers ("OEMs") are adopting manufacturing
outsourcing strategies and relying on manufacturing specialists to support
their production needs. OEMs generally use contract manufacturers to gain
access to leading manufacturing expertise, reduce time to market, enhance
their financial flexibility and improve inventory management. The Company's
contract manufacturing operations consist of assembling and testing complex
printed circuit boards, memory modules and "box build" final product assembly
services. In addition to assembly and test functions, the Company offers a
broad range of manufacturing services, including design lay-out and product
engineering, materials procurement, turnkey and consignment inventory
management, quality assurance and just-in-time delivery.
 
MANUFACTURING
 
 SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY PRODUCTS
 
  The manufacturing of the Company's semiconductor products is a complex
process and involves a number of precise steps, including wafer fabrication,
assembly, burn-in and final test. Efficient production of the Company's
semiconductor memory products requires utilization of advanced semiconductor
manufacturing techniques. Manufacturing cost per unit is primarily a function
of die size (since the potential number of good die per wafer increases with
reduced die size), number of mask layers and the yield of acceptable die
produced on each wafer. Other contributing factors are wafer size, number of
fabrication steps, cost and sophistication of the manufacturing equipment,
package type, equipment utilization, process complexity and cleanliness. The
Company is engaged in ongoing efforts to enhance its production processes to
reduce the die size of existing products and increase capacity utilization.
Smaller die sizes and higher production yields generally reduce manufacturing
cost per unit.
 
 

 
  The Company's semiconductor manufacturing facility in Boise, Idaho includes
two wafer fabs ("Fab I" and "Fab III") equipped with diffusion tubes,
photolithography systems, ion implant equipment, chemical vapor deposition
reactors, sputtering systems, plasma and wet etchers and automated mask
inspection systems. The production facility operates in 12-hour shifts, 24
hours per day and 7 days per week to reduce down time during shift changes,
and to reduce total fabrication costs by maximizing utilization of fabrication
facilities. Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled, clean environment
to minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting contaminants. Despite
stringent manufacturing controls, equipment does not consistently perform
flawlessly and minute impurities, defects in the photomasks or other
difficulties in the process may cause a substantial percentage of the wafers
to be rejected or individual circuits to be nonfunctional. The success of the
Company's manufacturing operation will be largely dependent on its ability to
minimize such impurities and to maximize its yield of acceptable, high-quality
circuits. In this regard, the Company employs rigorous quality controls
throughout the manufacturing, screening and testing processes.
 
  After fabrication, each silicon wafer is separated into individual die.
Functional die are connected to external leads by extremely fine wire and are
assembled into plastic packages. Each completed package is then inspected,
sealed and tested. The assembly process uses high-speed automatic systems such
as wire bonders, as well as semi-automatic plastic encapsulation and solder
systems. The Company tests its products at various stages in the manufacturing
process, performs high temperature burn-in on finished products and conducts
numerous quality control inspections throughout the entire production flow. In
addition, through the utilization of its proprietary AMBYX(R) line of
intelligent test and burn-in systems, the Company simultaneously conducts
circuit testing of all die during the burn-in process, improving quality and
reliability data, and reducing testing time and cost.
 
  The Fab III wafer fab was converted to 8-inch wafer processing during fiscal
1996. Completion of the conversion of Fab I to 8-inch wafers is anticipated
prior to the end of calendar 1996. Completion of the Company's semiconductor
memory manufacturing facility in Lehi, Utah, is on indefinite hold. See "Item
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations--Certain Factors--Manufacturing Risks and Volume Production."
 
 PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS
 
  The Company's PC system manufacturing process is designed to provide custom-
configured PC products to its customers, and includes assembling components,
loading software and testing each system prior to shipment. The Company's PC
systems are generally assembled to customer specifications. Parts and
components required for each customer order are selected from inventory and
are prepared for assembly into a customized PC system. The Company's desktop
PC systems are generally assembled in its own facilities. The Company's
notebook PC systems are designed to include feature sets defined by the
Company but are assembled by a third-party supplier and sent to the Company
for final custom configuration and testing.
 
 CONTRACT MANUFACTURING
 
  Nearly all of the products manufactured by the Company's contract
manufacturing operations are assembled utilizing surface mount technology
("SMT") whereby the leads on integrated circuits and other electronic
components are soldered to the surface of printed circuit boards. SMT assembly
requires expensive capital equipment and a high level of process expertise.
The Company has seven SMT lines in its Boise, Idaho facility, which are
currently being relocated to the Company's new Nampa, Idaho facility. In
addition, the Company has three SMT lines at its Durham, North Carolina
facility. The Company also utilizes chip on board ("COB") technology in its
manufacturing processes. This emerging technology in packaging is typically
utilized for high pin count integrated circuits.
 
 

 
AVAILABILITY OF RAW MATERIALS
 
 SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY PRODUCTS
 
  Raw materials utilized by the Company's semiconductor memory manufacturing
operation generally must meet exacting product specifications. The Company
generally uses multiple sources of supply, but the number of suppliers capable
of delivering certain raw materials is very limited. The availability of raw
materials, such as silicon wafers, molding compound and lead frames, may
decline due to the overall increase in worldwide semiconductor manufacturing.
Although shortages have occurred from time to time and lead times in the
industry have been extended on occasion, to date the Company has not
experienced any significant interruption in operations as a result of a
difficulty in obtaining raw materials for its semiconductor memory
manufacturing operations. Interruption of any one raw material source could
adversely affect the Company's operations.
 
 PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS
 
  The Company relies on third-party suppliers for its PC system components and
seeks to identify suppliers which can provide state-of-the-art technology,
product quality and prompt delivery at competitive prices. The Company
purchases substantially all of its PC components, subassemblies and software
from suppliers on a purchase order basis and generally does not have long-term
supply arrangements with its suppliers. Any interruption in the supply of any
of the components, subassemblies and software currently obtained from a single
source or relatively few sources, or a decrease in the general availability of
any other components, subassemblies or software used in the Company's PC
systems, could result in production delays and adversely affect the Company's
business and results of operations.
 
 CONTRACT MANUFACTURING
 
  The Company's contract manufacturing operations use numerous suppliers for
the electronic components and materials, including RAM components, used in its
operations. Shortages of certain types of electronic components have occurred
in the past and may occur in the future. The Company's contract manufacturing
operations procure its materials and components based on purchase orders
received and accepted from its customers while seeking to minimize its overall
level of inventory. Components shortages or price fluctuations could have an
adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
 
MARKETING AND CUSTOMERS
 
 SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY PRODUCTS
 
  The semiconductor memory industry is characterized by rapid technological
change, relatively short product life cycles, frequent product introductions
and enhancements, difficult product transitions and volatile market
conditions. Historically, the semiconductor industry, and the DRAM market in
particular, have been highly cyclical.
 
  The Company's primary semiconductor memory products are essentially
interchangeable with, and have similar functionality to, products offered by
the Company's competition. Customers for the Company's semiconductor memory
products include major domestic computer manufacturers and others in the
computer, telecommunications and office automation industries. The Company
markets its semiconductor memory products worldwide through independent sales
representatives, distributors and its own direct sales force. The Company also
maintains semiconductor sales offices in the United Kingdom, Germany,
Singapore and Taiwan. Sales representatives are compensated on a commission
basis and obtain orders subject to final acceptance by the Company. Shipments
against these orders are made directly to the customer by the Company.
Distributors carry the Company's products in
 

 
inventory and typically sell a variety of other semiconductor products,
including competitors' products. Semiconductor memory products sold through
distributors approximated 8%, 10% and 12% of total net sales of such products
in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
  Many of MTI's customers require a thorough review or "qualification" of new
semiconductor memory products and processes which may take several months. As
the Company diversifies its product lines and reduces the die sizes of
existing memory products, acceptance of these products and processes is
subject to this qualification procedure. There can be no assurance that new
products or processes will be qualified for purchase by existing or potential
customers.
 
  Sales to Compaq Computer Corporation represented approximately 11%, 11% and
13% of the Company's net sales of semiconductor memory products for fiscal
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Sales to Intel Corporation represented
approximately 11% of the Company's net sales of semiconductor memory products
in fiscal 1995. No other customer individually accounted for 10% or more of
the Company's net sales of semiconductor memory products.
 
 PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS
 
  The Company's direct marketing approach is aimed toward PC users who
evaluate products based on performance, price, reliability, service and
support. The Company's PC customer base is comprised primarily of individuals,
small to medium sized businesses, and governmental and educational entities.
The Company markets its PC systems primarily by strategically placing
advertisements in personal computer trade publications, submitting its
products for review and evaluation by these publications and advertising its
products on its home page on the Internet. The Company also markets its PC
systems through direct-mail campaigns and sells a limited number of PCs
through its three factory outlet stores located in Idaho, Minnesota and Utah.
In addition, the Company sells its PC products through strategic relationships
with third parties having large government procurement contracts.
 
  By focusing on the direct sales channel, the Company is able to avoid dealer
markups typically experienced in the retail sales channel, can limit inventory
carrying costs and can maintain closer contact with its target markets. Direct
sales orders are received primarily via telephone, facsimile and from the
Company's home page on the Internet. The Company's sales representatives
assist customers in determining system configuration, compatibility and
current pricing. Customers generally order systems configured with varying
feature sets differentiated by microprocessor speed, hard drive capacity,
amount of memory, monitor size and resolution and bundled software, as well as
other features. The Company offers its customers a variety of payment
alternatives, including commercial trade terms, lease financing, cash on
delivery, its own private label credit card and other credit cards.
 
 CONTRACT MANUFACTURING
 
  The Company markets its contract manufacturing services through a direct
sales force that interfaces with independent sales representatives and OEMs.
The Company's contract manufacturing marketing efforts include participating
in industry conferences and publishing articles in trade journals.
 
EXPORT SALES
 
  Export sales totalled approximately $940 million for fiscal 1996, including
approximately $375 million to Europe, $320 million to Asia Pacific and
approximately $80 million to Japan. Export sales approximated $750 million and
$470 million for fiscal 1995 and 1994, respectively. Export sales are
transacted primarily in United States dollars. The Company incurs import
duties on sales into Europe of up to 7% of the product value.
 
 

 
BACKLOG
 
 SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY PRODUCTS
 
  The Company primarily manufactures and markets standard memory products. The
rate of booking new orders varies from month to month and depends upon the
ordering practices of individual customers. Cyclical industry conditions make
it difficult for many customers to enter into long-term, fixed-price
contracts. Orders for the Company's semiconductor memory products are
typically accepted with acknowledgment that the terms may be adjusted to
reflect market conditions at the delivery date. For the foregoing reasons, and
because of the possibility of customer changes in delivery schedules or
cancellation of orders without significant penalty, the Company does not
believe that its backlog of semiconductor memory products as of any particular
date is firm or a reliable indicator of actual sales for any succeeding
period.
 
 PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS
 
  Levels of unfilled orders for PC systems fluctuate depending upon component
availability, demand for certain products and the Company's production
schedules. Customers frequently change delivery schedules and orders depending
on market conditions and other reasons. Unfilled orders can be canceled by the
customer prior to shipment. As of August 29, 1996, the Company had unfilled
orders for PC systems of approximately $63 million compared to $46 million as
of August 31, 1995. The Company anticipates that substantially all of the
unfilled orders as of August 29, 1996, other than those subsequently canceled,
will be shipped within 45 days. Due to a customer's ability to cancel or
reschedule orders without penalty, industry seasonality and customer buying
patterns, unfilled orders may not be representative of actual sales for any
succeeding period.
 
 CONTRACT MANUFACTURING
 
  Backlog generally consists of purchase orders believed to be firm that are
expected to be filled within the next three months. Backlog for the Company's
contract manufacturing operations as of August 29, 1996 and August 31, 1995
was approximately $52 million and $95 million, respectively. The primary
reason for the decline from August 31, 1995 to August 29, 1996 was the decline
in selling prices for semiconductor memory. Because of variations in the
timing of orders, delivery intervals, material availability, customer and
product mix and delivery schedules, among other reasons, the Company's
contract manufacturing backlog as of any particular date may not be
representative of actual sales for any succeeding period.
 
PRODUCT WARRANTY
 
  Consistent with semiconductor memory industry practice, the Company
generally provides a limited warranty that its semiconductor memory and
contract manufactured products are in compliance with specifications existing
at the time of delivery. Liability for a stated warranty period is usually
limited to replacement of defective items or return of amounts paid.
 
  Customers may generally return PC products within 30 days after shipment for
a full refund of the purchase price. The Company generally sells each PC
system with the Micron PowerWarranty, a five-year limited warranty on the
microprocessor and main memory in its PC systems and a three-year limited
warranty on the remaining hardware, covering repair or replacement for defects
in workmanship or materials.
 
COMPETITION
 
 SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY PRODUCTS
 
  The Company's semiconductor memory operations experience intense competition
from a number of substantially larger foreign and domestic companies,
including Fujitsu, Ltd., Hitachi, Ltd., Hyundai
 

 
Electronics, Co., Ltd., Mitsubishi Electric Corp., Motorola, Inc., NEC Corp.,
Samsung Semiconductor, Inc., LG Semicon, Texas Instruments Incorporated and
Toshiba Corporation. The Company has captured only a small percentage of the
semiconductor memory market and may be at a disadvantage in competing against
larger manufacturers with significantly greater capital resources or
manufacturing capacities, larger engineer and employee bases, larger portfolios
of intellectual property and more diverse product lines. The Company's larger
competitors may also have long-term advantages in research and new product
development and in their ability to withstand current or future downturns in
the semiconductor memory market. In addition, the Company believes its
competitors have sufficient resources and manufacturing capacity to influence
market pricing.
 
  Although recently some of the Company's competitors have announced
adjustments to the rate at which they will implement capacity expansion
programs, many of the Company's competitors have already added new wafer
fabrication facilities, significantly increasing worldwide capacity for the
production of semiconductor memory products. Excess supply resulting from
increased worldwide semiconductor manufacturing capacity, improved
manufacturing yields and changes in demand for semiconductor memory have
resulted in downward pricing pressure.
 
 PERSONAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS
 
  Competition in the PC industry is based primarily upon performance, price,
reliability, service and support. The PC industry is highly competitive and
has been characterized by intense pricing pressure, rapid technological
advances in hardware and software, frequent introduction of new products, low
gross margin percentages and rapidly declining component costs. The Company
believes that the rate of growth in worldwide sales of PC systems,
particularly in the United States, where the Company sells a substantial
majority of its PC systems, has declined and may remain below the growth rates
experienced in recent years. Any general decline in demand, or a decline in
the rate of increase of demand, for PC systems could increase price
competition and could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business
and results of operations. To remain competitive, the Company must frequently
introduce new products and price its products and offer customers lead times
comparable to its competitors. In addition, to remain competitive, MEI
generally reduces the selling prices of its PC systems in connection with
declines in its cost of components. The Company competes with a number of PC
manufacturers which sell their products primarily through direct channels,
including Dell Computer, Inc. and Gateway 2000, Inc. The Company also competes
with PC manufacturers, such as Apple Computer, Inc., Compaq Computer
Corporation, Hewlett Packard Company, International Business Machines
Corporation and Toshiba Corporation, among others, which have traditionally
sold their products through national and regional distributors, dealers and
value added resellers, retail stores and direct sales forces. Many of the
Company's PC competitors offer broader product lines and have substantially
greater financial, technical, marketing and other resources than the Company
and may enjoy access to more favorable component volume purchasing
arrangements than does the Company. In addition, as a result of PC industry
standards, the Company and its competitors generally use many of the same
components, typically from the same set of suppliers, which limits the
Company's ability to technologically and functionally differentiate its
products. In the future, the Company expects to face increased competition in
the U.S. direct sales market from foreign PC suppliers and from indirect
domestic suppliers of PC products that decide to implement, or devote
additional resources to, a direct sales strategy. In order to gain an
increased share of the U.S. PC direct sales market, these competitors may
effect a pricing strategy that is more aggressive than the current pricing in
the direct sales market. The Company's ability to continue to produce
competitively priced products and to maintain existing gross margin
percentages will depend, in large part, on the Company's ability to sustain
high levels of sales and contain and reduce manufacturing and component costs.
Any failure by the Company to transition to new products effectively or to
accurately forecast demand for its products may adversely affect the Company's
business and results of operations.
 
 

 
 CONTRACT MANUFACTURING
 
  The contract manufacturing industry is highly competitive. The Company's
contract manufacturing operations compete against numerous domestic and
offshore contract manufacturers, including a significant number of local and
regional companies. In addition, the Company competes against in- house
manufacturing capabilities of certain of its existing customers as well as
with certain large computer manufacturers which also offer third-party
contract manufacturing services. The Company's contract manufacturing
competitors include, among others, Avex Electronics, Inc., Benchmark
Electronics, Inc., Celestica Inc., DOVAtron International, Inc., Flextronics
International, Group Technologies Corporation, Jabil Circuits, Inc., Sanmina
Corporation, SCI Systems, Inc. and Solectron Corporation. Many of the
Company's competitors have substantially greater manufacturing, financial and
marketing resources than the Company and have manufacturing operations at
multiple domestic and overseas locations.
 
  The Company believes the significant competitive factors in contract
manufacturing include service, quality, price, technology, location and the
ability to offer flexible delivery schedules and deliver finished products on
an expeditious and timely basis in accordance with customers' expectations.
There can be no assurance that the Company will compete successfully in the
future with regard to these factors. The Company may be at a disadvantage as
to certain competitive factors when compared to manufacturers with greater
resources than the Company, substantial offshore facilities or substantially
larger domestic facilities. In order to remain competitive, the Company may be
required to expand its contract manufacturing capacity and may be required to
establish additional international operations. There can be no assurance the
Company will be successful in expanding its contract manufacturing operations
on a timely and efficient basis. The failure to do so could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
 
RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 
  Rapid technological change and intense price competition place a premium on
both new product and new process development efforts. The Company's continued
ability to compete in the semiconductor memory market will depend in part on
its ability to continue to develop technologically advanced products and
processes, of which there can be no assurance. Research and development is
being performed in strategic areas related to the Company's semiconductor
expertise. Total research and development expenditures for the Company were
$192 million, $129 million and $83 million in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994,
respectively.
 
  Research and development expenses vary primarily with the number of wafers
and personnel dedicated to new product and process development. The Company's
research and development efforts are currently focused principally on further
development of shrink versions of the 16 Meg DRAM. Development efforts are
also focused on 16 Meg and 64 Meg SDRAM and a move from .35 (mu) process
technology to .25 (mu) and .18 (mu) process technology. Other research and
development efforts are currently devoted to design of the 64 Meg, 256 Meg and
1 Gig DRAMs, and design and development of new technologies including remote
intelligent communications products and Flash semiconductor memory products.
 
  The Company maintains a PC research and development operation which had
approximately 30 employees as of August 29, 1996. This research and
development group focuses its efforts on PC systems, including: motherboards;
core logic; embedded PCs, such as those used in point of sale terminal and
telecommunication systems; PC BIOS development; and other PC products the
Company may choose to develop.
 
PATENTS AND LICENSES
 
  As of August 29, 1996, the Company owned approximately 1,100 United States
patents and 85 foreign patents relating to the use of its products and
processes. In addition, the Company has
 

 
numerous United States and foreign patent applications pending. There can be
no assurance that patents will be issued for such applications or that any
patents, if issued, will be determined to be valid. The Company intends to
continue to seek patent protection on its significant patentable technology.
 
  The Company has entered into several cross-license agreements with third
parties. The agreements typically require one-time and/or periodic royalty
payments and expire at various times. One-time payments are typically
capitalized and amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the
technology, the patent term or the term of the agreement. Royalty and other
product and process technology expenses were $150 million, $203 million and
$128 million in fiscal 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. In the future, it
may be necessary or advantageous for the Company to obtain additional patent
licenses or to renew existing license agreements. The Company is unable to
predict whether these license agreements can be obtained or renewed on terms
acceptable to the Company. Failure to obtain or renew such licenses could
result in litigation and the attendant cost and diversion of resources
associated therewith and could also result in material changes in the
Company's production processes or products. An adverse decision on any such
litigation or a requirement to effect material changes could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations. See "Item
7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations--Certain Factors--Intellectual Property Matters."
 
EMPLOYEES
 
  As of August 29, 1996, MTI had approximately 9,900 full-time employees,
including approximately 6,900 in the semiconductor memory manufacturing
operation (including component recovery operations), 1,950 in the PC operation
and 750 in the contract manufacturing operation. Employment levels can vary
depending on market conditions and the level of utilization of the Company's
production, research and product and process development and administrative
support activities. Many of the Company's employees are highly-skilled and the
Company's continued success will depend in part upon its ability to retain
such employees. None of the Company's employees are represented by a labor
organization, the Company has never had a work stoppage as a result of labor
issues and the Company considers relations with employees to be satisfactory.
 
ENVIRONMENTAL COMPLIANCE
 
  Government regulations impose various environmental controls on the
discharge of chemicals and gasses used in the Company's manufacturing
processes. The Company believes that its activities conform to present
environmental regulations. While the Company has not experienced any
materially adverse effects on its operations from government regulations,
there can be no assurance that changes in such regulations will not impose the
need for additional capital equipment or other compliance requirements.
Additionally, the extensive process required to obtain permits for expansion
of the Company's facilities may impact how quickly the Company can respond to
increases in market demand.
 

 
OFFICERS AND DIRECTORS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
  The officers and directors of the Company and their ages as of September 30,
1996 are as follows:
 

 
  Steven R. Appleton joined MTI in February 1983 and has served in various
capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Appleton first became an
officer of MTI in August 1989 and has served in various officer positions,
including overseeing the Company's semiconductor operations as President and
Chief Executive Officer of Micron Semiconductor, Inc. ("MSI"), then a wholly-
owned subsidiary of MTI, from July 1992 to November 1994. Except for a nine
day period in January 1996, since May 1994 Mr. Appleton has served as a member
of MTI's Board of Directors and since September 1994 Mr. Appleton has served
as the Chief Executive Officer, President and Chairman of the Board of
Directors of MTI. Mr. Appleton also serves as a member of the Board of
Directors of MEI. Mr. Appleton holds a BA in Business Management from Boise
State University.
 
  Donald D. Baldwin joined MTI in April 1984 and has served in various
capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Baldwin first became an
officer of MTI in May 1991 and has served in various officer positions,
including Vice President, Sales of MSI from July 1992 to November 1994.
Mr. Baldwin has served as Vice President, Sales for MTI since November 1994.
Mr. Baldwin holds a BA in Marketing from Boise State University.
 
  Kipp A. Bedard joined MTI in November 1983 and has served in various
manufacturing and sales positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr.
Bedard first became an officer of MTI in April 1990 and has served in various
officer positions, including Vice President, Corporate Affairs of MSI from
July 1992 to January 1994. Mr. Bedard has served as Vice President, Corporate
Affairs for MTI since January 1994. Mr. Bedard holds a BBA in Accounting from
Boise State University.
 
  Eugene H. Cloud joined MTI in January 1985 and has served in various
capacities with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Cloud first became an
officer of MTI in April 1990 and has served in various officer positions,
including Vice President, Marketing of MSI from July 1992 to November
 

 
1994. Mr. Cloud has served as Vice President, Marketing for MTI since November
1994. Mr. Cloud holds a BS in Electrical Engineering from Texas A&M University
and a MS in Electrical Engineering from Arizona State University.
 
  Robert M. Donnelly joined MTI in September 1988 and has served in various
technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Donnelly first
became an officer of MTI in August 1989 and has served in various officer
positions, including Vice President, SRAM Products Group of MSI from July 1992
to November 1994. Mr. Donnelly was named Vice President, SRAM Products Group
for MTI in November 1994. Mr. Donnelly has served as Vice President, SRAM
Design and Product Engineering for MTI since October 1995. Mr. Donnelly holds
a BS in Electrical Engineering from the University of Louisville.
 
  D. Mark Durcan joined MTI in 1984 as a diffusion engineer. Since that time
he has held a series of positions of increasing responsibility with the
Company and its subsidiaries, including Manager of Process Research and
Development. Since July 1996, Mr. Durcan has served as Vice President, Process
Research and Development. Mr. Durcan holds a BS and MS in Chemical Engineering
from Rice University.
 
  Jay L. Hawkins joined MTI in March 1984 and has served in various
manufacturing positions for the Company and its subsidiaries, including
Director of Manufacturing for MSI from July 1992 to November 1994 and Director
of Manufacturing for MTI from November 1994 to February 1996. Since February
1996, Mr. Hawkins has served as Vice President, Manufacturing Administration.
Mr. Hawkins holds a BBA in Marketing from Boise State University.
 
  Edward J. Heitzeberg joined MTI in January 1984 and has served in various
technical positions with the Company and its subsidiaries. Mr. Heitzeberg
first became an officer of MTI in August 1989 and has served in various
officer positions, including Vice President, Quality of MSI from July 1992 to
November 1994 and Vice President, Quality of MTI from November 1994 to October
1995. Since November 1994, Mr. Heitzeberg has performed the duties of Vice
President, DRAM Design, Product Engineering and Quality Assurance of MTI. From
February 1996 through September 1996, Mr. Heitzeberg served as a member of the
MTI Board of Directors. Mr. Heitzeberg holds a BS in Electrical Engineering
from the University of Texas and a MS in Electrical Engineering from Southern
Methodist University.
 
  Leo B. Jurica joined MTI in March 1983 and has served in various positions
for the Company and its subsidiaries, including Manager of Special Projects
for MSI from July 1992 to November 1994. Since February 1996, Mr. Jurica has
served as Vice President, Lehi Operations for MTI.
 
  Roderic W. Lewis joined MTI in 1991 as Associate General Counsel. He became
Assistant General Counsel in 1993. From April 1995 to July 1996, Mr. Lewis
served as Vice President, General Counsel and Corporate Secretary for MEI.
Since July 1996, Mr. Lewis has served as Vice President, General Counsel and
Corporate Secretary for MTI. Mr. Lewis holds a BA in Economics and Asian
Studies from Brigham Young University and a JD from Columbia University School
of Law.
 
  Nancy M. Self joined MTI in February 1988 as a benefits specialist. In July
1988, she was named Benefits Manager and served in that position until July
1989, when she was named Risk Manager. Since March 1993, Ms. Self has served
as Vice President, Administration. Ms. Self holds a BA in Consumer Economics
from Idaho State University and an MBA from Boise State University.
 
  Steven L. Stout joined MTI in September 1983 and has served in various
positions for the Company and its subsidiaries, including Plant Operations
Manager for MSI from January 1993 to November 1994. Since February 1996, Mr.
Stout has served as Vice President, Facilities for MTI.
 

 
  Wilbur G. Stover, Jr. joined MTI in June 1989 and has served in various
financial positions with the Company and its subsidiaries, including
Controller from February 1990 to July 1992 and Vice President, Finance and
Chief Financial Officer of MSI from August 1992 to September 1994. Since
September 1994, Mr. Stover has served as MTI's Chief Financial Officer and
Vice President, Finance. From October 1994 through September 1996, Mr. Stover
served as a member of the MTI Board of Directors. Mr. Stover holds a BA in
Business Administration from Washington State University.
 
  Jerry M. Hess has served as Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of J.M.
Hess Construction Company, Inc. since 1959. Mr. Hess was elected to the Board
of Directors of MTI in 1994. Mr. Hess also serves as a director of MEI.
 
  Robert A. Lothrop served as Senior Vice President of the J.R. Simplot
Company, a food processing, fertilizer and agricultural chemicals
manufacturing company, from January 1986 until his retirement in January 1991.
He was elected to the Board of Directors of MTI in 1986. In 1992, he was
elected to the Board of Directors of MSI and resigned as a director of MTI.
Mr. Lothrop was re-elected to MTI's Board of Directors in 1994. Mr. Lothrop
also serves as a director of MEI.
 
  Thomas T. Nicholson serves as Vice President of Honda of Seattle. Mr.
Nicholson also serves as President of Mountain View Equipment, a farm
equipment dealership, and is a partner of CL&T Land & Livestock. He has served
on MTI's Board of Directors since 1980.
 
  Don J. Simplot served as the President of Simplot Financial Corporation, a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the J.R. Simplot Company, from February 1985 until
January 1992. In April 1994, Mr. Don J. Simplot was appointed as a member of
the Office of the Chairman of the J.R. Simplot Company. He has served on the
Board of Directors of MTI since 1982. Mr. Don Simplot is also a Director of
AirSensors, Inc., an alternative fuel conversion equipment company.
 
  John R. Simplot founded and served as the Chairman of the Board of Directors
of the J.R. Simplot Company prior to his retirement in April 1994. Mr. John R.
Simplot currently serves as Chairman Emeritus of the J.R. Simplot Company. He
has served on MTI's Board of Directors since 1980. Mr. Simplot also serves as
a director of MEI.
 
  Gordon C. Smith served in various management positions from July 1980 until
January 1992 for Simplot Financial Corporation, a wholly-owned subsidiary of
the J.R. Simplot Company. From May 1988 until his retirement in March 1994,
Mr. Smith served as the President and Chief Executive Officer of the J.R.
Simplot Company. He was elected to the Board of Directors of MTI in 1990.
 
  Effective as of September 29, 1996, Edward J. Heitzeberg, Tyler A. Lowrey
and Wilbur G. Stover, Jr. resigned as directors of MTI. The Board of Directors
of MTI has formed a nominating committee to identify potential independent
directors who have outside industry expertise and experience. Mr. Stover
continues to serve as Chief Financial Officer and Vice President, Finance, and
Mr. Heitzeberg remains as Vice President, DRAM Design, Product Engineering and
Quality Assurance. Mr. Lowrey, who formerly served as Chief Operations Officer
of the Company, is currently expected to focus his efforts on research and
development of advanced process technology. See "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--
Certain Factors--Dependence on Key Personnel."
 
  There is no family relationship between any director or executive officer of
the Company, except between John R. Simplot and Don J. Simplot, who are father
and son, respectively.
 

 
ITEM 2. PROPERTIES
 
  The Company's principal semiconductor manufacturing, engineering,
administrative, and support facilities are located on an approximately 820
acre site in Boise, Idaho. All facilities have been constructed since 1981 and
are owned by the Company. The Company has approximately 1.9 million square
feet of building space at this primary site. Of the total, approximately
515,000 square feet is production space, 571,000 square feet is facility
support space, and 808,000 square feet is office and other space.
 
  The Company's principal PC manufacturing, contract manufacturing and
component recovery operations are located on a 100 acre site in Nampa, Idaho.
All facilities are owned by the Company. The Company has approximately 577,000
square feet of building space at the Nampa site. Of the total, approximately
136,000 square feet is PC manufacturing space, 146,000 square feet is contract
manufacturing space, 40,000 square feet is component recovery space, and the
balance is office and other space. The Company has a 60,000 square feet leased
facility in Minneapolis, Minnesota for sales, support and administration of PC
operations as well as a 61,000 square foot leased facility in Durham, North
Carolina, with approximately 43,000 square feet for contract manufacturing
space and 18,000 square feet for office and other space.
 
  In fiscal 1995 the Company initiated construction of an approximate 2
million square foot semiconductor memory manufacturing facility in Lehi, Utah.
The completion of the Lehi facility is on indefinite hold. As of August 29,
1996, the Company had incurred construction costs of approximately $600
million to build the facility. Market conditions for semiconductor memory
products will dictate if and when the Lehi complex is completed and production
begins.
 
  Equipment with a book value of approximately $301 million is pledged as
collateral for outstanding debt and capital leases as of August 29, 1996.
 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS
 
  The Company is a party in various legal actions arising out of the normal
course of business, none of which is expected to have a material effect on the
Company's business and results of operations. See "Item 7. Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--
Certain Factors."
 
ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS
 
  There were no matters submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of fiscal 1996.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS
 
 MARKET FOR COMMON STOCK
 
  Micron Technology, Inc.'s common stock is listed on the New York Stock
Exchange and is traded under the symbol "MU." The following table represents
the high and low sales prices for the Company's common stock for each quarter
of fiscal 1996 and 1995, as reported by The Wall Street Journal. All stock
prices have been restated to reflect a 2 for 1 stock split (to shareholders of
record as of May 4, 1995) effected in the form of a stock dividend.
 

 
 HOLDERS OF RECORD
 
  As of August 29, 1996, there were 12,379 shareholders of record of the
Company's Common Stock.
 
 DIVIDENDS
 
  The Company declared and paid cash dividends totaling $0.15 during fiscal
1996, $0.15 during fiscal 1995 and $0.06 in fiscal 1994. Future dividends, if
any, will vary depending on the Company's profitability and anticipated
capital requirements.
 
ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA
 

 
  See "Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and
Results of Operations--Certain Factors."
 

 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
       RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  The following discussion contains trend information and other forward
looking statements that involve a number of risks and uncertainties. The
Company's actual results could differ materially from the Company's historical
results of operations and those discussed in the forward-looking statements.
Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially include, but are
not limited to, those identified in "Certain Factors." All period references
are to the Company's fiscal periods ended August 29, 1996, August 31, 1995 or
September 1, 1994, unless otherwise indicated.
 
OVERVIEW
 
  The Company designs, develops, manufactures and markets semiconductor memory
products, primarily DRAM, for use in PCs. Through its majority-owned
subsidiary, MEI, the Company also designs, develops, markets, manufactures and
supports Micron brand PC systems, and operates a contract manufacturing and
component recovery business.
 
  The Company's semiconductor memory products are commodity products, the
price and profitability of which are highly dependent on overall supply-demand
dynamics in the industry. Historically, the semiconductor memory industry has
experienced declines in average selling prices commensurate with the
industry's ability to reduce cost per megabit. Consequently, the Company's
operating results are significantly affected by the Company's ability to
reduce cost per megabit commensurate with, or at a rate greater than,
reductions in average selling prices. Cost reductions are effected through
design and ramp up of shrink products, maximizing yield of good die produced
and maximizing equipment capacity utilization. The Company's gross margins
from fiscal 1993 through fiscal 1995 benefited from the Company's ability to
effect such cost reductions while DRAM average sales prices remained
relatively stable. From December 1995 through August 1996, the average selling
price of the Company's 4 Meg DRAM fell 78% as industry supply exceeded demand.
Gross margins for the three fiscal quarters ended August 29, 1996 decreased
sequentially as a result of the sharp decline in average selling prices for
semiconductor memory products at a rate exceeding the Company's ability to
effect cost reductions for such products.
 
  As DRAM prices have fallen and as unit shipments of PC systems have
increased, the Company's consolidated operating results have been increasingly
affected by the results of the PC operations of MEI. While sales of PC
systems, less the sales of the Company's semiconductor memory included
therein, constituted approximately 31% of the Company's total net sales for
fiscal 1996, such sales in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996 constituted
approximately 50% of the Company's total net sales. Unit sales of PC systems
increased in fiscal 1996 compared to fiscal 1995 principally due to increased
name recognition and market acceptance of Micron brand PC products. While
sales of PC systems generally continued to have a lower gross margin
percentage than sales of the Company's semiconductor memory products in 1996,
the gross margin percentage on sales of PC systems increased in 1996 compared
to 1995 and was higher than the gross margin percentage on sales of
semiconductor memory products in the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996. Any
reduction in MTI's ownership percentage of MEI, whether caused by future
dispositions of shares of common stock of MEI by MTI or issuances of shares of
common stock by MEI, will have the effect of reducing MTI's share of future
results of operations of MEI.
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
  Net income for 1996 was $593 million, or $2.76 per fully diluted share, on
net sales of $3,654 million. The higher level of net sales in 1996 principally
resulted from increased production of semiconductor memory products and an
increase in PC system sales, which were offset in part by a sharp decline in
average selling prices for semiconductor memory products. The decrease in
average selling prices for the Company's semiconductor memory products in 1996
at a rate faster than the Company's reductions in cost per megabit resulted in
lower net income in 1996 as compared to 1995. Net income for 1995 was $844
million, or $3.90 per fully diluted share, on net sales of $2,953 million.
 

 
  The Company's results of operations in fiscal 1996 were adversely affected
by a restructuring charge of $29.6 million associated with the discontinuation
of sales of ZEOS brand PC systems and the closing of the related PC
manufacturing operations in Minneapolis, Minnesota.
 
 NET SALES
 
  The following table presents the Company's net sales by principal product or
service. The caption "Other" principally includes revenue from contract
manufacturing and from module assembly services. Net sales of semiconductor
memory products include sales of such products incorporated in MEI personal
computer systems and other products. Corresponding amounts excluded from sales
of personal computer systems and other products ($183.7 million, $182.5
million and $81.6 million in 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively) equal the
aggregate purchase prices paid by MEI to MTI for semiconductor memory
products.
 

 
  Net sales in 1996 increased by 24% over 1995, principally due to a higher
level of production of semiconductor memory and a higher level of net sales of
PC systems. The effect on net sales of increased production of semiconductor
memory products was offset by a sharp decline in average selling prices. Net
sales of semiconductor memory products declined as a percentage of total net
sales to 60% in 1996 from 77% in 1995, due to the sharp decline in average
selling prices for semiconductor memory products and continued growth of the
Company's PC system sales. The Company's principal product in 1996 was the 4
Meg DRAM, which comprised approximately 87% of the net sales of the
semiconductor memory products, and 53% of total net sales. Net sales of the 4
Meg DRAM were 87% and 76% of net sales of semiconductor memory products in
1995 and 1994, respectively. In 1996, total megabits produced increased
approximately 95% and megabits shipped increased by approximately 77% from
1995 levels. These increases were principally due to the conversion of FAB III
to 8-inch wafers, ongoing transitions to successive shrink versions of
existing memory products, particularly the 4 Meg DRAM, a 17% increase in total
wafer outs, a shift in the Company's mix of semiconductor memory products to a
higher average density and enhanced yields on existing memory products.
 
  Net sales of PC systems, less sales to MEI of the Company's semiconductor
memory included therein, increased to approximately 31% of the Company's total
net sales for 1996 from 15% and 5% in 1995 and 1994, respectively, primarily
due to significantly higher unit sales of PC systems and, to a lesser extent,
higher average selling prices for PC systems. Unit sales of PC systems
increased in 1996 compared to 1995, principally due to increased name
recognition and market acceptance of Micron brand desktop PC products.
Increased sales to governmental entities and increased sales of notebook
systems also contributed to higher overall unit sales.
 
  Net sales in 1995 increased by 81% compared to 1994 principally due to
relatively stable prices for semiconductor memory products and the
comparatively higher volume of semiconductor memory produced in 1995. Total
megabits produced increased by approximately 74% in 1995 compared to 1994,
principally as a result of ongoing transitions to successive shrink versions
of then existing products, a shift in the Company's mix of semiconductor
memory products to a higher average density and enhanced yields on then
existing memory products. Net sales of PC systems, less the value of the
Company's semiconductor memory included therein, increased to approximately
15% of the Company's total net sales for 1995 from 5% in 1994. PC system sales
increased principally due to increased demand for the Company's PC systems as
a result of greater brand name recognition and market acceptance of such
products.
 

 
 GROSS MARGIN
 

 
  The Company's gross margin percentage in 1996 was lower than in 1995
primarily as a result of lower average selling prices for semiconductor memory
products and higher net sales of PC systems as a percentage of total net
sales. The Company's gross margin percentage on sales of semiconductor memory
products for 1996 was 56%, compared to 65% and 57% in 1995 and 1994,
respectively. The lower gross margin percentage on sales of semiconductor
memory products in 1996 was principally due to a sharp decline in average
selling prices for such products as compared to more gradual decreases in per
megabit manufacturing costs. Decreases in the Company's manufacturing costs
per megabit were achieved through significant increases in volume production
which principally resulted from greater number of die per wafer achieved
through conversion of Fab III to 8-inch wafers, transitions to shrink versions
of existing products, improved manufacturing yields, increased wafer output
and a shift in the Company's mix of semiconductor memory products to higher
density devices. The lower gross margin percentage on sales of semiconductor
memory products in 1996 was partially offset by the effect of a net reduction
of approximately $55.0 million in accruals recorded in prior years relating to
product and process rights contingencies for both semiconductor and personal
computer operations.
 
  Sales of PC systems generally had a lower gross margin percentage than sales
of the Company's semiconductor memory products in 1996. However, the gross
margin percentage on sales of PC systems increased in 1996 compared to 1995
primarily as a result of improved component costs and improved inventory
management. In addition, increased sales of notebook PC products favorably
affected the gross margin percentage on sales of PC systems. While sales of PC
systems generally continued to have a lower gross margin percentage than sales
of the Company's semiconductor memory products in fiscal 1996, the gross
margin percentage on sales of PC systems was higher in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1996 than the gross margin percentage on sales of semiconductor memory
products.
 
  Cost of goods sold includes estimated costs of settlement or adjudication of
asserted and unasserted claims for patent infringement prior to the balance
sheet date and costs of product and process technology licensing arrangements.
Product and process technology costs decreased as a percentage of total net
sales in 1996 principally due to the higher level of net sales of PC systems
in 1996 which are subject to generally lower royalty costs compared to the
Company's semiconductor memory products, and due to the resolution of
contingencies for product and process technology rights.
 
  The slight increase in gross margin percentage for 1995 compared to 1994 was
principally due to relatively stable prices as compared to reductions in cost
per megabit of memory sold for DRAM products. Reductions in cost per megabit
of memory sold were realized primarily from a combination of increased wafer
output, yield improvements, die shrinks and transitions to generally higher
density memory products. This slight increase in gross margin percentage was
offset in part by higher net sales of PC systems as a percentage of net sales.
Sales of PC systems generally had a lower gross margin percentage than sales
of the Company's semiconductor memory products in 1995.
 
 SELLING, GENERAL AND ADMINISTRATIVE
 

 

 
  The higher level of selling, general and administrative expenses for 1996 as
compared to 1995 principally resulted from a higher level of personnel costs
associated with the increased number of administrative employees and sales and
technical support employees in the Company's PC operations and, to a lesser
extent, increased legal costs associated with the development and resolution of
product and process technology rights and contingencies, advertising costs for
the Company's PC operations and depreciation expense resulting from the addition
of new computer equipment in late 1995 and 1996. In addition, selling, general
and administrative expenses for 1996 reflect an approximate $21 million pretax
gain from the disposal of equipment, compared to a $7 million pretax gain in
1995. During the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996, the Company charged operations
with a $9 million accrual relating to revisions of estimates for selling costs
associated with sales of PC systems.
 
  The higher level of selling, general and administrative expenses for 1995 as
compared to 1994 principally resulted from a higher level of personnel costs
associated with the Company's profit sharing programs, an increased number of
administrative employees and, to a lesser extent, increased advertising costs
and credit card processing fees associated with the increased level of sales
from the Company's PC operations. Such increases were partially offset by a
reduction in legal fees compared to 1994 primarily resulting from the
Company's resolution of product and process technology rights contingencies.
 
 RESEARCH AND DEVELOPMENT
 

 
  Research and development expenses vary primarily with the number of wafers
and personnel dedicated to new product and process development. The Company's
research and development efforts are currently focused principally on further
development of shrink versions of the 16 Meg DRAM. Development efforts are
also focused on 16 Meg and 64 Meg SDRAM and a move from .35 (mu) process
technology to .25 (mu) and .18 (mu) process technology. Other research and
development efforts are currently devoted to design of the 64 Meg, 256 Meg and
1 Gig DRAMs, and design and development of new technologies including remote
intelligent communications products and Flash semiconductor memory products.
 
 INCOME TAX PROVISION
 

 
  The effective tax rate for 1996 was 37.6%, which primarily reflects the
statutory corporate tax rate and the net effect of state taxation. The
effective tax rates for 1995 and 1994 were 37.5% and 36.0%, respectively. The
changes in the effective tax rates were principally due to the change in the
mix of income among taxing jurisdictions and the utilization of state tax
credits as a percentage of pretax income. State income taxes have been reduced
by state tax credits. As of June 1996, MEI was not consolidated with MTI for
federal income tax purposes.
 
LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES
 
  As of August 29, 1996, the Company had cash and liquid investments totaling
$287 million, representing a decrease of $269 million during 1996.
Approximately $115 million of the Company's consolidated cash and liquid
investments were held by MEI. Cash generated from operations by MEI is not
readily available or anticipated to be available to finance operations or
other expenditures of MTI.
 
 

 
  The Company's principal sources of liquidity during 1996 were cash flows
from operations of $1,061 million, equipment financing of $273 million and net
borrowings under the Company's bank credit agreements of $90 million. The
principal uses of funds in 1996 were $1,426 million for property, plant and
equipment and $281 million for repayments of equipment contracts and long-term
debt.
 
  Cash flows from operations for fiscal 1996 were slightly higher than cash
flows from operations in fiscal 1995. Cash flows from operations are
significantly affected by average selling prices and variable cost per megabit
for the Company's semiconductor memory products. For example, the Company
estimates that each reduction in average selling prices of $0.25 per megabit
reduced the Company's cash flows by approximately $200 million in fiscal 1996.
In the future, to the extent that the Company's level of production increases,
similar price decreases may have an even more significant impact. In 1996, the
rate of decline in average selling prices for semiconductor memory products
surpassed the rate at which the Company was able to decrease costs per
megabit, and as a result the Company's cash flows were significantly adversely
affected, particularly in the second half of fiscal 1996. In the event that
average selling prices were to continue to decline faster than the rate at
which the Company is able to decrease costs of production, the Company may not
be able to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to sustain
operations.
 
  As of August 29, 1996, the Company had contractual commitments extending
through calendar year 1997 of approximately $170 million for equipment
purchases and approximately $9 million for the construction of facilities. The
Company believes continuing investments in manufacturing technology,
facilities and capital equipment, research and development, and product and
process technology are necessary to support future growth, achieve operating
efficiencies, and enhance product quality. The Company anticipates that it
will need to spend approximately $500 million in fiscal 1997 to continue its
capacity enhancement program. However, due to current market conditions the
Company may not have sufficient internal sources of liquidity to continue its
capacity enhancement program. As a result, in order to continue its capacity
enhancement program as planned, the Company may need to secure additional
financing from external sources. As of year end, the Company was evaluating a
number of financing alternatives. There can be no assurance that external
sources of liquidity will be available to fund the Company's ongoing
operations or expansion, diversification and capital improvements in
accordance with the Company's capacity enhancement program. The failure to
obtain external sources of liquidity would hinder the Company's ability to
make continued investments in its capacity enhancement program, which could
materially adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations.
 
  During the third quarter of 1996, the Company established a $500 million
revolving credit agreement expiring in May 1999. The credit facility was
amended in the fourth quarter of 1996 to reduce the total potential borrowing
to $400 million and to modify the covenants to reflect changes in industry
conditions. As of August 29, 1996, the Company had borrowings of $90 million
outstanding under the facility. The amended agreement contains certain
restrictive covenants and conditions including a borrowing base tied to the
Company's accounts receivable, an Earnings Before Interest, Taxes,
Depreciation and Amortization ("EBITDA") covenant, and a maximum net loss
covenant. The Company was not in compliance with the EBITDA covenant at the
end of the third fiscal quarter, at which time the Company obtained a waiver.
As of August 29, 1996 the Company was in compliance with all bank covenants
and conditions. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be
able to meet the terms of the covenants and conditions or be able to borrow
the full amount of the credit facility.
 
  The Company's majority-owned subsidiary, MEI, has an unsecured revolving
credit facility with two financial institutions providing for borrowings of up
to $40 million. As of August 29, 1996, there were no borrowings outstanding
under the agreement. Borrowings are limited based on the amount of
 

 
MEI's eligible receivables. As of August 29, 1996, MEI was eligible to borrow
the entire $40 million pursuant to the agreement.
 
CERTAIN FACTORS
 
  In addition to the factors discussed elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form
10-K, the following are important factors which could cause actual results or
events to differ materially from those contained in any forward-looking
statement made by or on behalf of the Company.
 
 VOLATILITY OF THE SEMICONDUCTOR MEMORY INDUSTRY; RECENT MARKET CONDITIONS
 
  The semiconductor memory industry is characterized by rapid technological
change, frequent product introductions and enhancements, difficult product
transitions, relatively short product life cycles, rapid changes in market
prices and volatile market conditions. Historically, the semiconductor
industry has been highly cyclical, particularly in the market for DRAM
products, which are the Company's primary semiconductor memory products. The
selling prices for the Company's semiconductor memory products fluctuate
significantly with changes in the balance of supply and demand for these
commodity products. Market conditions through the end of fiscal 1996 indicated
that growth in worldwide supply outpaced growth in demand. Many of the
Company's competitors have recently added significant capacity for the
production of semiconductor memory components. The amount of capacity placed
into production and future yield improvements by the Company's competitors
could dramatically increase worldwide supply of semiconductor memory and
increase downward pressure on pricing.
 
  Average sales prices for 4 Meg DRAM, the Company's primary product, declined
approximately 78% from early December 1995 to late August 1996, while
industry-wide average sales prices for 16 Meg DRAM products declined
approximately 75% for the same period. There can be no assurance that the rate
of decline of average sales prices will lessen or that market conditions will
improve in the foreseeable future. These declines have had a material adverse
effect on the Company's business and results of operations. Further declines
in average sales prices for the Company's DRAM products could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
 
 DEPENDENCE ON PERSONAL COMPUTER INDUSTRY; CUSTOMER CONCENTRATION
 
  DRAMs are the most widely used semiconductor memory component in most
personal computer systems. Approximately 75% of the Company's sales of
semiconductor memory products during the fourth quarter of fiscal 1996 were
into the PC or peripheral markets. The Company believes that the rate of
growth in overall worldwide sales of PC systems has declined and may remain
below prior years' growth rates for the foreseeable future. In addition, the
growth rate in the amount of semiconductor memory per PC system may decrease
in the future as well. Should demand for PC systems decrease or the growth
rate in the amount of memory per PC system decrease, growth in demand for
semiconductor memory could also decrease, placing further downward pressure on
selling prices for the Company's semiconductor memory products. The Company is
unable to predict changes in industry supply, major customer inventory
management strategies or end user demand, which are significant factors
influencing pricing for the Company's semiconductor memory products.
 
  Approximately 22% of the Company's net sales for fiscal 1996 were to the
Company's top five customers. As a result of this concentration of the
Company's customer base, loss or cancellation of business from any of these
major PC system customers, significant changes in scheduled deliveries to any
of these customers or decreases in the prices of products sold to any of these
customers could have a material adverse effect on the Company's business and
results of operations. Certain of MTI's key semiconductor memory customers
compete directly with MEI in the sale of PC systems, and there
 

 
can be no assurance that in the future such customers will, as a result of
this competition with MEI, continue to purchase the Company's semiconductor
memory products. A loss of any of these customers could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
 
 FLUCTUATIONS IN OPERATING RESULTS
 
  The Company's past operating results have been, and its future operating
results may be, subject to annual and quarterly fluctuations as a result of a
wide variety of factors, including, without limitation, the cyclical nature of
the semiconductor memory industry, the introduction and announcement of new
products and process technologies by the Company or its competitors, pricing
pressures, the speed in which the Company reduces costs for any particular new
product, fluctuations in manufacturing yields, changes in product mix, the
cost and availability of raw materials and general worldwide economic
conditions. During the three fiscal quarters ended August 29, 1996, DRAM
market conditions were characterized by excess supply over demand, resulting
in declining prices. Any additional price declines for memory products in the
future, either due to increased supply or decreased demand, could have an
adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
 
  The Company's operating results are also significantly impacted by the
operating results of its consolidated subsidiaries, in particular MEI. As DRAM
prices have fallen and as unit shipments of PC systems have increased, MTI's
consolidated results of operations have been increasingly affected by MEI's
results of operations. While sales of PC systems, less sales to MEI of MTI's
semiconductor memory products included therein, constituted approximately 31%
of MTI's total net sales for fiscal 1996, such sales in the fourth quarter of
fiscal 1996 constituted approximately 50% of MTI's total net sales. MEI's past
operating results have been, and its future operating results may be, subject
to fluctuations, on a quarterly and an annual basis, as a result of a wide
variety of factors, including, but not limited to, the timing of new product
introductions by MEI and its competitors, fluctuating market pricing for
computer and semiconductor memory products, industry competition, fluctuating
component costs, inventory obsolescence, critical component availability,
seasonal cycles common in the personal computer industry, seasonal government
purchasing cycles, the effect of product reviews and industry awards, changes
in product mix, manufacturing and production constraints and the timing of
orders from and shipments to OEM customers.
 
 MANUFACTURING RISKS AND VOLUME PRODUCTION
 
  The manufacturing of the Company's semiconductor memory products is a
complex process and involves a number of precise steps, including wafer
fabrication, assembly in a variety of packages, burn-in and final test.
Efficient production of the Company's semiconductor memory products requires
utilization of advanced semiconductor manufacturing techniques. The Company is
engaged in ongoing efforts to enhance its production processes to reduce the
die size of existing products and increase capacity. The Company has completed
the conversion of Fab III to process 8-inch wafers and is continuing the
conversion of Fab I to process 8-inch wafers, with completion anticipated
prior to the end of calendar year 1996. There can be no assurance that the
Company will not experience an interruption of its manufacturing processes or
experience decreases in manufacturing yield as a result of conversions of
wafer process technology. Wafer fabrication occurs in a highly controlled,
clean environment to minimize dust and other yield- and quality-limiting
contaminants. Despite stringent manufacturing controls, equipment does not
consistently perform flawlessly and minute impurities, defects in the photo
masks, or other difficulties in the process may cause a substantial percentage
of the wafers to be rejected or individual circuits to be nonfunctional. The
success of the Company's manufacturing operation will be largely dependent on
its ability to minimize such impurities and to maximize its yield of
acceptable high-quality circuits. In addition, the Company's manufacturing
yields could be adversely affected in the event of future power outages
similar to the power outages that have affected the Pacific Northwest during
calendar year 1996. There can be no assurance that the Company will not
experience decreases in manufacturing yields as a result of any such
manufacturing problems.
 

 
  Completion of MTI's semiconductor manufacturing facility in Lehi, Utah is on
indefinite hold as a result of the decline in average selling prices for
semiconductor memory products. As of August 29, 1996, MTI had invested
approximately $600 million in the Lehi facility. The cost to complete the Lehi
facility is estimated to approximate $1.5 billion. There can be no assurance
that MTI will be able to fund the completion of the Lehi manufacturing
facility. The failure by MTI to complete the facility would likely result in
MTI being required to write off all or a portion of the facility's cost,
which, if required, could have a material adverse effect on the Company's
business and results of operations. In addition, in the event that market
conditions improve, there can be no assurance that MTI will successfully
commence manufacturing at the Lehi facility in a manner that enables it to
take advantage of the improved market conditions. Any such failure to respond
to improved market conditions could have a material adverse effect on MTI's
business and results of operations.
 
  As a result of the significant investment in facilities and equipment
associated with the production of DRAM products and the industry's history of
declining average sales prices as products mature, the Company must produce
and sell its DRAM products in significant volume and continue to reduce per
megabit manufacturing costs in order to achieve profitability. There can be no
assurance that revenues derived from sales of MTI's products will be
sufficient to cover current fixed costs. In order to achieve profitability,
the Company must continue to significantly increase its output of
semiconductor memory.
 
 LIQUIDITY AND FUTURE CAPITAL NEEDS
 
  DRAM manufacturers generally have substantial ongoing capital requirements
to maintain or increase manufacturing capacity. Historically, the Company has
reinvested substantially all of its cash flow from operations in capacity
expansion and improvement programs. The Company's cash flows from operations
are significantly affected by average selling prices and variable cost per
megabit for the Company's semiconductor memory products. For example, the
Company estimates that each reduction in average selling price of $0.25 per
megabit reduced the Company's cash flows by approximately $200 million in
fiscal 1996. In the future, to the extent that the Company's level of
production increases, similar price decreases may have an even more
significant impact. In 1996, the rate of decline in average selling prices for
semiconductor memory products surpassed the rate at which the Company was able
to decrease costs per megabit, and as a result the Company's cash flows were
significantly adversely affected, particularly in the second half of fiscal
1996. In the event that average selling prices were to continue to decline
faster than the rate at which the Company is able to decrease costs of
production, the Company may not be able to generate sufficient cash flows from
operations to sustain operations. The Company anticipates that it will need to
spend approximately $500 million in fiscal 1997 to continue its capacity
enhancement program. However, due to current market conditions the Company may
not have sufficient internal sources of liquidity to continue its capacity
enhancement program. As a result, in order to continue its capacity
enhancement program as planned, the Company may need to secure additional
financing from external sources. As of year end, the Company was evaluating a
number of financing alternatives. There can be no assurance that external
sources of liquidity will be available to fund the Company's ongoing
operations or the Company's capacity enhancement program. In addition, cash
generated from operations by MEI is not readily available or anticipated to be
available to finance operations or other expenditures of MTI. The failure to
obtain financing would hinder the Company's ability to make continued
investments in its capacity enhancement program, which could materially
adversely affect the Company's business and results of operations. The Company
was not in compliance with one of its financial covenants under its revolving
credit agreement at the end of the third fiscal quarter of 1996, at which time
the Company obtained a waiver. As of August 29, 1996 the Company was in
compliance with its covenants and conditions under the revolving credit
agreement. There can be no assurance that the Company will continue to be able
to meet the terms of the covenants and conditions or be able to borrow the
full amount of the credit facility.
 

 
 PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT
 
  From time to time, the Company has experienced volatility in its
manufacturing yields, as it has encountered difficulties in ramping shrink
versions of existing devices or new generation devices to commercial volumes.
The Company is continuing the transition of its primary semiconductor memory
products from the relatively mature 4 Meg DRAM to the 16 Meg DRAM. The
conversion to the 16 Meg DRAM is expected to occur in late calendar year 1996.
The Company is developing various SDRAM products which are expected to be
ready for volume production in fiscal 1998, as the Company expects a gradual
transition by computer manufacturers to faster types of DRAM-based main
memory, including but not limited to SDRAM, over the next several years.
During periods of transition to new generation products, including the
transition to the 16 Meg DRAM, the Company's gross margins have been adversely
affected and there can be no assurance that they will not continue to be
adversely affected as a result of the continuing transition to the 16 Meg DRAM
or the transition to the SDRAM product. Rapid technological change and intense
price competition place a premium on both new product and new process
development efforts. The Company's continued ability to compete in the
semiconductor memory market will depend in part on its ability to continue to
develop technologically advanced products and processes, of which there can be
no assurance. Research and development expenses vary primarily with the number
of wafers and personnel dedicated to new product and process development. The
Company's research and development efforts are currently focused principally
on further development of shrink versions of the 16 Meg DRAM. Development
efforts are also focused on 16 Meg and 64 Meg SDRAM and a move from .35 (mu)
process technology to .25 (mu) and .18 (mu) process technology. Other research
and development efforts are currently devoted to design of the 64 Meg, 256 Meg
and 1 Gig DRAMs, and design and development of new technologies including remote
intelligent communications products and Flash semiconductor memory products.
There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful in shrinking the
16 Meg DRAM as fast as its competitors, or that the Company's competitors will
not be able to develop and offer 64 Meg or 256 Meg DRAM products before the
Company is able to bring comparable products to market. The Company's ability to
reduce costs per megabit of its semiconductor memory products is largely
dependent on its ability to design and develop new generation products and
shrink versions of existing products and its ability to ramp such products at
acceptable rates to acceptable yields, of which there can be no assurance. In
the event that the Company is unable to decrease costs per megabit for
semiconductor memory products at a rate equal to the rate of decline in selling
prices for such products, the Company's business and results of operations will
be adversely impacted.
 
 COMPETITION
 
  The Company's semiconductor memory operations experience intense competition
from a number of substantially larger foreign and domestic companies,
including Fujitsu, Ltd., Hitachi, Ltd., Hyundai Electronics, Co., Ltd.,
Mitsubishi Electronic Corp., Motorola, Inc., NEC Corp., Samsung Semiconductor,
Inc., LG Semicon, Texas Instruments Incorporated and Toshiba Corporation. The
Company has captured only a small percentage of the semiconductor memory
market and may be at a disadvantage in competing against larger manufacturers
with significantly greater capital resources or manufacturing capacities,
larger engineer and employee bases, larger portfolios of intellectual
property, and more diverse product lines that provide cash flows counter
cyclical to fluctuations in semiconductor memory operations. The Company's
larger competitors also have long-term advantages over MTI in research and new
product development and in their ability to withstand periodic downturns in
the semiconductor memory market. The Company believes that its competition has
sufficient resources and manufacturing capacity to influence market pricing.
Many of the Company's competitors have recently added new wafer fabrication
facilities, significantly increasing worldwide capacity for the production of
semiconductor memory products, resulting in downward price pressures on
semiconductor memory products.
 

 
 INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY MATTERS
 
  The semiconductor industry has experienced a substantial amount of
litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. In the
future, litigation may be necessary to enforce patents issued to the Company,
to protect trade secrets or know-how owned by the Company, or to defend the
Company against claimed infringement of the rights of others. The Company has
from time to time received, and may in the future receive, communications
alleging that the technology used by the Company in the manufacture of some or
all of its products may infringe on product or process technology rights held
by others. The Company has entered into a number of patent and intellectual
property license agreements with third parties, some of which require one-time
or periodic royalty payments. It may be necessary or advantageous in the
future for the Company to obtain additional patent licenses or to renew
existing license agreements, some of which expire at the end of calendar year
1996. The Company is unable to predict whether these license agreements can be
obtained or renewed on terms acceptable to the Company. Failure to obtain or
renew such licenses could result in litigation. Any determination that the
Company's manufacturing processes or products have infringed on the product or
process rights held by others could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business and results of operations. Further, adverse determinations
could result in the Company's loss of proprietary rights, subject the Company
to significant liabilities to third parties, require the Company to seek
licenses from third parties or prevent the Company from manufacturing or
selling its products, any of which could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business and results of operations.
 
  The Company intends to continue to pursue patent, trade secret and mask work
protection for its semiconductor process technologies and designs. To that
end, the Company has obtained certain patents and patent licenses and intends
to continue to seek patents on its inventions and manufacturing processes, as
appropriate. The process of seeking patent protection can be long and
expensive, and there is no assurance that patents will be issued from
currently pending or future applications or that, if patents are issued, they
will be of sufficient scope or strength to provide meaningful protection or
any commercial advantage to the Company. In particular, there can be no
assurance that any patents held by the Company will not be challenged,
invalidated or circumvented. The Company also relies on trade secret
protection for its technology, in part through confidentiality agreements with
its employees, consultants and third parties. There can be no assurance that
these agreements will not be breached, that the Company will have adequate
remedies for any breach or that the Company's trade secrets will not otherwise
become known to or independently developed by others. In addition, the laws of
certain territories in which the Company's products are or may be developed,
manufactured or sold may not protect the Company's products and intellectual
property rights to the same extent as do the laws of the United States.
 
 STATE TAXATION
 
  Several states have enacted legislation which would require out of state
direct marketers to collect and remit sales and use taxes based on certain
limited contacts with the state. Taxation authorities in certain states have,
from time to time, solicited information from the Company to determine whether
the Company has sufficient contacts with such states to require payment of
sales and use taxes on its PC systems sold to customers in those states. The
Company could be required to pay sales and use taxes and income and franchise
taxes related to the Company's operations in prior periods, which could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
In addition, the Company may be increasing its contacts and presence in
various states as it pursues its business strategies. As a result of its
contacts, the Company may be required to collect and remit sales and use taxes
in the future, which could materially adversely affect the Company's business
and results of operations.
 

 
 DEPENDENCE ON LIMITED SOURCES OF SUPPLY
 
  Raw materials utilized by the Company's semiconductor manufacturing
operation generally must meet exacting product specifications. The Company
generally uses multiple sources of supply, but there are only a limited number
of suppliers capable of delivering certain raw materials that meet the
Company's specifications. Additionally, the availability of raw materials may
decline due to the overall increase in world-wide semiconductor manufacturing.
Although shortages have occurred from time to time and lead times in the
industry have been extended on occasion, to date the Company has not
experienced any significant interruption in operations as a result of a
difficulty in obtaining raw materials for its semiconductor manufacturing
operations. Interruption of any one raw material source could have a material
adverse effect on the Company's business and results of operations.
 
 DEPENDENCE ON KEY PERSONNEL
 
  The Company is dependent upon a limited number of key management and
technical personnel. In addition, the Company's future success will depend in
part upon its ability to attract and retain highly qualified personnel. The
Company competes for such personnel with other companies, academic
institutions, government entities and other organizations. In recent periods,
the Company has experienced increased recruitment of its existing personnel by
other employers. There can be no assurance that the Company will be successful
in hiring or retaining qualified personnel. On September 30, 1996, MTI
announced that Tyler A. Lowrey, previously the Chief Operations Officer and a
director of MTI, had resigned as a director and will no longer serve as Chief
Operations Officer. There can be no assurance that any of MTI's key personnel
will remain employed by MTI. Any loss of key personnel or the inability to
hire or retain qualified personnel could have a material adverse effect on the
Company's business and results of operations.
 
 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS
 
  The Company is subject to a variety of federal, state and local governmental
regulations related to the storage, use, discharge and disposal of toxic,
volatile or otherwise hazardous chemicals used in its manufacturing process.
Increasing public attention has been focused on the environmental impact of
semiconductor manufacturing operations. There can be no assurance that changes
in environmental regulations will not impose the need for additional capital
equipment or other requirements. Any failure by the Company to control the use
of, or adequately to restrict the discharge of, hazardous substances under
present or future regulations could subject MTI to substantial liability or
could cause its manufacturing operations to be suspended. Such liability or
suspension of manufacturing operations could have a material adverse effect on
the Company's business and results of operations.
 

 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA
 
INDEX TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 

 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
                (AMOUNTS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT FOR PER SHARE DATA)
 

 
 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
                (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS, EXCEPT FOR PAR VALUE DATA)
 

 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
                        (DOLLARS AND SHARES IN MILLIONS)
 

 
 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
                             (DOLLARS IN MILLIONS)
 

 
    The accompanying notes are an integral part of the financial statements.
 


                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
         (ALL TABULAR DOLLAR AND SHARE AMOUNTS ARE STATED IN MILLIONS)
 
SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES
 
  BASIS OF PRESENTATION: The consolidated financial statements include the
accounts of Micron Technology, Inc. and its domestic and foreign subsidiaries
(the "Company"). The Company designs, develops, manufactures, and markets
semiconductor memory products, primarily DRAM, for use in personal computers
("PCs"). Through its majority-owned subsidiary, Micron Electronics, Inc.
("MEI"), the Company also designs, develops, markets, manufactures and
supports Micron brand PC systems and operates a contract manufacturing and
component recovery business. All significant intercompany accounts and
transactions have been eliminated. The Company's fiscal year ends on the
Thursday closest to August 31.
 
  CERTAIN CONCENTRATIONS AND ESTIMATES: Approximately 80% of the Company's
sales of semiconductor memory products are to the PC or peripheral markets.
Certain components used by the Company in manufacturing of PC systems are
purchased from a limited number of suppliers.
 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those
estimates.
 
  REVENUE RECOGNITION: Revenue from product sales to direct customers is
recognized when title transfers to the customer, primarily upon shipment. The
Company defers recognition of sales to distributors, which allow certain
rights of return and price protection, until distributors have sold the
products. Net sales include construction management fees earned, and revenues
under cross-license agreements with third parties and under government
research contracts.
 
  EARNINGS PER SHARE: Earnings per share are computed using the weighted
average number of common and common equivalent shares outstanding. Common
equivalent shares result from the assumed exercise of outstanding stock
options and affect earnings per share when they have a dilutive effect.
 
  FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: Cash equivalents include highly liquid short-term
investments with original maturities of three months or less, readily
convertible to known amounts of cash. The amounts reported as cash and
equivalents, liquid investments, receivables, other assets, accounts payable
and accrued expenses, equipment purchase contracts and long-term debt are
considered to be reasonable approximations of their fair values. The fair
value estimates presented herein were based on market information available to
management as of August 29, 1996. The use of different market assumptions
and/or estimation methodologies could have a material effect on the estimated
fair value amounts. The reported fair values do not take into consideration
potential expenses that would be incurred in an actual settlement.
 
  Financial instruments that potentially subject the Company to concentrations
of credit risk consist principally of cash, liquid investments and trade
accounts receivable. The Company invests cash through high-credit-quality
financial institutions and performs periodic evaluations of the relative
credit standing of these financial institutions. The Company, by policy,
limits the concentration of credit exposure by restricting investments with
any single obligor, instrument or geographic area. A concentration of credit
risk may exist with respect to trade receivables, as a substantial portion of
the Company's customers are affiliated with the computer, telecommunications
and office automation industries. The Company performs ongoing credit
evaluations of customers worldwide and generally does not require collateral
from its customers. Historically, the Company has not experienced significant
losses related to receivables for individual customers or groups of customers
in any particular industry or geographic area.


 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  INVENTORIES: Inventories are stated at the lower of average cost or market.
Cost includes labor, material and overhead costs, including product and
process technology costs.
 
  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT: Property, plant and equipment are stated at
cost. Depreciation is computed using the straight-line method over the
estimated useful lives of 5 to 30 years for buildings and 2 to 5 years for
equipment.
 
  PRODUCT AND PROCESS TECHNOLOGY: Costs related to the conceptual formulation
and design of products and processes are expensed as research and development.
Costs incurred to establish patents and acquire product and process technology
are capitalized. Capitalized costs are amortized on the straight-line method
over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the technology, the patent
term or the agreement, ranging up to 10 years. The Company has royalty-bearing
license agreements that allow it to manufacture and sell semiconductor memory
devices, hardware and software. Royalty costs are accrued and included in cost
of goods sold when the sale is recognized.
 
  ADVERTISING: Advertising costs are charged to operations as incurred.
 
  RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS: In March 1995, the Financial
Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Statement of Financial Accounting
Standards ("SFAS") No. 121, "Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived
Assets and for Long-Lived Assets to Be Disposed Of." The Company has not
elected early adoption of SFAS 121. The Company will adopt the provisions of
SFAS 121 in fiscal 1997. Adoption of SFAS 121 is not expected to have a
material effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or
cash flows.
 
  In October 1995, the FASB issued SFAS 123, "Accounting for Stock-Based
Compensation." The Company has not elected early adoption of SFAS 123. The
Company intends to adopt SFAS 123 in fiscal 1997. As permitted under SFAS 123,
the Company will continue to measure compensation expense for its stock-based
employee compensation plans using the intrinsic value method prescribed by
Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 25, "Accounting for Stock Issued to
Employees," and will provide pro forma disclosures of net income and earnings
per share as if a fair value-based method had been applied in measuring
compensation expense. As a result, adoption of SFAS 123 is not expected to
have a material effect on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or cash flows.
 
  FOREIGN CURRENCY: The U.S. dollar is the Company's functional currency for
financial reporting.
 
  RESTATEMENTS AND RECLASSIFICATIONS: On March 27, 1995, the Company's Board
of Directors announced a 2 for 1 stock split effected in the form of a stock
dividend to shareholders of record as of May 4, 1995. On March 1, 1994, the
Company's Board of Directors announced a 5 for 2 stock split effected in the
form of a stock dividend to shareholders of record as of April 1, 1994. The
Company distributed cash in lieu of fractional shares resulting from the stock
split. The Company's par value of $0.10 per share remained unchanged.
Historical share and per share amounts have been restated to reflect
retroactively the stock splits.
 
  On December 31, 1995, the company reclassified a portion of its held-to-
maturity liquid investment securities to available-for-sale concurrent with
the Company's adoption of the FASB's special report on implementing Statement
115, "Accounting for Certain Investments in Debt and Equity Securities."
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
  Certain other reclassifications have been made, none of which affected
results of operations, to present the financial statements on a consistent
basis.
 
LIQUID INVESTMENTS
 

 
  Securities classified as available-for-sale are stated at fair value which
approximates cost. Securities classified as held-to-maturity are stated at
amortized cost. Securities classified as available-for-sale mature within one
year, and securities classified as held-to-maturity have maturities within 90
days.
 
RECEIVABLES
 

 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
PRODUCT AND PROCESS TECHNOLOGY
 
  Amortization of capitalized product and process technology costs was
$13.6 million in 1996; $10.3 million in 1995; and $40.9 million in 1994.
Accumulated amortization was $124.3 million and $110.7 million as of August
29, 1996, and August 31, 1995, respectively.
 
PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT
 

 
  As of August 29, 1996, property, plant and equipment included costs of
$616.9 million of the Company's semiconductor memory manufacturing facility in
Lehi, Utah, of which $577.8 million remained in construction in progress, and
$13.4 million for the expansion of the Company's corporate administration
building in Boise, Idaho. The completion of both projects is on indefinite
hold.
 
ACCOUNTS PAYABLE AND ACCRUED EXPENSES
 

 
SHORT-TERM DEBT
 
  The Company has a revolving credit facility that provides for borrowings up
to $400 million and expires in May 1999. As of August 29, 1996 the Company had
borrowings of $90 million outstanding under the facility. The interest rate on
borrowed funds is based on various pricing options and was 6.19% as of August
29, 1996. The agreement contains certain restrictive covenants and conditions
including a borrowing base tied to the Company's accounts receivable, an
Earnings Before Interest, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization (EBITDA)
covenant, and a maximum net loss covenant.
 
  The Company's majority-owned subsidiary, Micron Electronics, Inc. (MEI), has
an unsecured credit facility with financial institutions providing for
borrowings of up to $40 million based on the amount of MEI's eligible
receivables. As of August 29, 1996, MEI was eligible to borrow $40 million
pursuant to the agreement but had no borrowings outstanding.
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
LONG-TERM DEBT
 

 
  Certain notes payable are collateralized by plant and equipment with a total
cost of approximately $351.5 million and accumulated depreciation of
approximately $89.1 million as of August 29, 1996. Equipment under capital
leases, and the accumulated depreciation thereon, were approximately
$53.3 million and $14.3 million, respectively, as of August 29, 1996, and
$16.7 million and $10.7 million, respectively, as of August 31, 1995.
Maturities of long-term debt are as follows:
 

 
  Interest income in 1996, 1995, and 1994 is net of interest expense of $8.6
million, $7.3 million, and $5.8 million, respectively. Construction period
interest of $7.5 million, $4.9 million and $2.6 million was capitalized in
1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
STOCK PURCHASE PLANS
 
  The Company's 1985 and 1994 Stock Option Plans ("Stock Plans") provide for
the granting of incentive or nonstatutory stock options. As of August 29,
1996, there was an aggregate of 19.6 million shares of the Company's common
stock available for issuance, of which 14.5 million shares have been granted,
under the Stock Plans. Options are subject to terms and conditions determined
by the Board of Directors, and generally are exercisable in increments of 20%
during each year of employment beginning one year from date of grant and
expiring six years from date of grant.
 
  Option activity under the Stock Plans is summarized as follows:
 

 
  Options outstanding under the Stock Plans as of August 29, 1996, were at per
share prices ranging from $1.72 to $80.25. Options exercised were at per share
prices ranging from $1.53 to $28.87 in 1996, $1.30 to $21.33 in 1995 and $1.30
to $4.71 in 1994.
 
  On September 30, 1996, the Board of Directors approved an option exchange
program pursuant to which employees with options having an exercise price in
excess of $30.00 per share under the Stock Plans may elect to exchange such
options for non statutory stock options having 1) an exercise price equal to
the average closing price of the Company's common stock for the five business
days preceding October 18, 1996, and 2) generally the same terms and
conditions, including vesting and expiration terms, as the options
surrendered. Options to purchase 2.8 million shares of the Company's common
stock under the 1985 Stock Option Plan are eligible for exchange for options
issued under the Nonstatutory Stock Option Plan adopted by the Board of
Directors on September 30, 1996. Options to purchase 907,000 shares of the
Company's common stock are eligible for exchange under the 1994 Stock Option
Plan.
 
  The Company's 1989 Employee Stock Purchase Plan and MEI's 1995 Employee
Stock Purchase Plan allow eligible employees to purchase shares of the
Company's common stock and MEI's common stock through payroll deductions. The
shares can be purchased for 85% of the lower of the beginning or ending fair
market value of each offering period and are restricted from resale for a
period of one year from the date of purchase. Purchases are limited to 20% of
an employees eligible compensation. A total of 6.8 million shares of Company
common stock are reserved for issuance under the purchase plan, of which 5.8
million shares have been issued as of August 29, 1996. A total of 2.5 million
shares of MEI common stock are reserved for issuance under MEI's plan, of
which approximately 136,000 shares had been issued as of August 29, 1996.
 
  On April 7, 1995, the Company's subsidiaries Micron Computer, Inc. and
Micron Custom Manufacturing Services, Inc. were merged with and into ZEOS
International, Ltd. ("ZEOS"), a personal computer manufacturer. The newly
merged company was renamed Micron Electronics, Inc. ("MEI"), and is a
majority-owned subsidiary of MTI.
 
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  MEI's 1995 Stock Option Plan provides for the granting of incentive and
nonstatutory stock options. As of August 29, 1996, there were 5 million shares
of MEI's common stock reserved for issuance under the plan. Options are
granted subject to terms and conditions determined by the MEI Board of
Directors, and generally are exercisable in increments of 20% for each year of
employment beginning one year from date of grant and expiring six years from
date of grant. As of August 29, 1996, there were options outstanding to
purchase approximately 1.9 million shares of MEI common stock at prices
ranging from $8.89 to $23.83 of which options to purchase approximately
121,000 shares of common stock were exercisable.
 
  Granting of options under ZEOS' stock option plans was suspended after the
merger. During 1996 and subsequent to the merger in 1995, options to purchase
approximately 993,000 and 84,000 of MEI's common stock shares, respectively,
were exercised at per share prices ranging from $0.33 to $17.00 and $2.63 to
$8.50, respectively. As of August 29, 1996, options to purchase approximately
49,000 shares of MEI common stock were outstanding under this plan, all of
which were exercisable at per share prices ranging from $2.63 to $10.75.
 
  In December 1994, ZEOS awarded shares of its common stock to certain
employees subject to their continued employment as of January 1, 1996.
Compensation expense was recognized over the vesting period based upon the
fair market value of the stock at the date of award. To satisfy this award,
the Company issued approximately 151,000 shares of the Company's common stock
in January 1996.
 
EMPLOYEE SAVINGS PLAN
 
  The Company has 401(k) profit-sharing plans ("RAM Plans") in which
substantially all employees are participants. Employees may contribute from 2%
to 16% of their eligible pay to various savings alternatives in the RAM Plans.
The Company's contribution provides for an annual match of the first $1,500 of
eligible employee contributions, in addition to contributions based on the
Company's financial performance. The Company's RAM Plans expenses were $14.2
million in 1996, $15.9 million in 1995 and $8.2 million in 1994.
 
COMMITMENTS
 
  As of August 29, 1996, the Company had commitments of $169.6 million for
equipment purchases and $9.4 million for the construction of buildings.
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
INCOME TAXES
 
  The provision for income taxes consists of the following:
 

 
  The tax benefit associated with the exercise of nonstatutory stock options
and disqualifying dispositions by employees of shares issued in the Company's
stock purchase plans reduced taxes payable by $20.6 million, $13.6 million and
$10.6 million for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively. Such benefits are
reflected as additional capital.
 
  A reconciliation between income tax computed using the federal statutory
rate and the income tax provision follows:
 

 
  State taxes reflect utilization of investment tax credits of $31.2 million,
$19.1 million and $20.1 million for 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences
between the basis of assets and liabilities for financial reporting and income
tax purposes. Deferred income tax assets totaled $127.0 million and $85.7
million and liabilities totaled $219.4 million and $130.0 million at August
29, 1996 and August 31, 1995, respectively. The approximate tax effects of
temporary differences which give rise to the net deferred tax liability are as
follows:
 

 
  The Company has not recognized a deferred tax liability for the difference
between the book basis and tax basis of the common stock of its domestic
subsidiaries (such difference relates primarily to unremitted earnings) to the
extent the Company expects these basis differences to not be subject to tax at
the parent level.
 
EXPORT SALES AND MAJOR CUSTOMERS
 
  Export sales were $938.4 million for 1996, including $375.9 million to
Europe and $320.9 million to Asia Pacific. Export sales were $753.7 million
and $471.0 million in 1995 and 1994, respectively. Sales to one personal
computer manufacturing customer approximated 11% of total net sales in 1994.
No other customer individually accounted for 10% or more of the Company's
total net sales.
 
CONTINGENCIES
 
  Periodically, the Company is made aware that technology used by the Company
in the manufacture of some or all of its products may infringe on product or
process technology rights held by others. The Company has accrued a liability
and charged operations for the estimated costs of settlement or adjudication
of asserted and unasserted claims for alleged infringement prior to the
balance sheet date. Determination that the Company's manufacture of products
has infringed on valid rights held by others could have a material adverse
effect on the Company's financial position, results of operations or cash
flows and could require changes in production processes and products.
 
  The Company is currently a party to various other legal actions arising out
of the normal course of business, none of which are expected to have a
material effect on the Company's financial position or results of operations.
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
             QUARTERLY FINANCIAL AND MARKET INFORMATION (UNAUDITED)
                (Dollars in millions, except for per share data)
 

 
  As of August 29, 1996, the Company had 12,379 shareholders of record.
 

 
                            MICRON TECHNOLOGY, INC.
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(CONTINUED)
 
 
  Results of operations in the fourth quarter of 1996 benefited from 1) a
decrease in the estimated effective income tax rate for fiscal 1996, resulting
in a reduction of income tax expense of approximately $6.1 million, 2) a
pretax reduction of cost of goods sold of $54.9 million for the release of
previously established accruals upon resolution of product and process rights
contingencies, and 3) a $6.6 million pretax gain from disposal of equipment
which is included in selling, general and administrative expense. Fourth
quarter selling, general and administrative expenses include a $9 million
pretax charge for estimated selling costs on computer systems.
 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses in the third quarter of 1996
reflect a $12.0 million pretax gain from disposal of equipment.
 

 
                       REPORT OF INDEPENDENT ACCOUNTANTS
 
The Shareholders and Board of Directors
Micron Technology, Inc.
 
  We have audited the consolidated financial statements of Micron Technology,
Inc., listed in the index on page 27 of this Form 10-K. These financial
statements are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on
our audits.
 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
 
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly,
in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Micron
Technology, Inc., as of August 29, 1996, and August 31, 1995, and the
consolidated results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the
three years in the period ended August 29, 1996, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles.
 
                                       /s/ Coopers & Lybrand L.L.P.
 
Boise, Idaho
September 19, 1996,
except as to the Stock
Purchase Plans Note to
Consolidated Financial
Statements, the date of
which is September 30, 1996
 

 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
  None.
 
                                   PART III
 
 
ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT
 
ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION
 
ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT
 
ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS
 
  Certain information concerning the registrant's executive officers is
included under the caption "Officers and Directors of the Registrant"
following Part I, Item 1 of this report. Other information required by Items
10, 11, 12 and 13 will be contained in the registrant's Proxy Statement which
will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission within 120 days
after August 29, 1996, and is incorporated herein by reference.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K
 
    (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:
 
  Consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedules--see
"Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data--Notes to Consolidated
Financial Statements--Contingencies."
 

 
 

 

- --------

 
  Exhibit numbers from Registration Statement on Form S-1 (Reg. No. 2-93343)
retained, where applicable.
 
  (b) Reports on Form 8-K:
 
  The registrant did not file any Reports on Form 8-K during the quarter ended
August 29, 1996.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURES
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THE REGISTRANT HAS DULY CAUSED THIS REPORT TO BE SIGNED
ON ITS BEHALF BY THE UNDERSIGNED, THEREUNTO DULY AUTHORIZED, IN THE CITY OF
BOISE, STATE OF IDAHO, ON THE 4TH DAY OF OCTOBER, 1996.
 
                                         Micron Technology, Inc.
 
                                                /s/ Wilbur G. Stover, Jr.
                                         By: __________________________________
                                              WILBUR G. STOVER, JR., VICE
                                               PRESIDENT, FINANCE, CHIEF
                                                   FINANCIAL OFFICER
                                                (PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL AND
                                                  ACCOUNTING OFFICER)
 
  PURSUANT TO THE REQUIREMENTS OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934, THIS
ANNUAL REPORT HAS BEEN SIGNED BELOW BY THE FOLLOWING PERSONS ON BEHALF OF THE
REGISTRANT AND IN THE CAPACITIES AND ON THE DATES INDICATED.
 
             SIGNATURE                       TITLE                 DATE
 
       /s/ Steven R. Appleton         Chairman of the        October 4, 1996
- ------------------------------------   Board, Chief
        (STEVEN R. APPLETON)           Executive Officer
                                       and President
 
         /s/ Jerry M. Hess            Director               October 4, 1996
- ------------------------------------
          (JERRY M. HESS)
 
       /s/ Robert A. Lothrop          Director               October 4, 1996
- ------------------------------------
        (ROBERT A. LOTHROP)
 
      /s/ Thomas T. Nicholson         Director               October 4, 1996
- ------------------------------------
       (THOMAS T. NICHOLSON)
 
         /s/ Don J. Simplot           Director               October 4, 1996
- ------------------------------------
          (DON J. SIMPLOT)
 
        /s/ John R. Simplot           Director               October 4, 1996
- ------------------------------------
         (JOHN R. SIMPLOT)
 
        /s/ Gordon C. Smith           Director               October 4, 1996
- ------------------------------------
         (GORDON C. SMITH)
 

