
10-K405
VORNADO REALTY TRUST



                                                       EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGE 112

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

[X] ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT
    OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended:                   DECEMBER 31, 1999
                           -----------------------------------------------------
                                                     or

[ ] TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
    ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                       to
                              -----------------------  -------------------------

Commission File Number:                            1-11954
                       ---------------------------------------------------------

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)




Registrant's telephone number including area code:       (201) 587-1000
                                                  ------------------------------


        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES X NO
                                             ---  ---
Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of the voting shares held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, i.e. by persons other than officers and trustees of Vornado Realty
Trust as reflected in the table in Item 12 of this Form 10-K, at March 1, 2000
was $2,130,503,000.

As of March 1, 2000, there were 86,393,140 common shares of the registrant's
shares of beneficial interest outstanding.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference
                       -----------------------------------

PART III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May
          31, 2000.





                               
 ----------------
 (1)  These items are omitted because the Registrant will file a definitive
      Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation 14A involving the election of
      directors with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120
      days after December 31, 1999, which is incorporated by reference herein.
      Information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears on
      page 46 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      Certain statements contained herein constitute forward-looking statements
as such term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
(the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Certain factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Factors that
might cause such a material difference include, but are not limited to, (a)
changes in the general economic climate, (b) local conditions such as an
oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area, (c)
conditions of tenants, (d) competition from other available space, (e) increased
operating costs and interest expense, (f) the timing of and costs associated
with property improvements, (g) changes in taxation or zoning laws, (h)
government regulations, (i) failure of Vornado to continue to qualify as a REIT,
(j) availability of financing on acceptable terms, (k) potential liability under
environmental or other laws or regulations, and (l) general competitive factors.

                                      -2-



                                     PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

      Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
("REIT"). In April 1997, Vornado transferred substantially all of its assets to
Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating
Partnership"). As a result, Vornado conducts its business through the Operating
Partnership. Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 86%
of the common limited partnership interest in, the Operating Partnership at
March 1, 2000. All references to the "Company" and "Vornado" refer to Vornado
Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating
Partnership.

      The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Building Properties ("Office"):

          (i) all or portions of 22 office building properties in the New York
    City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) aggregating approximately 14.0
    million square feet;

          (ii) a 34% limited partnership interest in Charles E. Smith Commercial
    Realty L.P. ("CESCR"), a limited partnership which owns and manages
    approximately 10.7 million square feet of office properties in Northern
    Virginia and Washington, D.C., and manages an additional 7.9 million square
    feet of office and other commercial properties in the Washington, D.C. area;

Retail Properties ("Retail"):

          (iii) 56 shopping center properties in six states and Puerto Rico
    aggregating approximately 12.0 million square feet, including 1.4 million
    square feet built by tenants on land leased from the Company;

Merchandise Mart Properties:

          (iv) the Merchandise Mart Properties portfolio containing
    approximately 6.8 million square feet, including the 3.4 million square foot
    Merchandise Mart in Chicago;

Temperature Controlled Logistics:

          (v) a 60% interest in partnerships that own 89 warehouse facilities
    nationwide with an aggregate of approximately 428 million cubic feet of
    refrigerated space (excludes 15 additional warehouses containing
    approximately 91 million cubic feet managed by AmeriCold Logistics).
    AmeriCold Logistics leases all of the partnerships' facilities;

Other Real Estate Investments:

          (vi) approximately 32% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander's,
    Inc. ("Alexander's"), which has eight properties in the New York City
    metropolitan area;

          (vii) The Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City contains approximately
    800,000 square feet of space with 1,700 rooms and approximately 400,000
    square feet of retail and office space;

          (viii) approximately 30% interest in the Newkirk joint ventures which
    own various equity and debt interests relating to 120 limited partnerships
    which own real estate, primarily office and retail, net leased to credit
    rated tenants;

          (ix) eight dry warehouse /industrial properties in New Jersey
    containing approximately 2.0 million square feet; and

          (x)     other real estate investments.

                                      -3-



Objectives and Strategy

      The Company's business objective is to maximize shareholder value. The
Company intends to achieve its business objective by continuing to pursue its
investment philosophy, making opportunistic investments and executing its
operating strategies through:

            -     Maintaining a superior team of operating and investment
                  professionals and an opportunistic entrepreneurial spirit;

            -     Investing in properties in the New York City metropolitan area
                  and other selected markets where the Company believes there is
                  high likelihood of capital appreciation;

            -     Acquiring high quality properties at a discount to replacement
                  cost and where there is a significant potential for higher
                  rents;

            -     Investing in retail properties in selected understored
                  locations such as the New York City metropolitan area;

            -     Investing in fully integrated operating companies that have a
                  significant real estate component with qualified, experienced
                  operating management and strong growth potential which can
                  benefit from the Company's access to efficient capital; and

            -     Developing and redeveloping the Company's existing properties
                  to increase returns and maximize value.

      The Company expects to finance its growth, acquisitions and investments
using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by
accessing the public and private capital markets.

                                      -4-



ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS

      Since January 1, 1999, the Company completed approximately $807 million of
real estate acquisitions and investments. The following table lists the
acquisitions and investments by business segment:



OFFICE:

   888 Seventh Avenue

      On January 12, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of 888 Seventh
Avenue, a 46 story Manhattan office building, for approximately $117,000,000, of
which $55,000,000 was indebtedness.

   Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty L.P.

      On March 4, 1999, the Company made an additional $242,000,000 investment
in CESCR by contributing to CESCR the land under certain CESCR office properties
in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia, and partnership interests in certain CESCR
subsidiaries. The Company acquired these assets from Commonwealth Atlantic
Properties, Inc. ("CAPI"), an affiliate of Lazard Freres Real Estate Investors
L.L.C., immediately prior to the contribution to CESCR. Together with the
Company's investment in CESCR made in 1997 and the units it reacquired in March
1999 from Vornado Operating Company, the Company owns approximately 34% of
CESCR's limited partnership units. In addition, the Company acquired from CAPI
for $8,000,000 the land under a Marriott Hotel located in Crystal City.

      The purchase price was paid to CAPI by the Company issuing $250,000,000 of
6% Convertible Preferred Units of the Company's Operating Partnership. The
Preferred Units are convertible at $44 per unit and the coupon increases to
6.50% over the next three years and then fixes at 6.75% in year eight. The
Company has the right to appoint one of three members to CESCR's Board of
Managers, increasing under certain circumstances to two of four members in March
2002.

      In connection with these transactions, the Company made a five-year
$41,200,000 loan to CAPI with interest at 8%, increasing to 9% ratably over the
term. The loan is secured by approximately $55,000,000 of the Operating
Partnership's units issued to CAPI as well as certain real estate assets.

                                      -5-



   909 Third Avenue

      On July 21, 1999, the Company acquired 909 Third Avenue, a 33 story
Manhattan office building, for approximately $123,000,000, of which $109,000,000
was indebtedness.

   595 Madison Avenue

      On September 15, 1999, the Company acquired 595 Madison Avenue (the
"Fuller Building"), a 40 story Manhattan office building, for approximately
$125,000,000.

   GreenPoint Leasehold Interest

      On December 16, 1999, the Company acquired GreenPoint Financial
Corporation's 99-year leasehold interest in approximately 56,000 square feet,
adjacent to One Penn Plaza, as part of its redevelopment plan for the Penn Plaza
district for approximately $37,300,000.

RETAIL:

   Vornado-Ceruzzi Joint Ventures

      On January 4, 2000 and January 25, 2000, the Company and its joint venture
partner acquired fee and/or leasehold interests in six properties located in
Pennsylvania, Virginia and Maryland formerly occupied by Hechinger, Inc., a home
improvement retailer, which was liquidated. The purchase price for the 500,000
square feet acquired was $15,000,000. The Company's share of this investment is
80% or $12,000,000.

OTHER REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS:

   Newkirk Joint Ventures

      On March 9, 1999, the Company and its joint venture partner completed the
acquisition of additional equity interests in certain limited partnerships. The
Company's additional investment of $52,435,000 consisted of $47,790,000 in
Operating Partnership Units and $4,645,000 in cash.

      On October 15, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of $15,600,000
of securitized debt of the Newkirk Joint Ventures which has an average yield of
14.28%.

Hotel Pennsylvania

      On August 5, 1999, the Company increased its interest in the Hotel by
acquiring Planet Hollywood International, Inc.'s ("Planet Hollywood") 20%
interest in the hotel for approximately $18,000,000 and assumed $24,000,000 of
existing debt. In connection with the transaction, the Company terminated the
licensing agreement with Planet Hollywood for an Official All-Star Hotel. The
Hotel Pennsylvania is located in New York City on Seventh Avenue opposite
Madison Square Garden. After the acquisition, the Company owned 100% of the
commercial portion of the building (retail and office space) and 98% of the
hotel portion through a preferred stock affiliate (in which the Company owns all
of the preferred equity and none of the common equity).

   Alexander's

      On October 21, 1999, the Company increased its ownership interest in
Alexander's from 29.3% to 32% by acquiring an additional 135,600 shares of
Alexander's common stock for approximately $8,956,000.

   Student Housing Joint Venture

      On January 28, 2000, the Company and its joint venture partner, acquired a
252-unit student housing complex in Gainesville, Florida, for approximately
$27,000,000, of which $19,600,000 was indebtedness. The Company's share of this
investment is 90%.

                                      -6-



DISPOSITIONS

      On March 3, 2000, the Company sold three shopping centers located in Texas
for approximately $25,750,000 resulting in a gain of $4,400,000.

DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

      During 1999, the Company expended approximately $93,444,000 in connection
with development and redevelopment projects which included (i) $27,544,000 to
buyout the tenant's lease on 28,000 square feet of office space at 640 Fifth
Avenue, thereby permitting re-leasing for retail use, (ii) $11,000,000 to buyout
the Bradlees lease at 14th Street and Union Square (effective March 15, 2002),
and (iii) $54,900,000 for the multi-year projects described below.

      The following table sets forth certain information for multi-year projects
currently in development or redevelopment as of December 31, 1999:



      The above table does not include the capital requirements of Alexander's
which are described in Item II: Properties.

      In addition to the projects noted above, the Company has identified the
following opportunities for future development or redevelopment: (i) the site at
14th Street and Union (currently leased to Bradlees), which may include razing
the existing building and developing a large multi-use building, (ii) the
refurbishment of the Hotel Pennsylvania, (iii) the redevelopment of the
Company's Penn Station properties which may include creating new retail space,
(iv) the construction of a large office tower at 7 Times Square (50% interest),
(v) the construction of 435,000 square feet of new showrooms in High Point,
North Carolina, (vi) the redevelopment of office space at 595 Madison Avenue,
and (vii) the 45,000 square foot expansion of 640 Fifth Avenue.

      There can be no assurance that the above projects will be commenced or
will be successful.

                                      -7-




OPERATIONS OF VORNADO OPERATING COMPANY

      In October 1998, Vornado Operating Company ("Vornado Operating") was spun
off from the Company in order to own assets that the Company could not itself
own and conduct activities that Company could not itself conduct.

      The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to certain agreements
described below.

   Revolving Credit Agreement

      Vornado Operating was granted a $75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
facility from the Company (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") which expires on
December 31, 2004. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest
at LIBOR plus 3%. The Company receives a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum on
the average daily unused portion of the facility. No amortization is required to
be paid under the Revolving Credit Agreement during its term. The Revolving
Credit Agreement prohibits Vornado Operating from incurring indebtedness to
third parties (other than certain purchase money debt and certain other
exceptions) and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying dividends. As of
December 31, 1999, $4,587,000 was outstanding under the Revolving Credit
Agreement.

   Agreement with Vornado Operating

      The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to an Agreement pursuant to
which, among other things, (a) the Company will under certain circumstances
offer Vornado Operating an opportunity to become the lessee of certain real
property owned now or in the future by the Company (under mutually satisfactory
lease terms) and (b) Vornado Operating will not make any real estate investment
or other REIT-Qualified Investment unless it first offers the Company the
opportunity to make such investment and the Company has rejected that
opportunity.

      Under the Agreement, the Company provides Vornado Operating with certain
administrative, corporate, accounting, financial, insurance, legal, tax, data
processing, human resources and operational services. For these services,
Vornado Operating compensates the Company in an amount determined in good faith
by the Company as the amount an unaffiliated third party would charge Vornado
Operating for comparable services and reimburses the Company for certain costs
incurred and paid to third parties on behalf of Vornado Operating. Pursuant to
the Agreement, compensation for such services was $330,000 for the year ended
December 31, 1999 and $50,000 for the period from October 16, 1998 (commencement
date) through December 31, 1998.

      Vornado Operating and the Company each have the right to terminate the
Agreement if the other party is in material default of the Agreement or upon 90
days written notice to the other party at any time after December 31, 2003. In
addition, the Company has the right to terminate the Agreement upon a change in
control of Vornado Operating.

   Vornado Operating's Management

      Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, West and Wight are directors of Vornado
Operating.  Mr. Roth is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
of Vornado Operating, Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Vornado Operating,
and certain other members of the Company's senior management hold a
corresponding position with Vornado Operating.

   Temperature Controlled Logistics Business

      On October 31, 1997, partnerships (the "Vornado/Crescent Partnerships") in
which affiliates of the Company have a 60% interest and affiliates of Crescent
Real Estate Equities Company have a 40% interest, acquired each of AmeriCold
Corporation ("Americold") and URS Logistics, Inc. ("URS"). In June 1998, the
Vornado/Crescent Partnerships acquired the assets of Freezer Services, Inc. and
in July 1998 acquired the Carmar Group.

                                      -8-


      On March 12, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of Temperature Controlled Logistics encompassing the
operations of the temperature controlled business for approximately $48,000,000
to a new partnership owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent
Operating Inc. ("AmeriCold Logistics"). The new partnership leases the
underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in this business from the
Vornado/Crescent Partnerships which continue to own the real estate. The leases
generally have a 15 year term with two-five year renewal options and provide for
the payment of fixed base rent and percentage rent based on revenue AmeriCold
Logistics receives from its customers. The new partnership is required to pay
for all costs arising from the operation, maintenance and repair of the
properties as well as property capital expenditures in excess of $5,000,000
annually. The new partnership has the right to defer a portion of the rent for
up to three years beginning on March 12, 1999 to the extent that available cash,
as defined in the leases, is insufficient to pay such rent and pursuant thereto,
rent was deferred for the period ended December 31, 1999 of which the Company's
share was $3,240,000.

   Disposition and Acquisition of Interest in CESCR

      On December 31, 1998, the Company sold approximately 1.7% of the
outstanding partnership units of CESCR to Vornado Operating Company for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $12,900,000, or $34 per unit (which is
the price at which CESCR issued partnership units in October 1998 in connection
with a significant "roll-up" transaction). The purchase price was funded out of
Vornado Operating's working capital. After giving effect to this purchase, the
Company owned approximately 9.6% of CESCR as of December 31, 1998. In connection
with this purchase, the Company granted to Vornado Operating an option to
require the Company to repurchase all of the CESCR units at the price at which
Vornado Operating purchased the CESCR units, plus a cumulative return on such
amount at a rate of 10% per annum. In March 1999, Vornado Operating exercised
such option and the Company reacquired the CESCR units from Vornado Operating
for $13,200,000.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES

      During 1999, the Company sold an aggregate of $539,500,000 of Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Units and $200,000,000 of Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $718,734 ,000.

      In addition, during 1999 the Company completed $485,000,000 of property
level refinancings.

      On March 1, 2000, the Company completed a $500,000,000 private placement
of 10-year, 7.93% mortgage notes, cross-collateralized by 42 shopping center
properties, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $490,000,000. In
connection therewith, the Company repaid $228,000,000 of existing mortgage debt
scheduled to mature on December 1, 2000 and $262,000,000 outstanding under its
revolving credit facility.

      Further detail of the Company's financing activities are disclosed in
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations in Part II of this document.

      At December 31, 1999, the ratio of debt-to-enterprise value (market equity
value plus debt less cash) was 43% based on debt of $3.2 billion which included
the Company's proportionate share of debt of partially-owned entities. In the
future, in connection with its strategy for growth, this percentage may change.
The Company's policy concerning the incurrence of debt may be reviewed and
modified from time to time by the Company without the vote of shareholders.

                                      -9-


      The Company may seek to obtain funds through equity offerings or debt
financings, although there is no express policy with respect thereto. The
Company may offer its shares or Operating Partnership units in exchange for
property and may repurchase or otherwise reacquire its shares or any other
securities in the future.

EBITDA BY SEGMENT AND REGION

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Company's EBITDA(1)
by segment and region for the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.
Prior to April 1997, the Company operated in one segment-retail real estate,
primarily in the Northeast section of the United States.



         -----------------------------
         (1)  EBITDA represents income before interest, taxes, depreciation and
              amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or
              losses on sales of real estate and the effect of straight-lining
              of property rentals for rent escalations. Management considers
              EBITDA a supplemental measure for making decisions and assessing
              the performance of its segments. EBITDA may not be comparable to
              similarly titled measures employed by other companies.
         (2)  Other includes the Temperature Controlled Logistics segment which
              has facilities in  31 states and Alberta, Canada.  See page 34 for
              details.

RELATIONSHIP WITH ALEXANDER'S

      The Company owns 32.0% of the outstanding shares of common stock of
Alexander's. See "Interstate Properties" below for a description of Interstate's
ownership of the Company and Alexander's.

      Alexander's has eight properties (see Item 2. Properties--Alexander's).

      At December 31, 1999, the Company has loans receivable from Alexander's
aggregating $95,000,000, including $50,000,000 loaned to Alexander's on October
20, 1999. The loans, which were scheduled to mature on March 15, 2000, were
extended to March 15, 2001. The interest rate was reset from 14.18% to 15.72%,
reflecting an increase in the underlying Treasury rate. Management believes
there are no indications of impairment as discussed in Statement of Financial
Accounting Standards No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors for Impairment of a
Loan".

      The Company manages, develops and leases the Alexander's properties under
a management and development agreement (the "Management Agreement") and a
leasing agreement (the "Leasing Agreement") pursuant to which the Company
receives annual fees from Alexander's. These agreements have a one-year term
expiring in March of each year and are automatically renewable. See Item 2.
Properties for a description of Alexander's Development and Redevelopment
projects.

      Alexander's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol "ALX".

                                      -10-



INTERSTATE PROPERTIES

      As of December 31, 1999, Interstate Properties and its partners owned
approximately 17.8% of the common shares of beneficial interest of the Company,
27.3% of Alexander's common stock and beneficial ownership of 17.8% of Vornado
Operating. Interstate Properties is a general partnership in which Steven Roth,
David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are partners. Mr. Roth is the
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Managing
General Partner of Interstate Properties, and the Chief Executive Officer and a
director of both Alexander's and Vornado Operating. Mr. Wight is a trustee of
the Company and is also a director of both Alexander's and Vornado Operating.
Mr. Mandelbaum is a trustee of the Company and is also a director of
Alexander's.

COMPETITION

      The Company's four business segments, Office, Retail, Merchandise Mart
Properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics, operate in highly competitive
environments. The Company's success depends upon, among other factors, the
trends of the national and local economies, the financial condition and
operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, the
availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, income tax
laws, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends. The Company
competes with a large number of real estate property owners. Principal factors
of competition are rent charged, attractiveness of property and the quality and
breadth of services provided. The Company has a large concentration of
properties in the New York City metropolitan area, a highly competitive market.
The economic condition of this market may be significantly influenced by supply
and demand for space and the financial performance and productivity of the
publishing, retail, pharmaceutical, insurance and finance industries.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

      Under various Federal, state and local laws and regulations, a current or
previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to investigate and
clean up hazardous or toxic substances released at a property, and may be held
liable to a governmental entity or to third parties for property damage or
personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up costs incurred by the
parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws can impose liability
without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or caused, the release
of such substances. The presence of contamination or the failure to remediate
contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to sell or lease real
estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral. Other Federal, state
and local laws and regulations require abatement or removal of damaged
asbestos-containing materials or in the event of demolition or certain
renovations or remodeling and also govern emissions of and exposure to asbestos
fibers in the air. Air emissions and waste-water discharges and the operation
and subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks are also regulated
by Federal and state laws. In connection with the ownership, operation and
management of its properties, the Company could be held liable for the costs of
remedial action with respect to such regulated substances or tanks or related
claims for personal injury, property damage or fines.

      Each of the Company's properties has been subjected to varying degrees of
environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did not
reveal any material environmental condition. However, there can be no assurance
that the identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of
contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, the
discovery of additional sites, or changes in cleanup requirements would not
result in significant costs to the Company.

CERTAIN ACTIVITIES

      Acquisitions and investments are not necessarily required to be based on
specific allocation by type of property. The Company has historically held its
properties for long-term investment; however, it is possible that properties in
the portfolio may be sold in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, from
time to time. Further, the Company has not adopted a policy that limits the
amount or percentage of assets which would be invested in a specific property.
While the Company may seek the vote of its shareholders in connection with any
particular material transaction, generally the Company's activities are reviewed
and may be modified from time to time by its Board of Trustees without the vote
of shareholders.

                                      -11-


EMPLOYEES

      The Company has approximately 1,299 employees consisting of 95 in the
Office Properties segment, 53 in the Retail Properties segment, 588 in the
Merchandise Mart Properties segment, 470 at the Hotel Pennsylvania and 93
corporate staff. This does not include employees of partially-owned entities.

SEGMENT DATA

      The Company operates in four business segments: Office Properties, Retail
Properties, Merchandise Mart Properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics.
The Company engages in no foreign operations other than one temperature
controlled warehouse in Canada.

      The Company's principal executive offices are located at Park 80 West,
Plaza II, Saddle Brook, New Jersey 07663; telephone (201) 587-1000.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

      The Company currently owns, directly or indirectly, Office properties,
Retail properties, Merchandise Mart Properties and Temperature Controlled
Logistics warehouses. The Company also owns or has investments in Alexander's,
Hotel Pennsylvania, Newkirk Joint Ventures, and dry warehouses and industrial
buildings.

                                      -12-


OFFICE

The New York City office properties consist of (i) all or a portion of 22 office
buildings in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan)
aggregating approximately 14.0 million square feet (including 825,000 square
feet of retail space and five garages containing 334,000 square feet)
(collectively, the "New York City Office Properties") and (ii) a 34% interest in
Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty, L.P. which owns interests in and manages
approximately 10.7 million square feet of office properties in Northern Virginia
and Washington, D.C. (the "CESCR Office Properties").

      The following data on pages 13 to 18 covers the New York City Office
Properties.  The CESCR Office Properties are described on pages 19 to 21.

New York City Office Properties:

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the New York City Office
Properties revenue by tenants' industry:



      The Company's New York City Office property lease terms range from 5 to 7
years for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 20 years for major tenants. Leases
typically provide for step-ups in rent periodically over the term of the lease
and pass through to tenants the tenant's share of increases in real estate taxes
and operating expenses over a base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a
submetered basis or included in rent based on surveys and adjusted for
subsequent utility rate increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant
improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction
costs of its premises. No tenant in the office segment accounted for more than
10% of the Company's total revenue. Below is a listing of tenants which
accounted for 2% or more of the New York City Office Properties revenues in
1999:



                                      -13-


      The following table sets forth lease expirations for each of the next 10
years, as of December 31, 1999, assuming that none of the tenants exercise their
renewal options.



- ---------------------
(1) Includes 492,000 square feet at 909 Third Avenue leased to the U.S. Post
    Office. The annual escalated rent is $3,193,000 or $6.49 per square foot.
    The U.S. Post Office has 7 five-year renewal options remaining.

      As of March 1, 2000, the occupancy rate of the Company's New York City
Office properties was 95%. The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
the average annual escalated rent per square foot for the New York City Office
properties at the end of each of the past three years.




                                      -14-




      In 1999, 1,764,602 square feet of New York City office space was leased at
a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $37.34. The Company's
ownership interest in the leased square footage is 1,685,476 square feet at a
weighted average initial rent per square foot of $37.10. At December 31, 1998,
the weighted average escalated rent per square foot for the Company's interest
in such properties was $26.22. Following is the detail by building:



         ---------------------------------

         (1)  Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not
              reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.

      In addition to the office space noted above, the Company leased 37,000
square feet of retail space (of which 28,000 square feet was previously leased
as office space) at 640 Fifth Avenue at an average initial rent per square foot
of $202.79.

      During 1999, the Company granted non-exclusive rights to three companies
to install fiber-optic networks and to provide broadband data, video and voice
communications services in its office buildings in return for a share of
revenues and warrants to purchase common stock. Concurrently, the Company has
invested approximately $10.2 million in these entities, representing interests
in each entity of less than 3%.

                                      -15-



New York City Office Properties

      The following table sets forth certain information for the New York City
Office Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 1999.






                                      -16-










                                      -17-






- ------------------------------
(1) Represents annualized monthly base rent for tenants excluding rent for
    leases which had not commenced as of December 31, 1999, which are included
    in percent leased.
(2) Represents annualized monthly escalated rent for tenants including tenant
    pass-throughs of operating expenses (exclusive of tenant electricity costs)
    and real estate taxes.
(3) 100% ground leased property.
(4) The U.S. Post Office leases approximately 492,000 square feet at this
    location at annualized escalated rent per square foot of $6.49.

                                      -18-


CESCR Office Properties:

      CESCR, owns 39 office buildings in the Northern Virginia and Washington
D.C. area containing 10.7 million square feet. The Company owns a 34% interest
in CESCR. As of December 31, 1999, 49 percent of CESCR's property portfolio is
leased to various agencies of the U.S. government (General Services
Administration "GSA" lessee); the largest U.S. government agencies include the
U.S. Patent Trade Office (1.97 million square feet in 17 properties), the U.S.
Navy Sea Systems Command (253,000 square feet in 7 properties), the Federal
Supply Service (167,400 square feet in 2 properties) and the Environmental
Protection Agency (203,000 square feet in one property). One additional tenant,
US Airways, Inc. occupied 317,000 square feet in one building. As of December
31, 1999, no other tenants occupied more than 2% of CESCR's office properties.

      CESCR office leases are typically for 3 to 5 year terms, and may provide
for extension options at prenegotiated rates. Most leases provide for annual
rental escalations throughout the lease term, plus recovery of increases in real
estate taxes and certain property operating expenses. Annual rental escalations
are typically based upon either fixed percentage increases or the consumer price
index. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances for all
or a portion of the tenant's initial construction costs of its' premises.

      Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the CESCR
Office Properties revenues in 1999:




                                      -19-




      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1999 CESCR lease
expirations for each of the next 10 years, assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.



      The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average annual
escalated rent per square foot for the CESCR properties:




      CESCR manages an additional 7.9 million square feet of office and other
commercial properties in the Washington, D.C. area for third parties.

                                      -20-


CESCR Office Properties

      The following table sets forth certain information for the CESCR Office
Properties (in which the Company has a 34% interest), as of December 31, 1999.






- ---------------------------------
(1) Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding rent for leases which had
    not commenced as of December 31, 1999, which are included in percent leased.
(2) Represents annualized monthly escalated rent for office properties including
    tenant pass-throughs of operating expenses (exclusive of tenant electricity
    costs) and real estate taxes.



                                     -21-



RETAIL

      The Company owns 56 shopping center properties of which 53 are strip
shopping centers primarily located in the Northeast and Midatlantic states, two
are regional centers located in San Juan, Puerto Rico and one, the Green Acres
Mall, is a super-regional center located in Nassau County, Long Island, New
York. The Company's shopping centers are generally located on major regional
highways in mature, densely populated areas. The Company believes its shopping
centers attract consumers from a regional, rather than a neighborhood
marketplace because of their location on regional highways.

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Retail Portfolio
rentals by tenants' industry:



       As of March 1, 2000, the occupancy rate of the retail properties was 93%.
The following tables set forth the occupancy rate and the average annual base
rent per square foot (excluding the Green Acres Mall) for the properties at the
end of each of the past five years.



      The average annual base rent per square foot for the Green Acres Mall was
$13.46 and $12.92 in total, and $35.29 and $32.24 for mall tenants only, at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, respectively.

      The Company's shopping center lease terms range from 5 years or less in
some instances, for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 25 years for major
tenants. Leases generally provide for additional rents based on a percentage of
tenants' sales and pass through to tenants the tenants' share of all common area
charges (including roof and structure in strip shopping centers, unless it is
the tenant's direct responsibility), real estate taxes and insurance costs and
certain capital expenditures. Percentage rent accounted for less than 2% of
total shopping center revenues in 1999. None of the tenants in the Retail
Segment accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total revenues.

                                      -22-


      Below is a listing tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the Retail
property rentals in 1999:



      In June 1995, Bradlees filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code. Bradlees emerged from bankruptcy in January 1999 when its plan
of reorganization was confirmed. The Company withdrew its objection to Bradlees'
proposed plan of reorganization after obtaining Bradlees' agreement that its
lease of the Company's 14th Street and Union Square property would terminate in
March 2000. The lease was scheduled to expire in October 2019, and contained an
option to renew for an additional ten years. The rent under the lease was
increased by $1,100,000 per annum to $3,400,000 per annum from January 1999 to
the March 2000 termination date. In connection with the foregoing, the Company
paid $11,000,000 to Bradlees. Subsequently, in January 2000, the lease was
extended to March 15, 2002 and in connection therewith, the rent under the lease
will increase to $4,600,000 in March, 2000 and to $4,900,000 in March 2001. The
Company is considering various alternatives for the redevelopment of this site.
The Company currently leases 15 other locations to Bradlees. Of these locations,
the leases for 14 are fully guaranteed by Stop & Shop Companies, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Koninklijke Ahold NV (formerly Royal Ahold NV), a
leading international food retailer, and one is guaranteed as to 70% of the
rent.

      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1999 lease expirations
for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their
renewal options.



                                      -23-



      In 1999, 372,113 square feet of retail space was leased at a weighted
average base rent per square foot of $13.90. The Company's ownership interest in
the leased square footage is 364,187 square feet at a weighted average base rent
per square foot of $13.56. At December 31, 1998, the weighted average annual
rent per square foot for the Company's interest in such properties was $11.11.
Following is the detail by property:



          (1)  Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not
               reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.

      The Company's strip shopping centers are substantially leased to large
stores (over 20,000 square feet). Tenants include destination retailers such as
discount department stores, supermarkets, home improvements stores, discount
apparel stores, membership warehouse clubs and "category killers." Category
killers are large stores which offer a complete selection of a category of items
(e.g., toys, office supplies, etc.) at low prices, often in a warehouse format.
Tenants typically offer basic consumer necessities such as food, health and
beauty aids, moderately priced clothing, building materials and home improvement
supplies, and compete primarily on the basis of price.

      The Company's two regional shopping centers located in Montehiedra and
Caguas, Puerto Rico, (both of which are in the San Juan area) contain 1,014,000
square feet of which the Company owns 727,000 square feet. The centers are
anchored by four major stores: Sears, Roebuck and Co., Kmart (one in each of the
centers) and a Builders Square Home Improvement store.

      The Green Acres Mall is a 1.6 million square foot super-regional enclosed
shopping mall complex situated in Nassau County, Long Island, New York,
approximately one mile east of the borough of Queens, New York. The Green Acres
Mall is anchored by four major department stores: Sears, Roebuck and Co., J.C.
Penney Company, Inc. and Federated Department Stores, Inc. doing business as
Stern's and as Macy's. The complex also includes The Plaza at Green Acres, a
188,000 square foot strip shopping center which is anchored by Kmart and
Waldbaums.

                                      -24-


Retail Properties

      The following table sets forth certain information for the Retail
Properties as of December 31, 1999 and excludes properties the Company has sold
thereafter.








                                      -25-







                                      -26-








                                      -27-






                                      -28-







- -------------------------
(1) Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding ground leases, storage
    rent and rent for leases which had not commenced as of December 31, 1999,
    which are included in percent leased.
(2) These leases are fully guaranteed by Stop & Shop, a wholly-owned subsidiary
    of Koninklijke Ahold NV (formerly Royal Ahold NV), except in the case of
    Totowa, guaranteed as to 70% of rent.
(3) 100% ground and/or building leasehold interest; other than Green Acres,
    where approximately 10% of the ground is leased.
(4) The tenant has ceased operations at these locations but continues to pay
    rent.
(5) Annualized rent per square foot is $13.46 in total and $35.29 for the mall
    tenants only.
(6) Square footage excludes the anchor store which owns its land and building.
(7) These encumbrances are part of a cross collateralized mortgage financing in
    the amount of $500,000,000 completed on March 1, 2000.

                                      -29-


MERCHANDISE MART PROPERTIES

      The Merchandise Mart Properties are a portfolio of seven properties
containing an aggregate of approximately 6.8 million square feet. The properties
are used for offices (36%), showrooms (61%) and retail stores (3%). The Company
acquired these assets in separate transactions in 1998. In April 1998, the
Company purchased four buildings containing approximately 5.4 million square
feet from the Kennedy Family, including the 3.4 million square foot Merchandise
Mart building in Chicago, the adjacent 350 North Orleans Street building, the
Washington, D.C. Office Center and the adjacent Washington, D.C. Design Center.
In December 1998, the Company purchased the 1.1 million square foot Market
Square Complex and in a separate transaction purchased the adjacent 244,000
square foot National Furniture Mart in High Point, North Carolina.

   Office Space

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart
Properties office revenues by tenants' industry:



      The average lease term ranges from 1 to 5 years for smaller tenants to as
long as 15 years for major tenants. Leases typically provide for step-ups in
rent periodically over the term of the lease and pass through to tenants the
tenants' share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for a
building over a base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a submetered
basis or included in rent based on surveys and adjusted for subsequent utility
rate increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances
for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction of its premises. None
of the tenants in the Merchandise Mart Properties segment accounted for more
than 10% of the Company's total revenue. Below is a listing of the Merchandise
Mart Properties office tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the Merchandise
Mart Properties' revenues in 1999:



                                      -30-


      As of March 1, 2000, the occupancy rate of the Merchandise Mart
Properties' office space was 93%. The following table sets forth the occupancy
rate and the average escalated rent per square foot for the Merchandise Mart
Properties' office space at the end of each of the past five years.



      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1999 office lease
expirations for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.




- ---------------------------------
(1) 250,000 square feet is leased to the GSA and is expected to be renewed by
    March 31, 2000 for 10 years at an initial rent per square foot of $34.89.

      In 1999, 121,724 square feet of office space was leased at a weighted
average initial rent per square foot of $21.49. At December 31, 1998, the
weighted average escalated rent per square foot for such properties was $19.68.
Following is the detail by building.



- --------------------------------
(1)  Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in
     the initial rent per square foot leased.


                                      -31-



   Showroom Space

      The Merchandise Mart Properties' showroom space aggregates 4,174,000
square feet of which 2,473,000 square feet is located in the Merchandise Mart
building and 350 North Orleans in Chicago, 1,359,000 square feet is located in
the Market Square Complex (including the National Furniture Mart) in High Point,
North Carolina and 342,000 square feet is located in the Design Center in
Washington, D.C. The showroom space consists of 2,732,000 square feet of
permanent mart space (leased to manufacturers and distributors whose clients are
retailers, specifiers and end users), 941,000 square feet of permanent design
center space (leased to wholesalers whose principal clientele is interior
designers), and 501,000 square feet of temporary market suite space (used for
trade shows).

      The showrooms provide manufacturers and wholesalers with permanent and
temporary space in which to display products for buyers, specifiers and end
users. The showrooms are also used for hosting trade shows for the contract
furniture, casual furniture, giftware, carpet, residential furnishings, crafts,
and design industries. The Merchandise Mart Properties own and operate five of
the leading furniture/gift-ware trade shows including the contract furniture
industry's largest trade show, the NeoCon Show, which attracts over 50,000
attendees annually and is hosted at the Merchandise Mart building in Chicago.
The Market Square Complex co-hosts the home furniture industry's semi-annual
market weeks which occupy over 8,800,000 square feet in the High Point, North
Carolina region.

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart
properties showroom revenues by tenants' industry:



      As of March 1, 2000 the occupancy rate of the Merchandise Mart Properties'
showroom space was 98%. The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
the average escalated rent per square foot for this space at the end of each of
the past five years.



- ---------------------------------
(1) Average annual escalated rent per square foot excluding the Market Square
    Complex is $25.72 and $22.13, respectively.

                                      -32-




      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1999 showroom lease
expirations for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.



                                      -33-



   Retail Stores

      The Merchandise Mart Properties' portfolio also contains approximately
184,000 square feet of retail stores which were 62% occupied at March 1, 2000.

   Merchandise Mart in Chicago

      The Merchandise Mart in Chicago is a 25-story industry building. Built in
1930, the Merchandise Mart is one of the largest buildings in the nation,
containing over 4,000,000 gross square feet of which approximately 3,440,000
square feet is rentable.

      As of March 1, 2000, the occupancy rate of the Merchandise Mart in Chicago
was 95%. The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average
escalated rent per square foot at the end of each of the past five years.



      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1999 lease expirations
at the Merchandise Mart in Chicago for each of the next 10 years assuming that
none of the tenants exercise renewal options.



      The aggregate undepreciated tax basis of depreciable real property at the
Merchandise Mart in Chicago for Federal income tax purposes was approximately
$128,000,000 as of December 31, 1999 and depreciation for such property is
computed for Federal income tax purposes on the straight-line method over
thirty-nine years.

      For the 1999 tax year, the tax rate in Chicago for commercial real estate
is $8.872 for $100 assessed value which results in real estate taxes of
$9,774,474 for the Merchandise Mart.

                                      -34-




MERCHANDISE MART PROPERTIES:

      The following table sets forth certain information for the Merchandise
Mart Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 1999.







(1) Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding rent for leases which had
    not commenced as of December 31, 1999, which are included in percent leased.
(2) Represents annualized monthly base rent including tenant pass-throughs of
    operating expenses (exclusive of tenant electricity costs) and real estate
    taxes.

                                      -35-




TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED LOGISTICS

      The Company has a 60% interest in the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships that
own 89 refrigerated warehouses with an aggregate of approximately 428 million
cubic feet (excludes 15 additional warehouses containing approximately 91
million cubic feet managed by AmeriCold Logistics). AmeriCold Logistics leases
all of the partnerships' facilities. The Temperature Controlled Logistics
segment is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.

      On March 12, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of AmeriCold Logistics encompassing the operations of the
cold storage business for approximately $48,000,000 to a new partnership owned
60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc. ("AmeriCold
Logistics") The new partnership leases the underlying cold storage warehouses
used in this business from the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships which continue to
own the real estate. The leases generally have a 15 year term with two-five year
renewal options and provide for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage
rent based on revenue AmeriCold Logistics receives from its customers. The new
partnership is required to pay for all costs arising from the operation,
maintenance and repair of the properties as well as property capital
expenditures in excess of $5,000,000 annually. Fixed base rent and percentage
rent was approximately $134,000,000 for the period from March 12, 1999 through
December 31, 1999. The new partnership has the right to defer a portion of the
rent for up to three years beginning on March 12, 1999 to the extent that
available cash, as defined in the lease, is insufficient to pay such rent, and
pursuant thereto, rent was deferred as of December 31, 1999, of which the
Company's share is $3,240,000.

      AmeriCold Logistics provides the frozen food industry with refrigerated
warehousing and transportation management services. Refrigerated warehouses are
comprised of production and distribution facilities. Production facilities
typically serve one or a small number of customers, generally food processors,
located nearby. These customers store large quantities of processed or partially
processed products in the facility until they are shipped to the next stage of
production or distribution. Distribution facilities primarily warehouse a wide
variety of customers' finished products until future shipment to end-users. Each
distribution facility generally services the surrounding regional market.
AmeriCold Logistics' transportation management services include freight routing,
dispatching, freight rate negotiation, backhaul coordination, freight bill
auditing, network flow management, order consolidation and distribution channel
assessment. AmeriCold Logistics' temperature-controlled logistics expertise and
access to both frozen food warehouses and distribution channels enable its
customers to respond quickly and efficiently to time-sensitive orders from
distributors and retailers.

      AmeriCold Logistics' customers consist primarily of national, regional and
local frozen food manufacturers, distributors, retailers and food service
organizations. A breakdown of AmeriCold Logistics' largest customers include:




                                      -36-



Facilities

      The following table shows the location, size and type of facility for each
of the Temperature Controlled Logistics properties as of December 31, 1999:


                                      -37-




                                      -38-





                                      -39-




                                      -40-




      *   New facility in 1999

                                      -41-


The above table is summarized as follows:



                                      -42-



ALEXANDER'S PROPERTIES

      The following table shows as of December 31, 1999 the location,
approximate size and leasing status of each of the properties owned by
Alexander's, in which the Company has a 32.0% interest.



- -------------------
(1) Excludes parking garages.

(2) Excludes 339,000 square foot Macy's store, owned and operated by Federated
    Department Stores, Inc. ("Federated").

(3) Leased by the Company through January 2027.

                                      -43-




Kings Plaza Regional Shopping Center:

      In June 1998, Alexander's increased its interest in the Mall to 100% by
acquiring Federated Department Stores's 50% interest. The purchase price was
approximately $28,000,000, which was paid in cash, plus Alexander's agreed to
pay Federated $15,000,000 to renovate its Macy's store in the Mall and
Federated agreed to certain modifications to the Kings Plaza Operating
Agreement. Alexander's is currently renovating the Mall in connection with the
overall renovation of the Center at an estimated cost of $33,000,000 of which
$9,045,000 has been expended as of January 31, 2000. The renovation is expected
to be completed in 2000.

Paramus:

      Alexander's intends to develop a shopping center of approximately 550,000
square feet on this site. The estimated cost of such redevelopment is
approximately $100,000,000. Alexander's has received municipal approvals on
tentative plans to develop the site. No redevelopment plans have been
finalized.

Lexington Avenue:

      Alexander's is currently undertaking the excavation and laying the
foundation for its Lexington Avenue property as part of the proposed
development of a large multi-use building. The proposed building is expected to
be comprised of a commercial portion, which may include retail stores, offices,
hotel space, extended-stay residences, residential rentals and parking; and a
residential portion, consisting of condominium units to be sold to the public.
In connection therewith, Alexander's paid $14,500,000 for 140,000 square feet
of air rights of which $12,200,000 was paid to the Company (Vornado's cost plus
$243,000 in interest and closing costs). The air rights were contracted for and
paid for in 1999, with closings to take place when the developments which give
rise to the air rights are completed in 2000. The capital required for the
proposed building will be in excess of $400,000,000.

      Because a REIT is subject to 100% excise tax on income derived from the
sales of "dealer property" (i.e. condominiums), the air rights representing the
residential portion of the property are being transferred to a preferred stock
affiliate, a corporation in which Alexander's owns all of the preferred equity
and none of the common equity. The transfer value will be adjusted once the
final size of the residential portion is determined.

      While Alexander's anticipates that financing will be available after
tenants have been obtained for these projects, there can be no assurance that
such financing will be obtained, or if obtained, that such financings will be
on terms that are acceptable. In addition, it is uncertain as to when these
projects will commence.

HOTEL PENNSYLVANIA

      On August 5, 1999, the Company increased its interest in the Hotel
Pennsylvania to 100% by acquiring Planet Hollywood International, Inc.'s
("Planet Hollywood") 20% interest in the hotel for approximately $18,000,000
and assumed $24,000,000 of existing debt. In connection with the transaction,
the Company terminated the licensing agreement with Planet Hollywood for an
Official All-Star Hotel. The Hotel Pennsylvania is located in New York City on
Seventh Avenue opposite Madison Square Garden. The Company intends to refurbish
the Hotel. Under the terms of the mortgage on this property, in connection with
the refurbishment, the Company has escrowed $15,000,000 in cash and provided
$29,000,000 through letters of credit. The Hotel Pennsylvania contains
approximately 800,000 square feet of hotel space with 1,700 rooms and
approximately 400,000 square feet of retail and office space. The Company
manages the property's retail and office space, and a preferred stock affiliate
of the Company co-manages the hotel.

      The following table presents rental information for the hotel:



      As of December 31, 1999, the property's retail and office space was 85%
and 55% occupied. Twenty-five tenants occupy the retail and commercial space.
Annual rent per square foot of retail and office space in 1999 were $44 and
$16.

                                      -44-




NEWKIRK JOINT VENTURES

      The Newkirk Joint Ventures ("Newkirk") own various equity and debt
interests relating to 120 limited partnerships which own real estate primarily
net leased to credit rated tenants. The Company owns a 30% interest in Newkirk
with the balance owned by affiliates of Apollo Real Estate Investment Fund III,
L.P.

      The following table sets forth the real estate owned by the limited
partnerships and the Company's interest therein:



      These properties are located throughout the United States.

DRY WAREHOUSE/INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES

      The Company's dry warehouse/industrial properties consist of eight
buildings in New Jersey containing approximately 2.0 million square feet. At
December 31, 1999, the occupancy rate of the properties was 92%. The average
term of a tenant's lease is three to five years. Average annual rent per square
foot at December 31, 1999 was $3.37.

INSURANCE

      The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended
coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to its properties with policy
specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties.
Management of the Company believes that the Company's insurance coverage
conforms to industry norms.

                                      -45-




ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      The Company is from time to time involved in legal actions arising in the
ordinary course of its business. In the opinion of management, after
consultation with legal counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the year ended December 31, 1999.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      The following is a list of the names, ages, principal occupations and
positions with Vornado of the executive officers of Vornado and the positions
held by such officers during the past five years. All executive officers of
Vornado have terms of office which run until the next succeeding meeting of the
Board of Trustees of Vornado following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders
unless they are removed sooner by the Board.



- ------------------------

(1)  As of March 17, 1999, Mr. McNamara is an employee of the partnership which
purchased the non-real estate assets of AmeriCold Logistics.

                                      -46-


                                    PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      Vornado's common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol "VNO".

      Quarterly price ranges of the common shares and dividends paid per share
for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 were as follows:



      The approximate number of record holders of common shares of Vornado at
December 31, 1999, was 2,500.

                                      -47-




ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA



                                      -48-






(1) The earnings per share amounts prior to 1997 have been restated to comply
    with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per
    Share" (SFAS 128). For further discussion of earnings per share and the
    impact of SFAS 128, see the notes to the consolidated financial statements.
    All share and per share information has also been adjusted for a 2-for-1
    share split in October 1997.

(2) Funds from operations does not represent cash generated from operating
    activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
    is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs which is
    disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the applicable
    periods. There are no material legal or functional restrictions on the use
    of funds from operations. Funds from operations should not be considered as
    an alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's operating
    performance or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.
    Management considers funds from operations a supplemental measure of
    operating performance and along with cash flow from operating activities,
    financing activities and investing activities, it provides investors with an
    indication of the ability of the Company to incur and service debt, to make
    capital expenditures and to fund other cash needs. Funds from operations may
    not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other REITs since
    a number of REITs, including the Company, calculate funds from operations in
    a manner different from that used by the National Association of Real Estate
    Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). Funds from operations, as defined by NAREIT,
    represents net income applicable to common shares before depreciation and
    amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items and gains or losses on
    sales of real estate. Funds from operations as disclosed above have been
    modified from this definition to adjust for (i) the effect of
    straight-lining of property rentals for rent escalations and leasing fee
    income, (ii) the reversal of income taxes (benefit for the year ended
    December 31, 1999) which is considered non-recurring because of the expected
    conversion of Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies to REITs, (iii) the
    addback of Temperature Controlled Logistics non-recurring unification costs,
    and (iv) the exclusion of a $2,700 reduction in interest expense in 1999
    resulting from the amortization of the excess of fair value of Newkirk Joint
    Venture limited partnership's debt over its face amount at date of
    acquisition.

                                      -49-




ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

      (All of the amounts presented are in thousands, except share amounts and
percentages)

     OVERVIEW

     Below is a summary of net income and EBITDA(1) by segment for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997:





   Footnotes 1-5 are explained on the following page.

                                      -50-







    (1) EBITDA represents income before interest, taxes, depreciation and
        amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or losses on
        sales of real estate and the effect of straight-lining of property
        rentals for rent escalations. Management considers EBITDA a supplemental
        measure for making decisions and assessing the performance of its
        segments. EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures
        employed by other companies.

    (2) Other includes (i) the operations of the Company's warehouse and
        industrial properties, (ii) investments in the Hotel Pennsylvania,
        Alexander's, Newkirk Joint Ventures, (iii) corporate general and
        administrative expenses and (iv) unallocated investment income and
        interest and debt expense.

    (3) Includes (i) the reversal of income taxes (benefit for the year ended
        December 31, 1999) which are considered non-recurring because of the
        expected conversion of the Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies to
        REIT's and (ii) the add back of non-recurring unification costs.

    (4) Interest and debt expense, depreciation and amortization and
        straight-lining of rents included in the reconciliation of net income to
        EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income from partially-owned
        entities.

    (5) Primarily represents the Company's equity in Alexander's loss for the
        write-off resulting from the razing of Alexander's building formerly
        located at its Lexington Avenue site.

                                      -51-



RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

   Years Ended December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998

         Below are the details of the changes by segment in EBITDA.



   (1) Represents operations which were owned for the same period in each year.

   (2) Not comparable because prior to March 12, 1999 (date the operations of
       the Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies were sold), the Company
       reflected its equity in the operations of the Temperature Controlled
       Logistics Companies. Subsequent thereto, the Company reflects its equity
       in the rent it receives from the Temperature Controlled Logistics
       Companies.

   Revenues

         The Company's revenues, which consist of property rentals, tenant
expense reimbursements and other income were $696,958 in the year ended December
31, 1999 compared to $509,860 in the prior year, an increase of $187,098. These
increases by segment resulted from:



                                      -52-




   Expenses

      The Company's expenses were $405,854 in the year ended December 31, 1999,
compared to $295,008 in the prior year, an increase of $110,846.  These
increases by segment resulted from:



- --------------------------
     (1) Retail general and administrative expenses are included in corporate
         expenses, which are not allocated.

     (2) Of this increase: (i) $2,546 is attributable to acquisitions, (ii)
         $5,654 resulted from payroll, primarily for additional employees, and
         corporate office expenses, and (iii) $3,393 resulted from professional
         fees.

      Income applicable to Alexander's (loan interest income, equity in income
(loss) and depreciation) was $7,427 in the year ended December 31, 1999,
compared to $3,123 in the prior year, an increase of $4,304. This increase
resulted from equity in Alexander's loss in the prior year due primarily to the
write-off resulting from the razing of its building formerly located at its
Lexington Avenue site.

      Income from partially-owned entities was $82,310 in the year ended
December 31, 1999, compared to $32,025 in the prior year, an increase of
$50,285.  This increase by segment resulted from:



(1)   Primarily reflects equity interest in lease payments (March 12,
      1999-December 31, 1999) and equity interest in the operations (January 1,
      1999-March 12, 1999) for 1999 in excess of equity in the operations of
      such companies in 1998.

(2)   Reflects the elimination of the Company's equity in income of the
      commercial portion of the Hotel Pennsylvania which was wholly-owned as of
      August 5, 1999, and accordingly consolidated.

(3)   Reflects the elimination of the Company's equity in income of Two Park
      Avenue which was wholly-owned as of November 17, 1998 and accordingly
      consolidated.

                                      -53-



      Interest and other investment income (interest income on mortgage loans
receivable, other interest income, dividend income and net gains on marketable
securities) was $18,359 for the year ended December 31, 1999, compared to
$24,074 in the prior year, a decrease of $5,715. This decrease resulted
primarily from lower average investments.

      Interest and debt expense was $141,683 for the year ended December 31,
1999, compared to $114,686 in the prior year, an increase of $26,997.  This
increase resulted primarily from debt in connection with acquisitions.

      Minority interest was $54,998 for the year ended December 31, 1999,
compared to $16,183 for the prior year, an increase of $38,815.  This increase
is primarily due to higher income.

      Preferred stock dividends were $33,438 for the year ended December 31,
1999, compared to $21,690 in the prior year, an increase of $11,748. The
increase resulted from the issuance of the Company's Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares in March 1999 and Series C Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares in May 1999.

      The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to continue to
qualify as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as
amended. Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least 95% of its REIT
taxable income as a dividend to its shareholders each year and which meets
certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its taxable income
which is distributed to its shareholders. The Company has distributed to its
shareholders an amount greater than its taxable income. Therefore, no provision
for Federal income taxes is required.

   Years Ended December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997

      Below are the details of the changes by segment in EBITDA.



                *   not applicable

- ----------------------

   (1) EBITDA for "Other" and in "Total" for the year ended December 31, 1997
       reflects the amortization of a deferred payment due to an officer of
       $22,917; the percentage increases in same store operations have been
       adjusted to exclude the increase in EBITDA in 1998 resulting therefrom.

   (2) Represents operations which were owned for the same period in each year.

                                      -54-



   Revenues

      The Company's revenues, which consist of property rentals, tenant expense
reimbursements and other income were $509,860 in the year ended December 31,
1998, compared to $209,131 in the prior year, an increase of $300,729. These
increases by segment resulted from:



                                      -55-



Expenses

     The Company's expenses were $295,008 in the year ended December 31, 1998,
compared to $134,225 in the prior year, an increase of $160,783.  These
increases by segment resulted from:



     (1) Retail general and administrative expenses are included in corporate
         expenses which are not allocated.

     (2) Of this increase: (i) $6,631 is attributable to acquisitions, (ii)
         $4,641 resulted from payroll, primarily for additional employees and
         corporate office expenses, and (iii) $3,758 resulted from professional
         fees.

     (3) The Company recognized an expense of $22,917 in the prior year
         representing the amortization of the deferred payment due to the
         Company's President, which was fully amortized at December 31, 1997.

     Income applicable to Alexander's (loan interest income, equity in income
(loss) and depreciation) was $3,123 in the year ended December 31, 1998,
compared to $7,873 in the prior year, a decrease of $4,750. This decrease
resulted primarily from (i) the Company's equity in the 1998 write-off of the
carrying value of Alexander's Lexington Avenue building of $4,423, partially
offset by (ii) income from the commencement of leases at Alexander's Rego Park
and Kings Plaza store properties and (iii) income from Alexander's acquisition
of the remaining 50% interest in the Kings Plaza Mall.

     Income from partially-owned entities was $32,025 in the year ended December
31, 1998, compared to $4,658 in the prior year, an increase of $27,367.  This
increase by segment resulted from:



                                      -56-




      Interest and other investment income (interest income on mortgage loans
receivable, other interest income, dividend income and net gains on marketable
securities) was $24,074 for the year ended December 31, 1998, compared to
$23,767 in the prior year, an increase of $307. This increase resulted primarily
from gains on the sale of marketable securities of $2,395, partially offset by a
decrease in interest income due to lower average investments this year.

      Interest and debt expense was $114,686 for the year ended December 31,
1998, compared to $42,888 in the prior year, an increase of $71,798.  This
increase resulted primarily from debt in connection with acquisitions.

      In the third quarter of 1998, the Company recorded a net gain of $9,649,
in connection with an insurance settlement and condemnation proceeding (see Note
11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

      The minority interest is comprised of:




          *  For the period from April 15, 1997 to December 31, 1997

      The preferred stock dividends of $21,690 for the year ended December 31,
1998 and $15,549 for the period from April 15, 1997 to December 31, 1997 apply
to the Company's $3.25 Series A Convertible Preferred Shares issued in April and
December 1997 and include accretion of expenses of issuing them.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997

   Year Ended December  31, 1999

      Cash flows provided by operating activities of $176,895 were comprised of
(i) net income of $202,519 and (ii) adjustments for non-cash items of $22,140 ,
offset by (iii) the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $50,907
(primarily prepaid expenses). The adjustments for non-cash items are primarily
comprised of (i) depreciation and amortization of $83,585 and (ii) minority
interest of $54,998 , partially offset by (iii) the effect of straight-lining of
rental income of $29,587 and (iv) equity in income of partially-owned entities
of $82,310.

      Net cash used in investing activities of $494,204 was primarily comprised
of (i) capital expenditures of $153,591 (see detail below), (ii) investment in
mortgage loans receivable of $59,787 (including $41,200 loan to CAPI and $18,587
loan to Vornado Operating Company), (iii) acquisitions of real estate of
$224,654 (see detail below) and (iv) investments in partially-owned entities of
$118,409 (see detail below), partially offset by (v) the use of cash restricted
for tenant improvements of $13,624, (vi) proceeds from the sale of Temperature
Controlled Logistics assets of $22,769 and (vii) proceeds from the repayment of
mortgage loans receivable of $14,000 (Vornado Operating Company).


                                      -57-




      Acquisitions of real estate and investments in partially-owned entities
are comprised of:



(1) Total consideration for 888 Seventh Avenue was $117,000 of which $17,000 was
expended in 1998.

Capital expenditures were comprised of:



(1)  Includes $27,544 to buyout the tenant's lease on 28,000 square feet of
     office space at 640 Fifth Avenue, thereby permitting re-leasing for retail
     use and $24,744 for the refurbishment of 770 Broadway.

      Net cash provided by financing activities of $262,131 was primarily
comprised of (i) proceeds from issuance of preferred shares of $192,953, (ii)
proceeds from issuance of preferred units of $525,013 and (iii) proceeds from
borrowings of $455,000 partially offset by, (iv) repayments of borrowings of
$668,957, (v) dividends paid on common shares of $153,223, (vi) dividends paid
on preferred shares of $30,563 , and (vii) distributions to minority partners of
$52,491.

     Years Ended December 31, 1998

      Cash flows provided by operating activities of $189,406 were primarily
comprised of (i) income of $143,205 (net income of $152,854 less net gain from
insurance settlement and condemnation proceeding of $9,649), (ii) adjustments
for non-cash items of $27,657, and (iii) the net change in operating assets and
liabilities of $18,544. The adjustments for non-

                                      -58-



cash items are primarily comprised of (i) depreciation and amortization of
$59,227 and (ii) minority interest of $16,183, partially offset by (iii) the
effect of straight-lining of rental income of $17,561 and (iv) equity in net
income of partially-owned entities of $32,025.

      Net cash used in investing activities of $1,257,367 was primarily
comprised of (i) acquisitions of real estate of $896,800 (see detail below),
(ii) investments in partially-owned entities of $308,000 (see detail below),
(iii) capital expenditures of $68,085 (see detail below) and investments in
securities of $73,513 (including purchase of Capital Trust Preferred Stock of
$48,700), partially offset by (v) proceeds from the repayment of mortgage loans
receivable of $57,600.

      Acquisitions of real estate and investments in partially-owned entities
were comprised of:



(1) Acquisition was completed in 1999 for a total of $117,000.

Capital expenditures were comprised of:



                                      -59-




      Net cash provided by financing activities of $879,815 was primarily
comprised of (i) proceeds from borrowings of $1,427,821, (ii) proceeds from the
issuance of common shares of $445,247 and (iii) proceeds from the issuance of
preferred shares of $85,313, partially offset by (iv) repayment of borrowings of
$883,475, (v) dividends paid on common shares of $154,440 and (vi) dividends
paid on preferred shares of $18,816.

   Year Ended December 31, 1997

      Cash flows provided by operating activities of $115,473 were comprised of
(i) net income of $61,023, (ii) adjustments for non-cash items of $39,723 and
(iii) the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $14,727. The
adjustments for non-cash items are primarily comprised of (i) amortization of
deferred officer's compensation expense of $22,917 and (ii) depreciation and
amortization of $24,460.

      Net cash used in investing activities of $1,064,484 was primarily
comprised of (i) acquisitions of real estate of $887,423 (see detail below),
(ii) investments in mortgage loans receivable of $71,663 (see detail below),
(iii) capital expenditures of $23,789, (iv) restricted cash for tenant
improvements of $27,079 and (v) real estate deposits of $46,152.

      Acquisitions of real estate and investments in mortgage loans receivable
are comprised of:



      Net cash provided by financing activities of $1,215,269 was primarily
comprised of proceeds from (i) borrowings of $770,000 (ii) issuance of common
shares of $688,672, and (iii) issuance of preferred shares of $276,000,
partially offset by (iv) repayment of borrowings of $409,633, (v) dividends paid
on common shares of $77,461, (vi) dividends paid on preferred shares of $15,549
and (vii) the repayment of borrowings on U.S. Treasury obligations of $9,636.

                                      -60-




   Funds from Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 1999 and 1998

      Funds from operations were $293,773 in the year ended December 31, 1999,
compared to $218,899 in the prior year, an increase of $74,874.  The following
table reconciles funds from operations and net income:



      The number of shares that should be used for determining funds from
operations per share is as follows:



      Funds from operations does not represent cash generated from operating
activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and is
not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs, which is
disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the applicable
periods. There are no material legal or functional restrictions on the use of
funds from operations. Funds from operations should not be considered as an
alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's operating performance
or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Management
considers funds from operations a supplemental measure of operating performance
and along with cash flow from operating activities, financing activities and
investing activities, it provides investors with an indication of the ability of
the Company to incur and service debt, to make capital expenditures and to fund
other cash needs. Funds from operations may not be comparable to similarly
titled measures reported by other REITs since a number of REITs, including the
Company, calculate funds from operations in a manner different from that used by
the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). Funds from
operations, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income applicable to common
shares before depreciation and amortization, extraordinary items and gains or
losses on sales of real estate. Funds from operations as disclosed above have
been modified from this definition to adjust for (i) the effect of
straight-lining of property rentals for rent escalations and leasing fee income,
(ii) the reversal of income taxes (benefit for the year ended December 31, 1999)
which is considered non-recurring because of the expected conversion of
Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies to REITs, (iii) the addback of
Temperature Controlled Logistics non-recurring unification costs, and (iv) the
exclusion of a $2,700 reduction in interest expense in 1999 resulting from the
amortization of the excess of fair value of Newkirk Joint Venture limited
partnership's debt over its face amount at date of acquisition.

         Below are the cash flows provided by (used in) operating, investing and
financing activities:



                                      -61-





   Certain Cash Requirements

      In January 2000, the Company completed approximately $36,000 of real
estate acquisitions, of which $17,640 was indebtedness.

      The Company has budgeted approximately $91,000 for capital expenditures
(excluding acquisitions) over the next year as follows:



 (1) Represents the Company's 60% share of the Vornado/Crescent Partnership's
obligation to fund up to $5,000 of capital expenditures per annum.

      In addition to the above, the Company has budgeted approximately $18,000
of leasing commissions.

      Tenant allowances and leasing commissions for the New York City Office
properties approximate $18.00 per square foot for renewal space and $50.00 per
square foot for vacant space. Historically, approximately two-thirds of existing
tenants renew their leases.

      In addition to the capital expenditures reflected above, the Company is
currently engaged in or considering certain multi-year development and
redevelopment projects for which it has budgeted approximately $278.7 million to
be expended as outlined in the "Development and Redevelopment Projects" section
of Item 1--Business. The $278.7 million does not include amounts for other
projects which are also included in the "Development and Redevelopment Projects"
section of Item 1 -Business, as no budgets for them have been finalized. There
can be no assurance that any of the above projects will be ultimately completed,
completed on time or completed for the budgeted amount.

      No cash requirements have been budgeted for the capital expenditures and
amortization of debt of CESCR, Newkirk or Alexander's, which are partially owned
by the Company. These investees are expected to fund their own cash
requirements. Alexander's is not expected to distribute any cash to the Company
in 2000. In 2000, the Company expects to receive at a minimum, preferred
distributions from CESCR of approximately $14.4 million (7,679,365 preferred
units at $1.87 per unit) and common distributions of approximately $3.85 million
(2,500,000 common units at $1.54 per unit - current dividend rate). The minimum
preferred distribution rate increases by .25% each year for the next three
years.

      On March 12, 1999 the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of the Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies
encompassing the operations of the Temperature Controlled Logistics business for
approximately $48,000 to a new partnership owned 60% by Vornado Operating
Company and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc.

      On March 1, 2000, the Company sold three shopping centers located in Texas
for approximately $25,750 resulting in a gain of $4,400.

Financing Activities

CORPORATE

      On March 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 3 million 8.5% Series
B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price of $25.00 per share,
pursuant to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company
of approximately $72,200. Further on March 22, 1999, 400,000 shares were sold
when the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in
additional net proceeds to the Company of $9,700. The perpetual preferred shares
may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on March
17, 2004.

                                      -62-



      On May 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 4 million 8.5% Series C
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price of $25.00 per share, pursuant
to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $96,900. Additionally on May 19, 1999, 600,000 shares were sold
when the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in
additional net proceeds to the Company of $14,500. The perpetual preferred
shares may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on
May 17, 2004.

      On May 27, 1999, the Company sold an aggregate of $27,500 of 8.375% Series
D-2 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units in the Operating Partnership to an
institutional investor in a private placement, resulting in net proceeds of
approximately $26,780. The perpetual Preferred Units may be called without
penalty at the option of the Operating Partnership commencing on May 27, 2004.

      On September 3, 1999, the Company sold an aggregate of $325,000 of 8.25%
Series D-3 and D-4 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units in the Operating
Partnership to institutional investors in private placements, resulting in net
proceeds of approximately $316,400. The Perpetual Preferred Units may be called
without penalty at the option of the Operating Partnership commencing on
September 7, 2004.

      On November 24, 1999, the Company sold an aggregate of $187,000 of 8.25%
Series D-5 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units in the Operating Partnership to
institutional investors in a private placement, resulting in net proceeds of
approximately $181,900. The Perpetual Preferred Units may be called without
penalty at the option of the Operating Partnership commencing on November 24,
2004.

      On March 1, 2000 the Company completed a $500,000 private placement of
10-year, 7.93% mortgage notes, cross-collateralized by 42 shopping center
properties, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $490,000. In connection
therewith, the Company repaid $228,000 of existing mortgage debt scheduled to
mature on December 1, 2000 and $262,000 outstanding under its revolving credit
facility.

OFFICE

      On February 16, 1999, the Company completed a $165,000 refinancing of its
Two Penn Plaza office building and prepaid the then existing $80,000 debt on the
property. The new 5-year debt matures in February 2004 and bears interest at
7.08%.

      On March 1, 2000, the Company completed a $90,000 refinancing of its Two
Park Avenue office building. The Company received proceeds of $65,000 and repaid
the then existing debt in the same amount on the property. The Company expects
to receive the remaining $25,000 prior to June 30, 2000 upon satisfying certain
closing conditions. The new 3-year debt matures on February 28, 2003 and bears
interest at Libor + 1.45% (7.39% at March 1, 2000).

MERCHANDISE MART

      On July 8, 1999, the Company completed a $70,000 mortgage financing of its
350 North Orleans property in Chicago. The Company received proceeds of $40,000
and is expected to receive the remaining $30,000 during the next year upon
meeting certain debt service coverage requirements. The new 3-year debt matures
in June 2002 and bears interest at LIBOR + 1.65% (8.13% at December 31, 1999).

      On September 21, 1999, the Company completed a $250,000 mortgage
refinancing of its Merchandise Mart property in Chicago of which $50,000 is
further secured by a letter of credit. The new 5-year debt matures in September
2004 and bears interest at LIBOR +1.50% (7.97% at December 31, 1999). The letter
of credit will be reduced over the term of the loan as cash flow increases. The
Company bought an interest rate cap, capping the interest rate in the event that
LIBOR increases

                                      -63-



above 9.25% through the termination date of the agreement in September 2002.
Simultaneously with this transaction, the Company sold an interest rate cap to a
third party on the same terms as the cap the Company purchased.

      The Company has an effective shelf registration under which it can offer
an aggregate of approximately $1.4 billion of equity securities and an aggregate
of $1.0 billion of debt securities.

      The Company anticipates that cash from continuing operations will be
adequate to fund business operations and the payment of dividends and
distributions on an on-going basis for more than the next twelve months;
however, capital outlays for significant acquisitions will require funding from
borrowings or equity offerings.

ACQUISITION ACTIVITY

      As a result of acquisitions, the book value of the Company's assets have
grown from $4,425,779 at December 31, 1998 to $5,479,218 at December 31, 1999.

      The Company's future success will be affected by its ability to integrate
the assets and businesses it acquires and to effectively manage those assets and
businesses. The Company currently expects to continue to grow at a relatively
fast pace. However, its ability to do so will be dependent on a number of
factors, including, among others, (a) the availability of reasonably priced
assets that meet the Company's acquisition criteria and (b) the price of the
Company's common stock, the rates at which the Company is able to borrow money
and, more generally, the availability of financing on terms that, in the
Company's view, make such acquisitions financially attractive.

YEAR 2000 ISSUES

      To date, there have been no material adverse effects to the Company's
financial condition or results of operations as a result of Year 2000.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities". This statement establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. It is effective for all
fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. Because the
Company does not currently utilize derivatives or engage in significant hedging
activities, management does not anticipate that implementation of this statement
will have a material effect on the Company's financial statements.

In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101). SAB 101 provides clarification in applying generally
accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements
including contingent rentals under leases. The Company does not anticipate that
implementation of this statement will have a material effect on the Company's
financial statements.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

      Substantially all of the Company's office, retail and permanent showroom
leases contain step-ups in rent. Such rental increases are not designed to, and
in many instances do not, approximate the cost of inflation, but do have the
effect of mitigating the adverse impact of inflation. In addition, substantially
all of the Company's leases contain provisions that require the tenant to
reimburse the Company for the tenant's share of common area charges (including
roof and structure in strip shopping centers, unless it is the tenant's direct
responsibility) and real estate taxes or for increases of such expenses over a
base amount, thus offsetting, in part, the effects of inflation on such
expenses.

      Inflation did not have a material effect on the Company's results for the
periods presented.

                                      -64-




ITEM 7A.   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

      At December 31, 1999, the Company's exposure to a change in interest rates
on its wholly-owned and partially-owned debt is as follows:



      After giving effect to the Company's $500,000,000 financing completed on
March 1, 2000, and the use of a portion of the proceeds to repay approximately
$262,000,000 of the amount outstanding under its revolving credit facility, the
Company's total variable rate debt is $1,050,477,000. The effect of a 1%
increase on base rates would result in a total decrease in the Company's annual
net income of $9,034,000 or $.10 per share diluted.

      The fair value of the Company's debt at December 31, 1999, based on
discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made
to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt
approximates its carrying value.

      In July 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement to
reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on its $275,000,000 One Penn
Plaza loan. The agreement caps the Company's interest rate in the event that
LIBOR increases above 8.5% through January 20, 2000 and 9% thereafter, until the
termination date of the cap agreement on July 30, 2001 (the debt matures in June
2002). The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
the other parties to the interest rate cap agreement. However, the Company does
not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparty. The fair value of the
interest rate cap agreement at December 31, 1999 approximates its cost.

         On September 21, 1999, the Company bought an interest rate cap, capping
the interest rate on its 250,000,000 Merchandise Mart loan in the event that
LIBOR increases above 9.25% through the termination date of the agreement in
September 2002. Simultaneously with this transaction, the Company sold an
interest rate cap to a third party on the same terms as the cap the Company
purchased.

                                      -65-



ITEM 8.  FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                         INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



ITEM 9.  CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON ACCOUNTING
AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

      Not applicable.

                                      -66-



                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Shareholders and Board of Trustees
Vornado Realty Trust
Saddle Brook, New Jersey

      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Vornado
Realty Trust as of December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1999. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 14. These financial
statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Vornado Realty Trust at
December 31, 1999 and 1998, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1999 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion,
such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.

DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey
March 7, 2000

                                      -67-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      -68-





                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                       CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      -69-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      -70-




































































                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      -71-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



                See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      -72-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1.   ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS

      Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
("REIT"). In April 1997, Vornado transferred substantially all of its assets to
Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating
Partnership"). As a result, Vornado conducts its business through, the Operating
Partnership. Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned approximately 86%
of the common limited partnership interest in, the Operating Partnership at
March 1, 2000. All references to the "Company" and "Vornado" refer to Vornado
Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the Operating
Partnership.

      The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Building Properties ("Office"):

          (i)     all or portions of 22 office building properties in the New
      York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) aggregating
      approximately 14.0 million square feet;

          (ii) a 34% limited partnership interest in Charles E. Smith Commercial
      Realty L.P. ("CESCR"), a limited partnership which owns and manages
      approximately 10.7 million square feet of office properties in Northern
      Virginia and Washington, D.C., and manages an additional 7.9 million
      square feet of office and other commercial properties in the Washington,
      D.C. area;

Retail Properties ("Retail"):

          (iii) 56 shopping center properties in six states and Puerto Rico
      aggregating approximately 12.0 million square feet, including 1.4 million
      square feet built by tenants on land leased from the Company;

Merchandise Mart Properties:

          (iv)    the Merchandise Mart properties containing approximately 6.8
      million square feet, including the 3.4 million square foot Merchandise
      Mart in Chicago;

Temperature Controlled Logistics:

          (v) a 60% interest in partnerships that own 89 warehouse facilities
      nationwide with an aggregate of approximately 428 million cubic feet of
      refrigerated space (excludes 15 additional warehouses containing
      approximately 91 million cubic feet managed by AmeriCold Logistics).
      AmeriCold Logistics leases all of the partnerships' facilities;

Other Real Estate Investments:

          (vi)    approximately 32% of the outstanding common stock of
      Alexander's, Inc. ("Alexander's"), which has eight properties in the New
      York City metropolitan area;

          (vii) The Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City contains approximately
      800,000 square feet of space with 1,700 rooms and approximately 400,000
      square feet of retail and office space;

          (viii) approximately 30% interest in the Newkirk joint ventures which
      own various equity and debt interests relating to 120 limited partnerships
      which own real estate, primarily office and retail, net leased to credit
      rated tenants;

          (ix) eight dry warehouse/industrial properties in New Jersey
      containing approximately 2.0 million square feet; and

          (x)     other real estate and investments.

                                      -73-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

OPERATIONS OF VORNADO OPERATING COMPANY

      In October 1998, Vornado Operating Company ("Vornado Operating") was spun
off from the Company in order to own assets that the Company could not itself
own and conduct activities that the Company could not itself conduct.

      The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to certain agreements
described below.

   Revolving Credit Agreement

      Vornado Operating was granted a $75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
facility from the Company (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") which expires on
December 31, 2004. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest
at LIBOR plus 3% (9.09% at December 31, 1999). The Company receives a commitment
fee equal to 1% per annum on the average daily unused portion of the facility.
No amortization is required to be paid under the Revolving Credit agreement
during its term. The Revolving Credit Agreement prohibits Vornado Operating from
incurring indebtedness to third parties (other than certain purchase money debt
and certain other exceptions) and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying
dividends. As of December 31, 1999, $4,587,000 was outstanding under the
Revolving Credit Agreement.

   Agreement with Vornado Operating

      The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to an Agreement pursuant to
which, among other things, (a) the Company will under certain circumstances
offer Vornado Operating an opportunity to become the lessee of certain real
property owned now or in the future by the Company (under mutually satisfactory
lease terms) and (b) Vornado Operating will not make any real estate investment
or other REIT-Qualified Investment unless it first offers the Company the
opportunity to make such investment and the Company has rejected that
opportunity.

      Under the Agreement, the Company provides Vornado Operating with certain
administrative, corporate, accounting, financial, insurance, legal, tax, data
processing, human resources and operational services. For these services,
Vornado Operating compensates the Company in an amount determined in good faith
by the Company as the amount an unaffiliated third party would charge Vornado
Operating for comparable services and reimburses the Company for certain costs
incurred and paid to third parties on behalf of Vornado Operating. Pursuant to
the Agreement compensation for such services was $330,000 for the year ended
December 31, 1999 and $50,000 for the period from October 16, 1998 (commencement
date) through December 31, 1998.

      Vornado Operating and the Company each have the right to terminate the
Agreement if the other party is in material default of the Agreement or upon 90
days written notice to the other party at any time after December 31, 2003. In
addition, the Company has the right to terminate the Agreement upon a change in
control of Vornado Operating.

   Vornado Operating's Management

      Messrs.  Roth, Fascitelli, West and Wight are directors of Vornado
Operating.  Mr. Roth is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer
of Vornado Operating, Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Vornado Operating, and
certain other members of the Company's senior management hold a corresponding
position with Vornado Operating.

   Temperature Controlled Logistics Business

      On October 31, 1997, partnerships (the "Vornado/Crescent Partnerships") in
which affiliates of the Company have a 60% interest and affiliates of Crescent
Real Estate Equities Company have a 40% interest acquired each of Americold
Corporation ("Americold") and URS Logistics, Inc. ("URS"). In June 1998, the
Vornado/Crescent Partnerships acquired the assets of Freezer Services, Inc. and
in July 1998 acquired the Carmar Group.

                                      -74-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      On March 12, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of the Cold Storage Companies encompassing the operations
of the cold storage business for approximately $48,000,000 to a new partnership
owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc.
("AmeriCold Logistics"). The new partnership leases the underlying cold storage
warehouses used in this business from the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships which
continue to own the real estate. The leases generally have a 15 year term with
two-five year renewal options and provide for the payment of fixed base rent and
percentage rent based on revenues AmeriCold Logistics receives from its
customers. The new partnership is required to pay for all costs arising from the
operation, maintenance and repair of the properties, as well as property capital
expenditures in excess of $5,000,000 annually. Fixed base rent and percentage
rent was approximately $134,000,000 for the period from March 12, 1999 through
December 31, 1999. The new partnership has the right to defer a portion of the
rent for up to three years beginning on March 12, 1999 to the extent that
available cash, as defined in the leases, is insufficient to pay such rent and
pursuant thereto, rent was deferred as of December 31, 1999, of which the
Company's share is $3,240,000.

   Disposition and Acquisition of Interest in CESCR

      On December 31, 1998, the Company sold approximately 1.7% of the
outstanding partnership units of CESCR to Vornado Operating Company for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $12,900,000 or $34 per unit (which is
the price at which CESCR issued partnership units in October 1998 in connection
with a significant "roll-up" transaction). The purchase price was funded out of
Vornado Operating's working capital. After giving effect to this purchase, the
Company owned approximately 9.6% of CESCR as of December 31, 1998. In connection
with this purchase, the Company granted to Vornado Operating an option to
require the Company to repurchase all of the CESCR units at the price at which
Vornado Operating purchased the CESCR units, plus a cumulative return on such
amount at a rate of 10% per annum. In March 1999, Vornado Operating exercised
such option and the Company reacquired the CESCR units from Vornado Operating
for $13,200,000.

                                      -75-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

2.   SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

         BASIS OF PRESENTATION: The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Vornado Realty Trust and its majority-owned
subsidiary, Vornado Realty L.P. as well as interests acquired that individually
(or in the aggregate with prior interests) exceed a 50% interest and the Company
exercises unilateral control. All significant intercompany amounts have been
eliminated. Equity interests in partially-owned entities include partnerships,
joint ventures and preferred stock affiliates (corporations in which the Company
owns all of the preferred stock and none of the common equity) and are accounted
for under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant
influence. These investments are recorded initially at cost and subsequently
adjusted for net equity in income (loss) and cash contributions and
distributions. Ownership of the preferred stock entitles the Company to
substantially all of the economic benefits in the preferred stock affiliates.
The common stock of the preferred stock affiliates is owned by Officers and
Trustees of Vornado.

      Management has made estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

      RECLASSIFICATIONS:  Certain prior year balances have been reclassified in
order to conform to current year presentation.

      REAL ESTATE: Real estate is carried at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Betterments, major renewals and certain costs
directly related to the acquisition, improvement and leasing of real estate are
capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated
useful lives which range from 7 to 40 years. Tenant allowances are amortized on
a straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases. Additions to real
estate include interest expense capitalized during construction of $7,012,000
and $1,410,000 for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998.

      The Company's properties are reviewed for impairment if events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the property may not be
recoverable. In such an event, a comparison is made of the current and projected
operating cash flows of each such property into the foreseeable future on an
undiscounted basis to the carrying amount of such property. Such carrying amount
would be adjusted, if necessary, to estimate fair value to reflect an impairment
in the value of the asset.

      CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents does not include cash escrowed under loan agreements
and cash restricted in connection with an officer's deferred compensation
payable.

      MARKETABLE SECURITIES: The Company has classified debt and equity
securities which it intends to hold for an indefinite period of time as
securities available for sale, equity securities it intends to buy and sell on a
short term basis as trading securities and its preferred stock investment in
Capital Trust as securities held to maturity. Unrealized gains and losses are
included in earnings for trading securities and as a component of shareholders'
equity and other comprehensive income for securities available for sale.
Realized gains or losses on the sale of securities are recorded based on average
cost.

      At December 31, 1999 and 1998, marketable securities had an aggregate cost
of $96,787,000 and $83,043,000 and an aggregate market value of $106,503,000 and
$77,156,000 (of which $9,826,000 and $6,826,000 represent trading securities and
$48,606,000 and $48,531,000 represent securities held to maturity and reported
at amortized cost). Gross unrealized gains and losses were $7,977,000 and
$9,658,000 at December 31, 1999, and $513,000 and $6,400,000 at December 31,
1998. Included in marketable securities available for sale at December 31, 1999
are warrants to acquire 550,941 common shares with a market value of
$11,397,000.

      NOTES AND MORTGAGE LOANS RECEIVABLE: The Company evaluates the
collectibility of both interest and principal of each of its loans, if
circumstances warrant, to determine whether it is impaired. A loan is considered
to be impaired, when based on current information and events, it is probable
that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the
existing contractual terms. When a loan is considered to be impaired, the amount
of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the recorded investment to the
value determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan's
effective interest rate. Interest on impaired loans is recognized on a cash
basis.

                                      -76-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      DEFERRED CHARGES: Direct financing costs are deferred and amortized over
the terms of the related agreements as a component of interest expense. Direct
costs related to leasing activities are capitalized and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases. All other deferred
charges are amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective
interest rate method, in accordance with the terms of the agreements to which
they relate.

      OFFICERS COMPENSATION PAYABLE: In July 1998, the Emerging Issues Task
Force (EITF) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued EITF 97-14
"Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts Earned are Held
in a Rabbi Trust and Invested" (EITF 97-14). EITF 97-14 applies to the Company's
accounting treatment of the Officers Compensation Payable as reflected in the
balance sheet. The transition guidance of EITF 97-14 required the Company to
record a charge to equity of $10,464,000 which represents the appreciation in
the value of the stock from the date the trust was established (at which time
the price of the stock was $21.75 per share) to September 30, 1998 (at which
time the price of the stock was $33.13 per share). In subsequent periods,
appreciation in the stock's price above $33.13 will be recognized as
compensation expense and, if the price fluctuates between $33.13 and $21.75,
equity would be adjusted. For the year ended December 31, 1998, approximately
$340,000 was recognized as compensation expense as the share price was $33.50 on
December 31, 1998. For the year ended December 31, 1999, approximately $340,000
was recognized as a reduction of compensation expense and approximately $579,000
was recorded as a reduction of stockholders' equity as the share price was
$32.50 on December 31, 1999.

      FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: All financial instruments of the
Company are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at amounts
which, in management's estimation, based upon an interpretation of available
market information and valuation methodologies (including discounted cash flow
analyses with regard to fixed rate debt) are considered appropriate, and
reasonably approximate their fair values. Such fair value estimates are not
necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be realized upon disposition of
the Company's financial instruments.

      REVENUE RECOGNITION: Base rents, additional rents based on tenants' sales
volume and reimbursement of the tenants' share of certain operating expenses are
generally recognized when due from tenants. The straight-line basis is used to
recognize base rents under leases entered into after November 14, 1985, which
provide for varying rents over the lease terms.

      INCOME TAXES: The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to
continue to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 as amended. Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least
95% of its REIT taxable income as a dividend to its shareholders each year and
which meets certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its
taxable income which is distributed to its shareholders. The Company has
distributed to shareholders an amount greater than its taxable income.
Therefore, no provision for Federal income taxes is required. Dividend
distributions for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1997, were characterized
for Federal income tax purposes as ordinary income. Dividend distributions for
the tax year ended December 31, 1998 were characterized as ordinary income
(81%), return of capital (17%) and capital gain (2%).

      The net basis of the Company's assets and liabilities for tax purposes is
approximately $1,617,000,000 lower than the amount reported for financial
statement purposes.

      AMOUNTS PER SHARE: Basic earnings per share is computed based on average
shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share considers the effect of options,
warrants and convertible securities. All share and per share information has
also been adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split in October 1997.

      STOCK OPTIONS: The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using the
intrinsic value method. Under the intrinsic value method compensation cost is
measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the Company's
stock at the date of grant over the exercise price of the option granted.
Compensation cost for stock options, if any, is recognized ratably over the
vesting period. The Company's policy is to grant options with an exercise price
equal to the quoted market price of the Company's stock on the grant date.
Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for the Company's stock
option plans.

                                      -77-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities". This statement establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. It is effective for all
fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 2000. Because the
Company does not currently utilize derivatives or engage in significant hedging
activities, management does not anticipate that implementation of this statement
will have a material effect on the Company's financial statements.

In December 1999, the Securities and Exchange Commission issued Staff Accounting
Bulletin No. 101 (SAB 101). SAB 101 provides clarification in applying generally
accepted accounting principles to revenue recognition in financial statements
including contingent rentals under leases. The Company does not anticipate that
implementation of this statement will have a material effect on the Company's
financial statements.

3.   ACQUISITIONS

      The Company completed approximately $807 million of real estate
acquisitions or investments from January 1, 1999 through March 2000 and $2.4
billion in 1998. These acquisitions were consummated through subsidiaries or
preferred stock affiliates of the Company and were recorded under the purchase
method of accounting. Related net assets and results of operations have been
included in these financial statements since their respective dates of
acquisition. The respective purchase costs were allocated to acquired assets and
assumed liabilities using their relative fair values as of the closing dates,
based on valuations and other studies certain of which are not yet complete.
Accordingly, the initial valuations are subject to change as such information is
finalized. The Company believes that any such change will not be significant
since the allocations were principally to real estate. The following are the
details of the acquisitions or investments by segment:

Office:

     CHARLES E. SMITH COMMERCIAL REALTY INVESTMENT ("CESCR")

      In October 1997, the Company acquired a 15% limited partnership interest
in CESCR for $60,000,000. CESCR owns interests in and manages approximately 10.7
million square feet of office properties in Northern Virginia and Washington,
D.C. and manages an additional 7.9 million square feet of office and other
commercial properties in the Washington, D.C. area. In October 1998, CESCR
issued partnership units in connection with a significant roll-up transaction
reducing the Company's limited partnership interest to 11.3%.

      In December 1998, the Company sold approximately 1.7% of the outstanding
partnership units of CESCR to Vornado Operating for an aggregate price of
approximately $12,900,000. In connection with this purchase, the Company granted
Vornado Operating an option to require the Company to repurchase the units. The
option was exercised on March 4, 1999. Accordingly, the Company reacquired the
CESCR units from Vornado Operating for $13,200,000.

      On March 4, 1999 the Company made an additional $242,000,000 investment in
CESCR by contributing to CESCR the land under certain CESCR office properties in
Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia and partnership interests in certain CESCR
subsidiaries. The Company acquired these assets from Commonwealth Atlantic
Properties, Inc, ("CAPI"), an affiliate of Lazard Freres Real Estate Investors
L.L.C., immediately prior to the contribution to CESCR. Together with the
Company's investment in CESCR made in 1997 and the units it reacquired from
Vornado Operating Company, Vornado now owns approximately 34% of CESCR's limited
partnership units. In addition, the Company acquired from CAPI for $8,000,000
the land under a Marriott Hotel located in Crystal City.

                                      -78-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      The purchase price was paid to CAPI by Vornado issuing $250,000,000 of 6%
Convertible Preferred Units of the Company's Operating Partnership. The
Preferred Units are convertible at $44 per unit and the coupon increases to
6.50% over the next three years and then fixes at 6.75% in year eight. The
Company will appoint one of three members to CESCR's Board of Managers,
increasing under certain circumstances to two of four members in March 2002.

      In connection with these transactions, the Company agreed to make a
five-year $41,200,000 loan to CAPI with interest at 8%, increasing to 9% ratably
over the term. The loan is secured by approximately $55,000,000 of the Company's
Operating Partnership units issued to CAPI as well as certain real estate
assets.

     WESTPORT CORPORATE OFFICE PARK

      In January 1998, the Company acquired the Westport Corporate Office Park
from a limited partnership that included members of the Mendik Group (Messrs.
Mendik and Greenbaum and certain entities controlled by them are referred to
herein as the "Mendik Group"). The purchase price was approximately $14,000,000
consisting of $6,000,000 of cash and an $8,000,000 mortgage loan for the two
buildings.

      Subsequent to year end the Company entered into an agreement to sell this
property for approximately $24,000,000.

     ONE PENN PLAZA

      In February 1998, the Company acquired a long-term leasehold interest in
One Penn Plaza, a Manhattan office building for approximately $410,000,000.

     150 EAST 58TH STREET

      In March 1998, the Company acquired 150 East 58th Street (the "Architects
and Design Center"), a Manhattan office building, for approximately
$118,000,000.

     570 LEXINGTON AVENUE - ADDITIONAL INVESTMENT

      In April 1998, the Company increased its interest from 5.6% to
approximately 50% in 570 Lexington Avenue, an office building located in midtown
Manhattan. The Company purchased the additional interest for approximately
$37,200,000, including $4,900,000 of existing debt.

     888 SEVENTH AVENUE AND 40 FULTON STREET

      In June, 1998, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire the
leasehold interest in 888 Seventh Avenue, a 46 story office building located in
midtown Manhattan, and simultaneously acquired 40 Fulton Street, a 29 story
office building located in downtown Manhattan. The aggregate consideration for
both buildings was approximately $154,500,000.

      On January 12, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of 888 Seventh
Avenue, a 46 story Manhattan office building, for approximately $117,000,000, of
which $55,000,000 was indebtedness.

     770 BROADWAY

      In July 1998, the Company acquired 770 Broadway, a Manhattan office
building, for approximately $149,000,000, including $18,000,000 of Operating
Partnership Units.

                                      -79-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      689 FIFTH AVENUE

      In August 1998, the Company acquired 689 Fifth Avenue, a 84,000 square
foot Manhattan specialty building for approximately $33,000,000 from a
partnership that included Bernard H. Mendik, a former trustee of the Company.

     MENDIK REAL ESTATE LIMITED PARTNERSHIP PROPERTIES

      In November 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of certain
properties from the Mendik Real Estate Limited Partnership ("Mendik RELP"). The
acquired real estate assets include (i) a leasehold interest in the Saxon Woods
Corporate Center located at 550/600 Mamaroneck Avenue, in Harrison, New York,
(ii) the remaining 60% interest in an office building located at Two Park
Avenue, in Manhattan (the Company already owned 40%) and (iii) a leasehold
interest in an office building located at 330 West 34th Street, also in
Manhattan. The aggregate purchase price of approximately $106,000,000, consists
of $31,000,000 of cash, $29,000,000 of the Company's common shares and
$46,000,000 of debt.

     909 THIRD AVENUE

      On July 21, 1999, the Company acquired 909 Third Avenue, a 33 story
Manhattan office building, for approximately $123,000,000, of which $109,000,000
was indebtedness.

     595 MADISON AVENUE

      On September 15, 1999, the Company acquired 595 Madison Avenue (the
"Fuller Building"), a 40 story Manhattan office building, for approximately
$125,000,000 in cash.

     GREENPOINT LEASEHOLD INTEREST

      On December 16, 1999, the Company acquired GreenPoint Financial
Corporation's 99-year leasehold interest in approximately 56,000 square feet,
adjacent to One Penn Plaza, as part of its redevelopment plan for the Penn Plaza
district for approximately $37,300,000.

Retail:

     LAS CATALINAS MALL

      In October 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of Kmart
Corporation's ("Kmart") 50% interest in the Las Catalinas Mall located in
Caguas, Puerto Rico (adjacent to San Juan). In addition, the Company acquired
75% and the Company's partner in the Mall acquired 25% of Kmart's anchor store.
The Company's purchase price of $38,000,000 was fully financed with 15 year
debt.

     VORNADO-CERUZZI JOINT VENTURES

      On January 4, 2000 and January 25, 2000, the Company and its joint venture
partner acquired fee and/or leasehold interests in six properties located in
Pennsylvania, Virginia and Maryland formerly occupied by Hechinger, Inc., a home
improvement retailer which was liquidated. The purchase price for the 500,000
square feet acquired was $15,000,000. The Company's share of this investment is
80% or $12,000,000.

                                      -80-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

Merchandise Mart Properties:

     THE MERCHANDISE MART PROPERTIES

      In April 1998, the Company acquired a real estate portfolio from the
Kennedy Family for approximately $630,000,000, consisting of $187,000,000 in
cash, $116,000,000 in Operating Partnership Units, $77,000,000 in existing debt
and $250,000,000 of newly issued debt. The acquired real estate assets consist
of a portfolio of properties used for office, retail and trade showroom space
which aggregate approximately 5.4 million square feet and include the
Merchandise Mart in Chicago. The transaction also included the acquisition of
Merchandise Mart Properties, Inc., which manages the properties and owns and
operates trade shows.

     MARKET SQUARE COMPLEX

      In December 1998, Vornado completed the acquisition of the 1.07 million
square foot Market Square Complex of showrooms in High Point, North Carolina.
The consideration was approximately $97,000,000 consisting of $46,000,000 in
debt, $44,000,000 in Operating Partnership Units and 6.5% Preferred Operating
Partnership Units convertible at $43.74 per unit and $7,000,000 of cash. The
acquired real estate assets include the Market Square, Hamilton Market and
Furniture Plaza showroom buildings and the High Point Holiday Inn hotel.

      In a second transaction, the Company acquired the 243,000 square foot
National Furniture Mart, which is adjacent to the forementioned properties, in
High Point. The price was approximately $17,700,000 consisting of $3,800,000 in
cash and $13,900,000 in debt.

Temperature Controlled Logistics Business:

      In June 1998, a partnership in which Vornado owns a 60% interest through a
preferred stock affiliate acquired the assets of Freezer Services, Inc.,
consisting of nine cold storage warehouses in the central United States for
approximately $133,000,000, including $107,000,000 in cash and $26,000,000 in
indebtedness. The Company's share of this investment was $80,000,000.
Additionally, in July 1998, the Carmar Group cold storage warehouse business was
acquired for approximately $158,000,000, including $144,000,000 in cash and
$14,000,000 in indebtedness. The Company's share of this investment was
$95,000,000. Carmar owns and operates five cold storage distribution warehouses
in the midwest and southeast United States.

Other Real Estate Investments:

     HOTEL PENNSYLVANIA

      In May 1998, the Company acquired an additional 40% interest in the Hotel
Pennsylvania increasing its ownership to 80%. The Company purchased the
additional 40% interest from Hotel Properties Limited (one of its joint venture
partners) for approximately $70,000,000, including $48,000,000 of existing debt.
The Company manages the property's retail and office space, and manages the
hotel with Hotel Properties Limited.

      On August 5, 1999, the Company increased its interest in the Hotel
Pennsylvania by acquiring Planet Hollywood International, Inc.'s ("Planet
Hollywood") 20% interest in the hotel for approximately $18,000,000 and assumed
$24,000,000 of existing debt. In connection with the transaction, the Company
terminated the licensing agreement with Planet Hollywood for an Official
All-Star Hotel. The Hotel Pennsylvania is located in New York City on Seventh
Avenue opposite Madison Square Garden.

After the acquisitions noted above, the Company owns 100% of the commercial
portion of the building (retail and office space) and 98% of the hotel portion
which is owned through a preferred stock affiliate in which the Company owns all
of the preferred equity and none of the common equity.

                                      -81-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

     NEWKIRK JOINT VENTURES

      In July and September 1998, the Company invested an aggregate of
$56,000,000 for a 30% share in joint ventures with affiliates of Apollo Real
Estate Investment Fund III, L.P., collectively Newkirk Joint Ventures
("Newkirk"). Newkirk owns various equity and debt interests relating to 120
limited partnerships which own real estate primarily net leased to credit rated
tenants. The Company has issued letters of credit of $15,600,000 in connection
with these joint ventures.

      On March 9, 1999, the Company and its joint venture partner completed an
acquisition of additional equity interests in certain limited partnerships. The
Company's additional investment of $52,435,000 consisted of $47,790,000 in
Operating Partnership Units and $4,645,000 in cash.

      On October 15, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of $15,600,000
of securitized debt of the Newkirk Joint Ventures which has an average yield of
14.28%.

     STUDENT HOUSING JOINT VENTURE

      On January 28, 2000, the Company and its joint venture partner, acquired a
252-unit student housing complex in Gainesville, Florida, for approximately
$27,000,000, of which $19,600,000 was indebtedness. The Company's share of this
investment is 90%.

     PRO FORMA INFORMATION

      The unaudited pro forma information set forth below presents (i) the
condensed consolidated operating results for the Company for the years ended
December 31, 1999 and 1998 as if (a) the acquisitions described above and the
financings attributable thereto had occurred on January 1, 1998. No condensed
consolidated pro forma balance sheet data is presented as there have been no
material acquisitions subsequent to December 31, 1999.

     CONDENSED PRO FORMA CONSOLIDATED OPERATING RESULTS (UNAUDITED)



                                      -82-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

4.   INVESTMENTS IN PARTIALLY-OWNED ENTITIES

      The Company's investments in partially-owned entities and income
recognized from such investments is disclosed below. Summarized financial data
is provided for (i) investments in entities which exceed 10% of the Company's
total assets and (ii) investments in which the Company's share of
partially-owned entities pre-tax income exceeds 10% of the Company's net income.

BALANCE SHEET DATA:



                                      -83-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      Below is a summary of the debt of partially owned entities as of December
31, 1999 and 1998, none of which is guaranteed by the Company.


- ------------------------
*  The balance of the mortgage of $47,761 applicable to the commercial portion
   of the building is reflected in the Company's wholly-owned debt in 1999. See
   Note 5.


                                      -84-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

INCOME STATEMENT DATA:


- ------------------
(1)   Fee income is included in equity in income of Management Companies.

(2)   1999 is net of $4,877 resulting from the write-off of the asset arising
      from the straight-lining of rents; 1998 includes the write-off of the
      carrying value of the Lexington Avenue buildings of $15,096; and 1997
      includes income from the condemnation of a portion of a property of
      $8,914.

(3)   Revenues and net income reflect lease payments from AmeriCold Logistics
      from March 12, 1999 through December 31, 1999 and business operations for
      the periods prior.

(4)   15% interest from October 1997 to December 1998, 9.6% interest from
      January 1999 to March 1999 and 34% interest thereafter.

(5)   Represents the Company's interests in 330 Madison Avenue (24.8%), and 570
      Lexington Avenue (50%). In 1998 and 1997 the Company had a 40% interest in
      Two Park Avenue which is now wholly-owned.

     ALEXANDER'S

      The investment in and loans and advances to Alexander's are comprised of:



                                      -85-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      On October 20, 1999, the Company lent Alexander's $50,000,000 on the same
terms and conditions as the Company's existing $45,000,000 loan to Alexander's,
including the interest rate of 14.18%. Both loans, which were scheduled to
mature in March 15, 2000, have been extended for one year to March 15, 2001. The
interest rate has been reset from 14.18% to 15.72%, reflecting an increase in
the underlying Treasury rate.

      Alexander's is currently undertaking the excavation and lying foundation
for its Lexington Avenue property as part of the proposed development of a large
multi-use building. The proposed building is expected to be comprised of a
commercial portion, which may include retail stores, offices, hotel space,
extended-stay residences, residential rentals and parking; and a residential
portion, consisting of condominium units to be sold to the public. In connection
therewith, Alexander's paid $14,500,000 for 140,000 square feet of air rights of
which $12,200,000 was paid to the Company (Vornado's cost plus $243,000 in
interest and closing costs). The air rights were contracted for and paid for in
1999, with closings to take place when the developments which give rise to the
air rights are completed in 2000. The capital required for the proposed building
will be in excess of $400,000,000.

      Because a REIT is subject to 100% excise tax on income derived from the
sale of "dealer property" (i.e. condominiums), the air rights representing the
residential portion of the property are being transferred to a preferred stock
affiliate, a corporation in which Alexander's owns all of the preferred equity
and none of the common equity. The transfer value will be adjusted once the
final size of the residential portion is determined.

      On October 21, 1999, the Company increased its ownership in Alexander's
from 29.3% to 32% by acquiring an additional 135,600 shares of Alexander's
common stock for approximately $8,956,000.

      Alexander's is managed by and its properties are leased by the Company,
pursuant to agreements with a one-year term expiring in March of each year which
are automatically renewable. The annual management fee payable to the Company by
Alexander's is equal to the sum of (i) $3,000,000, (ii) 3% of the gross income
from the Kings Plaza Mall, plus (iii) 6% of development costs with minimum
guaranteed fees of $750,000 per annum.

      The leasing agreement provides for the Company to generally receive a fee
of (i) 3% of sales proceeds and (ii) 3% of lease rent for the first ten years of
a lease term, 2% of lease rent for the eleventh through the twentieth years of a
lease term and 1% of lease rent for the twenty-first through thirtieth year of a
lease term. Subject to the payment of rents by Alexander's tenants, the Company
is due $1,756,000 at December 31, 1999. Such amount is receivable annually in an
amount not to exceed $2,500,000 until the present value of such installments
(calculated at a discount rate of 9% per annum) equals the amount that would
have been paid had it been paid on September 21, 1993, or at the time the
transactions which gave rise to the commissions occurred, if later.

      As of December 31, 1999, Interstate Properties and its partners owned
approximately 17.8% of the common shares of beneficial interest of the Company
and 27.3% of Alexander's common stock. Interstate Properties is a general
partnership in which Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are
partners. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company, the Managing General Partner of Interstate Properties, and the
Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alexander's, Messrs. Mandelbaum and
Wight are trustees of the Company and are also directors of Alexander's.

                                      -86-





                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

5.   DEBT

      Following is a summary of the Company's debt:



                                      -87-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

(1)  On March 1, 2000 the Company completed a $500,000,000 private placement of
     10-year, 7.83% mortgage notes, cross-collateralized by 42 shopping center
     properties, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $490,000,000. In
     connection therewith, the Company repaid $228,000,000 of existing mortgage
     debt scheduled to mature on December 1, 2000 and $262,000,000 outstanding
     under its revolving credit facility.

(2)  On March 1, 2000, the Company completed a $90,000,000 refinancing of its
     Two Park Avenue office building. The Company received proceeds of
     $65,000,000 and repaid the then existing debt in the same amount on the
     property. The Company expects to receive the remaining $25,000,000 prior to
     June 30, 2000 upon satisfying certain closing conditions. The new 3-year
     debt matures on February 28, 2003 and bears interest at Libor + 1.45%
     (7.39% at March 1, 2000).

(3)  In June 1998, the Company completed a $275,000,000 refinancing of its One
     Penn Plaza office building and borrowed $170,000,000 pursuant thereto. In
     the third quarter of 1998, the Company borrowed the remaining $105,000,000.
     The debt matures in June 2002, is prepayable at anytime, and bears interest
     at LIBOR + 1.25% (7.73% at December 31, 1999). This debt replaced the
     $93,192,000 bridge-mortgage loan financing put in place when the property
     was acquired. The Company entered into an interest rate cap
     agreement($275,000,000 notional amount) to reduce the impact of changes in
     interest rates on this loan. The agreement caps the Company's interest rate
     in the event that LIBOR increases above 8.5% through January 20, 2000 and
     9% thereafter, until the termination date of the cap agreement on July 30,
     2001. The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance
     by the other parties to the interest rate cap agreement. However, the
     Company does not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparty. The fair
     value of the interest rate cap agreement at December 31, 1999 approximates
     its cost.

(4)  On February 18, 1999, the Company completed a $165,000,000 refinancing of
     its Two Penn Plaza office building and prepaid the then existing
     $80,000,000 debt on the property.

(5)  On July 18, 1999, the Company completed a $70,000,000 mortgage financing of
     its 350 North Orleans property in Chicago. The Company received proceeds of
     $40,000,000 and is expected to receive the remaining $30,000,000 during the
     next year upon meeting certain debt service coverage requirements.

(6)  On September 21, 1999, the Company completed a $250,000,000 mortgage
     refinancing of its Merchandise Mart property in Chicago of which
     $50,000,000 is further secured by a letter of credit. The letter of credit
     will be reduced over the term of the loan as cash flow increases. The
     Company bought an interest rate cap with a notional amount of $250,000,000
     capping the interest rate in the event that LIBOR increases above 9.25%
     through the termination date of the agreement in September 2002.
     Simultaneously with this transaction, the Company sold an interest rate cap
     with a notional amount of $250,000,000 to a third party on the same terms
     as the cap the Company purchased.

      The net carrying value of properties collateralizing the notes and
mortgages amounted to $2,501,882,000 at December 31, 1999. As at December 31,
1999, the maturities for the next five years and thereafter are as follows:



                                      -88-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

6.   SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

During the three years ended December 31, 1999, the Company sold $1,133,672,000
of Common Shares, $276,000,000 of Convertible Preferred Shares and $193,300,000
of Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares. The following are the details of the
sales.

Sale of Common Shares

      In October 1997, Vornado sold 14,000,000 common shares and an additional
2,100,000 common shares in November 1997 when the underwriters exercised in full
their over-allotment option. The shares were sold at a price of $45.00 per share
which, net of expenses, yielded approximately $688,672,000.

      In April 1998, the Company completed the sale of 10,000,000 common shares
of beneficial interest, par value $.04 per share pursuant to an effective
registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of approximately
$401,000,000. On April 29, 1998, the Company sold 1,132,420 common shares to a
unit investment trust, which were valued for the purpose of the trust at $41.06
per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $44,000,000.

Sale of Convertible Preferred Shares

      In April 1997, Vornado completed its public offering of 5,750,000 Series A
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, liquidation preference
$50.00 per share. The preferred shares bear a coupon of 6 1/2% and are
convertible into common shares at $36.11 per share. The offering, net of
expenses, generated approximately $276,000,000 which was used to fund the cash
portion of the Mendik Transaction. In connection with the acquisition of Arbor
in December 1997, the Company issued approximately 2,936,000 common shares and
39,400 Series A Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest. The
approximate value of the shares issued at the time of the acquisition was
$102,000,000.

Sale of Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares

      On March 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 3 million 8.5% Series
B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price $25.00 per share, pursuant
to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $72,200,000. Further on March 22, 1999, 400,000 shares were sold
when the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in
additional net proceeds to the Company of $9,700,000. The perpetual preferred
shares may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on
March 17, 2004.

      On May 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 4 million 8.5% Series C
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price of $25.00 per share, pursuant
to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $96,900,000. Additionally, on May 19, 1999, 600,000 shares were
sold when the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in
additional net proceeds to the Company of $14,500,000. The perpetual preferred
shares may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on
May 17, 2004.

      On October 20, 1997, the Company paid a 100% common share dividend to
shareholders. All share and per share information has been adjusted to reflect
this two-for-one share split.

                                      -89-


7.   EMPLOYEES' SHARE OPTION PLAN

      Under the Omnibus Share Plan (the "Plan"), various officers and employees
have been granted incentive share options and non-qualified options to purchase
common shares. Options granted are at prices equal to 100% of the market price
of the Company's shares at the date of grant. 921,697 shares vest on a
graduated basis, becoming fully vested 27 months after grant, 3,500,000 shares
(granted in connection with Mr. Fascitelli's employment agreement) vest on a
graduated basis becoming fully vested 60 months after grant, and 7,050,655
shares vest on a graduated basis, becoming fully vested 36 months after grant.
All options expire ten years after grant.

      The Plan also provides for the award of Stock Appreciation Rights,
Performance Shares and Restricted Stock, as defined, none of which have been
awarded as of December 31, 1999.

                                      -90-








                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      If compensation cost for Plan awards had been determined based on fair
value at the grant dates, net income and income per share would have been
reduced to the pro-forma amounts below, for the years ended December 31, 1999,
1998 and 1997:




      The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
using an option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions
used for grants in the periods ending December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.




      A summary of the Plan's status, and changes during the years then ended,
is presented below:





                                      -91-







                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      The following table summarizes information about options outstanding
under the Plan at December 31, 1999:



Shares available for future grant under the Plan at December 31, 1999 were
8,223,227.

      In connection with the acquisition of Arbor in December 1997, the Company
issued 60,000 options to a third party outside of the Plan parameters. These
options were granted at $43.75 per share and immediately vested. No expense was
incurred related to this issuance as it was accounted for as component of the
acquisition price.

8.   RETIREMENT PLAN

      In December 1997, benefits under the Plan were frozen. Prior to December
31, 1997, the Company's qualified retirement plan covered all full-time
employees. The Plan provided annual pension benefits that were equal to 1% of
the employee's annual compensation for each year of participation. The funding
policy is in accordance with the minimum funding requirements of ERISA.

      Pension expense includes the following components:



         * Not applicable, as benefits under the Plan were frozen in December
1997.



                                      -92-






                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

      The following table sets forth the Plan's funded status and the amount
recognized in the Company's balance sheet:



      Plan assets are invested in U.S. government obligations and securities
backed by U.S. government guaranteed mortgages.

9.   LEASES

   As lessor:

      The Company leases space to tenants in shopping centers and office
buildings under operating leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of
fixed base rentals payable monthly in advance. Shopping center leases provide
for the pass-through to tenants of real estate taxes, insurance and
maintenance. Office building leases generally require the tenants to reimburse
the Company for operating costs and real estate taxes above their base year
costs. Shopping center leases also provide for the payment by the lessee of
additional rent based on a percentage of the tenants' sales. As of December 31,
1999, future base rental revenue under noncancellable operating leases,
excluding rents for leases with an original term of less than one year and
rents resulting from the exercise of renewal options, is as follows:




      These amounts do not include rentals based on tenants' sales. These
percentage rents approximated $2,213,000, $2,493,000 and $1,786,000 for the
years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

      None of the Company's tenants represented more than 10% of the Company's
total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1999.


                                      -93-






                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

   As lessee:

      The Company is a tenant under operating leases for certain properties.
These leases will expire principally during the next thirty years. Future
minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 1999, are as
follows:



      Rent expense was $14,269,000, $5,937,000 and $2,001,000 for the years
ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997.

10.  COMMITTMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

      At December 31, 1999, in addition to the $367 million balance outstanding
under the Company's revolving credit facility, the Company had utilized $117
million of availability under the facility for letters of credit and guarantees
primarily related to pending acquisitions.

      Each of the Company's properties has been subjected to varying degrees of
environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did
not reveal any material environmental contamination. However, there can be no
assurance that the identification of new areas of contamination, change in the
extent or known scope of contamination, the discovery of additional sites, or
changes in cleanup requirements would not result in significant costs to the
Company.

      From time-to-time, the Company has disposed of substantial amounts of
real estate to third parties for which, as to certain properties, it remains
contingently liable for rent payments or mortgage indebtedness.

      There are various legal actions against the Company in the ordinary
course of business. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal
counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a material effect on the
Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.

11.  NET GAIN FROM INSURANCE SETTLEMENT AND CONDEMNATION PROCEEDINGS

      In April 1997, the Company's Lodi shopping center was destroyed by a
fire. In the third quarter of 1998, the Company and its insurer agreed that the
estimated cost to reconstruct the shopping center is approximately $9,012,000
and the Company recorded a gain of $7,955,000 (the agreed upon amount, net of
the carrying value of the shopping center of $1,057,000). The insurance carrier
had previously advanced $5,550,000 to the Company. The reconstruction of the
shopping center was completed in 1999.

      In September 1998, Atlantic City condemned the Company's vacant property.
In the third quarter of 1998, the Company recorded a gain of $1,694,000, (which
reflects the condemnation award of $3,100,000, net of the carrying value of the
property of $1,406,000). The Company is appealing the amount of the award.


                                      -94-





                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

12.  REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS

      The Company enters into agreements for the purchase and resale of U.S.
government obligations for periods of up to one week. The obligations purchased
under these agreements are held in safekeeping in the name of the Company by
various money center banks. The Company has the right to demand additional
collateral or return of these invested funds at any time the collateral value
is less than 102% of the invested funds plus any accrued earnings thereon.

13.   OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

      At December 31, 1999, the loan due from Mr. Roth, in accordance with his
employment arrangement, was $13,122,500 ($4,705,000 of which is shown as a
reduction in shareholders' equity). During 1999, the Company amended Mr. Roth's
loan to, (i) reset the interest rate to 4.49% per annum (based on the applicable
Federal rate) from a floating rate equal to the broker call rate and (ii) extend
the maturity to January 2006 from December 2002. The Company also provided Mr.
Roth with the right to draw up to $15,000,000 of additional loans on a revolving
basis. Each additional loan will bear interest, payable quarterly, at the
applicable Federal rate on the date the loan is made and will mature on the
sixth anniversary of the loan.

      At December 31, 1999, loans due from Mr. Fascitelli, in accordance with
his employment agreement, aggregated $7,600,000. The loans mature in 2003 and
bear interest, payable quarterly at a weighted average interest rate of 5.16%
(based on the applicable Federal rate). In addition, in accordance with his
employment agreement, in December 1996 Mr. Fascitelli received a deferred
payment consisting of $5,000,000 in cash and a $20,000,000 convertible
obligation payable at the Company's option in 919,540 of its common shares or
the cash equivalent of their appreciated value but not less than $20,000,000.
Accordingly, the cash and common shares are being held in an irrevocable trust
(the fair value of this obligation was $34,996,620 at December 31, 1999).

      Various other executive officers of the Company have loans outstanding
pursuant to employment agreements of $1,146,000 at December 31, 1999. The loans
bear interest at either the applicable Federal rate provided or the broker call
rate (7.25% at December 31, 1999).

      The Company currently manages and leases the real estate assets of
Interstate Properties pursuant to a management agreement for which the Company
receives a quarterly fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and
certain other commissions. The management agreement has a term of one year and
is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on sixty
days' notice at the end of the term. Although the management agreement was not
negotiated at arms length, the Company believes based upon comparable fees
charged by other real estate companies, that its terms are fair to the Company.
For the years ended December 31, 1999, 1998 and 1997, $1,262,000, $1,365,000
and $1,184,000 of management fees were earned by the Company pursuant to the
management agreement.

      The Mendik Group owns an entity which provides cleaning and related
services and security services to office properties, including the Company's
Manhattan office properties. Although the terms and conditions of the contracts
pursuant to which these services are provided were not negotiated at arms
length, the Company believes based upon comparable fees charged to other real
estate companies, that the terms and conditions of such contracts are fair to
the Company. The Company was charged fees in connection with these contracts of
$40,974,000 and $25,686,000 for the years ended December 31, 1999 and 1998 and
$9,965,000 for the period from April 15, 1997 (date of acquisition of the
Mendik portfolio) to December 31, 1997.

      The common stock of the preferred stock affiliates which own interests in
the Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies, Hotel Pennsylvania and related
management companies are owned by Officers and Trustees of Vornado.



                                      -95-






                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

14.  MINORITY INTEREST

      The minority interest represents limited partners', other than the
Company, interests in the Operating Partnership and are comprised of:



- --------------------

(a) Class A units are redeemable at the option of the holder for cash or, at
    the Company's option, one common share of beneficial interest in Vornado.

(b) Class C units automatically converted to Class A units in the third quarter
    of 1999. Prior to conversion, the Class C unit holders had participated in
    distributions at an annual rate of $1.69, then pari passu with the Class A
    units.

(c) Mandatory conversion of Class D units into Class A units will occur after
    four consecutive quarters of distributions of at least $.50375 per Class A
    unit ($2.015 annually).

(d) Redeemable for an equivalent of the Company's preferred share.

(e) Increases to $3.25 over the next three years and fixes at $3.38 in March
    2007.



                                      -96-







                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

15.  EARNINGS PER SHARE

      The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share:




16.  SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

      The following summary represents the results of operations for each
quarter in 1999, 1998 and 1997:



- ---------------------

(1) The total for the year may differ from the sum of the quarters as a
    result of weighting.

(2) Net income for each of the first three quarters of 1999 has been restated
    to reflect a correction for depreciation expense of a partially-owned
    entity.  The effect of such restatement for each of the first three
    quarters on net income and net income per common share is as follows:
    $462,000 ($.01 per share), $887,000 ($.01 per share), and $887,000 ($.01 per
    share), respectively.



                                      -97-






                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

17.  SEGMENT INFORMATION

      The Company has four business segments: Office, Retail, Merchandise Mart
Properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics. Prior to April 1997, the
Company operated in one segment-retail real estate, primarily in the Northeast
section of the United States.




- ----------------------
Footnotes 1-5 are explained on page 101.



                                      -98-






                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)




- ------------------------
Footnotes 1-5 are explained on page 101.





                                      -99-





                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)





- ----------------------------------
See footnotes 1-5 on the next page.





                                     -100-









                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)

Notes to segment information:

    (1) EBITDA represents income before interest, taxes, depreciation and
        amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or losses on
        sales of real estate and the effect of straight-lining of property
        rentals for rent escalations. Management considers EBITDA a
        supplemental measure for making decisions and assessing the performance
        of its segments. EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled
        measures employed by other companies.

    (2) Other includes (i) the operations of the Company's warehouse and
        industrial properties, (ii) investments in the Hotel Pennsylvania,
        Alexander's, and Newkirk Joint Ventures, (iii) corporate general and
        administrative expenses and (iv) unallocated investment income and
        interest and debt expense.

    (3) Includes (i) the reversal of income taxes (benefit for the year ended
        December 31, 1999) which are considered non-recurring because of the
        expected conversion of the Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies
        to REIT's and (ii) the add back of non-recurring unification costs.

    (4) Interest and debt expense, depreciation and amortization and
        straight-lining of rents included in the reconciliation of net income
        to EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income from
        partially-owned entities.

    (5) Primarily represents the Company's equity in Alexander's loss for the
        write-off resulting from the razing of Alexander's building formerly
        located at its Lexington Avenue site.







                                     -101-





                                    PART III

ITEM 10.  DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

   Information relating to trustees of the Registrant will be contained in a
definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of trustees which the
Registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 not later than 120
days after December 31, 1999, and such information is incorporated herein by
reference. Information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears
at page 46 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.  EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

    Information relating to executive compensation will be contained in the
Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10, "Directors and Executive Officers
of the Registrant", and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12.  SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

    Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners and
management will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10,
"Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant", and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.  CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

     Information relating to certain relationships and related transactions
will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10, "Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant", and such information is incorporated
herein by reference.



                                     -102-






                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.  EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

                        1. The consolidated financial statements are set forth
in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                        2.  Financial Statement Schedules.

      The following financial statement schedules should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.



      Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are not
applicable or the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.

                        3. The following exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index
are filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.


EXHIBIT NO.
- -----------



      (b) Reports on Form 8-K and Form 8-K/A

      During the last quarter of the period covered by this Annual Report on
Form 10-K the reports on Form 8-K and Form 8-K/A described below were filed.








                                     -103-









                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.



                               VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                               BY: /s/ Irwin Goldberg
                                  ----------------------------------------------
                                         Irwin Goldberg, Vice President,
                                            Chief Financial Officer



                               Date: March 7, 2000







      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:







                                     -104-





                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                   SCHEDULE II
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS









                                     -105-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)





- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
            COLUMN A              COLUMN G      COLUMN H     COLUMN I
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          LIFE ON WHICH
                                                          DEPRECIATION
                                                           IN LATEST
                                                            INCOME
                                   DATE OF       DATE      STATEMENT
          DESCRIPTION          CONSTRUCTION(3) ACQUIRED   IS COMPUTED
          -----------          --------------- --------   -----------

OFFICE BUILDINGS
NEW YORK
  MANHATTAN
     One Penn Plaza                 1972         1998      39 Years
     Two Penn Plaza                 1968         1997      39 Years
     909 Third Avenue               1969         1999      39 Years
     770 Broadway                   1907         1998      39 Years
     Eleven Penn Plaza              1923         1997      39 Years
     Two Park Avenue                1928         1998      39 Years
     90 Park Avenue                 1964         1997      39 Years
     888 Seventh Avenue             1980         1999      39 Years
     330 West 34th Street           1925         1998      39 Years
     1740 Broadway                  1950         1997      39 Years
     150 East 58th Street           1969         1998      39 Years
     866 United Nations Plaza       1966         1997      39 Years
     595 Madison (Fuller            1968         1999      39 Years
     Building)
     640 Fifth Avenue               1950         1997      39 Years
     40 Fulton Street               1987         1998      39 Years
     689 Fifth Avenue               1925         1998      39 Years
     20 Broad Street                1956         1998      39 Years
  WESTCHESTER
     550/600 Mamaroneck Avenue   1971/1969       1998      39 Years

       Total New York


  CONNECTICUT
     Westport                       1980         1998      39 Years

       Total Connecticut


  NEW JERSEY
     Paramus                        1967         1987    26 - 40 Years

       Total New Jersey


TOTAL OFFICE BUILDINGS


SHOPPING CENTERS
  NEW JERSEY
     Bordentown                      1958         1958    7 - 40 Years
     Bricktown                       1968         1968    22 - 40 Years
     Cherry Hill                     1964         1964    12 - 40 Years





                                     -106-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)






- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
            COLUMN A              COLUMN G      COLUMN H     COLUMN I
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          LIFE ON WHICH
                                                          DEPRECIATION
                                                           IN LATEST
                                                            INCOME
                                   DATE OF       DATE      STATEMENT
          DESCRIPTION          CONSTRUCTION(3) ACQUIRED   IS COMPUTED
          -----------          --------------- --------   -----------

     Delran                         1972         1972    16 - 40 Years
     Dover                          1964         1964    16 - 40 Years
     East Brunswick                 1957         1957    8 - 33 Years
     East Hanover I                 1962         1962    9 - 40 Years
     East Hanover II                1979         1998      40 Years
     Hackensack                     1963         1963    15 - 40 Years
     Jersey City                    1965         1965    11 - 40 Years
     Kearny (4)                     1938         1959    23 - 29 Years
     Lawnside                       1969         1969    17 - 40 Years
     Lodi                           1999         1975      40 Years
     Manalapan                      1971         1971    14 - 40 Years
     Marlton                        1973         1973    16 - 40 Years
     Middletown                     1963         1963    19 - 40 Years
     Morris Plains                  1961         1985    7 - 19 Years
     North Bergen (4)               1993         1959      30 Years
     North Plainfield               1955         1989    21 - 30 Years
     Totowa                      1957/1999       1957    19 - 40 Years
     Turnersville                   1974         1974    23 - 40 Years
     Union                          1962         1962    6 - 40 Years
     Vineland                       1966         1966    18 - 40 Years
     Watchung (4)                   1994         1959    27 - 30 Years
     Woodbridge                     1959         1959    11 - 40 Years

       Total New Jersey


  NEW YORK
     14th Street and Union
       Square, Manhattan            1965         1993    36 - 39 Years
     Albany (Menands)               1965         1965    22 - 40 Years
     Buffalo (Amherst)              1968         1968    13 - 40 Years
     Freeport                       1981         1981    15 - 40 Years
     New Hyde Park                  1970         1976    6 - 10 Years
     North Syracuse                 1967         1976    11 - 12 Years
     Rochester (Henrietta)          1971         1971    15 - 40 Years
     Rochester                      1966         1966    10 - 40 Years
     Valley Stream (Green Acres)    1956         1997    39 - 40 Years

       Total New York


                                     -107-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)




- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
            COLUMN A              COLUMN G      COLUMN H     COLUMN I
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          LIFE ON WHICH
                                                          DEPRECIATION
                                                           IN LATEST
                                                            INCOME
                                   DATE OF       DATE      STATEMENT
          DESCRIPTION          CONSTRUCTION(3) ACQUIRED   IS COMPUTED
          -----------          --------------- --------   -----------


  PENNSYLVANIA
     Allentown                        1957       1957   20 - 42 Years
     Bensalem (4)                  1972/1999     1972     40 Years
     Bethlehem                        1966       1966   9 - 40 Years
     Broomall                         1966       1966   9 - 40 Years
     Glenolden                        1975       1975   18 - 40 Years
     Lancaster                        1966       1966   12 - 40 Years
     Levittown                        1964       1964   7 - 40 Years
     10th and Market
       Streets, Philadelphia          1977       1994   27 - 30 Years
     Upper Moreland                   1974       1974   15 - 40 Years
     York                             1970       1970   15 - 40 Years

       Total Pennsylvania


  MARYLAND
     Baltimore (Belair Rd.)           1962       1962   10 - 33 Years
     Baltimore (Towson)               1968       1968   13 - 40 Years
     Baltimore (Dundalk)              1966       1966   12 - 40 Years
     Glen Burnie                      1958       1958   16 - 33 Years
     Hagerstown                       1966       1966   9 - 40 Years

       Total Maryland


  CONNECTICUT
     Newington                        1965       1965   9 - 40 Years
     Waterbury                        1969       1969   21 - 40 Years

       Total Connecticut


  MASSACHUSETTS
     Chicopee                         1969       1969   13 - 40 Years
     Springfield (4)                  1993       1966   28 - 30 Years

       Total Massachusetts


  TEXAS
  Dallas
     Lewisville (5)                   1989       1990   25 - 30 Years
     Mesquite (5)                     1988       1990   24 - 30 Years
     Skillman (5)                     1988       1990   26 - 30 Years

       Total Texas


                                     -108-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)




- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
            COLUMN A              COLUMN G      COLUMN H     COLUMN I
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          LIFE ON WHICH
                                                          DEPRECIATION
                                                           IN LATEST
                                                            INCOME
                                   DATE OF       DATE      STATEMENT
          DESCRIPTION          CONSTRUCTION(3) ACQUIRED   IS COMPUTED
          -----------          --------------- --------   -----------


  PUERTO RICO (SAN JUAN)
     Montehiedra                    1996          1997      40 Years


TOTAL SHOPPING CENTERS


MERCHANDISE MART PROPERTIES
  ILLINOIS
     Merchandise Mart,
       Chicago                      1930          1998      40 Years
     Apparel Center,
       Chicago                      1977          1998      40 Years

  WASHINGTON D.C.
     Washington Office Center       1990          1998      40 Years
     Washington Design Center       1919          1998      40 Years
     Other                                        1998      40 Years

  NORTH CAROLINA
     Market Square Complex,
       High Point                  1902-1989      1998      40 Years
     National Furniture Mart,
       High Point                    1964         1998      40 Years


TOTAL MERCHANDISE MART


WAREHOUSE/INDUSTRIAL
  NEW JERSEY
     East Brunswick                  1972         1972    18 - 40 Years
     East Hanover                  1963-1967      1963    7 - 40 Years
     Edison                          1954         1982    12 - 25 Years
     Garfield                        1942         1959    11 - 33 Years

TOTAL WAREHOUSE/INDUSTRIAL


OTHER PROPERTIES
  NEW JERSEY
     Montclair                       1972         1972     4 -15 Years
     Rahway                          1972         1972      14 Years

       Total New Jersey


                                     -109-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 1999
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)



- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
            COLUMN A              COLUMN G      COLUMN H     COLUMN I
- -----------------------------------------------------------------------
                                                          LIFE ON WHICH
                                                          DEPRECIATION
                                                           IN LATEST
                                                            INCOME
                                   DATE OF       DATE      STATEMENT
          DESCRIPTION          CONSTRUCTION(3) ACQUIRED   IS COMPUTED
          -----------          --------------- --------   -----------


  NEW YORK
     Hotel Pennsylvania             1919         1997      40 Years
       (Commercial)                              1997      40 Years
     1135 Third Avenue           1911-1987       1997      39 Years
     Riese

       Total New York


TOTAL OTHER PROPERTIES


LEASEHOLD IMPROVEMENTS                                   3 - 20 Years
   AND EQUIPMENT


TOTAL --
   DECEMBER 31, 1999


















*  These encumbrances are cross collateralized under a blanket mortgage in
   the amount of $224,865 at December 31, 1999 which was repaid as part of
   a $500,000 financing completed on March 1, 2000.


Notes:

1)   Initial  cost is cost as of  January  30,  1982 (the date on which  Vornado
     commenced real estate operations)  unless acquired  subsequent to that date
     -- see Column H.
2) The net basis of the company's assets and liabilities
     for tax purposes is approximately $1,617,000 lower than the amount reported
     for financial statement purposes.
3)   Date of  original  construction  -- many  properties  have had  substantial
     renovation  or  additional  construction  -- see Column D.
4)   Buildings on these properties were demolished. As a result, the cost of the
     buildings  and  improvements,   net  of  accumulated   depreciation,   were
     transferred to land. In addition,  the cost of the land in Kearny is net of
     a $1,615 insurance recovery.
5)   Properties were sold subsequent to December 31, 1999.


                                     -110-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

      The following is a reconciliation of real estate assets and accumulated
depreciation:




                                     -111-



                                  EXHIBIT INDEX

EXHIBIT
   NO.
- -------

3.1      --  Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Vornado, amended
             April 3, 1997--Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
             Vornado's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No.
             333-29011), filed on June 12, 1997..........................    *

3.2      --  Articles of Amendment of Declaration of Trust of Vornado, as filed
             with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland
             on April 22, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 22, 1998 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on April 28, 1998.....................    *

3.3      --  Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado's $3.25 Series A
             Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, liquidation preference
             $50.00 per share - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 3, 1997 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on April 8, 1997......................    *

3.4      --  Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado's Series D-1 8.5%
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest,
             no par value (the "Series D-1 Preferred Shares") - Incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of Vornado's Current Report on Form
             8-K, dated November 12, 1998 (File No. 001-11954), filed on
             November 30, 1998............................................   *

3.5      --  Articles Supplementary Classifying Additional Series D-1
             Preferred Shares - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K/A, dated November 12, 1998
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on February 9, 1999..............   *

3.6      --  Articles Supplementary Classifying 8.5% Series B Cumulative
             Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, liquidation
             preference $25.00 per share, no par value - Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 3.3 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K,
             dated March 3, 1999 (File No. 001-11954), filed on March 17,
             1999.........................................................   *

3.7      --  Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado's Series C
             Preferred Shares - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.7 of
             Vornado's Registration Statement on Form 8-A (File No.
             001-11954), filed on May 19, 1999............................   *

3.8      --  Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado Realty Trust's
             Series D-2 Preferred Shares, dated as of May 27, 1999, as filed
             with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland
             on May 27, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated May 27, 1999 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on July 7, 1999........................   *

3.9      --  Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado's Series D-3
             Preferred Shares, dated September 3, 1999, as filed with the
             State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland on
             September 3, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 3, 1999
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on October 25, 1999...............  *

3.10     --  Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado's Series D-4
             Preferred Shares, dated September 3, 1999, as filed with the
             State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland on
             September 3, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 3, 1999
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on October 25, 1999...............  *

- ---------------------
          *    Incorporated by reference


                                     -112-


EXHIBIT
   NO.
- -------

3.11     --  Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado's Series D-5
             Preferred Shares - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 24, 1999
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on December 23,
             1999......................................................      *

3.12     --  Amended and Restated Bylaws of Vornado, as amended on March 2,

3.13     --  Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership
             of the Operating Partnership, dated as of October 20, 1997 -
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 of Vornado's Annual
             Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 filed on
             March 31, 1998 (the "1997 10-K")...........................     *

3.14     --  Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
             Partnership of Vornado Realty  L.P., dated as of December 16,
             1997--Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 of the 1997 10-K.*

3.15     --  Second Amendment to Second Amendment and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership of the
             Operating Partnership, dated as of April 1, 1998 - Incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit 3.5 of Vornado's Registration Statement
             on Form S-3 (File No. 333-50095), filed on April 14, 1998.....  *

3.16     --  Third Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of
             November 12, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 12, 1998
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on November 30, 1998............... *

3.17     --  Fourth Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of
             November 30, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 1, 1998
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on February 9, 1999................ *

3.18     --  Exhibit A, dated as of December 22, 1998, to Second Amended
             and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating
             Partnership - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K/A, dated November 12, 1998
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on February 9, 1999................ *

3.19     --  Fifth Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of
             March 3, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 3, 1999 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on March 17, 1999........................ *

3.20     --  Exhibit A to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
             Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of March 11,
             1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of Vornado's
             Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 3, 1999 (File No.
             001-11954), filed on March 17, 1999............................ *

3.21     --  Sixth Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of Vornado Realty L.P., dated as of March
             17, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of Vornado's
             Current Report on Form 8-K, dated May 27, 1999 (File No.
             001-11954), filed on July 7, 1999.............................. *

- ---------------------
          *    Incorporated by reference


                                     -113-

EXHIBIT
   NO.
- -------

3.22     --  Seventh Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of Vornado Realty L.P., dated as of May 20,
             1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 of Vornado's
             Current Report on Form 8-K, dated May 27, 1999 (File No.
             001-11954), filed on July 7, 1999................................ *

3.23     --  Eighth Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of Vornado Realty L.P., dated as of May 20,
             1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 of Vornado's
             Current Report on Form 8-K, dated May 27, 1999 (File No.
             001-11954), filed on July 7, 1999................................ *

3.24     --  Ninth Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of Vornado Realty L.P., dated as of May 20,
             1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.3 of Vornado's
             Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 3, 1999 (File No.
             001-11954), filed on October 25, 1999............................ *

3.25     --  Tenth Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of Vornado Realty L.P., dated as of May 20,
             1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 of Vornado's
             Current Report on Form 8-K, dated September 3, 1999 (File No.
             001-11954), filed on October 25, 1999............................ *

3.26     --  Eleventh Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
             Limited Partnership of Vornado Realty L.P., dated as of
             November 24, 1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 24, 1999
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on December 23, 1999................. *

4.1      --  Instruments defining the rights of security holders (see
             Exhibits 3.1 through 3.15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K)

4.2      --  Indenture dated as of November 24, 1993 between Vornado
             Finance Corp. and Bankers Trust Company, as Trustee -
             Incorporated by reference to Vornado's current Report on Form 8-K
             dated November 24, 1993 (File No. 001-11954), filed December 1,
             1993............................................................. *

4.3      --  Specimen certificate representing Vornado's Common Shares of
             Beneficial Interest, par value  $0.04 per share - Incorporated
             by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 1 to Registration
             Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 33-62395), filed on October 26,
             1995............................................................. *

4.4      --  Specimen certificate representing Vornado's $3.25 Series A
             Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, liquidation preference
             $50.00 per share - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 3, 1997 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on April 8, 1997........................... *

4.5      --  Specimen certificate evidencing Vornado's Series B 8.5%
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest -
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Vornado's
             Registration Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 001-11954), filed on
             March 15, 1999................................................... *

4.6      --  Specimen certificate evidencing Vornado's 8.5% Series C
             Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest,
             liquidation preferences $25.00 per share, no par value -
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Vornado's
             Registration Statement on Form 8-A (File No. 001-11954), filed
             May 19, 1999..................................................... *

10.1     --  Second Amendment, dated as of June 12, 1997, to Vornado's 1993
             Omnibus Share Plan, as amended - Incorporated by reference to
             Vornado's Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-29011)
             filed on June 12, 1997........................................... *


- ---------------------
          *    Incorporated by reference


                                     -114-

EXHIBIT
   NO.
- -------

10.2     --  Master Agreement and Guaranty, between Vornado, Inc. and
             Bradlees New Jersey, Inc. dated as of May 1, 1992 -
             Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q for quarter ended March 31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed
             May 8, 1992.......................................................*

10.3**   --  Mortgage, Security Agreement, Assignment of Leases and Rents
             and Fixture Filing dated as of November 24, 1993 made by each
             of the entities listed therein, as mortgagors to Vornado Finance
             Corp., as mortgagee - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 24, 1993 (File No.
             001-11954), filed December 1, 1993................................*

10.4**   --  1985 Stock Option Plan as amended - Incorporated by reference
             to Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended
             May 2, 1987 (File No. 001-11954), filed June 9,
             1987..............................................................*

10.5**   --  Form of Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with
             incentive stock options issued pursuant to Vornado, Inc. 1985
             Stock Option Plan - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended October 26, 1985
             (File No. 001-11954), filed December 9, 1985......................*

10.6**   --  Form of Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with
             incentive stock options issued pursuant to Vornado, Inc. 1985
             Stock Option Plan--Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended May 2, 1987 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed June 9, 1987................................*

10.7**   --  Form of Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with
             incentive stock options issued pursuant to Vornado, Inc. 1985
             Stock Option Plan--Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
             Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended October 26, 1985
             (File No. 001-11954), filed December 9, 1985......................*

10.8**   --  Employment Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust and Joseph
             Macnow dated January 1, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit 10.7 of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1998 (File No. 001-11954), filed
             November 12, 1998.................................................*

10.9**   --  Employment Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust and Richard
             Rowan dated January 1, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit 10.8 of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended September 30, 1998 (File No. 001-11954), filed
             November 12, 1998.................................................*

10.10**  --  Employment Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust and Irwin
             Goldberg, dated December 11, 1997 - Incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 10.10 of Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for
             the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 001-11954), filed on
             April 14, 1998....................................................*

10.11**  --  Employment Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust and Michael
             D. Fascitelli dated December 2, 1996 - Incorporated by
             reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
             ended December 31, 1996 (File No. 001-11954), filed March 13,
             1997..............................................................*

10.12    --  Promissory Notes from Steven Roth to Vornado, Inc. dated
             December 29, 1992 and January 15, 1993 - Incorporated by
             reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
             ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 16,
             1993..............................................................*

10.13    --  Registration Rights Agreement between Vornado, Inc. and Steven
             Roth Dated December 29, 1992 - Incorporated by reference to
             Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
             31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 16, 1993............*


- ---------------------
          *    Incorporated by reference
          **   Management contract or compensatory plan

                                     -115-

EXHIBIT
   NO.
- -------

10.14    --  Stock Pledge Agreement between Vornado, Inc. and Steven Roth
             dated December 29, 1992 - Incorporated by reference to
             Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
             31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 16, 1993..........  *

10.15    --  Promissory Note from Steven Roth to Vornado Realty Trust dated
             April 15, 1993 and June 17, 1993 - Incorporated by reference to
             Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
             31, 1993 (File No. 001-11954), filed March 24, 1994.............  *

10.16    --  Promissory Note from Richard Rowan to Vornado Realty Trust -
             Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form
             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 001-11954),
             filed March 24, 1994............................................  *

10.17    --  Promissory Note from Joseph Macnow to Vornado Realty Trust -
             Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form
             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 001-11954),
             filed March 24, 1994............................................  *

10.18    --  Management Agreement between Interstate Properties and
             Vornado, Inc. dated July 13, 1992 - Incorporated by reference to
             Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
             31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 16, 1993..........  *

10.19    --  Real Estate Retention Agreement between Vornado, Inc., Keen
             Realty Consultants, Inc. and Alexander's, Inc., dated as of
             July 20, 1992 - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Annual
             Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1992 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed February 16, 1993.........................  *

10.20    --  Amendment to Real Estate Retention Agreement dated February 6,
             1995 - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Annual Report on
             Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 (File No.
             001-11954), filed March 23, 1995................................  *

10.21    --  Stipulation between Keen Realty Consultants Inc. and Vornado
             Realty Trust re: Alexander's Retention Agreement - Incorporated
             by reference to Vornado's annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
             ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 001-11954), filed March 24,
             1994............................................................  *

10.22    --  Stock Purchase Agreement, dated February 6, 1995, among
             Vornado Realty Trust and Citibank, N.A. Incorporated by
             reference to Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K dated February
             6, 1995 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 21, 1995...........  *

10.23    --  Management and Development Agreement, dated as of February 6,
             1995 - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Current Report on
             Form 8-K dated February 6, 1995 (File No. 001-11954), filed
             February 21, 1995...............................................  *

10.24    --  Standstill and Corporate Governance Agreement, dated as of
             February 6, 1995 - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
             Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 6, 1995 (File No.
             001-11954), filed February 21, 1995.............................  *

10.25    --  Credit Agreement, dated as of March 15, 1995, among
             Alexander's Inc., as borrower, and Vornado Lending Corp., as
             lender - Incorporated by reference from Annual Report on Form
             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 001 - 11954),
             filed March 23, 1995............................................  *

10.26    --  Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of March
             15, 1995 among Vornado Lending Corp., Vornado Realty Trust and
             First Fidelity Bank, National Association - Incorporated by
             reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year
             ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 001-11954), filed March 23,
             1995............................................................  *


- ---------------------
          *    Incorporated by reference



                                     -116-

EXHIBIT
   NO.
- -------

10.27    --  Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 1995 among
             Vornado Realty Trust, as borrower, and Union Bank of
             Switzerland, as Bank and Administrative Agent - Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10(F)9 of Vornado's Annual Report on Form
             10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 001-11954),
             filed March 23, 1995 ..........................................   *

10.28    --  Form of Intercompany Agreement between Vornado Realty L.P. and
             Vornado Operating, Inc. -Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10.1 of Amendment No. 1 to Vornado Operating, Inc.'s Registration
             Statement on Form S-11 (File No. 333-40701), filed on January 23,
             1998 .........................................................    *

10.29    --  Form of Revolving Credit Agreement between Vornado Realty L.P.
             and Vornado Operating, Inc., together with related form of Note
             - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Amendment No. 1 to
             Vornado Operating, Inc.'s Registration Statement on Form S-11
             (File No.333-40701) ..........................................    *

10.30    --  Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as of
             February 23, 1998, between Vornado Realty L.P., as Borrower,
             Vornado Realty Trust, as General Partner and Union Bank of
             Switzerland (New York Branch), as Bank, the other banks signatory
             hereto, each as a bank, Union Bank of Switzerland (New York
             Branch), as Administrative Agent and Citicorp Real Estate, Inc.,
             The Chase Manhattan Bank and Nationsbank, as Syndication Agents -
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 of the 1997 10-K ..    *

10.31    --  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 15, 1997,
             between Vornado Realty Trust and the holders of Units listed on
             Schedule A thereto - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-11954), filed
             on April 30, 1997 ............................................    *

10.32    --  Noncompetition Agreement, dated as of April 15, 1997, by and
             among Vornado Realty Trust, the Mendik Company, L.P., and
             Bernard H. Mendik - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-11954), filed
             on April 30, 1997 ............................................    *

10.33    --  Employment Agreement, dated as of April 15, 1997, by and among
             Vornado Realty Trust, The Mendik Company, L.P. and David R.
             Greenbaum - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-11954), filed
             on April 30, 1997. ...........................................    *

10.34    --  Agreement, dated September 28, 1997, between Atlanta Parent
             Incorporated, Portland Parent Incorporated and Crescent Real
             Estate Equities, Limited Partnership - Incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 99.6 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No.
             001-11954), filed on October 8, 1997 .........................    *

10.35    --  Contribution Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust, Vornado
             Realty L.P. and The Contributors Signatory - thereto -
             Merchandise Mart Properties, Inc. (DE) and Merchandise Mart
             Enterprises, Inc. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of
             Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended
             December 31, 1997 (File No. 001-11954), filed on April 8,
             1998 .........................................................    *

10.36    --  Sale Agreement executed November 18, 1997, and effective
             December 19, 1997, between MidCity Associates, a New York
             partnership, as Seller, and One Penn Plaza LLC, a New York
             Limited liability company; as purchaser. Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.35 of Vornado's Annual Report on Form
             10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File No. 001-11954),
             filed on April 8, 1998 .......................................    *

10.37    --  Promissory Notes from Michael D. Fascitelli to Vornado Realty
             Trust dated March 2, 1998 and April 30, 1998. Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.37 of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 (File No. 001-11954),
             filed May 13, 1998 ...........................................    *


- ---------------------
          *    Incorporated by reference



                                     -117-

EXHIBIT
   NO.
- -------

10.38    --  Credit Agreement dated as of June 22, 1998 among One Penn
             Plaza, LLC, as Borrower, The Lenders Party Hereto, The Chase
             Manhattan Bank, as Administrative Agent Incorporated by reference
             to Exhibit 10 of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the
             quarter ended June 30, 1998 (File No. 001-11954), filed August
             13, 1998......................................................... *

10.39    --  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1998
             between Vornado and the Unit Holders named herein -
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Amendment No. 1 to
             Vornado's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No.
             333-50095), filed on May 6, 1998................................. *

10.40    --  Underwriting Agreement, dated April 9, 1998, among Vornado,
             Vornado Realty L.P. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. - Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 1.1 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K,
             dated April 9, 1998 (File No. 001-11954), filed on April 16,
             1998............................................................. *

10.41    --  Pricing Agreement, dated April 9, 1998, between Vornado and
             Goldman, Sachs & Co. - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2
             of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 9, 1998
             (File No. 001-11954), filed on April 16, 1998.................... *

10.42    --  Underwriting Agreement, dated April 23, 1998, among Vornado,
             Vornado Realty L.P. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
             Incorporated - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 22, 1998 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on April 28, 1998.......................... *

10.43    --  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of August 5, 1998
             between Vornado and the Unit Holders named therein -
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 of Vornado's
             Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-89667), filed on
             October 25, 1999................................................. *

10.44    --  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of July 23, 1998
             between Vornado and the Unit Holders named therein -
             Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Vornado's
             Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-89667), filed on
             October 25, 1999................................................. *

10.45    --  Underwriting Agreement, dated March 12, 1999, among Vornado,
             Vornado Realty L.P., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
             Incorporated - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 3, 1999 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on March 17, 1999.......................... *

10.46    --  Underwriting Agreement, dated May 17, 1999, among Vornado
             Realty Trust, Vornado Realty L.P., Salomon Smith Barney Inc.
             and the other underwriters named therein - Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 1.1 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K,
             dated May 17, 1999 (File No. 001-11954), filed on May 26,
             1999............................................................. *

10.47    --  Consolidated and Restated Mortgage, Security Agreement,
             Assignment of Leases and Rents and Fixture Filing, dated as of
             March 1, 2000, between Entities named therein (as Mortgagors) and
             Vornado (as Mortgagee)

10.48    --  Indenture and Servicing Agreement, dated as of March 1, 2000,
             among Vornado, Lasalle Bank National Association, ABN Amro Bank
             N.V. and Midland Loan Services, Inc.

10.49    --  Employment Agreement, dated January 22, 2000, between Vornado
             Realty Trust and Melvyn Blum

10.50    --  First Amended and Restated Promissory Note of Steven Roth,
             dated November 16, 1999

10.51    --  Letter agreement, dated November 16, 1999, between Steven Roth
             and Vornado Realty Trust

12       --  Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Combined
             Fixed Charges and Preferred Share Dividend Requirements


- ---------------------
          *    Incorporated by reference



                                     -118-

EXHIBIT
   NO.
- -------

13       --  Not applicable

16       --  Not applicable

18       --  Not applicable

19       --  Not applicable

21       --  Subsidiaries of the Registrant

22       --  Not applicable

23       --  Consent of independent auditors

25       --  Not applicable

27       --  Financial Data Schedule

29       --  Not applicable



                                     -119-

