
10-K405
y45949e10-k405.txt
VORNADO REALTY TRUST



                                                       EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGE 113

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended:      DECEMBER 31, 2000

                                       or

[ ]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
     EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from               to

Commission File Number:             1-11954

                                VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                  MARYLAND                                    22-1657560
     (State or other jurisdiction of                        (I.R.S. Employer
      incorporation or organization)                     Identification Number)


   888 SEVENTH AVENUE, NEW YORK, NEW YORK                       10019
 (Address of Principal Executive Offices)                      (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number including area code:   (212) 894-7000

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:




        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  YES   X  NO


Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to this Form 10-K.  [X]

The aggregate market value of the voting shares held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, i.e. by persons other than officers and trustees of Vornado Realty
Trust as reflected in the table in Item 12 of this Form 10-K, at February 1,
2001 was $2,460,912,000.

As of February 1, 2001, there were 86,809,450 common shares of the registrant's
shares of beneficial interest outstanding.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference

PART III: Portions of Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be
held on May 30, 2001.

                                      -1-

                                 

- ------------

(1) These items are omitted because the Registrant will file a definitive Proxy
    Statement pursuant to Regulation 14A involving the election of directors
    with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120 days after
    December 31, 2000, which is incorporated by reference herein. Information
    relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears on page 45 of this
    Annual Report on Form 10-K.

    Certain statements contained herein constitute forward-looking statements as
such term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
(the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Certain factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Factors that
might cause such a material difference include, but are not limited to, (a)
changes in the general economic climate, (b) local conditions such as an
oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area, (c)
conditions of tenants, (d) competition from other available space, (e) increased
operating costs and interest expense, (f) the timing of and costs associated
with property improvements, (g) changes in taxation or zoning laws, (h)
government regulations, (i) failure of Vornado to continue to qualify as a REIT,
(j) availability of financing on acceptable terms, (k) potential liability under
environmental or other laws or regulations, and (l) general competitive factors.


                                      -2-

                                     PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

THE COMPANY

    Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
("REIT"). Vornado conducts its business through Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware
limited partnership (the "Operating Partnership"). Vornado is the sole general
partner of, and owned approximately 86% of the common limited partnership
interest in, the Operating Partnership at February 1, 2001. All references to
the "Company" and "Vornado" refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated
subsidiaries, including the Operating Partnership.

    The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Properties ("Office"):

       (i) all or portions of 22 office properties in the New York City
   metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) aggregating approximately 14.4
   million square feet;

       (ii) a 34% limited partnership interest in Charles E. Smith Commercial
   Realty L.P. ("CESCR"), a limited partnership which owns and manages
   approximately 12.5 million square feet of office properties in  Northern
   Virginia and Washington, D.C., and manages an additional 5.8 million
   square feet of office and other commercial properties in the Washington,
   D.C. area;

Retail Properties ("Retail"):

       (iii) 55 shopping center properties in six states and Puerto Rico
   aggregating approximately 11.3 million square feet, including 1.4 million
   square feet built by tenants on land leased from the Company;

Merchandise Mart Properties:

       (iv) the Merchandise Mart Properties portfolio containing approximately
   8.1 million square feet, including the 3.4 million square foot Merchandise
   Mart in Chicago;

Temperature Controlled Logistics:

       (v) a 60% interest in partnerships that own 88 warehouse facilities
   nationwide with an aggregate of approximately 438.9 million cubic feet of
   refrigerated space leased to AmeriCold Logistics;

Other Real Estate Investments:

       (vi) 33.1% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander's, Inc.
   ("Alexander's");

       (vii) the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City consisting of a hotel
   portion containing 800,000 square feet with 1,700 rooms and a commercial
   portion containing 400,000 square feet of retail and office space;

       (viii) a 30% interest in the Newkirk joint ventures which own various
   equity and debt interests relating to 120 limited partnerships which own real
   estate, primarily office and retail, net leased to credit rated tenants;

       (ix) eight dry warehouse/industrial properties in New Jersey
   containing approximately 2.0 million square feet; and

       (x) other real estate investments.


                                      -3-

OBJECTIVES AND STRATEGY

    The Company's business objective is to maximize shareholder value. The
Company intends to achieve its business objective by continuing to pursue its
investment philosophy and executing its operating strategies through:

       -      Maintaining a superior team of operating and investment
              professionals and an entrepreneurial spirit;

       -      Investing in properties in the New York City metropolitan area and
              other selected markets where the Company believes there is high
              likelihood of capital appreciation;

       -      Acquiring high quality properties at a discount to replacement
              cost and where there is a significant potential for higher rents;

       -      Investing in retail properties in selected understored locations
              such as the New York City metropolitan area;

       -      Investing in fully integrated operating companies that have a
              significant real estate component with qualified, experienced
              operating management and strong growth potential which can benefit
              from the Company's access to efficient capital;

       -      Developing/redeveloping the Company's existing properties to
              increase returns and maximize value; and

       -      On occasion, providing specialty financing to real estate
              companies.

    The Company expects to finance its growth, acquisitions and investments
using internally generated funds, proceeds from possible asset sales and by
accessing the public and private capital markets.

ACQUISITIONS AND INVESTMENTS

    Since January 1, 2000, the Company completed approximately $404.1 million of
real estate acquisitions and investments. The following table lists the
acquisitions and investments by business segment (excluding the acquisitions of
the Temperature Controlled Logistics segment and CESCR which are described in
Item 2: Properties):





                                      -4-

OFFICE:

  7 West 34th Street

    On November 1, 2000 the Company acquired 7 West 34th Street, a 479,000
square foot Manhattan office building, for $128,000,000.

RETAIL:

  Vornado-Ceruzzi Joint Ventures

      In the first quarter of 2000, the Company and its joint venture partner
acquired 2 fee interests containing 210,000 square feet and 6 leasehold
interests containing 567,000 square feet in properties located in Pennsylvania,
Virginia, Maryland and Ohio formerly occupied by Hechinger, Inc., a home
improvement retailer which was liquidated. The purchase price was $27,425,000,
of which the Company's share was 80%.

MERCHANDISE MART:

  33 North Dearborn Street

    On September 21, 2000 the Company acquired 33 North Dearborn Street, a
321,000 square foot office building in Chicago for $35,000,000 of which
$19,000,000 was indebtedness.

  L.A. Mart

    On October 2, 2000, the Company acquired the 724,000 square foot L.A. Mart
in Los Angeles and its 9.3 acre site for $54,000,000, of which $10,000,000 was
indebtedness.

OTHER REAL ESTATE INVESTMENTS:

  Student Housing Joint Venture

    On January 28, 2000, the Company and its joint venture partner, acquired a
252-unit student housing complex in Gainesville, Florida, for $27,000,000, of
which $19,600,000 was indebtedness. The Company's share of this investment is
90%.

  Alexander's

    On March 31, 2000, the Company increased its ownership in Alexander's from
32% to 32.9% by acquiring 41,500 shares of Alexander's common stock for
$2,740,000. On April 11, 2000, the Company acquired an additional 10,400 shares
of Alexander's common stock for $674,000, thereby increasing its ownership
interest to 33.1%.

  Newkirk Joint Ventures

    During 2000, the Company completed acquisitions of additional equity
investments in certain limited partnerships for $10,526,000, including
$1,334,000 in cash and $9,192,000 in Operating Partnership units.


                                      -5-

  Loan to NorthStar Partnership L.P.

    On September 19, 2000, the Company acquired $75,000,000 of subordinated
unsecured debt of NorthStar Partnership L.P. ("NorthStar"), a private real
estate company, for $65,000,000. The loan bears interest at 11.5% per annum,
requires quarterly principal payments of $2,500,000 and matures in May 2002. The
effective yield on the loan is approximately 22% including the amortization of
the discount. During the third quarter of 2000, NorthStar filed suit against the
Company seeking to enjoin Vornado from taking any action with respect to the
debt, to rescind the Company's acquisition of the debt and for damages. In the
opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, NorthStar's suit
is without merit and the Company intends to vigorously defend against it. On
January 19, 2001, the Company agreed to withdraw its motion to dismiss
NorthStar's complaint without prejudice and NorthStar agreed to take no action
in the proceeding until after providing written notice that NorthStar wishes to
recommence proceedings in the action. If NorthStar does not give such notice by
April 2, 2001, its complaint will be dismissed without prejudice.

  Loan to Primestone Investment Partners, L.P.

    On September 28, 2000, the Company made a $62,000,000 subordinated loan to
Primestone Investment Partners, L.P. secured by partnership units in Prime Group
Realty LP, the operating partnership of Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE). The
Company has received a 1% upfront fee and will be entitled to receive certain
other fees aggregating approximately 3% upon repayment of the loan. The debt
bears interest at 16% per annum and matures on October 26, 2001 with an eleven
month extension option. The effective yield on the loan is approximately 20%
including the fees.

  World Trade Center

    On February 22, 2001, the Company entered into a 20-day exclusive
negotiation period with the Port Authority of NY & NJ to complete the contract
and associated documents for the net lease of the 11 million square foot World
Trade Center complex in New York. The 99-year net lease of the World Trade
Center has been valued by the Port Authority's advisors at approximately $3.25
billion. The Board of the Commissioners of the Port Authority has instructed
their staff and advisors to present the final contract for approval at a special
Port Authority Board meeting scheduled for March 14, 2001. In connection
therewith, the Company has provided the Port Authority with a $100 million
refundable and non-drawable letter of credit.

DISPOSITIONS

    The Company sold (i) its three shopping centers located in Texas on March 2,
2000 for $25,750,000, resulting in a gain of $2,560,000, and (ii) its Westport,
Connecticut office property on August 30, 2000 for $24,000,000, resulting in a
gain of $8,405,000. In addition, the Company entered into an agreement on
February 1, 2001 to sell its 50% interest in 570 Lexington Avenue, a New York
City office property, for approximately $60,000,000, which will result in a gain
of approximately $9,000,000. The sale is expected to be completed in the third
quarter of 2001 subject to customary closing conditions.


                                      -6-

DEVELOPMENT AND REDEVELOPMENT PROJECTS

    The following table sets forth certain information for
development/redevelopment projects:




    The above table does not include the capital requirements of Alexander's,
Temperature Controlled Logistics and CESCR which are described in Item II:
Properties.

    In addition to the projects noted above, the Company has identified the
following opportunities for future development or redevelopment: (i) the
redevelopment of the former Bradlees retail site at 14th Street and Union Square
to include a combination of office and retail space, (ii) the refurbishment of
the Hotel Pennsylvania to include the redevelopment of existing retail space,
(iii) the construction of an office tower in excess of 1,000,000 square feet at
20 Times Square (70% interest), (iv) the redevelopment of office space at 640
Fifth Avenue, and (v) the redevelopment of retail space at 34th Street and
Eighth Avenue.

    There can be no assurance that the above projects will be commenced or will
be successful.


                                      -7-

OPERATIONS OF VORNADO OPERATING COMPANY

    In October 1998, Vornado Operating Company ("Vornado Operating") was spun
off from the Company in order to own assets that the Company could not itself
own and conduct activities that the Company could not itself conduct.

    The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to certain agreements
described below.

  Revolving Credit Agreement

    Vornado Operating was granted a $75,000,000 unsecured revolving credit
facility from the Company (the "Revolving Credit Agreement") which expires on
December 31, 2004. Borrowings under the Revolving Credit Agreement bear interest
at LIBOR plus 3%. The Company receives a commitment fee equal to 1% per annum on
the average daily unused portion of the facility. No amortization is required to
be paid under the Revolving Credit Agreement during its term. The Revolving
Credit Agreement prohibits Vornado Operating from incurring indebtedness to
third parties (other than certain purchase money debt and certain other
exceptions) and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying dividends. As of
December 31, 2000, $19,782,000 was outstanding under the Revolving Credit
Agreement.

  Agreement with Vornado Operating

    The Company and Vornado Operating are parties to an Agreement pursuant to
which, among other things, (a) the Company will under certain circumstances
offer Vornado Operating an opportunity to become the lessee of certain real
property owned now or in the future by the Company (under mutually satisfactory
lease terms) and (b) Vornado Operating will not make any real estate investment
or other REIT-Qualified Investment unless it first offers the Company the
opportunity to make such investment and the Company has rejected that
opportunity.

    Under the Agreement, the Company provides Vornado Operating with certain
administrative, corporate, accounting, financial, insurance, legal, tax, data
processing, human resources and operational services. For these services,
Vornado Operating compensates the Company in an amount determined in good faith
by the Company as the amount an unaffiliated third party would charge Vornado
Operating for comparable services and reimburses the Company for certain costs
incurred and paid to third parties on behalf of Vornado Operating. Pursuant to
the Agreement, compensation for such services was approximately $330,000 for the
years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999.

    Vornado Operating and the Company each have the right to terminate the
Agreement if the other party is in material default of the Agreement or upon 90
days written notice to the other party at any time after December 31, 2003. In
addition, the Company has the right to terminate the Agreement upon a change in
control of Vornado Operating.

  Vornado Operating's Management

    Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, West and Wight are directors of Vornado
Operating.  Mr. Roth is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive
Officer of Vornado Operating, Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Vornado
Operating, and certain other members of the Company's senior management hold
corresponding positions with Vornado Operating.

  Temperature Controlled Logistics Business

    On March 11, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of Temperature Controlled Logistics encompassing the
operations of the temperature controlled business for approximately $48,700,000
to a new partnership owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent
Operating Inc. ("AmeriCold Logistics"). AmeriCold Logistics leases the
underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in this business from the
Vornado/Crescent Partnerships ("the Landlord") which continue to own the real
estate. The leases, as amended, generally have a 15 year term with two-five year
renewal options and provide for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage
rent based on revenue AmeriCold Logistics receives from its customers. AmeriCold
is also required to pay for all costs arising from the operation, maintenance
and repair of the properties as well as property capital expenditures in excess
of $5,000,000 annually. AmeriCold Logistics has the right to defer a portion of
the rent for up to three years beginning on March 11, 1999 to the extent that
available cash, as defined in the leases, is insufficient to pay such rent.


                                      -8-

    Total contractual rent was $160,494,000 and $130,213,000 ($164,464,000 and
$133,100,000 including the effect of the straight-lining of rents) for the year
ended December 31, 2000 and the period from March 11, 1999 to December 31, 1999.
As at December 31, 2000, the balance of the tenant's deferred rent was
$22,444,000(1) ($17,044,000(1) in 2000 and $5,400,000 in the fourth quarter of
1999) of which the Company's share was $13,466,000. Based on the Company's
policy of recognizing rental income when earned and collection is assured or
cash is received, the Company did not recognize $9,780,000 of income in the year
ended December 31, 2000.

    On February 22, 2001, the Landlord restructured the AmeriCold Logistics
leases to, among other things, (i) reduce 2001's contractual rent to
$146,000,000 (the same amount recognized as rental income in 2000's Funds from
Operations), (ii) reduce 2002's contractual rent to $150,000,000 (plus
contingent rent in certain circumstances), (iii) increase the Landlord's share
of annual maintenance capital expenditures by $4,500,000 to $9,500,000 effective
January 1, 2000 and (iv) extend the deferred rent period to December 31, 2003
from March 11, 2002.

FINANCING ACTIVITIES

    During 2000, the Company sold an aggregate of $210,000,000 of Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Units resulting in net proceeds of approximately
$204,750,000.

    On March 1, 2000, the Company completed a $500,000,000 private placement of
10-year, 7.93% mortgage notes, cross-collateralized by 42 shopping center
properties, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $490,000,000. In
connection therewith, the Company repaid $228,000,000 of existing mortgage debt
scheduled to mature on December 1, 2000 and $262,000,000 outstanding under its
revolving credit facility.

    On March 21, 2000, the Company renewed its $1,000,000,000 revolving credit
facility for an additional three years. The covenants of the facility include,
among others, maximum loan to value ratio, minimum debt service coverage and
minimum capitalization requirements. Interest is at LIBOR plus .90% (7.66% at
December 31, 2000). The Company paid origination fees of $6,700,000 and pays a
commitment fee quarterly of .20% per annum on the facility amount. As of
December 31, 2000, $425 million was outstanding under the revolver.

    In addition, the Company completed property level refinancings of
$90,000,000 in 2000 and $105,000,000 in 2001.

    Further detail of the Company's financing activities are disclosed in
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations in Part II of this document.

    At December 31, 2000, the ratio of debt-to-enterprise value (market equity
value plus debt less cash) was 43% based on debt of $3.8 billion which included
the Company's proportionate share of debt of partially-owned entities. In the
future, in connection with its strategy for growth, this percentage may change.
The Company's policy concerning the incurrence of debt may be reviewed and
modified from time to time by the Company without the vote of shareholders.

    The Company may seek to obtain funds through equity offerings, debt
financings or asset sales, although there is no express policy with respect
thereto. The Company may offer its shares or Operating Partnership units in
exchange for property and may repurchase or otherwise re-acquire its shares or
any other securities in the future.


- ------------

(1)    An additional $1,956,000 applicable to the receivable arising from the
       straight-lining of rents was also deferred in the year ended December 31,
       2000.


                                      -9-

EBITDA BY SEGMENT AND REGION

    The following table sets forth the percentage of the Company's EBITDA(1) by
segment and region for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998.



      ------------------

       (1)    EBITDA represents income before interest, taxes, depreciation and
              amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or
              losses on sales of real estate, the effect of straight-lining of
              property rentals for rent escalations and minority interest.
              Management considers EBITDA a supplemental measure for making
              decisions and assessing the performance of its segments. EBITDA
              may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by
              other companies.

       (2)    Other includes the Temperature Controlled Logistics segment which
              has facilities in 33 states and Alberta, Canada. See page 36 for
              details.


                                      -10-

RELATIONSHIP WITH ALEXANDER'S

      The Company owns 33.1% of the outstanding shares of common stock of
Alexander's. See "Interstate Properties" below for a description of Interstate's
ownership of the Company and Alexander's.

      Alexander's has seven properties (see Item 2. Properties--Alexander's).

      At December 31, 2000, the Company has loans receivable from Alexander's of
$115,000,000, including $20,000,000 drawn under the $50,000,000 line of credit
the Company granted to Alexander's on August 1, 2000. The terms of the line of
credit are the same as Alexander's original $95,000,000 loan from the Company,
including the interest rate of 15.72%. The maturity date of the original
$95,000,000 loan has been extended to March 15, 2002, which is also the maturity
date of the new line of credit. The interest rate on the loan and line of credit
will reset on March 15, 2001, using the same spread to treasuries as presently
exists.

      The Company manages, develops and leases the Alexander's properties under
a management and development agreement (the "Management Agreement") and a
leasing agreement (the "Leasing Agreement") pursuant to which the Company
receives annual fees from Alexander's. These agreements have a one-year term
expiring in March of each year and are automatically renewable. See Item 2.
Properties for a description of Alexander's Development and Redevelopment
projects.

      Alexander's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol "ALX".

INTERSTATE PROPERTIES

      As of December 31, 2000, Interstate Properties and its partners owned
approximately 17.7% of the common shares of beneficial interest of the Company,
27.5% of Alexander's common stock and beneficial ownership of 17.7% of Vornado
Operating. Interstate Properties is a general partnership in which Steven Roth,
David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are partners. Mr. Roth is the
Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Managing
General Partner of Interstate Properties, and the Chief Executive Officer and a
director of both Alexander's and Vornado Operating. Mr. Wight is a trustee of
the Company and is also a director of both Alexander's and Vornado Operating.
Mr. Mandelbaum is a trustee of the Company and is also a director of
Alexander's.

COMPETITION

      The Company's four business segments, Office, Retail, Merchandise Mart
Properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics, operate in highly competitive
environments. The Company's success depends upon, among other factors, the
trends of the national and local economies, the financial condition and
operating results of current and prospective tenants and customers, the
availability and cost of capital, construction and renovation costs, income tax
laws, governmental regulations, legislation and population trends. The Company
competes with a large number of real estate property owners and developers.
Principal factors of competition are rent charged, attractiveness of property
and the quality and breadth of services provided. The Company has a large
concentration of properties in the New York City metropolitan area, a highly
competitive market. The economic condition of this market may be significantly
influenced by supply and demand for space and the financial performance and
productivity of the publishing, retail, pharmaceutical, insurance and finance
industries.

ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

      The Company's properties are subject to a variety of environmental laws
and regulations in each of the jurisdictions in which it operates governing,
among other things, soil and groundwater contamination, the use, handling and
disposal of hazardous substances, air emissions, wastewater discharges, and
employee health and safety. Under various Federal and state laws and
regulations, a current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be
required to investigate and clean up hazardous substances released at a
property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties
for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up
costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws
can impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of, or
caused, the release of such substances. The presence of contamination or the
failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the owner's ability to
sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate as collateral.
Other Federal, state and local laws and regulations require abatement or removal
of asbestos-containing materials that are damaged, decayed or distributed by
demolition, or renovation or remodeling. The laws also govern emissions of and
exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. Air emissions and waste-water discharges
and the operation and subsequent removal of underground storage tanks are also
regulated by Federal and state laws. In connection with the ownership, operation
and management of its properties, the Company could be held liable for the costs
of remedial action with respect to such regulated substances and tanks and
related claims for personal injury, property damage or fines.


                                      -11-

      Each of the Company's properties has been subjected to varying degrees of
environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did not
reveal any material environmental condition. However, there can be no assurance
that the identification of new compliance concerns or undiscovered areas of
contamination, changes in the extent or known scope of contamination, the
discovery of additional sites, or changes in cleanup or compliance requirements
would not result in significant costs to the Company.

INSURANCE

      The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended
coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to its properties with policy
specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties.
Management of the Company believes that the Company's insurance coverage
conforms to industry norms.

CERTAIN ACTIVITIES

      Acquisitions and investments are not necessarily required to be based on
specific allocation by type of property. The Company has historically held its
properties for long-term investment; however, it is possible that properties in
the portfolio may be sold in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, from
time to time. Further, the Company has not adopted a policy that limits the
amount or percentage of assets which would be invested in a specific property.
While the Company may seek the vote of its shareholders in connection with any
particular material transaction, generally the Company's activities are reviewed
and may be modified from time to time by its Board of Trustees without the vote
of shareholders.

EMPLOYEES

      The Company has approximately 1,300 employees consisting of 90 in the
Office Properties segment, 37 in the Retail Properties segment, 520 in the
Merchandise Mart Properties segment, 505 at the Hotel Pennsylvania and 148
corporate staff. This does not include employees of partially-owned entities.

SEGMENT DATA

      The Company operates in four business segments: Office Properties, Retail
Properties, Merchandise Mart Properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics.
The Company engages in no foreign operations other than one temperature
controlled warehouse in Canada.

      The Company's principal executive offices are located at 888 Seventh
Avenue, New York, New York 10019; telephone (212) 894-7000.

ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES

      The Company currently owns, directly or indirectly, Office properties,
Retail properties, Merchandise Mart properties and Temperature Controlled
Logistics refrigerated warehouses. The Company also owns or has investments in
Alexander's, Hotel Pennsylvania, Newkirk Joint Ventures, and dry warehouses and
industrial buildings.


                                      -12-

OFFICE

The office properties currently consist of (i) all or a portion of 22 office
buildings in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan)
aggregating approximately 14.4 million square feet (collectively, the "New York
City Office Properties") and (ii) a 34% interest in Charles E. Smith Commercial
Realty, L.P. which owns interests in and manages approximately 12.5 million
square feet of office properties in Northern Virginia and Washington, D.C. (the
"CESCR Office Properties").

      The following data on pages 13 to 18 covers the New York City Office
Properties. The CESCR Office Properties are described on pages 19 to 22.

New York City Office Properties:

      The New York City Office Properties contain: (i) 13,215,000 square feet of
office space, (ii) 844,000 square feet of retail space and (iii) 336,000 square
feet of garage space (5 garages).

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the New York City Office
Properties revenue by tenants' industry:




      The Company's New York City Office property lease terms range from 5 to 7
years for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 20 years for major tenants. Leases
typically provide for step-ups in rent periodically over the term of the lease
and pass through to tenants the tenant's share of increases in real estate taxes
and operating expenses over a base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a
submetered basis or included in rent based on surveys and adjusted for
subsequent utility rate increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant
improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction
costs of its premises.

      The Company's new PowerSpace flexible shared office space business was
launched in September 2000. Offices range in size from 80 to 1,200 square feet.
Lease terms range from one month to a year. The PowerSpace product line includes
individual offices, group rooms and multi-room suites. Operations commenced in
November 2000 at 330 Madison Avenue, with 75,000 square feet. Operations are
expected to commence at 770 Broadway and 909 Third Avenue in the first half of
2001. Agreements provide for base rent and billings for ancillary services, such
as telephones, internet access, conference room access and other office
equipment and supplies.


                                      -13-

      No tenant in the office segment accounted for more than 10% of the
Company's total revenue. Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or
more of the New York City Office Properties revenues in 2000:

(in thousands, except percentages)



      The following table sets forth lease expirations for the New York Office
property leases for each of the next 10 years, as of December 31, 2000, assuming
that none of the tenants exercise their renewal options.




(1)   Includes 492,000 square feet at 909 Third Avenue leased to the U.S. Post
      Office. The annual escalated rent is $3,216,000 or $6.53 per square foot.
      The U.S. Post Office has 7 five-year renewal options remaining.

      As of February 1, 2001, the occupancy rate of the Company's New York City
Office properties was 96%. The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
the average annual escalated rent per square foot for the New York City Office
properties at the end of each of the past three years.




                                      -14-

      In 2000, 1,533,268 square feet of New York City office space was leased at
a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $46.38. The Company's
ownership interest in the leased square footage is 1,407,333 square feet at a
weighted average initial rent per square foot of $45.91, a 50.3% increase over
the weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $30.54 for the expiring
leases. Following is the detail by building:



(1)   Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in
      the initial rent per square foot leased.

      In addition to the office space noted above, the Company leased 37,000
square feet of retail space, primarily below grade, at $48.64 per square foot.

      During 1999 and 2000, the Company granted non-exclusive rights to six
companies to install fiber-optic networks and to provide broadband data, video
and voice communications services in its office buildings in return for a share
of revenues and warrants to purchase common stock. The Company has invested
approximately $23.2 million in these entities, representing interests in each
entity of less than 3%.


                                      -15-


New York City Office Properties

      The following table sets forth certain information for the New York City
Office Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2000.







                                      -16-









                                      -17-











(1)   Represents annualized monthly base rent for tenants excluding rent for
      leases which had not commenced as of December 31, 2000, which are included
      in percent leased.

(2)   Represents annualized monthly escalated rent for tenants including tenant
      pass-throughs of operating expenses (exclusive of tenant electricity
      costs) and real estate taxes.

(3)   100% ground leased property.

(4)   The U.S. Post Office leases approximately 492,000 square feet at this
      location at annualized escalated rent per square foot of $6.53.

(5)   The Company occupies 34,000 square feet in 888 Seventh Avenue for its
      principal Executive offices and New York City Office operations and 47,000
      square feet in Paramus for its accounting and administrative departments
      and Retail real estate operations.


                                      -18-



CESCR Office Properties:

      CESCR owns 50 office buildings in the Northern Virginia and Washington
D.C. area containing 12.5 million square feet. The Company owns a 34% interest
in CESCR. As of December 31, 2000, 42.5 percent of CESCR's property portfolio
was leased to various agencies of the U.S. government (General Services
Administration "GSA" lessee); the largest U.S. government agencies include the
U.S. Patent Trade Office (1.93 million square feet in 17 buildings), the U.S.
Social Security Administration (283,000 square feet in one building) and the
U.S. Navy Sea Systems Command (271,000 square feet in 7 buildings). One
additional tenant, US Airways, Inc. occupied 317,000 square feet in one
building. As of December 31, 2000, no other tenants occupied more than 2% of
CESCR's office properties.

      During 2000, CESCR acquired 5 properties containing 1,838,000 square feet
in 11 buildings for a total cost of $367 million. In addition, CESCR is
constructing a 398,000 square foot office building in its existing Skyline Place
Complex for the GSA at an estimated cost of $68,000,000 of which $42,000,000 has
been expended as of December 31, 2000.

      CESCR office leases are typically for 3 to 5 year terms, and may provide
for extension options at prenegotiated rates. Most leases provide for annual
rental escalations throughout the lease term, plus recovery of increases in real
estate taxes and certain property operating expenses. Annual rental escalations
are typically based upon either fixed percentage increases or the consumer price
index. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances for all
or a portion of the tenant's initial construction costs of its premises.

      The following table sets forth the percentage of CESCR's office property
revenues by tenants' industry:




      Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the CESCR
Office properties revenues:





                                      -19-



      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2000 CESCR lease
expirations for each of the next 10 years, assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.



      Of the square feet expiring in 2001, 2,721,000 square feet has been
renewed or is currently in negotiations to be renewed.

      Included in the above table are 30 U.S. Patent Trade Office leases,
expiring from 2001 through 2005 as follows: 683,000 square feet in 2001, 79,000
square feet in 2002, 206,000 square feet in 2003, 953,000 square feet in 2004
and 12,000 square feet in 2005. The U.S. Patent Trade Office is scheduled to
relocate their offices in the second half of 2004. CESCR expects that all leases
expiring prior to 2004 will be extended or renewed to that date.

      As of February 1, 2001, the occupancy rate of the CESCR office portfolio
was 98%. The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average
annual escalated rent per square foot for the CESCR properties:




                                      -20-



      During 2000, CESCR leased 2,729,000 square feet (space previously
occupied) at an average initial rent per square foot of $29.39, a 13% increase
over the weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $25.97 for the
expiring leases. The following is the detail by property.




      CESCR manages an additional 5.8 million square feet of office and other
commercial properties in the Washington, D.C. area for third parties.


                                      -21-

CESCR Office Properties

      The following table sets forth certain information for the CESCR Office
Properties (in which the Company has a 34% interest), as of December 31, 2000.






NOTES:
(1) Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding rent for leases which had
    not commenced as of December 31, 2000, which are included in percent leased.

(2) Represents annualized monthly escalated rent for office properties including
    tenant pass-throughs of operating expenses (exclusive of tenant electricity
    costs) and real estate taxes.

                                      -22-

RETAIL

      The Company owns 55 shopping center properties of which 52 are strip
shopping centers primarily located in the Northeast and Midatlantic states, two
are regional centers located in San Juan, Puerto Rico and one, the Green Acres
Mall, is a super-regional center located in Nassau County, Long Island, New
York. The Company's shopping centers are generally located on major regional
highways in mature, densely populated areas. The Company believes its shopping
centers attract consumers from a regional, rather than a neighborhood market
place because of their location on regional highways.

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Retail Portfolio
rentals by tenants' industry:



      As of February 1, 2001, the occupancy rate of the retail properties was
93%. The following tables set forth the occupancy rate and the average annual
base rent per square foot (excluding the Green Acres Mall) for the properties at
the end of each of the past five years.



      The average annual base rent per square foot for the Green Acres Mall was
$13.97 and $13.46 in total, and $35.91 and $35.29 for mall tenants only, at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, respectively.

      The Company's shopping center lease terms range from 5 years or less in
some instances, for smaller tenant spaces to as long as 25 years for major
tenants. Leases generally provide for additional rents based on a percentage of
tenants' sales and pass through to tenants of the tenants' share of all common
area charges (including roof and structure in strip shopping centers, unless it
is the tenant's direct responsibility), real estate taxes and insurance costs
and certain capital expenditures. Percentage rent accounted for less than 2% of
total shopping center revenues in 2000. None of the tenants in the Retail
Segment accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total revenues.


                                      -23-

      Below is a listing of tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the Retail
property revenues in 2000:



      Bradlees filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code
on December 26, 2000 and closed all of its stores in February 2001. The Company
leases 16 locations to Bradlees. Of these 16 locations, the leases for 14 are
fully guaranteed, and the fifteenth lease is guaranteed as to 70% of the rent,
by Stop & Shop Companies, Inc., under a Master Agreement and Guaranty, dated May
1, 1992. Stop & Shop is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Koninklijke Ahold NV
(formerly Royal Ahold NV), a leading international food retailer. The
effectiveness of Stop & Shop's guarantee to Vornado of Bradlees' lease
obligations is not affected by Bradlees' bankruptcy. None of these leases have
been either rejected or assumed.

      The 16th location, the 14th Street and Union Square property is not
guaranteed. In 1999, the Company paid Bradlees $11,000,000 to modify the terms
of this lease to increase the rent by approximately $1,100,000 per annum to
$4,600,000 effective March 2000, and to change the lease expiration date from
October 2019 to March 15, 2002. On February 9, 2001, Bradlees rejected this
lease. The Company is currently considering various redevelopment alternatives
for this site which will include a combination of office and retail space.

      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2000 lease expirations
for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their
renewal options.



                                      -24-

      In 2000, approximately 350,000 square feet of retail space was leased at a
weighted average base rent per square foot of $14.73, a 12.9% increase over the
weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $13.05 for the expiring
leases. Following is the detail by property:



- ----------
(1) Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in
    the initial rent per square foot leased.
(2) The land in Rochester (pending site plan approval) and in Newington is
    leased to Wal*Mart and the land in Lancaster is leased to Lowes Home
    Centers.

      The Company's strip shopping centers are substantially (over 80%) leased
to large stores (over 20,000 square feet). Tenants include destination retailers
such as discount department stores, supermarkets, home improvements stores,
discount apparel stores, membership warehouse clubs and "category killers."
Category killers are large stores which offer a complete selection of a category
of items (e.g., toys, office supplies, etc.) at low prices, often in a warehouse
format. Tenants typically offer basic consumer necessities such as food, health
and beauty aids, moderately priced clothing, building materials and home
improvement supplies, and compete primarily on the basis of price.

      The Company's two regional shopping centers located in Montehiedra and
Caguas, Puerto Rico, (both of which are in the San Juan area) contain 1,014,000
square feet of which the Company owns 727,000 square feet. The centers are
anchored by four major stores: Sears, Roebuck and Co., Kmart (one in each of the
centers) and a Builders Square Home Improvement store.

      The Green Acres Mall is a 1.6 million square foot super-regional enclosed
shopping mall complex situated in Nassau County, Long Island, New York,
approximately one mile east of the borough of Queens, New York. The Green Acres
Mall is anchored by four major department stores: Sears, Roebuck and Co., J.C.
Penney Company, Inc. and Federated Department Stores, Inc. doing business as
Macy's and Stern's (on February 8, 2001, Sterns announced they are closing this
store). The complex also includes The Plaza at Green Acres, a 188,000 square
foot strip shopping center which is anchored by Kmart and Waldbaums.


                                      -25-

Retail Properties

      The following table sets forth certain information for the Retail
Properties as of December 31, 2000.






                                      -26-






                                      -27-






                                      -28-






                                      -29-





- ----------
(1) Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding ground leases, storage
    rent and rent for leases which had not commenced as of December 31, 2000,
    which are included in percent leased.
(2) These leases are fully guaranteed by Stop & Shop, a wholly-owned subsidiary
    of Korinklijke Ahold NV (formerly Royal Ahold NV), except in the case of
    Totowa, which is guaranteed as to 70% of rent.
(3) 100% ground and/or building leasehold interest; other than Green Acres,
    where approximately 10% of the ground is leased.
(4) The tenant has ceased operations at this location but continues to pay rent
    (in Allentown, Hechinger's mortgagee has assumed the lease).
(5) Annualized rent per square foot is $13.97 in total and $35.91 for the mall
    tenants only.
(6) These tenants have leased land from the Company to construct their own
    buildings. Governmental approvals have been received in Newington and
    Lancaster and construction has commenced.
(7) These encumbrances are part of a cross-collateralized mortgage financing in
    the amount of $500,000,000 completed on March 1, 2000.




                                      -30-

MERCHANDISE MART PROPERTIES

         The Merchandise Mart Properties are a portfolio of 9 properties
comprised of:



      Of these properties, the 724,000 square foot L.A. Mart in Los Angeles and
the 321,000 square foot 33 North Dearborn Street office property in Chicago were
acquired in 2000 for a total cost of $89,000,000.

   Office Space

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart
Properties office revenues by tenants' industry:




      The average lease term ranges from 1 to 5 years for smaller tenants to as
long as 15 years for major tenants. Leases typically provide for step-ups in
rent periodically over the term of the lease and pass through to tenants the
tenants' share of increases in real estate taxes and operating expenses for a
building over a base year. Electricity is provided to tenants on a submetered
basis or included in rent based on surveys and adjusted for subsequent utility
rate increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant improvement allowances
for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction of its premises. None
of the tenants in the Merchandise Mart Properties segment accounted for more
than 10% of the Company's total revenue. Below is a listing of the Merchandise
Mart Properties office tenants which accounted for 2% or more of the Merchandise
Mart Properties' revenues in 2000:




                                      -31-

      As of February 1, 2001, the occupancy rate of the Merchandise Mart
Properties' office space was 91%. The following table sets forth the occupancy
rate and the average escalated rent per square foot for the Merchandise Mart
Properties' office space at the end of each of the past five years.




      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2000 office lease
expirations for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.




      In 2000, 378,000 square feet of office space was leased at a weighted
average initial rent per square foot of $30.54, an increase of 32.8% over the
weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $22.99 for the leases
expiring. Following is the detail by building.



         (1) Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not
reflected in the initial rent per square foot leased.


                                      -32-

   Showroom Space

      The Merchandise Mart Properties' showroom space aggregates 5,044,000
square feet of which 2,419,000 square feet is located in the Merchandise Mart
building and 350 North Orleans in Chicago, 1,572,000 square feet is located in
the Market Square Complex (including the National Furniture Mart) in High Point,
North Carolina, 329,000 square feet is located in the Design Center in
Washington, D.C. and 724,000 square feet is located in the L.A. Mart in Los
Angeles (acquired on October 2, 2000). The showroom space consists of 3,364,000
square feet of permanent mart space (leased to manufacturers and distributors
whose clients are retailers, specifiers and end users), 949,000 square feet of
permanent design center space (leased to wholesalers whose principal clientele
is interior designers), and 731,000 square feet of temporary market suite space
(used for trade shows).

      The showrooms provide manufacturers and wholesalers with permanent and
temporary space in which to display products for buyers, specifiers and end
users. The showrooms are also used for hosting trade shows for the contract
furniture, casual furniture, giftware, carpet, residential furnishings, crafts,
and design industries. The Merchandise Mart Properties own and operate five of
the leading furniture/gift-ware trade shows including the contract furniture
industry's largest trade show, NeoCon, which attracts over 50,000 attendees
annually and is hosted at the Merchandise Mart building in Chicago. The Market
Square Complex co-hosts the home furniture industry's semi-annual market weeks
which occupy over 8,800,000 square feet in the High Point, North Carolina
region.

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart
properties showroom revenues by tenants' industry:




      As of February 1, 2001 the occupancy rate of the Merchandise Mart
Properties' showroom space was 98%. The following table sets forth the occupancy
rate and the average escalated rent per square foot for this space at the end of
each of the past five years.




(1)  Average annual escalated rent per square foot excluding the Market Square
     Complex is $27.76, $25.72 and $22.13 for 2000, 1999 and 1998 respectively.


                                      -33-

      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 2000 showroom lease
expirations for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.





      In 2000, 819,000 square feet of showroom space was leased at a weighted
average initial rent per square foot of $16.61, a 4.4% increase over the
weighted average escalated rent per square foot of $15.91 for the leases
expiring. Following is the detail by building.





(1)  Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent which are not reflected in
     the initial rent per square foot leased.

   Retail Stores

      The Merchandise Mart Properties' portfolio also contains approximately
173,000 square feet of retail stores which were 87% occupied at February 1,
2000.


                                      -34-

MERCHANDISE MART PROPERTIES:

      The following table sets forth certain information for the Merchandise
Mart Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 2000.







(1)  Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding rent for leases which had
     not commenced as of December 31, 2000, which are included in percent
     leased.

(2)  Represents annualized monthly base rent including tenant pass-throughs of
     operating expenses (exclusive of tenant electricity costs) and real estate
     taxes.


TEMPERATURE CONTROLLED LOGISTICS

      The Company has a 60% interest in the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships ("the
Landlord") that own 88 refrigerated warehouses with an aggregate of
approximately 438.9 million cubic feet (excludes 11 additional warehouses
containing approximately 79.4 million cubic feet managed by AmeriCold
Logistics). AmeriCold Logistics leases all of the partnerships' facilities. The
Temperature Controlled Logistics segment is headquartered in Atlanta, Georgia.

      On March 11, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of Temperature Controlled Logistics encompassing the
operations of the temperature controlled business for approximately $48,700,000
to a new partnership owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent
Operating Inc. ("AmeriCold Logistics"). AmeriCold Logistics leases the
underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in this business from the
Vornado/Crescent Partnerships which continue to own the real estate. The leases,
as amended, generally have a 15 year term with two-five year renewal options and
provide for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage rent based on revenue
AmeriCold Logistics receives from its customers. AmeriCold is also required to
pay for all costs arising from the operation, maintenance and repair of the
properties as well as property capital expenditures in excess of $5,000,000
annually. AmeriCold Logistics has the right to defer a portion of the rent for
up to three years beginning on March 11, 1999 to the extent that available cash,
as defined in the leases, is insufficient to pay such rent.

      Total contractual rent was $160,494,000 and $130,213,000 ($164,464,000 and
$133,100,000 including the effect of the straight-lining of rents) for the year
ended December 31, 2000 and the period from March 11, 1999 to December 31, 1999.
As at December 31, 2000, the balance of the tenant's deferred rent was
$22,444,000 ($17,044,000 in 2000 and $5,400,000 in the fourth quarter of 1999)
of which the Company's share was $13,466,000. Based on the Company's policy of
recognizing rental income when earned and collection is assured or cash is
received, the Company did not recognize $9,780,000 of income in the year ended
December 31, 2000.

      On February 22, 2001, the Landlord restructured the AmeriCold Logistics
leases to, among other things, (i) reduce 2001's contractual rent to
$146,000,000 (the same amount recognized as rental income in 2000's Funds from
Operations), (ii) reduce 2002's contractual rent to $150,000,000 (plus
contingent rent in certain circumstances), (iii) increase the Landlord's share
of annual maintenance capital expenditures by $4,500,000 to $9,500,000 effective
January 1, 2000 and (iv) extend the deferred rent period to December 31, 2003
from March 11, 2002.

      During 2000, the Landlord (i) completed a 496,000 square foot warehouse
expansion in Carthage, Missouri, and a 43,400 square foot warehouse expansion in
Tarboro, North Carolina, (ii) constructed a 163,000 square foot warehouse in
Massillon, Ohio and (iii) purchased a 55,900 square foot warehouse in Ontario,
California, previously subject to a capital lease. The total cost of these
projects was $42,722,000, of which the remaining balance of $21,764,000 was
expended in 2000. In addition, the Landlord is constructing a 125,000 square
foot warehouse at its Atlanta, Georgia complex and has entered into an agreement
to acquire the original 104,000 square foot warehouse in Tarboro, North
Carolina, which is subject to a capital lease. These transactions are expected
to be completed in the first half of 2001 at a total cost of $25,174,000, of
which $3,881,000 has been expended through December 31, 2000.

      AmeriCold Logistics provides the frozen food industry with refrigerated
warehousing and transportation management services. Refrigerated warehouses are
comprised of production and distribution facilities. Production facilities
typically serve one or a small number of customers, generally food processors,
located nearby. These customers store large quantities of processed or partially
processed products in the facility until they are shipped to the next stage of
production or distribution. Distribution facilities primarily warehouse a wide
variety of customers' finished products until future shipment to end-users. Each
distribution facility generally services the surrounding regional market.
AmeriCold Logistics' transportation management services include freight routing,
dispatching, freight rate negotiation, backhaul coordination, freight bill
auditing, network flow management, order consolidation and distribution channel
assessment. AmeriCold Logistics' temperature-controlled logistics expertise and
access to both frozen food warehouses and distribution channels enable its
customers to respond quickly and efficiently to time-sensitive orders from
distributors and retailers.

      AmeriCold Logistics' customers consist primarily of national, regional and
local frozen food manufacturers, distributors, retailers and food service
organizations. A breakdown of AmeriCold Logistics' largest customers include:




Facilities

The following is a summary of Temperature Controlled Logistics facilities as of
December 31, 2000:



         Below are the details by location, size and type of facility:



                                      -37-



                                      -38-



                                      -39-



                                      -40-




         *      New facility in 2000


                                      -41-

ALEXANDER'S PROPERTIES

           The Company owns 33.1% of Alexander's outstanding common shares. The
following table shows as of December 31, 2000 the location, approximate size and
leasing status of each of the properties owned by Alexander's, excluding the
Fordham Road property which was sold on January 12, 2001.



(1)      Excludes parking garages.

(2)      Excludes 339,000 square foot Macy's store, owned and operated by
         Federated Department Stores, Inc.

(3)      Leased by the Company through January 2027.

(4)      Governmental approvals have been obtained to develop a shopping center
         at this site containing approximately 550,000 square feet.

                                      -42-

Kings Plaza Regional Shopping Center:

           Alexander's has completed a renovation of the Mall in connection with
the overall renovation of the Center at an estimated cost of $33,000,000, of
which $27,893,000 has been expended as of December 31, 2000. The remainder of
the Center renovation (the exterior) is expected to be completed in 2001.

59th Street and Lexington Avenue:

           Alexander's has completed the excavation and laying the foundation
for its Lexington Avenue property as part of the proposed development of a large
multi-use building. The proposed building is expected to be comprised of a
commercial portion, which may include retail stores, offices, hotel space,
extended-stay residences, residential rentals and parking; and a residential
portion, consisting of condominium units. The capital required for the proposed
building will be in excess of $650,000,000.

           If the residential portion of the property is developed, the air
rights representing the residential portion would be transferred to a taxable
REIT subsidiary, as a REIT is not permitted to sell condominiums without being
subject to a 100% excise tax on the gain from the sale of such condominiums.

           While Alexander's anticipates that financing will be available after
tenants have been obtained for these projects, there can be no assurance that
such financing will be obtained, or if obtained, that such financings will be on
terms that are acceptable. In addition, it is uncertain as to when these
projects will commence.

Paramus:

           Alexander's may develop a shopping center of approximately 550,000
square feet on this site. The estimated cost of such development is
approximately $100,000,000. Alexander's has received municipal approvals on
tentative plans to develop the site. No redevelopment plans have been finalized.

     Fordham Road

           On January 12, 2001, Alexander's sold its Fordham Road property
located in the Bronx, New York for $25,500,000, which resulted in a gain of
$19,100,000. In addition, Alexander's paid off the mortgage on this property at
a discount, which resulted in an extraordinary gain from early extinguishment of
debt of $3,500,000 in the first quarter of 2001.

HOTEL PENNSYLVANIA

           The Hotel Pennsylvania is located in New York City on Seventh Avenue
opposite Madison Square Garden. The Company intends to refurbish the Hotel.
Under the terms of the mortgage on this property, in connection with the
refurbishment, the Company has escrowed $24,000,000 in cash and $29,000,000
through letters of credit. The Hotel Pennsylvania consists of a hotel portion
containing 800,000 square feet of hotel space with 1,700 rooms and a commercial
portion containing 400,000 square feet of retail and office space.

           The following table presents rental information for the hotel:



           As of December 31, 2000, the property's retail and office space was
85% and 63% occupied. Twenty-five tenants occupy the retail and commercial
space. Annual rent per square foot of retail and office space in 2000 was $45.00
and $17.00. In January 2001, as part of its plan to redevelop the retail portion
of the Hotel, the Company paid $750,000 to the Sports Authority to terminate its
44,000 square foot lease which was scheduled to expire in 2009 and contained
options to renew for an additional 15 years. In the year ended December 31,
2000, the Sports Authority paid the Company approximately $1,770,000 of rent.

                                      -43-

NEWKIRK JOINT VENTURES

      The Newkirk Joint Ventures ("Newkirk") own various equity and debt
interests relating to 120 limited partnerships which own real estate primarily
net leased to credit rated tenants. The Company owns a 30% interest in Newkirk
with the balance owned by affiliates of Apollo Real Estate Investment Fund III,
L.P.

      The following table sets forth the real estate owned by the limited
partnerships and the Company's interest therein:


      These properties are located throughout the United States. The tenant
leases have a weighted average expiration of 2007 and contain ten to thirty year
renewal options at fixed rates.

DRY WAREHOUSE/INDUSTRIAL PROPERTIES

      The Company's dry warehouse/industrial properties consist of eight
buildings in New Jersey containing approximately 2.0 million square feet. At
February 1, 2001 the occupancy rate of the properties was 90%. The average term
of a tenant's lease is three to five years.

      The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and average annual rent
per square foot at the end of each of the past three years.




                                      -44-


ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

      The Company is from time to time involved in legal actions arising in the
ordinary course of its business. In the opinion of management, after
consultation with legal counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations.

ITEM 4.  SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

      No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the year ended December 31, 2000.

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

      The following is a list of the names, ages, principal occupations and
positions with Vornado of the executive officers of Vornado and the positions
held by such officers during the past five years. All executive officers of
Vornado have terms of office which run until the next succeeding meeting of the
Board of Trustees of Vornado following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders unless
they are removed sooner by the Board.




                                      -45-


                                     PART II

ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

      Vornado's common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol "VNO".

      Quarterly price ranges of the common shares and dividends paid per share
for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999 were as follows:




      On February 1, 2001, the number of record holders of common shares of
Vornado was 2,324.
                                      -46-

ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA




                                      -47-




(1)      The earnings per share amounts prior to 1997 have been restated to
         comply with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128,
         "Earnings Per Share" (SFAS 128). For further discussion of earnings per
         share and the impact of SFAS 128, see the notes to the consolidated
         financial statements. All share and per share information has also been
         adjusted for a 2-for-1 share split in October 1997.

(2)      Funds from operations does not represent cash generated from operating
         activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles
         and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs
         which is disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
         applicable periods. There are no material legal or functional
         restrictions on the use of funds from operations. Funds from operations
         should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an
         indicator of the Company's operating performance or as an alternative
         to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Management considers funds
         from operations a supplemental measure of operating performance and
         along with cash flow from operating activities, financing activities
         and investing activities, it provides investors with an indication of
         the ability of the Company to incur and service debt, to make capital
         expenditures and to fund other cash needs. Funds from operations may
         not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other REITs
         since a number of REITs, including the Company, calculate funds from
         operations in a manner different from that used by the National
         Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). Funds from
         operations, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income applicable to
         common shares before depreciation and amortization, extraordinary items
         and gains or losses on sales of real estate. Funds from operations as
         disclosed above has been modified from this definition to adjust
         primarily for (i) the effect of straight-lining of property rentals for
         rent escalations and leasing fee income, and (ii) the reversal of
         income taxes (benefit) which are considered non-recurring because of
         the conversion of Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies to REITs
         in 2000.
                                      -48-


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
       OF OPERATIONS

      ($ in thousands, except where indicated)

     OVERVIEW

      Below is a summary of net income and EBITDA(1) by segment for the years
ended December 31, 2000, 1999, and 1998:





      See supplemental information on page 61 for a summary of net income and
EBITDA by segment for the three months ended December 31, 2000 and 1999.


                                      -49-





(1) EBITDA represents income before interest, taxes, depreciation and
    amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or losses on sales
    of real estate, the effect of straight-lining of property rentals for rent
    escalations and minority interest. Management considers EBITDA a
    supplemental measure for making decisions and assessing the performance of
    its segments. EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled measures
    employed by other companies.

(2) Other EBITDA is comprised of:




*   The commercial portion of the Hotel was wholly-owned as of August 5, 1999,
    and accordingly consolidated.

(3) Includes (i) the reversal of income taxes (benefit) which are considered
    non-recurring because of the conversion of the Temperature Controlled
    Logistics Companies to REIT's in 2000 and (ii) the add back of non-recurring
    unification costs.

(4) Interest and debt expense, depreciation and amortization and straight-lining
    of rents included in the reconciliation of net income to EBITDA reflects
    amounts which are netted in income from partially-owned entities.

(5) Primarily represents the Company's equity in Alexander's loss for the
    write-off resulting from the razing of Alexander's building formerly located
    at its Lexington Avenue site.

(6) Net of $9,780 of rent not recognized as income.

(7) Includes the reversal of $4,765 of expenses in connection with a deferred
    compensation arrangement.

                                      -50-

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

  Years Ended December 31, 2000 and December 31, 1999

        Below are the details of the changes by segment in EBITDA.





(1)     Represents operations, which were owned for the same period in each
        year.

(2)     Same store percentage increase was 20.0% for the New York City office
        portfolio and 4.2% for the CESCR portfolio.

(3)     Subsequent to March 11, 1999 (date the operations of the AmeriCold
        Logistics Company were sold), the Company reflects its 60% share of the
        Vornado/Crescent Partnerships' ("the Landlord") equity in the rental
        income it receives from AmeriCold Logistics Company, its tenant, which
        leases the underlying temperature controlled warehouses used in its
        business. Prior to that date the Company reflected its equity in the
        operations.

                Total contractual rent was $35,672 and $160,494 for the fourth
        quarter and the year ended December 31, 2000, of which the tenant
        deferred $7,500 and $17,044. As at December 31, 2000, the balance of the
        tenant's deferred rent is as follows:





                In addition to the amounts deferred above, $1,956 applicable to
        the receivable arising from the straight-lining of rents was also
        deferred in the year ended December 31, 2000.

                Based on the Company's policy of recognizing rental income when
        earned and collection is assured or cash is received, the Company did
        not recognize $4,500 of income from this tenant in the quarter ended
        December 31, 2000 and $9,780 in the year ended December 31, 2000.

                On February 22, 2001, the Landlord restructured the AmeriCold
        Logistics leases to, among other things, (i) reduce 2001's contractual
        rent to $146,000 (the same amount recognized as rental income in 2000's
        Funds from Operations), (ii) reduce 2002's contractual rent to $150,000
        (plus contingent rent in certain circumstances), (iii) increase the
        Landlord's share of annual maintenance capital expenditures by $4,500 to
        $9,500 effective January 1, 2000 and (iv) extend the deferred rent
        period to December 31, 2003 from March 11, 2002.


                                      -51-



Revenues

        The Company's revenues, which consist of property rentals, tenant
expense reimbursements and other income were $826,532 in the year ended December
31, 2000 compared to $696,958 in the prior year, an increase of $129,574. These
increases by segment resulted from:





        The following sets forth certain information for properties the Company
owns directly or indirectly, including leasing activity for space previously
occupied:





(1)     Represents the Company's 34% interest.

(2)     The office and showroom space is contained in the same mixed-use
        properties.

(3)     Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected
        in the initial rent per square foot leased.


                                      -52-



Expenses

        The Company's expenses were $466,117 in the year ended December 31,
2000, compared to $405,854 the prior year, an increase of $60,263. These
increases by segment resulted from:





        (1)     This increase primarily resulted from higher payroll and
                professional fees.

        Income applicable to Alexander's (loan interest income, equity in income
(loss) and depreciation) was $13,053 in the year ended December 31, 2000,
compared to $7,427 in the prior year, an increase of $5,626. This increase
resulted from interest income on higher outstanding loan balances to
Alexander's.

        Income from partially-owned entities was $90,404 in the year ended
December 31, 2000, compared to $82,310 in the prior year, an increase of $8,094.
This increase by segment resulted from:





(1)     Reflects $9,780 of rent not recognized in the year ended December 31,
        2000.

(2)     Reflects the elimination of the Company's equity in income of the
        commercial portion of the Hotel Pennsylvania which was wholly-owned as
        of August 5, 1999, and accordingly consolidated.


                                      -53-



        Interest and other investment income (interest income on mortgage loans
receivable, other interest income, dividend income and net gains on sales of
marketable securities) was $32,926 for the year ended December 31, 2000,
compared to $18,359 in the prior year, an increase of $14,567. This increase
resulted primarily from the acquisition of NorthStar subordinated unsecured debt
(22% effective rate) on September 19, 2000 and a loan to Primestone Investment
Partners, L.P. (20% effective rate) on September 28, 2000.

        Interest and debt expense was $170,273 for the year ended December 31,
2000, compared to $141,683 in the prior year, an increase of $28,590. This
increase resulted primarily from higher average outstanding balances and higher
interest rates during the year.

        Net gain on sale of real estate of $10,965, resulted from (i) sale of
three Texas shopping center properties on March 2, 2000, for $25,750, resulting
in a gain of $2,560 and (ii) the sale of the Company's Westport Connecticut
office property on August 30, 2000 for $24,000 resulting in a gain of $8,405.

        Minority interest was $102,374 for the year ended December 31, 2000,
compared to $54,998 for the prior year, an increase of $47,376. This increase is
primarily due to higher income.

        Preferred stock dividends were $38,690 for the year ended December 31,
2000, compared to $33,438 in the prior year, an increase of $5,252. The increase
resulted from the issuance of the Company's Series B Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares in March 1999 and Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred
Shares in May 1999.

        The Company incurred an extraordinary loss of $1,125 in the first
quarter of this year due to the write-off of unamortized financing costs in
connection with a prepayment of debt.

        The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to continue to
qualify as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as
amended. Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least 95% of its REIT
taxable income as a dividend to its shareholders each year and which meets
certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its taxable income
which is distributed to its shareholders. The Company has distributed to its
shareholders an amount greater than its taxable income. Therefore, no provision
for Federal income taxes is required.

  Years Ended December 31, 1999 and December 31, 1998

        Below are the details of the changes by segment in EBITDA.




- -----------------
(1)     Represents operations which were owned for the same period in each year.

(2)     Not comparable because prior to March 11, 1999 (date the operations of
        the Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies were sold), the Company
        reflected its equity in the operations of the Temperature Controlled
        Logistics Companies. Subsequent thereto, the Company reflects its equity
        in the rent it receives from the Temperature Controlled Logistics
        Companies.


                                      -54-



  Revenues

        The Company's revenues, which consist of property rentals, tenant
expense reimbursements and other income were $696,958 in the year ended December
31, 1999 compared to $509,860 in the prior year, an increase of $187,098. These
increases by segment resulted from:





                                      -55-



  Expenses

        The Company's expenses were $405,854 in the year ended December 31,
1999, compared to $295,008 in the prior year, an increase of $110,846. These
increases by segment resulted from:




- -----------------
(1)     Retail general and administrative expenses are included in corporate
        expenses, which are not allocated.

(2)     Of this increase: (i) $2,546 is attributable to acquisitions, (ii)
        $5,654 resulted from payroll, primarily for additional employees, and
        corporate office expenses, and (iii) $3,393 resulted from professional
        fees.

        Income applicable to Alexander's (loan interest income, equity in income
(loss) and depreciation) was $7,427 in the year ended December 31, 1999,
compared to $3,123 in the prior year, an increase of $4,304. This increase
resulted from lower equity in Alexander's income in the prior year due primarily
to the write-off resulting from the razing of its building formerly located at
its Lexington Avenue site.

        Income from partially-owned entities was $82,310 in the year ended
December 31, 1999, compared to $32,025 in the prior year, an increase of
$50,285. This increase by segment resulted from:





(1)     Primarily reflects equity interest in lease payments (March 11,
        1999-December 31, 1999) and equity interest in the operations (January
        1, 1999-March 11, 1999) for 1999 in excess of equity in the operations
        of such companies in 1998.

(2)     Reflects the elimination of the Company's equity in income of the
        commercial portion of the Hotel Pennsylvania which was wholly-owned as
        of August 5, 1999, and accordingly consolidated.

(3)     Reflects the elimination of the Company's equity in income of Two Park
        Avenue which was wholly-owned as of November 17, 1998 and accordingly
        consolidated.


                                      -56-



        Interest and other investment income (interest income on mortgage loans
receivable, other interest income, dividend income and net gains on marketable
securities) was $18,359 for the year ended December 31, 1999, compared to
$24,074 in the prior year, a decrease of $5,715. This decrease resulted
primarily from lower average investments.

        Interest and debt expense was $141,683 for the year ended December 31,
1999, compared to $114,686 in the prior year, an increase of $26,997. This
increase resulted primarily from debt in connection with acquisitions.

        Minority interest was $54,998 for the year ended December 31, 1999,
compared to $16,183 for the prior year, an increase of $38,815. This increase is
primarily due to higher income.

        Preferred stock dividends were $33,438 for the year ended December 31,
1999, compared to $21,690 in the prior year, an increase of $11,748. The
increase resulted from the issuance of the Company's Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Shares in March 1999 and Series C Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Shares in May 1999.


                                      -57-



SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION

           THREE MONTHS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 2000 AND DECEMBER 31, 1999

        Below is a summary of net income and EBITDA by segment for the three
months ended December 31, 2000 and 1999:








(1)     EBITDA represents income before interest, taxes, depreciation and
        amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or losses on
        sales of real estate, the effect of straight-lining of property rentals
        for rent escalations and minority interest. Management considers EBITDA
        a supplemental measure for making decisions and assessing the
        performance of its segments. EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly
        titled measures employed by other companies.

(2)     Interest and debt expense, depreciation and amortization and
        straight-lining of rents included in the reconciliation of net income to
        EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income from partially-owned
        entities.

(3)     Other EBITDA is comprised of:




        *       The commercial portion of the Hotel was wholly-owned as of
                August 5, 1999, and accordingly consolidated.

(4)     Net of $4,500 of rent not recognized as income.

(5)     Includes the reversal of income taxes which are considered non-recurring
        because of the conversion of the Temperature Controlled Logistics
        Companies to REITs in 2000.

(6)     Net of $2,272, the Company's share of the reversal of Alexander's stock
        appreciation rights expense.


                                      -58-



        Below are the details of the changes by segment in EBITDA.





(1)     Represents operations, which were owned for the same period in each
        year.

(2)     Same Store percentage increase was 14.4% for the New York City office
        portfolio and 5.3% for the CESCR portfolio.

        The following table sets forth leasing activity for space previously
occupied for the three months ended December 31, 2000:





(1)     Represents the Company's 34% interest.

(2)     The office and showroom space is contained in the same mixed-use
        properties.

(3)     Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected
        in the initial rent per square foot leased.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

        Substantially all of the Company's office, retail and permanent showroom
leases contain step-ups in rent. Such rental increases are not designed to, and
in many instances do not, approximate the cost of inflation, but do have the
effect of mitigating the adverse impact of inflation. In addition, substantially
all of the Company's leases contain provisions that require the tenant to
reimburse the Company for the tenant's share of common area charges (including
roof and structure in strip shopping centers, unless it is the tenant's direct
responsibility) and real estate taxes or for increases of such expenses over a
base amount, thus offsetting, in part, the effects of inflation on such
expenses.

        Inflation did not have a material effect on the Company's results for
the periods presented.


                                      -59-



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998

  Year Ended December 31, 2000

        Cash flows provided by operating activities of $249,921 was primarily
comprised of (i) income of $233,991 and (ii) adjustments for non-cash items of
$66,557 offset by (iii) the net change in operating assets and liabilities of
$40,787 and (iv) the net gain on sale of real estate of $10,965. The adjustments
for non-cash items are primarily comprised of (i) depreciation and amortization
of $99,846 and (ii) minority interest of $102,374, partially offset by (iii) the
effect of straight-lining of rental income of $32,206 and (iv) equity in net
income of partially-owned entities and income applicable to Alexander's of
$103,457.

        Net cash used in investing activities of $699,375 was primarily
comprised of (i) capital expenditures of $171,782, (ii) investment in notes and
mortgages receivable of $144,225, (iii) acquisitions of real estate of $199,860,
(iv) investments in partially-owned entities of $99,974, (v) cash restricted of
$183,788, of which $173,500 represents funds escrowed in connection with a
mortgage financing, partially offset by (vi) proceeds from the sale of real
estate of $47,945 and distributions from partially-owned entities of $68,799.

        Below are the details of acquisitions of real estate, investments in
partially-owned entities, investments in notes and mortgages receivable and
capital expenditures.








        In addition to the expenditures noted above, the Company recorded
leasing commissions of $26,133 in the year ended December 31, 2000, of which
$24,333 was attributable to New York City Office properties, $647 was
attributable to Retail properties and $1,153 was attributable to Merchandise
Mart properties.


                                      -60-



        Net cash provided by financing activities of $473,813 was primarily
comprised of (i) proceeds from borrowings of $1,195,108, (ii) proceeds from
issuance of preferred units of $204,750, partially offset by, (iii) repayments
of borrowings of $633,655, (iv) dividends paid on common shares of $168,688 (v)
dividends paid on preferred shares of $35,815, and (vi) distributions to
minority partners of $80,397.

  Year Ended December  31, 1999

        Cash flows provided by operating activities of $176,895 were comprised
of (i) net income of $202,519 and (ii) adjustments for non-cash items of $26,686
offset by (iii) the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $50,907
(primarily prepaid expenses). The adjustments for non-cash items are primarily
comprised of (i) depreciation and amortization of $83,585 and (ii) minority
interest of $54,998, partially offset by (iii) the effect of straight-lining of
rental income of $29,587 and (iv) equity in income of partially-owned entities
of $82,310.

        Net cash used in investing activities of $494,204 was primarily
comprised of (i) capital expenditures of $153,591 (see detail below), (ii)
investment in mortgage loans receivable of $59,787 (including $41,200 loan to
CAPI and $18,587 loan to Vornado Operating Company), (iii) acquisitions of real
estate of $224,654 (see detail below) and (iv) investments in partially-owned
entities of $118,409 (see detail below), partially offset by (v) the use of cash
restricted for tenant improvements of $13,624, (vi) proceeds from the sale of
Temperature Controlled Logistics assets of $22,769 and (vii) proceeds from the
repayment of mortgage loans receivable of $20,751 (of which $14,000 is from
Vornado Operating Company).

        Acquisitions of real estate and investments in partially-owned entities
are comprised of:




- -----------
(1)     Total consideration for 888 Seventh Avenue was $117,000 of which $17,000
        was expended in 1998.


                                      -61-



Capital expenditures were comprised of:




- -----------------

(1)     Includes $27,544 to buyout the tenant's lease on 28,000 square feet of
        office space at 640 Fifth Avenue, thereby permitting re-leasing for
        retail use and $24,744 for the refurbishment of 770 Broadway.

        In addition to the expenditures noted above, the Company recorded
leasing commissions of $16,853 in the year ended December 31, 1999, of which
$14,003 was attributable to New York City Office properties, $638 was
attributable to Retail properties and $2,212 was attributable to Merchandise
Mart properties.

        Net cash provided by financing activities of $262,131 was primarily
comprised of (i) proceeds from issuance of preferred shares of $192,953, (ii)
proceeds from issuance of preferred units of $525,013 and (iii) proceeds from
borrowings of $455,000 partially offset by, (iv) repayments of borrowings of
$668,957, (v) dividends paid on common shares of $153,223, (vi) dividends paid
on preferred shares of $30,563, and (vii) distributions to minority partners of
$52,491.

    Years Ended December 31, 1998

        Cash flows provided by operating activities of $189,406 were primarily
comprised of (i) income of $143,205 (net income of $152,854 less net gain from
insurance settlement and condemnation proceeding of $9,649), (ii) adjustments
for non-cash items of $27,657, and (iii) the net change in operating assets and
liabilities of $18,544. The adjustments for non-cash items are primarily
comprised of (i) depreciation and amortization of $59,227 and (ii) minority
interest of $16,183, partially offset by (iii) the effect of straight-lining of
rental income of $17,561 and (iv) equity in net income of partially-owned
entities of $32,025.

        Net cash used in investing activities of $1,257,367 was primarily
comprised of (i) acquisitions of real estate of $896,800 (see detail below),
(ii) investments in partially-owned entities of $308,000 (see detail below),
(iii) capital expenditures of $68,085 (see detail below) and investments in
securities of $73,513 (including purchase of Capital Trust Preferred Stock of
$48,700), partially offset by (iv) proceeds from the repayment of mortgage loans
receivable of $57,600.


                                      -62-



        Acquisitions of real estate and investments in partially-owned entities
were comprised of:




- ------------------------
(1)     Acquisition was completed in 1999 for a total of $117,000.

Capital expenditures were comprised of:





        In addition to the expenditures noted above, the Company recorded
leasing commissions of $17,142 in the year ended December 31, 1998, of which
$13,299 was attributable to New York City Office properties, $763 was
attributable to Retail properties and $3,080 was attributable to Merchandise
Mart properties.

        Net cash provided by financing activities of $879,815 was primarily
comprised of (i) proceeds from borrowings of $1,427,821, (ii) proceeds from the
issuance of common shares of $445,247 and (iii) proceeds from the issuance of
preferred shares of $85,313, partially offset by (iv) repayment of borrowings of
$883,475, (v) dividends paid on common shares of $154,440 and (vi) dividends
paid on preferred shares of $18,816.


                                      -63-



Funds from Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 2000 and 1999

        Funds from operations was $335,158 in the year ended December 31, 2000,
compared to $293,773 in the prior year, an increase of $41,385. The following
table reconciles funds from operations and net income:



The number of shares that should be used for determining funds from operations
per share is as follows:



        Funds from operations does not represent cash generated from operating
activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and is
not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs which is
disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the applicable
periods. There are no material legal or functional restrictions on the use of
funds from operations. Funds from operations should not be considered as an
alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's operating performance
or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Management
considers funds from operations a supplemental measure of operating performance
and along with cash flow from operating activities, financing activities and
investing activities, it provides investors with an indication of the ability of
the Company to incur and service debt, to make capital expenditures and to fund
other cash needs. Funds from operations may not be comparable to similarly
titled measures reported by other REITs since a number of REITs, including the
Company, calculate funds from operations in a manner different from that used by
NAREIT. Funds from operations, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income
applicable to common shares before depreciation and amortization, extraordinary
items and gains or losses on sales of real estate. Funds from operations as
disclosed above has been modified from this definition to adjust primarily for
(i) the effect of straight-lining of property rentals for rent escalations and
leasing fee income, and (ii) the reversal of income taxes (benefit) which are
considered non-recurring because of the conversion of Temperature Controlled
Logistics Companies to REITs in 2000.


                                      -64-


        Below are the cash flows provided by (used in) operating, investing and
financing activities:



    Certain Cash Requirements

        The Company has budgeted approximately $101,017 for capital expenditures
(excluding acquisitions) over the next year as follows:



- -----------------

(1)   Represents the Company's 60% share of the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships
      obligation to fund $9,500 of capital expenditures per annum.

(2)   Includes $11,269 in connection with the Hotel Pennsylvania.

        In addition to the expenditures noted above, the Company has budgeted
leasing commissions of $12,900, of which $11,000 attributable to New York City
Office properties and $1,900 is attributable to Merchandise Mart properties.

        Tenant allowances and leasing commissions for the New York City Office
properties approximate $17.00 per square foot for renewal space and $42.00 per
square foot for vacant space. Historically, approximately two-thirds of existing
tenants renew their leases.

        In addition to the capital expenditures reflected above, the Company is
currently engaged in or considering certain development and redevelopment
projects for which it has budgeted approximately $258.8 million to be expended
as outlined in the "Development and Redevelopment Projects" section of Item
1--Business. The $258.8 million does not include amounts for other projects
which are also included in the "Development and Redevelopment Projects" section
of Item 1 -Business, as no budgets for them have been finalized. There can be no
assurance that any of the above projects will be ultimately completed, completed
on time or completed for the budgeted amount.

        No cash requirements have been budgeted for the capital expenditures and
amortization of debt of Alexander's, CESCR, or Newkirk, which are partially
owned by the Company. These investees are expected to fund their own cash
requirements. Alexander's is prohibited by its loan agreements from paying
dividends. In 2001, the Company expects to receive at a minimum, preferred
distributions from CESCR of approximately $15 million (a blended yield of 6.2%)
and common distributions of approximately $4.1 million based on 2000's dividend
rate. The minimum preferred distribution rate increases from 6.2% in 2001 to
6.46% in 2002 and 6.5% thereafter. Further, the Company will receive
distributions of approximately $8.5 million from its investment in the Newkirk
Joint Ventures.

Financing Activities

CORPORATE

        On March 1, 2000 the Company completed a $500,000 private placement of
10-year, 7.93% mortgage notes, cross-collateralized by 42 shopping center
properties, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $490,000. In connection
therewith, the Company repaid $228,000 of existing mortgage debt scheduled to
mature on December 1, 2000 and $262,000 outstanding under its revolving credit
facility.


                                      -65-


        On March 21, 2000, the Company renewed its $1,000,000 revolving credit
facility for an additional three years. The covenants of the facility include,
among others, maximum loan to value ratio, minimum debt service coverage and
minimum capitalization requirements. Interest is at LIBOR plus .90% (7.66% at
December 31, 2000). The Company paid origination fees of $6,700 and pays a
commitment fee quarterly of .20% per annum on the facility amount.

        On May 1, 2000 the Company sold an aggregate of $21,000 of 8.25% Series
D-6 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units in the Operating Partnership to an
institutional investor in a private placement, resulting in net proceeds of
approximately $20,475. The Perpetual Preferred Units may be called without
penalty at the option of the Operating Partnership commencing on May 1, 2005.

        On May 25, 2000 the Company sold an aggregate of $180,000 of 8.25%
Series D-7 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units in the Operating Partnership to
institutional investor in a private placement, resulting in net proceeds of
approximately $175,500. The Perpetual Preferred Units may be called without
penalty at the option of the Operating Partnership commencing on May 25, 2005.

        On December 8, 2000, the Company sold an aggregate of $9,000 of 8.25%
Series D-8 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units in the Operating Partnership to
institutional investors in a private placement, resulting in net proceeds of
approximately $8,775. The Perpetual Preferred Units may be called without
penalty at the option of the Operating Partnership commencing on December 8,
2005.

OFFICE

        On March 1, 2000, the Company refinanced its Two Park Avenue office
building for $90,000. Of the proceeds received, the Company repaid the existing
debt of $65,000. The new 3-year debt matures on February 28, 2003 and bears
interest at Libor + 1.45% (8.21% at December 31, 2000).

        On August 11, 2000, the Company completed a $173,500 mortgage financing,
cross-collaterized by its 770 Broadway and 595 Madison Avenue office buildings.
The loan bears interest at LIBOR + .40% (7.16% at December 31, 2000) and matures
on August 1, 2002. At December 31, 2000, the proceeds of the loan are in a
restricted mortgage escrow account, which bears interest at the same rate as the
loan.

        On January 11, 2001, the Company completed a $105,000 refinancing of its
888 Seventh Avenue office building. The loan bears interest at a fixed rate of
6.6% and matures on January 1, 2006. A portion of the proceeds received were
used to repay the then existing mortgage of $55,000.


        The Company has an effective shelf registration under which it can offer
an aggregate of approximately $1.4 billion of equity securities and an aggregate
of $1.0 billion of debt securities.

        The Company anticipates that cash from continuing operations will be
adequate to fund business operations and the payment of dividends and
distributions on an on-going basis for more than the next twelve months;
however, capital outlays for significant acquisitions will require funding from
borrowings or equity offerings.

ACQUISITION ACTIVITY

        As a result of acquisitions, the book value of the Company's assets have
grown from $5,479,218 at December 31, 1999 to $6,370,314 at December 31, 2000.


                                      -66-


World Trade Center

        On February 22, 2001, the Company entered into a 20-day exclusive
negotiation period with the Port Authority of NY & NJ to complete the contract
and associated documents for the net lease of the 11 million square foot World
Trade Center complex in New York. The 99-year net lease of the World Trade
Center has been valued by the Port Authority's advisors at approximately $3.25
billion. The Board of the Commissioners of the Port Authority has instructed
their staff and advisors to present the final contract for approval at a special
Port Authority Board meeting scheduled for March 14, 2001. In connection
therewith, the Company has provided the Port Authority with a $100 million
refundable and non-drawable letter of credit.



        The Company's future success will be affected by its ability to
integrate the assets and businesses it acquires and to effectively manage those
assets and businesses. The Company currently expects to continue to grow at a
relatively fast pace. However, its ability to do so will be dependent on a
number of factors, including, among others, (a) the availability of reasonably
priced assets that meet the Company's acquisition criteria and (b) the price of
the Company's common shares, the rates at which the Company is able to borrow
money and, more generally, the availability of financing on terms that, in the
Company's view, make such acquisitions financially attractive.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

        The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities, as amended, which establishes accounting and reporting
standards requiring that every derivative instrument (including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance
sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. The Statement
requires that changes in the derivative instrument's fair value be recognized
currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.

        In 2001, the Company will reclassify a previously recognized charge of
approximately $4,000, from other comprehensive income to income, relating to the
mark-to-market on public and private technology company warrants, as the
cumulative effect of adopting Statement 133. The Company does not currently
anticipate utilizing hedge accounting for its derivative positions following the
adoption of Statement 133.


                                      -67-

ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

        The Company's exposure to a change in interest rates on its wholly-owned
and partially-owned debt (all of which arises out of non-trading activity) is as
follows:

($ in thousands, except per share amounts)



        The fair value of the Company's debt at December 31, 2000, based on
discounted cash flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made
to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt
approximates its carrying value.

        In July 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement to
reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on its $275,000 One Penn Plaza
loan. The agreement caps the Company's interest rate in the event that LIBOR
increases above 8.5% through January 20, 2000 and 9% thereafter, until the
termination date of the cap agreement on July 30, 2001 (the debt matures in June
2002). The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
the other parties to the interest rate cap agreement. However, the Company does
not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparty. The fair value of the
interest rate cap agreement at December 31, 2000 approximates its cost.

        On September 21, 1999, the Company bought an interest rate cap, capping
the interest rate on its $250,000 Merchandise Mart loan in the event that LIBOR
increases above 9.25% through the termination date of the agreement in September
2002. Simultaneously with this transaction, the Company sold an interest rate
cap to a third party on the same terms as the cap the Company purchased.


- ---------------

(1)   Excludes the effect of a $173,500 mortgage financing, cross-collateralized
      by the Company's 770 Broadway and 595 Madison Avenue office properties, as
      the proceeds are in a restricted mortgage escrow account which bears
      interest at the same rate as the loan.


                                      -68-


ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS



ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

        Not applicable.




                                      -69-


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Shareholders and Board of Trustees
Vornado Realty Trust
New York, New York

        We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Vornado
Realty Trust as of December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2000. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 14. These financial
statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

        We conducted our audits in accordance with auditing standards generally
accepted in the United States of America. Those standards require that we plan
and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial
statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a
test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial
statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall
financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a
reasonable basis for our opinion.

        In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly,
in all material respects, the financial position of Vornado Realty Trust at
December 31, 2000 and 1999, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2000 in
conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of
America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when
considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a
whole, present fairly in all material respects the information set forth
therein.



DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey
March 1, 2001



                                      -70-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS





                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.




                                     -71-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME





                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                     -72-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY








                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                     -73-











                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                     -74-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS







                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.



                                     -75-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

($ in thousands, except where indicated)

1.  ORGANIZATION AND BUSINESS

        Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
("REIT"). Vornado conducts its business through Vornado Realty L.P., ("the
Operating Partnership"). Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned
approximately 86% of the common limited partnership interest in, the Operating
Partnership at February 1, 2001. All references to the "Company" and "Vornado"
refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the
Operating Partnership.

        The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Properties ("Office"):

                (i) all or portions of 22 office properties in the New York City
        metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) aggregating approximately 14.4
        million square feet;

                (ii) a 34% limited partnership interest in Charles E. Smith
        Commercial Realty L.P. ("CESCR"), a limited partnership which owns and
        manages approximately 12.5 million square feet of office properties in
        Northern Virginia and Washington, D.C., and manages an additional 5.8
        million square feet of office and other commercial properties in the
        Washington, D.C. area;

Retail Properties ("Retail"):

                (iii) 55 shopping center properties in six states and Puerto
        Rico aggregating approximately 11.3 million square feet, including 1.4
        million square feet built by tenants on land leased from the Company;

Merchandise Mart Properties:

                (iv) the Merchandise Mart Properties portfolio containing
        approximately 8.1 million square feet, including the 3.4 million square
        foot Merchandise Mart in Chicago;

Temperature Controlled Logistics:

                (v) a 60% interest in partnerships that own 88 warehouse
        facilities nationwide with an aggregate of approximately 438.9 million
        cubic feet of refrigerated space leased to AmeriCold Logistics;

Other Real Estate Investments:

                (vi) 33.1% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander's, Inc.
        ("Alexander's");

                (vii) the Hotel Pennsylvania in New York City consisting of a
        hotel portion containing 800,000 square feet with 1,700 rooms and a
        commercial portion containing 400,000 square feet of retail and office
        space;

                (viii) a 30% interest in the Newkirk joint ventures which own
        various equity and debt interests relating to 120 limited partnerships
        which own real estate, primarily office and retail, net leased to credit
        rated tenants;

                (ix) eight dry warehouse/industrial properties in New Jersey
        containing approximately 2.0 million square feet; and

                (x) other real estate investments.



                                      -76-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

2.  SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

        BASIS OF PRESENTATION: The accompanying consolidated financial
statements include the accounts of Vornado Realty Trust and its majority-owned
subsidiary, Vornado Realty L.P. as well as interests acquired that individually
(or in the aggregate with prior interests) exceed a 50% interest and the Company
exercises unilateral control. All significant intercompany amounts have been
eliminated. Equity interests in partially-owned entities include partnerships,
joint ventures and preferred stock affiliates (corporations in which the Company
owns all of the preferred stock and none of the common equity) and are accounted
for under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant
influence. These investments are recorded initially at cost and subsequently
adjusted for net equity in income (loss) and cash contributions and
distributions. Ownership of the preferred stock entitles the Company to
substantially all of the economic benefits in the preferred stock affiliates.
The common stock of the preferred stock affiliates is owned by Officers and
Trustees of Vornado.

        On January 1, 2001, the Company acquired the common stock of the
preferred stock affiliates and converted them to taxable REIT subsidiaries.
Accordingly, these entities will be consolidated in 2001.

        Management has made estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

        RECLASSIFICATIONS: Certain prior year balances have been reclassified in
order to conform to current year presentation.

        REAL ESTATE: Real estate is carried at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Betterments, major renewals and certain costs
directly related to the acquisition, improvement and leasing of real estate are
capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated
useful lives which range from 7 to 40 years. Tenant allowances are amortized on
a straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases. Additions to real
estate include interest expense capitalized during construction of $12,269,
$7,012 and $1,410 for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

        The Company's properties are reviewed for impairment if events or
changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the property may
not be recoverable. In such an event, a comparison is made of the current and
projected operating cash flows of each such property into the foreseeable future
on an undiscounted basis to the carrying amount of such property. Such carrying
amount would be adjusted, if necessary, to estimate fair value to reflect an
impairment in the value of the asset.

        CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents does not include cash escrowed under loan agreements
and cash restricted in connection with an officer's deferred compensation
payable.

        MARKETABLE SECURITIES: The Company has classified debt and equity
securities which it intends to hold for an indefinite period of time (including
warrants to acquire equity securities to be classified as available for sale) as
securities available for sale, equity securities it intends to buy and sell on a
short term basis as trading securities and its preferred stock investment in
Capital Trust as securities held to maturity. Unrealized gains and losses are
included in earnings for trading securities and as a component of shareholders'
equity and other comprehensive income for securities available for sale.
Realized gains or losses on the sale of securities are recorded based on average
cost.

        At December 31, 2000 and 1999, marketable securities had an aggregate
cost of $129,023 and $96,787 and an aggregate market value of $120,340 and
$106,503 (of which $12,213 and $9,826 represent trading securities and $48,682
and $48,606 represent securities held to maturity and reported at amortized
cost). Gross unrealized gains and losses were $8,159 and $16,842 at December 31,
2000, and $19,374 and $9,658 at December 31,1999. Included in marketable
securities available for sale at December 31, 2000 are warrants to acquire
2,781,718 common shares with a market value of $1,595.

        NOTES AND MORTGAGE LOANS RECEIVABLE: The Company evaluates the
collectibility of both interest and principal of each of its loans, if
circumstances warrant, to determine whether it is impaired. A loan is considered
to be impaired, when based on current information and events, it is probable
that the Company will be unable to collect all amounts due according to the
existing contractual terms. When a loan is considered to be impaired, the amount
of the loss accrual is calculated by comparing the recorded investment to the
value determined by discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan's
effective interest rate. Interest on impaired loans is recognized on a cash
basis.



                                      -77-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

        DEFERRED CHARGES: Direct financing costs are deferred and amortized over
the terms of the related agreements as a component of interest expense. Direct
costs related to leasing activities are capitalized and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases. All other deferred
charges are amortized on a straight-line basis, which approximates the effective
interest rate method, in accordance with the terms of the agreements to which
they relate.

        FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS: All financial instruments of the
Company are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at amounts
which, in management's estimation, based upon an interpretation of available
market information and valuation methodologies (including discounted cash flow
analyses with regard to fixed rate debt) are considered appropriate, and
reasonably approximate their fair values. Such fair value estimates are not
necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be realized upon disposition of
the Company's financial instruments.

        REVENUE RECOGNITION: Base rents, additional rents based on tenants'
sales volume and reimbursement of the tenants' share of certain operating
expenses are generally recognized when due from tenants. The straight-line basis
is used to recognize base rents under leases entered into after November 14,
1985, which provide for varying rents over the lease terms. Contingent rents are
not recognized until realized.

        INCOME TAXES: The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to
continue to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 as amended. Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least
95% of its REIT taxable income as a dividend to its shareholders each year and
which meets certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its
taxable income which is distributed to its shareholders. The Company has
distributed to shareholders an amount greater than its taxable income.
Therefore, no provision for Federal income taxes is required. Dividend
distributions for the years ended December 31, 2000 and 1999, were characterized
for Federal income tax purposes as ordinary income. Dividend distributions for
the tax year ended December 31, 1998 were characterized as ordinary income
(81%), return of capital (17%) and capital gain (2%).

        The net basis of the Company's assets and liabilities for tax purposes
is approximately $1,033,000 lower than the amount reported for financial
statement purposes.

        AMOUNTS PER SHARE: Basic earnings per share is computed based on average
shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share considers the effect of
outstanding options, warrants and convertible securities.

        STOCK OPTIONS: The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using
the intrinsic value method. Under the intrinsic value method compensation cost
is measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the Company's
stock at the date of grant over the exercise price of the option granted.
Compensation cost for stock options, if any, is recognized ratably over the
vesting period. The Company's policy is to grant options with an exercise price
equal to the quoted market price of the Company's stock on the grant date.
Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for the Company's stock
option plans.

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING STANDARDS

        The Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) has issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities as amended, which establishes accounting and reporting
standards requiring that every derivative instrument (including certain
derivative instruments embedded in other contracts) be recorded in the balance
sheet as either an asset or liability measured at its fair value. The Statement
requires that changes in the derivative instrument's fair value be recognized
currently in earnings unless specific hedge accounting criteria are met.

                                      -78-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

         In 2001, the Company will reclassify a previously recognized charge of
approximately $4,000, from other comprehensive income to income, relating to the
mark-to-market on public and private technology company warrants, as the
cumulative effect of adopting Statement 133. The Company does not currently
anticipate utilizing hedge accounting for its derivative positions following the
adoption of Statement 133.


3.  ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS

        The Company completed approximately $404.1 million of real estate
acquisitions or investments from January 1, 2000 through March 2001 and $771.0
million in 1999. These acquisitions were consummated through subsidiaries or
preferred stock affiliates of the Company and were recorded under the purchase
method of accounting. Related net assets and results of operations have been
included in these financial statements since their respective dates of
acquisition. The respective purchase costs were allocated to acquired assets and
assumed liabilities using their relative fair values as of the closing dates,
based on valuations and other studies that are not yet complete. Accordingly,
the initial valuations are subject to change as such information is finalized.
The Company believes that any such change will not be significant since the
allocations were principally to real estate.

ACQUISITIONS:

Office:

        CHARLES E. SMITH COMMERCIAL REALTY INVESTMENT ("CESCR")

        In December 1998, the Company sold approximately 1.7% of the outstanding
partnership units of CESCR to Vornado Operating for an aggregate price of
approximately $12,900. In connection with this purchase, the Company granted
Vornado Operating an option to require the Company to repurchase the units. The
option was exercised on March 4, 1999. Accordingly, the Company reacquired the
CESCR units from Vornado Operating for $13,200.

        On March 4, 1999 the Company made an additional $242,000 investment in
CESCR by contributing to CESCR the land under certain CESCR office properties in
Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia and partnership interests in certain CESCR
subsidiaries. The Company acquired these assets from Commonwealth Atlantic
Properties, Inc, ("CAPI"), an affiliate of Lazard Freres Real Estate Investors
L.L.C., immediately prior to the contribution to CESCR. Together with the
Company's investment in CESCR made in 1997 and the units it reacquired from
Vornado Operating, Vornado now owns approximately 34% of CESCR's limited
partnership units. In addition, the Company acquired from CAPI for $8,000 the
land under a Marriott Hotel located in Crystal City.

        The purchase price was paid to CAPI by Vornado issuing $250,000 of 6%
Convertible Preferred Units of the Company's Operating Partnership. The
Preferred Units are convertible at $44 per unit and the coupon increases to
6.50% over the next three years and then fixes at 6.75% in year eight. The
Company will appoint one of three members to CESCR's Board of Managers,
increasing under certain circumstances to two of four members in March 2002.

        In connection with these transactions, the Company agreed to make a
five-year $41,200 loan to CAPI with interest at 8%, increasing to 9% ratably
over the term. The loan is secured by approximately $55,000 of the Company's
Operating Partnership units issued to CAPI as well as certain real estate
assets.

        888 SEVENTH AVENUE

        On January 12, 1999, the Company acquired 888 Seventh Avenue, a 46 story
Manhattan office building, for $117,000, of which $55,000 was indebtedness.

        909 THIRD AVENUE

        On July 21, 1999, the Company acquired 909 Third Avenue, a 33 story
Manhattan office building, for $123,000, of which $109,000 was indebtedness.



                                      -79-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

        595 MADISON AVENUE

        On September 15, 1999, the Company acquired 595 Madison Avenue (the
"Fuller Building"), a 40 story Manhattan office building, for $125,000 in cash.

        GREENPOINT LEASEHOLD INTEREST

        On December 16, 1999, the Company acquired GreenPoint Financial
Corporation's 99-year leasehold interest in 56,000 square feet, adjacent to One
Penn Plaza, as part of its redevelopment plan for the Penn Plaza district for
$37,300.

        7 WEST 34TH STREET

        On November 1, 2000, the Company acquired 7 West 34th Street, a
Manhattan office building containing 479,000 square feet for $128,000.

Retail:

        VORNADO-CERUZZI JOINT VENTURES

        In the first quarter of 2000, the Company and its joint venture partner
acquired 2 fee interests containing 210,000 square feet and 6 leasehold
interests containing 567,000 square feet in properties located in Pennsylvania,
Virginia, Maryland and Ohio formerly occupied by Hechinger, Inc., a home
improvement retailer which was liquidated. The purchase price was $27,425, of
which the Company's share was 80%.

Merchandise Mart Properties:

        33 NORTH DEARBORN STREET

        On September 21, 2000 the Company acquired 33 North Dearborn Street, a
321,000 square foot office building in Chicago for $35,000 of which $19,000 was
indebtedness.

        L.A. MART

        On October 2, 2000, the Company acquired the 724,000 square foot L.A.
Mart in Los Angeles and its 9.3 acre site for $54,000, of which $10,000 was
indebtedness.

Other Real Estate Investments:

        HOTEL PENNSYLVANIA

        On August 5, 1999, the Company increased its interest in the Hotel
Pennsylvania by acquiring Planet Hollywood International, Inc.'s ("Planet
Hollywood") 20% interest in the hotel for approximately $18,000 and by assuming
$24,000 of existing debt. In connection with the transaction, the Company
terminated the licensing agreement with Planet Hollywood for an Official
All-Star Hotel. The Hotel Pennsylvania is located in New York City on Seventh
Avenue opposite Madison Square Garden.

        After the acquisitions noted above, the Company owns 100% of the
commercial portion of the building (retail and office space) and 98% of the
hotel portion which is owned through a preferred stock affiliate in which the
Company owns all of the preferred equity and none of the common equity.



                                      -80-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

        NEWKIRK JOINT VENTURES

        On March 9, 1999, the Company and its joint venture partner completed an
acquisition of additional equity interests in certain limited partnerships. The
Company's additional investment of $52,435 consisted of $47,790 in Operating
Partnership Units and $4,645 in cash.

        On October 15, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of $15,600 of
securitized debt of the Newkirk Joint Ventures which has an average yield of
14.28%.

        During 2000, the Company completed acquisitions of additional equity
investments in certain limited partnerships for $10,526, including $1,334 in
cash and $9,192 in Operating Partnership units.

        STUDENT HOUSING JOINT VENTURE

        On January 28, 2000, the Company and its joint venture partner, acquired
a 252-unit student housing complex in Gainesville, Florida, for approximately
$27,000, of which $19,600 was indebtedness. The Company's share of this
investment is 90%.

        ALEXANDER'S

        On March 31, 2000, the Company increased its ownership in Alexander's
from 32% to 32.9% by acquiring 41,500 shares of Alexander's common stock for
$2,740. On April 11, 2000, the Company acquired an additional 10,400 shares for
$674, thereby increasing its ownership interest to 33.1%.

        LOAN TO NORTHSTAR PARTNERSHIP L.P.

        On September 19, 2000, the Company acquired $75,000 of subordinated
unsecured debt of NorthStar Partnership, L.P. ("NorthStar"), a private real
estate company, for $65,000. The loan bears interest at 11.5% per annum,
requires quarterly principal payments of $2,500 and matures in May 2002. The
effective yield on the loan is approximately 22% including the amortization of
the discount. During the third quarter of 2000, NorthStar filed suit against the
Company seeking to enjoin Vornado from taking any action with respect to the
debt, to rescind the Company's acquisition of the debt and for damages. In the
opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel, NorthStar's suit
is without merit and the Company intends to vigorously defend against it. On
January 19, 2001, the Company agreed to withdraw its motion to dismiss
NorthStar's complaint without prejudice and NorthStar agreed to take no action
in the proceeding until after providing written notice that NorthStar wishes to
recommence proceedings in the action. If NorthStar does not give such notice by
April 2, 2001, its complaint will be dismissed without prejudice.

        LOAN TO PRIMESTONE INVESTMENT PARTNERS, L.P.

        On September 28, 2000, the Company made a $62,000 subordinated loan to
Primestone Investment Partners, L.P. secured by partnership units in Prime Group
Realty LP, the operating partnership of Prime Group Realty Trust (NYSE:PGE). The
Company has received a 1% upfront fee and will be entitled to receive certain
other fees aggregating approximately 3% upon repayment of the loan. The debt
bears interest at 16% per annum and matures on October 26, 2001 with an eleven
month extension option. The effective yield on the loan is approximately 20%
including the fees.

DISPOSITIONS:

        The Company sold (i) its three shopping centers located in Texas on
March 2, 2000 for $25,750, resulting in a gain of $2,560 and (ii) its Westport,
Connecticut office property on August 30, 2000 for $24,000, resulting in a gain
of $8,405. In addition, the Company entered into an agreement on February 1,
2001 to sell its 50% interest in 570 Lexington Avenue, a New York City office
property, for approximately $60,000, which will result in a gain of
approximately $9,000. The sale is expected to be completed in the third quarter
of 2001 subject to customary closing conditions.



                                      -81-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

4.  INVESTMENTS IN PARTIALLY-OWNED ENTITIES

        The Company's investments in partially-owned entities and income
recognized from such investments is disclosed below. Summarized financial data
is provided for (i) investments in entities which exceed 10% of the Company's
total assets and (ii) investments in which the Company's share of
partially-owned entities pre-tax income exceeds 10% of the Company's net income.

BALANCE SHEET DATA:




                                      -82-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

        Below is a summary of the debt of partially owned entities as of
December 31, 2000 and 1999, none of which is guaranteed by the Company.


- ----------

(1)     This loan has been extended to March 15, 2002 at the same interest rate.

(2)     Alexander's is currently negotiating the refinancing of the debt.

(3)     The balance of the mortgage of $47,009 applicable to the commercial
        portion of the building is reflected in the Company's wholly-owned debt
        in 2000, see Note 5.



                                      -83-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

INCOME STATEMENT DATA:

- ----------

(1)     Fee income is included in equity in income of Management Companies.

(2)     1999 is net of $4,877 resulting from the write-off of the asset arising
        from the straight-lining of rents; 1998 includes the write-off of the
        carrying value of the Lexington Avenue buildings of $15,096.

(3)     Revenues and net income reflect lease payments from AmeriCold Logistics
        from March 11, 1999 through December 31, 1999 and business operations
        for the periods prior.

(4)     15% interest from October 1997 to December 1998, 9.6% interest from
        January 1999 to March 1999 and 34% interest thereafter.

(5)     Represents the Company's interests in 330 Madison Avenue (24.8%), and
        570 Lexington Avenue (50%). In 1998 the Company had a 40% interest in
        Two Park Avenue which is now wholly-owned.

        ALEXANDER'S

        The investment in and loans and advances to Alexander's are comprised
of:




                                      -84-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


        On October 21, 1999, the Company increased its ownership in Alexander's
from 29.3% to 32% by acquiring an additional 135,600 shares of Alexander's
common stock for approximately $8,956. On March 31, 2000, the Company increased
its ownership in Alexander's from 32% to 32.9% by acquiring 41,500 shares of
Alexander's common stock for approximately $2,740. On April 11, 2000, the
Company acquired an additional 10,400 shares of Alexander's common stock for
approximately $674 thereby increasing its ownership interest to 33.1%.

        At December 31, 2000, the Company has loans receivable from Alexander's
of $115,000, including $20,000 drawn under the $50,000 line of credit the
Company granted to Alexander's on August 1, 2000. The terms of the line of
credit are the same as Alexander's original $95,000 loan from the Company,
including the interest rate of 15.72%. The maturity date of the original $95,000
loan has been extended to March 15, 2002, which is also the maturity date of the
new line of credit. The interest rate on the loan and line of credit will reset
on March 15, 2001, using the same spread to treasuries as presently exists.

        Alexander's has completed the excavation and lying foundation for its
Lexington Avenue property as part of the proposed development of a large
multi-use building. The proposed building is expected to be comprised of a
commercial portion, which may include retail stores, offices, hotel space,
extended-stay residences, residential rentals and parking; and a residential
portion, consisting of condominium units. The capital required for the proposed
building will be in excess of $650,000.

        If the residential portion of the property is developed, the air rights
representing the residential portion would be transferred to a taxable REIT
subsidiary, as a REIT is not permitted to sell condominiums without being
subject to a 100% excise tax on the gain from the sale of such condominiums.

        Alexander's is managed by and its properties are leased by the Company,
pursuant to agreements with a one-year term expiring in March of each year which
are automatically renewable. The annual management fee payable to the Company by
Alexander's is equal to the sum of (i) $3,000, (ii) 3% of the gross income from
the Kings Plaza Mall, and (iii) 6% of development costs with minimum guaranteed
fees of $750 per annum.

        The leasing agreement provides for the Company to generally receive a
fee of (i) 3% of sales proceeds and (ii) 3% of lease rent for the first ten
years of a lease term, 2% of lease rent for the eleventh through the twentieth
years of a lease term and 1% of lease rent for the twenty-first through
thirtieth year of a lease term, subject to the payment of rents by Alexander's
tenants. Such amount is receivable annually in an amount not to exceed $2,500
until the present value of such installments (calculated at a discount rate of
9% per annum) equals the amount that would have been paid had it been paid on
September 21, 1993, or at the time the transactions which gave rise to the
commissions occurred, if later. At December 31, 2000, there are no fees due to
the Company.

        On January 12, 2001, Alexander's sold its Fordham Road property located
in Bronx, New York for $25,500, which resulted in a gain of $19,100. In
addition, Alexander's paid off the mortgage on this property at a discount,
which resulted in an extraordinary gain from early extinguishment of debt of
$3,500 in the first quarter of 2001.

        As of December 31, 2000, Interstate Properties and its partners owned
approximately 17.7% of the common shares of beneficial interest of the Company
and 27.5% of Alexander's common stock. Interstate Properties is a general
partnership in which Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are
partners. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
the Company, the Managing General Partner of Interstate Properties, and the
Chief Executive Officer and a director of Alexander's. Messrs. Mandelbaum and
Wight are trustees of the Company and are also directors of Alexander's.



                                      -85-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

5.     DEBT

       Following is a summary of the Company's debt:



                                      -86-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


(1)    On March 1, 2000 the Company completed a $500,000 private placement of
       10-year, 7.93% mortgage notes, cross-collateralized by 42 shopping center
       properties, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $490,000. In
       connection therewith, the Company repaid $228,000 of existing mortgage
       debt scheduled to mature on December 1, 2000 and $262,000 outstanding
       under its revolving credit facility. In connection with the repayment of
       this debt, the Company recorded an extraordinary loss of $1,125 in the
       first quarter of 2000 due to the write-off of unamortized financing
       costs.

(2)    On February 18, 1999, the Company completed a $165,000 refinancing of its
       Two Penn Plaza office building and prepaid the then existing $80,000 debt
       on the property.

(3)    On March 1, 2000, the Company refinanced its Two Park Avenue office
       building for $90,000. Of the proceeds received, the Company repaid the
       existing debt of $65,000. The new 3-year debt matures on February 28,
       2003 and bears interest at Libor + 1.45% (8.21% at December 31, 2000).

(4)    On September 21, 1999, the Company completed a $250,000 mortgage
       refinancing of its Merchandise Mart property in Chicago of which $50,000
       is further secured by a letter of credit. The letter of credit will be
       reduced over the term of the loan as cash flow increases. The Company
       bought an interest rate cap with a notional amount of $250,000, capping
       the interest rate in the event that LIBOR increases above 9.25% through
       the termination date of the agreement in September 2002. Simultaneously
       with this transaction, the Company sold an interest rate cap with a
       notional amount of $250,000 to a third party on the same terms as the cap
       the Company purchased.

(5)    On July 18, 1999, the Company completed a $70,000 mortgage financing of
       its 350 North Orleans property in Chicago. On such date, the Company
       received proceeds of $40,000. The balance of the proceeds were received
       on March 14, 2000.

(6)    On January 11, 2001, the Company completed a $105,000 refinancing of its
       888 Seventh Avenue office building. The loan bears interest at a fixed
       rate of 6.6% and matures on January 1, 2006. A portion of the proceeds
       received were used to repay the then existing mortgage of $55,000.

(7)    On August 11, 2000, the Company completed a $173,500 mortgage financing,
       cross-collaterized by its 770 Broadway and 595 Madison Avenue office
       buildings. The loan bears interest at LIBOR + .40% (7.16% at December 31,
       2000) and matures on August 1, 2002. At December 31, 2000, the proceeds
       of the loan are in a restricted mortgage escrow account, which bears
       interest at the same rate as the loan.

(8)    On March 21, 2000, the Company renewed its $1,000,000 revolving credit
       facility for an additional three years. The covenants of the facility
       include, among others, maximum loan to value ratio, minimum debt service
       coverage and minimum capitalization requirements. Interest is at LIBOR
       plus .90% (7.66% at December 31, 2000). The Company paid origination fees
       of $6,700 and pays a commitment fee quarterly of .20 % per annum on the
       facility amount.

       The net carrying value of properties collateralizing the notes and
mortgages amounted to $2,952,979 at December 31, 2000. As at December 31, 2000,
the maturities for the next five years and thereafter are as follows:





                                      -87-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


6.     SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY

       During the three years ended December 31, 2000, the Company sold $445,000
of Common Shares and $193,300 of Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares. The
following are the details of the sales.

Sale of Common Shares

       In April 1998, the Company completed the sale of 10,000,000 common shares
of beneficial interest, par value $.04 per share pursuant to an effective
registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of approximately
$401,000. On April 29, 1998, the Company sold 1,132,420 common shares to a unit
investment trust, which were valued for the purpose of the trust at $41.06 per
share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $44,000.

Sale of Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares

       On March 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 3 million 8.5%
Series B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price $25.00 per share,
pursuant to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company
of approximately $72,200. Further on March 22, 1999, 400,000 shares were sold
when the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in
additional net proceeds to the Company of $9,700. The perpetual preferred shares
may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on March
17, 2004.

       On May 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 4 million 8.5% Series
C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price of $25.00 per share,
pursuant to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company
of approximately $96,900. Additionally, on May 19, 1999, 600,000 shares were
sold when the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in
additional net proceeds to the Company of $14,500. The perpetual preferred
shares may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on
May 17, 2004.


                                      -88-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

           NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)


7.     EMPLOYEES' SHARE OPTION PLAN

       Under the Omnibus Share Plan (the "Plan"), various officers and employees
have been granted incentive share options and non-qualified options to purchase
common shares. Options granted are at prices equal to 100% of the market price
of the Company's shares at the date of grant. 921,697 shares vest on a graduated
basis, becoming fully vested 27 months after grant, 3,500,000 shares (granted in
connection with Mr. Fascitelli's employment agreement) vest on a graduated basis
becoming fully vested 60 months after grant, and 7,050,655 shares vest on a
graduated basis, becoming fully vested 36 months after grant. All options expire
ten years after grant.

       The Plan also provides for the award of Stock Appreciation Rights,
Performance Shares and Restricted Stock, as defined, none of which have been
awarded as of December 31, 2000.

       If compensation cost for Plan awards had been determined based on fair
value at the grant dates, net income and income per share would have been
reduced to the pro-forma amounts below, for the years ended December 31, 2000,
1999 and 1998:





                                      -89-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)



       The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
using an option-pricing model with the following weighted-average assumptions
used for grants in the periods ending December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.




       A summary of the Plan's status, and changes during the years then ended,
is presented below:





                                      -90-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

       The following table summarizes information about options outstanding
under the Plan at December 31, 2000:



Shares available for future grant under the Plan at December 31, 2000 were
6,956,879.

       In connection with the acquisition of Arbor in December 1997, the Company
issued 60,000 options to a third party outside of the Plan parameters. These
options were granted at $43.75 per share and immediately vested. No expense was
incurred related to this issuance as it was accounted for as component of the
acquisition price.

8.     RETIREMENT PLAN

       In December 1997, benefits under the Plan were frozen. Prior to December
31, 1997, the Company's qualified retirement plan covered all full-time
employees. The Plan provided annual pension benefits that were equal to 1% of
the employee's annual compensation for each year of participation. The funding
policy is in accordance with the minimum funding requirements of ERISA.

       Pension expense includes the following components:




*      Not applicable, as benefits under the Plan were frozen in December 1997.


                                      -91-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

       The following table sets forth the Plan's funded status and the amount
recognized in the Company's balance sheet:




       Plan assets are invested in U.S. government obligations and securities
backed by U.S. government guaranteed mortgages.

9.     LEASES

As lessor:

       The Company leases space to tenants in shopping centers and office
buildings under operating leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of
fixed base rentals payable monthly in advance. Shopping center leases provide
for the pass-through to tenants of real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance.
Office building leases generally require the tenants to reimburse the Company
for operating costs and real estate taxes above their base year costs. Shopping
center leases also provide for the payment by the lessee of additional rent
based on a percentage of the tenants' sales. As of December 31, 2000, future
base rental revenue under non-cancelable operating leases, excluding rents for
leases with an original term of less than one year and rents resulting from the
exercise of renewal options, is as follows:



       These amounts do not include rentals based on tenants' sales. These
percentage rents approximated $4,825, $2,213 and $2,493 for the years ended
December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

       Bradlees, which accounts for 14.3% of the Retail property rentals and
2.2% of total property rentals, filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the
U.S. Bankruptcy Code and closed all of its stores in February 2001. The Company
leases 16 locations to Bradlees. Of these 16 locations, the leases for 14 are
fully guaranteed and the fifteenth is guaranteed as to 70% of the rent by Stop &
Shop Companies, Inc., under a Master Agreement and Guaranty, dated May 1, 1992.
Stop & Shop is a wholly-owned subsidiary of Koninklijke Ahold NV (formerly Royal
Ahold NV), a leading international Food retailer. The effectiveness of Stop &
Shop's guarantee to Vornado of Bradlees' lease obligations is not affected by
Bradlees' bankruptcy. None of these leases have been either rejected or assumed.

       The lease for the 14th Street and Union Square property is not
guaranteed. In 1999, the Company paid Bradlees $11,000 to modify the terms of
this lease to increase the rent by approximately $1,100 per annum to $4,600
effective March 2000, and to change the lease expiration date from October 2019
to March 15, 2002. On February 9, 2001, Bradlees rejected this lease. The
Company is currently considering various redevelopment alternatives for this
site which will include a combination of office and retail space.

       None of the Company's tenants represented more than 10% of the Company's
total revenues for the year ended December 31, 2000.


                                      -92-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS -- (CONTINUED)

As lessee:

       The Company is a tenant under operating leases for certain properties.
These leases will expire principally during the next thirty years. Future
minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 2000, are as
follows:






       Rent expense was $15,248, $14,269 and $5,937 for the years ended December
31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

10.    COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES

       At December 31, 2000, in addition to the $425.0 million balance
outstanding under the Company's revolving credit facility, the Company had
utilized $93.6 million of availability under the facility for letters of credit
and guarantees primarily related to pending acquisitions.

       Each of the Company's properties has been subjected to varying degrees of
environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did not
reveal any material environmental contamination. However, there can be no
assurance that the identification of new areas of contamination, changes in the
extent or known scope of contamination, the discovery of additional sites, or
changes in cleanup requirements would not result in significant costs to the
Company.

       From time-to-time, the Company has disposed of substantial amounts of
real estate to third parties for which, as to certain properties, it remains
contingently liable for rent payments or mortgage indebtedness.

       There are various legal actions against the Company in the ordinary
course of business. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal
counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a material effect on the
Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.

11.    NET GAIN FROM INSURANCE SETTLEMENT AND CONDEMNATION PROCEEDING

       In September 1998, Atlantic City condemned the Company's vacant property.
In the third quarter of 1998, the Company recorded a gain of $1,694, (which
reflects the condemnation award of $3,100, net of the carrying value of the
property of $1,406). The Company is appealing the amount of the award.

       In April 1997, the Company's Lodi shopping center was destroyed by a
fire. In the third quarter of 1998, the Company and its insurer agreed that the
estimated cost to reconstruct the shopping center is approximately $9,012 and
the Company recorded a gain of $7,955 (the agreed upon amount, net of the
carrying value of the shopping center of $1,057). The insurance carrier has
previously advanced $5,550 to the Company. The reconstruction of the shopping
center was completed in 1999.

                                      -93-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)


12.      REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS

         The Company enters into agreements for the purchase and resale of U.S.
government obligations for periods of up to one week. The obligations purchased
under these agreements are held in safekeeping in the name of the Company by
various money center banks. The Company has the right to demand additional
collateral or return of these invested funds at any time the collateral value is
less than 102% of the invested funds plus any accrued earnings thereon.

13.      OTHER RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

         At December 31, 2000, the loan due from Mr. Roth, in accordance with
his employment arrangement, was $13,123 ($4,704 of which is shown as a reduction
in shareholders' equity). During 1999, the Company amended Mr. Roth's loan to,
(i) reset the interest rate to 4.49% per annum (based on the applicable Federal
rate) from a floating rate equal to the broker call rate and (ii) extend the
maturity to January 2006 from December 2002. The Company also provided Mr. Roth
with the right to draw up to $15,000 of additional loans on a revolving basis.
Each additional loan will bear interest, payable quarterly, at the applicable
Federal rate on the date the loan is made and will mature on the sixth
anniversary of the loan.

         At December 31, 2000, loans due from Mr. Fascitelli, in accordance with
his employment agreement, aggregated $8,600. The loans mature in 2003 and bear
interest, payable quarterly at a weighted average interest rate of 5.39% (based
on the applicable Federal rate). In addition, in accordance with his employment
agreement, in December 1996 Mr. Fascitelli received a deferred payment
consisting of $5,000 in cash and a $20,000 convertible obligation payable at the
Company's option in 919,540 of its common shares or the cash equivalent of their
appreciated value but not less than $20,000. Accordingly, the cash and common
shares are being held in an irrevocable trust (the fair value of this obligation
was $37,544 at December 31, 2000). The Company recorded a charge to equity of
$10,464 which represented the appreciation in the value of the stock from the
date the trust was established (at which time the price of the stock was $21.75
per share) to September 30, 1998 (at which time the price of the stock was
$33.13 per share). In all subsequent periods, appreciation in the stock's price
above $33.13 is recognized as compensation expense and, if the price fluctuates
between $33.13 and $21.75, equity is adjusted. For the year ended December 31,
2000, the Company recognized approximately $1,968 of compensation expense. For
the year ended December 31, 1999, approximately $340 was recognized as a
reduction of compensation expense and approximately $579 was recorded as a
reduction of stockholders' equity.

         Two other executive officers of the Company have loans outstanding
pursuant to employment agreements of $3,000 at December 31, 2000. The loans bear
interest at either the applicable Federal rate provided or the broker call rate
(8.25% at December 31, 2000).

         The Company currently manages and leases the real estate assets of
Interstate Properties pursuant to a management agreement for which the Company
receives a quarterly fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and
certain other commissions. The management agreement has a term of one year and
is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on sixty
days' notice at the end of the term. Although the management agreement was not
negotiated at arms length, the Company believes based upon comparable fees
charged by other real estate companies, that its terms are fair to the Company.
For the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998, $1,418, $1,262 and $1,365
of management fees were earned by the Company pursuant to the management
agreement.

         The Mendik Group (Messrs. Mendik and Greenbaum and certain entities
controlled by them) owns an entity which provides cleaning and related services
and security services to office properties, including the Company's Manhattan
office properties. Although the terms and conditions of the contracts pursuant
to which these services are provided were not negotiated at arms length, the
Company believes, based upon comparable amounts charged to other real estate
companies, that the terms and conditions of such contracts are fair to the
Company. In connection with these contracts, the Company paid $47,493, $40,974
and $25,686 for the years ended December 31, 2000, 1999 and 1998.

         At December 31, 2000, the common stock of the preferred stock
affiliates which owned interests in the Temperature Controlled Logistics
Companies, Hotel Pennsylvania and related management companies was owned by
Officers and Trustees of Vornado. In January 2001, the Company acquired the
common stock of the preferred stock affiliates and converted them to taxable
REIT Subsidiaries.


                                      -94-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)


14.      MINORITY INTEREST

         The minority interest represents limited partners', other than the
Company's, interests in the Operating Partnership and are comprised of:



- -------------------

(a)      Class A units are redeemable at the option of the holder for common
         shares of beneficial interest in Vornado, on a one-for-one basis, or at
         the Company's option for cash.

(b)      Mandatory conversion of Class D units into Class A units will occur
         after four consecutive quarters of distributions of at least $.50375
         per Class A unit ($2.015 annually).

(c)      Increases to $3.25 over the next two years and fixes at $3.38 in March
         2007.

(d)      Convertible at the option of the holder for an equivalent amount of the
         Company's preferred shares and redeemable at the Company's option after
         the 5th anniversary of the date of issuance (ranging from December 1998
         to December 2000).


                                      -95-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)


15.      INCOME PER SHARE

         The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
income per share:




                                      -96-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)


16.      SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)

         The following summary represents the results of operations for each
quarter in 2000 and 1999:



- -------------------

(1)      The total for the year may differ from the sum of the quarters as a
         result of weighting.

(2)      Net income for the quarters ended March 31, 2000 and September 30, 2000
         included net gains on sale of real estate of $2,560 ($.03 per share)
         and $8,405 ($.09 per share), respectively.

(3)      Net income for each of the first three quarters of 1999 has been
         restated to reflect a correction for depreciation expense of a
         partially-owned entity. The effect of such restatement for each of the
         first three quarters on net income and net income per common share is
         as follows: $462 ($.01 per share), $887 ($.01 per share), and $887
         ($.01 per share), respectively.


                                      -97-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)


17.      SEGMENT INFORMATION

         The Company has four business segments: Office, Retail, Merchandise
Mart Properties and Temperature Controlled Logistics.



- -------------------

Footnotes are explained on page 101.


                                      -98-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)




- -------------------

Footnotes are explained on page 101.


                                      -99-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)




- -------------------
Footnotes are explained on page 101.


                                     -100-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (CONTINUED)


Notes to segment information:

         (1)      EBITDA represents income before interest, taxes, depreciation
                  and amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains
                  or losses on sales of real estate, the effect of
                  straight-lining of property rentals for rent escalations and
                  minority interest. Management considers EBITDA a supplemental
                  measure for making decisions and assessing the performance of
                  its segments. EBITDA may not be comparable to similarly titled
                  measures employed by other companies.

         (2)      Other EBITDA is comprised of:



                  *        The Commercial portion of the Hotel was wholly-owned
                           as of August 5, 1999, and accordingly consolidated.

         (3)      Includes (i) the reversal of income taxes (benefit) which are
                  considered non-recurring because of the conversion of the
                  Temperature Controlled Logistics Companies to REIT's in 2000
                  and (ii) the add back of non-recurring unification costs.

         (4)      Interest and debt expense, depreciation and amortization and
                  straight-lining of rents included in the reconciliation of net
                  income to EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income
                  from partially-owned entities.

         (5)      Primarily represents the Company's equity in Alexander's loss
                  for the write-off resulting from the razing of Alexander's
                  building formerly located at its Lexington Avenue site.

         (6)      Net of $9,780, of rent not recognized as income.

         (7)      Includes the reversal of $4,765 of expenses in connection with
                  a deferred compensation arrangement.


18.      SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

         On February 22, 2001, the Company entered into a 20-day exclusive
negotiation period with the Port Authority of NY & NJ to complete the contract
and associated documents for the net lease of the 11 million square foot World
Trade Center complex in New York. The 99-year net lease of the World Trade
Center has been valued by the Port Authority's advisors at approximately $3.25
billion. The Board of the Commissioners of the Port Authority has instructed
their staff and advisors to present the final contract for approval at a special
Port Authority Board meeting scheduled for March 14, 2001. In connection
therewith, the Company has provided the Port Authority with a $100 million
refundable and non-drawable letter of credit.


                                     -101-


                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

         Information relating to trustees of the Registrant will be contained in
a definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of trustees which the
Registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 not later than 120 days
after December 31, 2000, and such information is incorporated herein by
reference. Information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears
at page 45 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

         Information relating to executive compensation will be contained in the
Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10, "Directors and Executive Officers
of the Registrant", and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

         Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10,
"Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant", and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

         Information relating to certain relationships and related transactions
will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10, "Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant", and such information is incorporated
herein by reference.


                                     -102-


                                     PART IV


ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

         (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

                  1. The consolidated financial statements are set forth in Item
         8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

         The following financial statement schedules should be read in
conjunction with the financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual
Report on Form 10-K.



         Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are
not applicable or the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.

         The following exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed with this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.



         (b) Reports on Form 8-K and Form 8-K/A

         During the last quarter of the period covered by this Annual Report on
Form 10-K the reports on Form 8-K and Form 8-K/A described below were filed.




                                     -103-


                                   SIGNATURES

         Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                    VORNADO REALTY TRUST


                                    By:          /s/ Joseph Macnow
                                       -------------------------------------
                                       Joseph Macnow, Executive Vice President-
                                       Finance and Administration and
                                       Chief Financial Officer


                                       Date: March 1, 2001

         Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:





                                     -104-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                   SCHEDULE II
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS




                                     -105-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)






                                     -106-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)





                                     -107-

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)




                                     -108-





                                     -109-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                DECEMBER 31, 2000
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)




                                     -110-



         * These encumbrances are cross collateralized under a blanket mortgage
in the amount of $496,764 at December 31, 2000.

Notes:

         1)       Initial cost is cost as of January 30, 1982 (the date on which
                  Vornado commenced real estate operations) unless acquired
                  subsequent to that date -- see Column H.

         2)       The net basis of the company's assets and liabilities for tax
                  purposes is approximately $1,033,000 lower than the amount
                  reported for financial statement purposes.

         3)       Date of original construction ---- many properties have had
                  substantial renovation or additional construction ---- see
                  Column D.

         4)       Buildings on these properties were demolished. As a result,
                  the cost of the buildings and improvements, net of accumulated
                  depreciation, were transferred to land.

         In addition, the cost of the land in Kearny is net of a $1,615
insurance recovery.

                                     -111-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                             (AMOUNTS IN THOUSANDS)

         The following is a reconciliation of real estate assets and accumulated
depreciation:




                                     -112-


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX



- ---------------
*        Incorporated by reference


                                     -113-




- ---------------
*        Incorporated by reference


                                     -114-




- -------------
*    Incorporated by reference

                                     -115-



- -------------
*    Incorporated by reference

                                      -116-



- -------------
*    Incorporated by reference
**   Management contract or compensatory plan


                                     -117-



- -------------
*    Incorporated by reference

                                     -118-



- -------------
*    Incorporated by reference

                                     -119-



- -------------
*    Incorporated by reference

                                     -120-

