
10-K405
VORNADO REALTY TRUST




                                                       EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGE 105

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                             WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549
                                    FORM 10-K

[X]   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
      ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended: December 31, 1998

                                       or

[ ]   TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
      EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from ____________________ to _____________________

Commission File Number: 1-11954

                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
             ------------------------------------------------------
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

           Maryland                                          22-1657560
 ------------------------------                        ----------------------
(State or other jurisdiction of                           (I.R.S. Employer
 incorporation or organization)                        Identification Number)

Park 80 West, Plaza II, Saddle Brook, New Jersey               07663
- ------------------------------------------------       ----------------------
   (Address of Principal Executive Offices)                  (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number including area code: (201) 587-1000
                                                   --------------

           Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

        Title of Each Class           Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered
        -------------------           -----------------------------------------

   Common Shares of beneficial                   New York Stock Exchange
interest, $.04 par value per share

       Series A Convertible                      New York Stock Exchange
  Preferred Shares of beneficial
      interest, no par value                     

     8.5% Series B Cumulative                    New York Stock Exchange
   Redeemable Preferred Shares
     of beneficial interest,
           no par value

        Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such
filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES [X]  NO [ ]

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K. [X]

The aggregate market value of the voting shares held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, i.e. by persons other than officers and trustees of Vornado Realty
Trust as reflected in the table in Item 12 of this Form 10-K, at March 4, 1999
was $2,290,892,000.

As of March 4, 1999, there were 85,088,542 common shares of the registrant's
shares of beneficial interest outstanding.

                       Documents Incorporated by Reference
                       -----------------------------------

Part III: Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held on May
19, 1999.


                                      -1-


                                          Item                                                              Page
          ----                                                              ----

Part I.    1.   Business...................................................   3
           2.   Properties.................................................  15
           3.   Legal Proceedings..........................................  42
           4.   Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders........  42
                Executive Officers of the Registrant.......................  42
Part II.   5.   Market for the Registrant's Common Equity and Related 
                  Stockholder Matters......................................  43
           6.   Selected Consolidated Financial Data.......................  44
           7.   Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial 
                  Condition and Results of Operations......................  46
          7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosure about Market Risk..  58
           8.   Financial Statements and Supplementary Data................  59
           9.   Changes In and Disagreements With Independent Auditors' 
                  on Accounting and Financial Disclosure...................  59
Part III. 10.   Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant.........  (1)
          11.   Executive Compensation.....................................  (1)
          12.   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners 
                  and Management...........................................  (1)
          13.   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions.............  (1)
Part IV.  14.   Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports 
                  on Form 8-K..............................................  95
Signatures.................................................................  96

- ----------
(1)   These items are omitted because the Registrant will file a definitive
      Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation 14A involving the election of
      directors with the Securities and Exchange Commission not later than 120
      days after December 31, 1998, which is incorporated by reference herein.
      Information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears on
      page 42 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

      Certain statements contained herein constitute forward-looking statements
as such term is defined in Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended
(the "Securities Act"), and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934,
as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Certain factors could cause actual results to
differ materially from those in the forward-looking statements. Factors that
might cause such a material difference include, but are not limited to, (a)
changes in the general economic climate, (b) local conditions such as an
oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for real estate in the area, (c)
conditions of tenants, (d) competition from other available space, (e) increased
operating costs and interest expense, (f) the timing of and costs associated
with property improvements, (g) changes in taxation or zoning laws, (h)
government regulations, (i) failure of Vornado to continue to qualify as a REIT,
(j) availability of financing on acceptable terms, (k) potential liability under
environmental or other laws or regulations, (l) general competitive factors and
(m) failure by Vornado, or by other companies with which it does business, to
remediate possible Year 2000 problems in computer software or embedded
technology.


                                      -2-


                                     PART I

Item 1.  Business

The Company

      Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
("REIT"). In April 1997, Vornado transferred substantially all of its assets to
Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating
Partnership"). As a result, Vornado now conducts its business through the
Operating Partnership. Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned
approximately 85% of the limited partnership common interest in, the Operating
Partnership at March 17, 1999. All references to the "Company" and "Vornado"
refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the
Operating Partnership.

      The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Building Properties ("Office"):

            (i) all or portions of 21 office building properties in the New York
      City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) containing approximately 12.5
      million square feet;

            (ii) a 34% limited partnership interest in Charles E. Smith
      Commercial Realty L.P. ("CESCR"), a limited partnership, which owns
      interests in and manages approximately 10.7 million square feet of office
      properties in Northern Virginia and Washington D.C., and manages an
      additional 14.6 million square feet of office and other commercial
      properties in the Washington, D.C. area;

Retail Properties ("Retail"):

            (iii) 59 shopping center properties in seven states and Puerto Rico
      containing approximately 12.2 million square feet, including 1.4 million
      square feet built by tenants on land leased from the Company;

Cold Storage Companies ("Cold Storage"):

            (iv) a 60% interest in partnerships that own 88 warehouse facilities
      nationwide with an aggregate of approximately 450 million cubic feet of
      refrigerated, frozen and dry storage space (excludes 13 additional
      warehouses containing approximately 80 million cubic feet managed by the
      Cold Storage Companies - see "Spin-off of Vornado Operating Company");

Merchandise Mart Properties:

            (v) the Merchandise Mart Properties portfolio containing
      approximately 6.7 million square feet, including the 3.4 million square
      foot Merchandise Mart in Chicago;

Other Real Estate Investments:

            (vi) approximately 29.3% of the outstanding common stock of
      Alexander's, Inc. ("Alexander's"), which has eight properties in the New
      York City metropolitan area;

            (vii) an 80% interest in the Hotel Pennsylvania, a New York City
      hotel which contains 800,000 square feet of space with 1,700 rooms and
      400,000 square feet of retail and office space;

            (viii) eight dry warehouse /industrial properties in New Jersey
      containing approximately 2.0 million square feet; and

            (ix) other real estate investments.


                                      -3-


Objectives and Strategy

      The Company's business objective is to maximize shareholder value. The
Company intends to achieve its business objective by continuing to pursue its
investment philosophy, making opportunistic investments and executing its
operating strategies through:

      o     Maintaining a superior team of operating and investment
            professionals and an opportunistic entrepreneurial spirit;

      o     Investing in properties in the New York City metropolitan area and
            other selected markets where the Company believes there is high
            likelihood of capital appreciation;

      o     Acquiring high quality properties at a discount to replacement cost
            and where there is a significant potential for higher rents;

      o     Investing in retail properties in selected understored locations
            such as the New York City metropolitan area;

      o     Investing in fully integrated operating companies that have a
            significant real estate component with qualified, experienced
            operating management and strong growth potential which can benefit
            from the Company's access to efficient capital; and

      o     Developing and redeveloping the Company's existing properties to
            increase returns and maximize value.

The Company expects to finance its growth, acquisitions and investments using
internally generated funds, funds from possible asset sales and by accessing the
public and private capital markets.


                                      -4-


Acquisitions and Investments

         Since January 1, 1998, the Company completed approximately $2.4 billion
of real estate acquisitions or investments. The following table lists the
acquisitions and investments by business segment:




                                      -5-


Office:

   One Penn Plaza

      In February 1998, the Company acquired a long-term leasehold interest in
One Penn Plaza for approximately $410,000,000. One Penn Plaza is a 57 story
Manhattan office building containing approximately 2,400,000 square feet and
encompasses substantially the entire square block bounded by 33rd Street, 34th
Street, Seventh Avenue and Eighth Avenue.

Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty L.P.

      On March 4, 1999, the Company made an additional $242,000,000 investment
in CESCR by contributing to CESCR the land under certain CESCR office properties
in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia and partnership interests in certain CESCR
subsidiaries. The Company acquired these assets from Commonwealth Atlantic
Properties, Inc. ("CAPI"), an affiliate of Lazard Freres Real Estate Investors
L.L.C., immediately prior to the contribution to CESCR. Together with the
Company's investment in CESCR made in 1997 and the units it reacquired on March
4, 1999 from Vornado Operating Company, the Company owns approximately 34% of
CESCR's limited partnership units. In addition, the Company acquired from CAPI
for $8,000,000 the land under a Marriott Hotel located in Crystal City.

      The purchase price was paid to CAPI by the Company issuing $250,000,000 of
6% Convertible Preferred Units of the Company's operating partnership. The
Preferred Units are convertible at $44 per unit and the coupon increases to
6.50% over the next three years and then fixes at 6.75% in year eight. The
Company will appoint one of three members to CESCR's Board of Managers,
increasing under certain circumstances to two of four members in March 2002.

      In connection with these transactions, the Company made a five-year
$41,000,000 loan to CAPI with interest at 8%, increasing to 9% ratably over the
term. The loan is secured by approximately $55,000,000 of the Operating
Partnership's units issued to CAPI as well as certain real estate assets.

   770 Broadway

      In July 1998, the Company acquired 770 Broadway, a 1,016,000 square foot
Manhattan office building, for approximately $149,000,000, including $18,000,000
of Operating Partnership Units.

   150 East 58th Street

      In March 1998, the Company acquired 150 East 58th Street (the Architects
and Design Center), a 39 story Manhattan office building, for approximately
$118,000,000. The building contains approximately 550,000 square feet.

   Mendik Real Estate Limited Partnership Properties

      In November 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of certain
properties from the Mendik Real Estate Limited Partnership ("Mendik RELP"). The
acquired real estate assets include (i) a leasehold interest in the Saxon Woods
Corporate Center located at 550/600 Mamaroneck Avenue, in Harrison, New York
which contains approximately 234,000 square feet, (ii) the remaining 60%
interest in an office building located at Two Park Avenue, in Manhattan which
contains approximately 946,000 square feet (the Company already owned 40%) and
(iii) a leasehold interest in an office building located at 330 West 34th
Street, also in Manhattan, which contains approximately 628,000 square feet. The
aggregate purchase price of approximately $106,000,000, consisted of $31,000,000
of cash, $29,000,000 of the Company's common shares and $46,000,000 of debt.


                                      -6-


  888 Seventh Avenue and 40 Fulton Street

      In June 1998, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire the
leasehold interest in 888 Seventh Avenue, a 46 story office building containing
approximately 848,000 square feet located in midtown Manhattan, and
simultaneously acquired 40 Fulton Street, a 29 story office building containing
approximately 234,000 square feet located in downtown Manhattan. The aggregate
consideration for both buildings was approximately $154,500,000. The acquisition
of 888 Seventh Avenue was completed in January 1999.

570 Lexington Avenue - additional investment

      In April 1998, the Company increased its interest from 5.6% to
approximately 50% in 570 Lexington Avenue, a 49 story office building located in
midtown Manhattan containing approximately 433,000 square feet. The Company
purchased the additional interest for approximately $37,200,000, including
$4,900,000 of existing debt.

  689 Fifth Avenue

      In August 1998, the Company acquired 689 Fifth Avenue, a 84,000 square
foot Manhattan specialty building for approximately $33,000,000 from a
partnership that included Bernard H. Mendik, a former trustee of the Company.

  Westport Corporate Office Park

      In January 1998, the Company acquired Westport Corporate Office Park
("Westport") from a limited partnership that included Bernard H. Mendik and
David R. Greenbaum, the Chief Executive Officer of the Company's Mendik
Division, as partners (Messrs. Mendik and Greenbaum and certain entities
controlled by them are referred to herein as the "Mendik Group".) The purchase
price was approximately $14,000,000 consisting of $6,000,000 of cash and an
$8,000,000 mortgage loan for the two buildings which contain 120,000 square
feet.

  20 Broad Street

      In September 1997, the Company purchased, at a discount, a mortgage on a
460,000 square foot office building at 20 Broad Street in Manhattan for
$27,000,000. In August 1998, the Company acquired a 60% interest in the
leasehold from the Mendik Group for approximately $600,000 of Operating
Partnership Units. In a related transaction, the Company sold a 40% interest in
the mortgage to the other unrelated owner of the property for $10,800,000. The
Mendik Group may also receive a future earn-out, capped at $4,400,000 in
additional units, based on leasing activity through December 31, 2004.

Retail:

  Las Catalinas Mall

      In October 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of Kmart
Corporation's ("Kmart") 50% interest in the Las Catalinas Mall located in
Caguas, Puerto Rico (adjacent to San Juan). In addition, the Company acquired
75% and the Company's partner in the Mall acquired 25% of Kmart's anchor store.
The Company's purchase price of $38,000,000 was fully financed with 15 year
debt. The Las Catalinas Mall, which opened in 1997, contains 489,000 square
feet, including a 123,000 square foot Kmart store and a 146,000 square foot
Sears store.

Cold Storage:

      In June 1998, a partnership in which Vornado owns a 60% interest through a
preferred stock affiliate acquired the assets of Freezer Services, Inc.,
consisting of nine cold storage warehouses in the central United States for
approximately $133,000,000, including $107,000,000 in cash and $26,000,000 in
indebtedness. The Company's share of this investment was $80,000,000.
Additionally, in July 1998, the Carmar Group was acquired for approximately
$158,000,000, including $144,000,000 in cash and $14,000,000 in indebtedness.
The Company's share of this investment was $95,000,000. Carmar owned and
operated five cold storage distribution warehouses in the midwest and southeast
United States.


                                      -7-


Merchandise Mart Properties:

  The Merchandise Mart Properties

      In April 1998, the Company acquired a real estate portfolio from the
Kennedy Family for approximately $630,000,000, consisting of $187,000,000 in
cash, $116,000,000 in Operating Partnership Units, $77,000,000 in existing debt
and $250,000,000 of newly issued debt. The acquired real estate assets consist
of a portfolio of properties used for office, retail and trade showroom space
which aggregate approximately 5.4 million square feet and include the
Merchandise Mart in Chicago. The transaction also included the acquisition of
Merchandise Mart Properties, Inc., which manages the properties and owns and
operates certain trade shows.

  Market Square Complex

      In December 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of the 1.07
million square foot Market Square Complex of showrooms in High Point, North
Carolina. The consideration was approximately $97,000,000, consisting of
$46,000,000 in debt, $44,000,000 in Operating Partnership Units and 6.5%
Preferred Operating Partnership Units convertible at $43.74 per unit and
$7,000,000 of cash. The acquired real estate assets include the Market Square,
Hamilton Market and Furniture Plaza showroom buildings and the High Point
Holiday Inn hotel.

      In a second transaction, the Company acquired the 243,000 square foot
National Furniture Mart, which is adjacent to the forementioned properties, in
High Point. The price was approximately $17,700,000, consisting of $3,800,000 in
cash and $13,900,000 in debt.

Other Real Estate Investments:

  Hotel Pennslyvania - additional investment

      In May 1998, the Company acquired an additional 40% interest in the Hotel
Pennsylvania increasing its ownership to 80%. The Company purchased the
additional 40% interest from Hotel Properties Limited (one of its joint venture
partners) for approximately $70,000,000, including $48,000,000 of existing debt.

  Newkirk Joint Ventures

      In July and September 1998, the Company invested an aggregate of
$56,000,000 for a 30% share in joint ventures with affiliates of Apollo Real
Estate Investment Fund III, L.P., collectively Newkirk Joint Ventures
("Newkirk"). Newkirk owns various equity and debt interests relating to 120
limited partnerships which own real estate primarily net leased to credit rated
tenants. The Company has issued a $15,600,000 letter of credit in connection
with these joint ventures.

      In March 1999, the Company and its joint venture partner completed an
acquisition of additional equity interests in certain limited partnerships. The
Company's additional investment of $52,435,000 consisted of $47,790,000 in
Operating Partnership Units and $4,645,000 in cash.


                                      -8-


Development and Redevelopment Projects

      The Company is currently engaged in or considering certain multi-year
development and redevelopment projects. These projects include: (i) construction
of 119,000 square feet of residential condominiums in Manhattan (YMCA
Development 80% interest), (ii) construction of an 800,000 square foot high-rise
rental apartment complex in Fort Lee, New Jersey (75% interest), (iii)
acquisitions, developments and expansions of Cold Storage distribution and
production warehouses (60% interest), (iv) tenant improvements and refurbishment
of 770 Broadway, (v) conversion of 38,000 square feet of office space to retail
space at 640 Fifth Avenue, (vi) redevelopment of the Russian Tea Room restaurant
building on 57th Street in Manhattan (50% interest), (vii) the conversion of
office space at 689 Fifth Avenue to hotel space, (viii) the expansion of the
Market Square Complex in High Point, North Carolina, (ix) the redevelopment of
the site at 14th Street and Union Square (currently leased by Bradlees), which
may include razing the existing building and developing a large multi-use
building, (x) the refurbishment of the Hotel Pennsylvania, (xi) the
redevelopment of the Company's Penn Station properties which may include
creating new retail space, (xii) Alexander's (29.3% interest) redevelopment of
its Paramus property into a 550,000 square foot shopping center, (xiii)
Alexander's (29.3% interest) development of a large multi-use building at its
59th Street and Lexington Avenue site and (xiv) Alexander's (29.3% interest)
renovation of its Kings Plaza Mall. There can be no assurance that all of the
above projects will be commenced or ultimately completed.

Spin-off of Vornado Operating Company

  General

      Vornado Operating Company, ("Vornado Operating") was incorporated on
October 30, 1997, as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. In order to
maintain its status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company is
required to focus principally on investment in real estate assets. Accordingly,
the Company is prevented from owning certain assets and conducting certain
activities that would be inconsistent with its status as a REIT. Vornado
Operating was formed to own assets that Vornado could not itself own and conduct
activities that Vornado could not itself conduct. Vornado Operating is intended
to function principally as an operating company, in contrast to the Company's
principal focus on investment in real estate assets. Vornado Operating is able
to do so because it is taxable as a regular "C" corporation rather than a REIT.

      Vornado Operating will seek to become the operator of businesses conducted
at properties it leases from the Company, as contemplated by the Intercompany
Agreement between the Company and Vornado Operating (the "Intercompany
Agreement"), referred to below. Vornado Operating expects to rely exclusively on
the Company to identify business opportunities and currently expects that those
opportunities will relate in some manner to the Company and its real estate
investments rather than to unrelated businesses.

  The Distribution

      On October 16, 1998, the Operating Partnership made a distribution (the
"Distribution") of one share of common stock, par value $.01 per share (the
"Common Stock"), of Vornado Operating for 20 units of limited partnership
interest of the Operating Partnership (including units owned by the Company)
held of record as of the close of business on October 9, 1998 and Vornado Realty
Trust in turn made a distribution of the Common Stock it received to the holders
of its common shares of beneficial interest. While no Common Stock was
distributed in respect of the Company's $3.25 Series A Convertible Preferred
Shares, the Company adjusted the Conversion Price to take into account the
Distribution. Vornado Operating's Common Stock is listed on the American Stock
Exchange under the symbol "VOO".


                                      -9-


  Capital Contribution and Revolving Credit Agreement.

      The Company initially capitalized Vornado Operating with an equity
contribution of $25,000,000 of cash. As part of its formation, Vornado Operating
was granted a $75,000,000 unsecured five-year revolving credit facility from
Vornado (the "Revolving Credit Agreement"). Borrowings under the Revolving
Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus
3%. Commencing January 1, 1999, Vornado Operating pays the Company a commitment
fee equal to 1% per annum on the average daily unused portion of the facility.
Amounts may be borrowed under the Revolving Credit Agreement, repaid and
reborrowed from time to time on a revolving basis (so long as the principal
amount outstanding at any time does not exceed $75,000,000). Only interest and
commitment fees are payable under the Revolving Credit Agreement until it
expires. The Revolving Credit Agreement prohibits Vornado Operating from
incurring indebtedness to third parties (other than certain purchase money debt
and certain other exceptions) and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying
dividends. Debt under the Revolving Credit Agreement is recourse to Vornado
Operating.

  Intercompany Agreement.

      The Company and Vornado Operating have entered into the Intercompany
Agreement pursuant to which, among other things, (a) the Company will under
certain circumstances offer Vornado Operating an opportunity to become the
lessee of certain real property owned now or in the future by the Company (under
mutually satisfactory lease terms) and (b) Vornado Operating will not make any
real estate investment or other REIT-Qualified Investment unless it first offers
the Company the opportunity to make such investment and the Company has rejected
that opportunity.

      Under the Intercompany Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide
Vornado Operating with certain administrative, corporate, accounting, financial,
insurance, legal, tax, data processing, human resources and operational
services. For these services, Vornado Operating will compensate the Company in
an amount determined in good faith by the Company as the amount an unaffiliated
third party would charge Vornado Operating for comparable services and will
reimburse the Company for certain costs incurred and paid to third parties on
behalf of Vornado Operating. For the period from October 16, 1998 (commencement
date) to December 31, 1998, approximately $50,000 of compensation for such
services was charged pursuant to the Intercompany Agreement.

      Vornado Operating and the Company each have the right to terminate the
Intercompany Agreement if the other party is in material default of the
Intercompany Agreement or upon 90 days written notice to the other party at any
time after December 31, 2003. In addition, the Company has the right to
terminate the Intercompany Agreement upon a change in control of Vornado
Operating.

  Vornado Operating's Management.

      Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, West and Wight are directors of Vornado
Operating. Mr. Roth is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
Vornado Operating, Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Vornado Operating, and
certain other members of the Company's senior management hold a corresponding
position with Vornado Operating.


                                      -10-


  The Cold Storage Companies

      On October 31, 1997, partnerships (the "Vornado/Crescent Partnerships") in
which affiliates of the Company have a 60% interest and affiliates of Crescent
Real Estate Equities Company have a 40% interest acquired each of AmeriCold
Corporation ("Americold") and URS Logistics, Inc. ("URS"). In June 1998, the
Vornado/Crescent Partnerships acquired the assets of Freezer Services, Inc. and
in July 1998 acquired the Carmar Group (Americold, URS, Freezer Services, Inc.
and the Carmar Group, collectively, the "Cold Storage Companies").

      On March 12, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of the Cold Storage Companies encompassing the operations
of the cold storage business for approximately $48,000,000 to a new partnership
owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc. The
new partnership leases the underlying cold storage warehouses used in this
business from the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships which continue to own the real
estate. The leases have a 15 year term with two-five year renewal options and
provide for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage rent based on customer
revenues. The new partnership is required to pay for all costs arising from the
operation, maintenance and repair of the properties as well as property capital
expenditures in excess of $5,000,000 annually. Fixed base rent and percentage
rent for the initial lease year is projected to be approximately $151 million.
The new partnership has the right to defer a portion of the rent for up to three
years beginning on March 12, 1999 to the extent that available cash, as defined
in the leases, is insufficient to pay such rent.

  Disposition and Acquisition of Interest in CESCR

      On December 31, 1998, the Company sold approximately 1.7% of the
outstanding partnership units of CESCR, (a Delaware limited partnership that
owns interests in and manages approximately 10,700,000 square feet of office
properties in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, D.C.,
and manages an additional 14,600,000 square feet of office and other commercial
properties in the Washington, D.C. area) to Vornado Operating Company for an
aggregate purchase price of approximately $12,900,000, or $34 per unit (which is
the price at which CESCR issued partnership units in October 1998 in connection
with a significant "roll-up" transaction). The purchase price was funded out of
Vornado Operating's working capital. After giving effect to this purchase, the
Company owned approximately 9.6% of CESCR as of December 31, 1998. In connection
with this purchase, the Company granted to Vornado Operating an option to
require the Company to repurchase all of the CESCR units at the price at which
Vornado Operating purchased the CESCR units, plus a cumulative return on such
amount at a rate of 10% per annum. The option was exercised on March 4, 1999.
Accordingly, the Company reacquired the CESCR units from Vornado Operating for
$13,200,000.

Financing Activities

  Corporate:

      In April 1998, the Company completed the sale of 10,000,000 common shares
pursuant to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company
of approximately $401,000,000. Also in April 1998, the Company sold 1,132,420
common shares to a unit investment trust, which were valued for the purpose of
the trust at $41.06 per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately
$44,000,000.

      In November and December of 1998, the Company sold an aggregate of
$87,500,000 of 8.5% Series D-1 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units in the
Operating Partnership to an institutional investor in a private placement,
resulting in net proceeds of approximately $85,300,000. The perpetual Preferred
Units may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on
November 12, 2003.

      On March 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 3 million 8.5% Series
B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price $25.00 per share, pursuant
to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $72,200,000. Further on March 22, 1999, 400,000 shares were sold
when the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in
additional net proceeds to the Company of $9,700,000. The perpetual preferred
shares may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on
March 17, 2004.


                                      -11-


   Office:

      In June 1998, the Company completed a $275,000,000 refinancing of its One
Penn Plaza office building and borrowed $170,000,000 pursuant thereto. In the
third quarter of 1998, the Company borrowed the remaining $105,000,000. The debt
matures in June 2002, is prepayable at anytime, and bears interest at LIBOR +
1.25% (currently 6.35%). This debt replaced the $93,000,000 bridge-mortgage loan
financing put in place when the property was acquired.

      In February 1999, the Company completed a $165,000,000 refinancing of its
Two Penn Plaza office building and prepaid the then existing $80,000,000 debt on
the property. The new 5-year debt matures in February 2004 and bears interest at
7.08%.

   Retail:

      In February 1998, the Company completed a $160,000,000 refinancing of the
Green Acres Mall and prepaid the then existing $118,000,000 debt on the
property. The new 10-year debt matures in March 2008 and bears interest at
6.75%.

   Cold Storage:

      In April 1998, the Cold Storage Companies completed a $550,000,000
ten-year loan secured by 58 of its warehouses. The loan bears interest at 6.89%.
The net proceeds from the loan together with working capital were used to repay
$607,000,000 of bridge financing, which replaced high yield debt assumed at the
date of acquisition.

   Merchandise Mart Properties:

      In June 1998, the Company repaid the $26,000,000 mortgage on 350 North
Orleans Street, in Chicago.

      In November 1998, the terms of the $24,000,000 mortgage on the Washington
Design Center were modified to adjust the interest rate from LIBOR + 3.00% to
LIBOR + 1.35% (currently 6.45%) and to extend the maturity date from April 2000
to November 2000.

      In February 1999, the Company exercised its option to extend the maturity
date on the $250,000,000 loan on its Chicago Merchandise Mart building from
March 31, 1999 to September 30, 1999. In connection therewith, the Company paid
a fee of 1/8%.

      At December 31, 1998, the ratio of debt-to-enterprise value (market equity
value plus debt less cash) was 45% based on debt of $2.8 billion which included
the Company's proportionate share of debt of partially-owned entities.
Historically, the Company has maintained a lower debt-to-enterprise value ratio.
In the future, in connection with its strategy for growth, this percentage may
change. The Company's policy concerning the incurrence of debt may be reviewed
and modified from time to time by the Company without the vote of shareholders.

      The Company may seek to obtain funds through equity offerings or debt
financing, although there is no express policy with respect thereto. The Company
may offer its shares or Operating Partnership units in exchange for property and
may repurchase or otherwise reacquire its shares or any other securities in the
future.


                                      -12-


EBITDA By Segment and Region

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Company's EBITDA(1)
by segment and region on a pro forma basis for the year ended December 31, 1998
and on a historical basis for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997. The
pro forma column gives effect to the acquisitions previously described and the
financings attributable thereto, as if they had occurred on January 1, 1997.
Prior to April 1997, the Company operated in one segment-retail real estate,
primarily in the Northeast section of the United States.



(1)   EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and
      amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or losses on
      sales of real estate and the effect of straight-lining of property rentals
      for rent escalations. Management considers EBITDA a supplemental measure
      for making decisions and assessing the performance of its segments. EBITDA
      may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other
      companies.
(2)   Other includes the Cold Storage segment which has facilities in 33 states.
      See page 30 for details.


                                      -13-


Relationship with Alexander's

      The Company owns 29.3% of the outstanding shares of common stock of
Alexander's. See "Interstate Properties" below for a description of Interstate's
ownership of the Company and Alexander's.

      Alexander's has eight properties (see Item 2. Properties--Alexander's).

      In March 1995, the Company lent Alexander's $45,000,000. The loan, which
was originally scheduled to mature in March 1998, has been renewed for two
additional one year periods and currently matures in March 2000. The interest
rate was reset in March 1999 from 13.87% per annum to 14.18% per annum.
Management believes there are no indications of impairment as discussed in
Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 114, "Accounting by Creditors
for Impairment of a Loan".

      The Company manages, develops and leases the Alexander's properties under
a management and development agreement (the "Management Agreement") and a
leasing agreement (the "Leasing Agreement") pursuant to which the Company
receives annual fees from Alexander's. These Agreements have a one-year term
expiring in March of each year and are automatically renewable.

      Alexander's common stock is listed on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol "ALX".

Interstate Properties

      As of December 31, 1998, Interstate Properties owned approximately 18.1%
of the common shares of beneficial interest of the Company, 27.1% of Alexander's
common stock and beneficial ownership of 14.8% of Vornado Operating. Interstate
Properties is a general partnership in which Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and
Russell B. Wight, Jr. are partners. Mr. Roth is the Chairman of the Board and
Chief Executive Officer of the Company, the Managing General Partner of
Interstate Properties, and the Chief Executive Officer and a director of both
Alexander's and Vornado Operating. Mr. Wight is a trustee of the Company and is
also a director of both Alexander's and Vornado Operating. Mr. Mandelbaum is a
trustee of the Company and is also a director of Alexander's.

Competition

      The Company's four business segments, Office, Retail, Cold Storage and
Merchandise Mart Properties, operate in highly competitive environments. The
Company's success depends upon, among other factors, the trends of the national
and local economies, the financial condition and operating results of current
and prospective tenants and customers, the availability and cost of capital,
construction and renovation costs, income tax laws, governmental regulations,
legislation and population trends. The Company competes with a large number of
real estate property owners. Principal factors of competition are rent charged,
attractiveness of property and the quality and breadth of services provided.
The Company has a large concentration of properties in the New York City
metropolitan area, a highly competitive market. The economic condition of this
market may be significantly influenced by supply and demand for space and the
financial performance and productivity of the publishing, retail,
pharmaceutical, insurance and finance industries.


                                      -14-


Environmental Regulations

      Under various Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, a
current or previous owner or operator of real estate may be required to
investigate and clean up certain hazardous or toxic substances released at a
property, and may be held liable to a governmental entity or to third parties
for property damage or personal injuries and for investigation and clean-up
costs incurred by the parties in connection with the contamination. Such laws
often impose liability without regard to whether the owner or operator knew of,
or was responsible for, the release of such substances. The presence of
contamination or the failure to remediate contamination may adversely affect the
owner's ability to sell or lease real estate or to borrow using the real estate
as collateral. Other Federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations
require abatement or removal of certain asbestos-containing materials in the
event of demolition or certain renovations or remodeling and also govern
emissions of and exposure to asbestos fibers in the air. The operation and
subsequent removal of certain underground storage tanks are also regulated by
Federal and state laws. In connection with the ownership, operation and
management of its properties, the Company could be held liable for the costs of
remedial action with respect to such regulated substances or tanks or related
claims.

      Each of the Company's properties has been subjected to varying degrees of
environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did not
reveal any material environmental condition. However, there can be no assurance
that the identification of new areas of contamination, change in the extent or
known scope of contamination, the discovery of additional sites, or changes in
cleanup requirements would not result in significant costs to the Company.

Certain Activities

      Acquisitions and investments are not necessarily required to be based on
specific allocation by type of property. The Company has historically held its
properties for long-term investment; however, it is possible that properties in
the portfolio may be sold in whole or in part, as circumstances warrant, from
time to time. Further, the Company has not adopted a policy that limits the
amount or percentage of assets which would be invested in a specific property.
While the Company may seek the vote of its shareholders in connection with any
particular material transaction, generally the Company's activities are reviewed
and may be modified from time to time by its Board of Trustees without the vote
of shareholders.

Employees

      The Company has approximately 600 employees consisting of 88 in the Office
Properties segment, 53 in the Retail Properties segment, 384 in the Merchandise
Mart Properties segment and 75 in the corporate office. This does not include
employees of partially-owned entities such as the 5,500 employees of the Cold
Storage Companies and the 400 employees at the Hotel Pennsylvania.

Segment Data

      The Company operates in four business segments: Office Properties, Retail
Properties, Cold Storage and Merchandise Mart Properties. The Company engages in
no foreign operations.

      The Company's principal executive offices are located at Park 80 West,
Plaza II, Saddle Brook, New Jersey 07663; telephone (201) 587-1000.

Item 2. Properties

      The Company currently owns, directly or indirectly, Office properties
Retail properties, Cold Storage warehouses and the Merchandise Mart Properties.
The Company also owns or has investments in dry warehouse and industrial
buildings, Alexander's, Hotel Pennsylvania and Newkirk Joint Ventures.


                                      -15-


Office

      The Company's office properties consist of (i) all or a portion of 21
office buildings in the New York City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan)
containing approximately 12.5 million square feet (including 720,000 square feet
of retail space and 5 garages containing 334,000 square feet) (collectively, the
"New York City Office Properties") and (ii) a 34% interest in Charles E. Smith
Commercial Realty, L.P. which owns interests in and manages approximately 10.7
million square feet of office properties in Northern Virginia and Washington
D.C. (the "CESCR Office Properties").

      The following data on pages 16 to 20 covers the New York City Office
Properties. The CESCR Office Properties are described on page 21.

New York City Office Properties:

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the New York City Office
Properties revenue by tenant's industry:



      The average lease term of a tenant's lease is approximately 12 years.
Leases typically provide for step-ups in rent periodically over the term of the
lease and pass through to tenants the tenant's share of increases in real estate
taxes and operating expenses for a building over a base year. Electricity is
provided to tenants on a submetered basis or included in rent based on surveys
and adjusted for subsequent utility rate increases. Leases also typically
provide for tenant improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant's
initial construction of its premises. None of the tenants in the office segment
accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total revenue. Below is a listing
of the New York City Office Properties tenants which accounted for 2% or more of
the New York City Office Properties revenues in 1998:




                                      -16-


      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1998 lease expirations
for each of the next 10 years, assuming that none of the tenants exercise their
renewal options.



      The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average annual
escalated rent per square foot for the New York City Office properties at the
end of each of the past two years.



As of March 1, 1999, the occupancy rate of the Company's New York City Office
properties was 92%. Excluding 770 Broadway, which was acquired in July 1998, the
occupancy rate was 96% at March 1, 1999 and 95% at December 31, 1998.


                                      -17-

      In 1998, the New York City Office Properties leased 1,155,931 square feet
at a weighted average initial rent per square foot of $35.03. Vornado's
ownership interest is 820,975 square feet at a weighted average initial rent per
square foot of $34.82. At December 31, 1997, the weighted average escalated rent
per square foot for Vornado's interest in such properties was $28.69. Following
is the detail by building:



(1)   Most leases include periodic step-ups in rent, which are not reflected in
      the initial rent per square foot leased.


                                      -18-


New York City Office Properties

     The following table sets forth certain information for the New York City
     Office Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 1998 or as of the
     date of acquisition for properties acquired thereafter.




                                      -19-




(1)   Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding rent for leases which
      had not commenced as of December 31, 1998, which are included in percent
      leased.

(2)   Represents annualized monthly base rent for office properties including
      tenant pass--throughs of operating expenses (exclusive of tenant
      electricity costs) and real estate taxes.

(3)   100% ground leased property.

(4)   At December 31, 1998, the property was encumbered by an $80,000,000
      mortgage. In February 1999, the Company completed a $165,000,000
      refinancing on the property and prepaid the then existing $80,000,000
      mortgage.


                                      -20-


CESCR Office Properties:

      The following table sets forth certain information for the CESCR Office
Properties (in which the Company has a 34% interest), as of December 31, 1998 or
as of the date of acquisition for properties acquired thereafter.


(1)   Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding rent for leases which
      had not commenced as of December 31, 1998, which are included in percent
      leased.

(2)   Represents annualized monthly base rent for office properties including
      tenant pass-throughs of operating expenses (exclusive of tenant
      electricity costs) and real estate taxes


                                      -21-


Retail

      The Company owns 59 shopping center properties of which 56 are strip
shopping centers primarily located in the Northeast and Midatlantic states, two
are regional centers located in San Juan, Puerto Rico and one, the Green Acres
Mall, is a super-regional center located in Nassau County, Long Island, New
York. The Company's shopping centers are generally located on major regional
highways in mature densely populated areas. The Company believes its shopping
centers attract consumers from a regional, rather than a neighborhood
marketplace because of their location on regional highways.

      As of March 1, 1999, the occupancy rate of the retail properties was 93%.
The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average annual base
rent per square foot (excluding the Green Acres Mall) for the properties at the
end of each of the past five years.



      The average annual base rent per square foot at December 31, 1998 for the
Green Acres Mall was $12.92 in total and $32.24 for mall tenants only.

      The Company's shopping center lease terms range from five years or less in
some instances, for smaller tenant spaces to as long as thirty years for major
tenants. Leases generally provide for additional rents based on a percentage of
tenant's sales and pass through to tenants the tenant's share of all common area
charges (including roof and structure in strip shopping centers, unless it is
the tenant's direct responsibility), real estate taxes and insurance costs and
certain capital expenditures. Percentage rent accounted for less than 2% of
total shopping center revenues in 1998. None of the tenants in the Retail
Segment accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total revenues.

      Below is a listing of the Retail tenants which accounted for 2% or more of
the Retail property rentals in 1998:



- ----------

(1)   Excludes the 14th Street and Union Square Property currently leased to
      Bradlees- see below.

      In June 1995, Bradlees filed for protection under Chapter 11 of the U.S.
Bankruptcy Code. Bradlees emerged from bankruptcy in January 1999 when its plan
of reorganization was confirmed. The Company withdrew its objection to Bradlees'
proposed plan of reorganization after obtaining Bradlees' agreement that its
lease of the Company's 14th Street and Union Square property would terminate in
March 2000. The lease was scheduled to expire in October 2019, and contained an
option to renew for an additional ten years. In addition, the rent under the
lease was increased by $1,100,000 per annum to $3,400,000 per annum from January
1999 to the March 2000 termination date. In connection with the foregoing, the
Company paid $11,000,000 to Bradlees. The Company is considering various
alternatives for the redevelopment of this site. The Company currently leases 15
other locations to Bradlees. Of these locations, the leases for 14 are fully
guaranteed by Stop & Shop Companies, Inc., a wholly-owned subsidiary of Royal
Ahold NV, a leading international food retailer, and one is guaranteed as to 70%
of the rent.


                                      -22-


      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1998 lease expirations
for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants exercise their
renewal options.



      The Company's strip shopping centers are substantially leased to large
stores (over 20,000 square feet). Tenants include destination retailers such as
discount department stores, supermarkets, home improvements stores, discount
apparel stores, membership warehouse clubs and "category killers." Category
killers are large stores which offer a complete selection of a category of items
(e.g., toys, office supplies, etc.) at low prices, often in a warehouse format.
Tenants typically offer basic consumer necessities such as food, health and
beauty aids, moderately priced clothing, building materials and home improvement
supplies, and compete primarily on the basis of price.

      The Company's two regional shopping centers located in Montehiedra and
Caguas, Puerto Rico, (both of which are in the San Juan area) contain 1,014,000
square feet of which the Company owns 727,000 square feet. The centers are
anchored by four major stores: Sears, Roebuck and Co., Kmart (one in each of the
centers) and a Builders Square Home Improvement store.

      The Green Acres Mall is a 1.6 million square foot super-regional enclosed
shopping mall complex situated in Nassau County, Long Island, New York,
approximately one mile east of the borough of Queens, New York. The Green Acres
Mall is anchored by four major department stores: Sears, Roebuck and Co., J.C.
Penney Company, Inc. and Federated Department Stores, Inc. doing business as
Stern's and as Macy's. The complex also includes The Plaza at Green Acres, a
188,000 square foot strip shopping center which is anchored by Kmart and
Waldbaums.


                                      -23-


Retail Properties

      The following table sets forth certain information for the Retail
Properties as of December 31, 1998.




                                      -24-





                                      -25-




                                      -26-





                                      -27-




(1)   Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding ground leases, storage
      rent and rent for leases which had not commenced as of December 31, 1998,
      which are included in percent leased.

(2)   These leases are either fully guaranteed by Stop & Shop, a wholly-owned
      subsidiary of Royal Ahold NV, or in the case of Totowa, guaranteed as to
      70% of rent.

(3)   100% ground and/or building leasehold interest; other than Green Acres,
      where approximately 10% of the ground is leased.

(4)   The tenant has ceased operations at these locations but continues to pay
      rent.

(5)   Annualized rent per square foot is $12.92 in total and $32.24 for the mall
      tenants only.

(6)   Square footage excludes anchor store which owns its land and building.

(7)   These encumbrances are cross collateralized under a mortgage in the amount
      of $227,000,000 at December 31, 1998.


                                      -28-


Cold Storage

      The Company has a 60% interest in the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships that
currently own 88 refrigerated warehouses with an aggregate of approximately 450
million cubic feet (excludes 13 additional warehouses containing approximately
80 million cubic feet managed by the Cold Storage Companies doing business as
AmeriCold Logistics). The Cold Storage segment is headquartered in Atlanta,
Georgia.

      On March 12, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of AmeriCold Logistics encompassing the operations of the
cold storage business for approximately $48,000,000 to a new partnership owned
60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc. The new
partnership leases the underlying cold storage warehouses used in this business
from the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships which continue to own the real estate.
The leases have a 15 year term with two-five year renewal options and provide
for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage rent based on customer
revenues. The new partnership is required to pay for all costs arising from the
operation, maintenance and repair of the properties as well as property capital
expenditures in excess of $5,000,000 annually. Fixed base rent and percentage
rent for the initial lease year is projected to be approximately $151 million.
The new partnership has the right to defer a portion of the rent for up to three
years beginning on March 12, 1999 to the extent that available cash, as defined
in the lease, is insufficient to pay such rent.

      AmeriCold Logistics provides the frozen food industry with refrigerated
warehousing and transportation management services. Refrigerated warehouses are
comprised of production and distribution facilities. Production facilities
typically serve one or a small number of customers, generally food processors,
located nearby. These customers store large quantities of processed or partially
processed products in the facility until they are shipped to the next stage of
production or distribution. Distribution facilities primarily warehouse a wide
variety of customers' finished products until future shipment to end-users. Each
distribution facility primarily services the surrounding regional market.
AmeriCold Logistics' transportation management services include freight routing,
dispatching, freight rate negotiation, backhaul coordination, freight bill
auditing, network flow management, order consolidation and distribution channel
assessment. AmeriCold Logistics' temperature-controlled logistics expertise and
access to both frozen food warehouses and distribution channels enable its
customers to respond quickly and efficiently to time-sensitive orders from
distributors and retailers.

      AmeriCold Logistics' customers consist primarily of national, regional and
local frozen food manufacturers, distributors, retailers and food service
organizations which include Con-Agra, Inc., Tyson Foods, H.J. Heinz & Co.,
McCain Foods, Pillsbury, Sara Lee, Phillip Morris, J.R. Simplot, Farmland
Industries and Unilever.


                                      -29-


Facilities

      The following table shows the location, size and type of facility for each
of the Cold Storage properties as of December 31, 1998:




                                      -30-




- ----------
(1)   AmeriCold Logistics plans to cease warehousing operations at this facility
      in October 1999 which will have no effect on the rent being paid to the
      Vornado/Crescent Partnership because the cecessation of operations was
      contemplated at the time of the March 12, 1999 sale.


                                      -31-





                                      -32-





                                      -33-




The above table is summarized as follows:




                                      -34-


Merchandise Mart Properties

      The Merchandise Mart Properties are a portfolio of seven properties
containing an aggregate of approximately 6.7 million square feet. The properties
are used for offices (34%), showrooms (63%) and retail stores (3%). The Company
acquired these assets in separate transactions in 1998. In April 1998, the
Company purchased four buildings containing approximately 5.4 million square
feet from the Kennedy Family, including the 3.4 million square foot Merchandise
Mart building in Chicago, the adjacent 350 North Orleans Street building, the
Washington Office Center and the adjacent Washington Design Center. In December
1998, the Company purchased the 1.3 million square foot Market Square Complex
and in a separate transaction purchased the National Furniture Mart in High
Point, North Carolina.

Office Space

      The following table sets forth the percentage of the Merchandise Mart
Properties office revenues by tenant's industry:



      The average lease term of a tenant's lease is 10 years. Leases typically
provide for step-ups in rent periodically over the term of the lease and pass
through to tenants the tenant's share of increases in real estate taxes and
operating expenses for a building over a base year. Electricity is provided to
tenants on a submetered basis or included in rent based on surveys and adjusted
for subsequent utility rate increases. Leases also typically provide for tenant
improvement allowances for all or a portion of the tenant's initial construction
of its premises. None of the tenants in the Merchandise Mart Properties segment
accounted for more than 10% of the Company's total revenue. Below is a listing
of the Merchandise Mart Properties office tenants which accounted for 2% or more
of the Merchandise Mart Properties' revenues in 1998:




                                      -35-


      As of March 1, 1999, the occupancy rate of the Merchandise Mart
Properties' office space was 95%. The following table sets forth the occupancy
rate and the average escalated rent per square foot for the Merchandise Mart
Properties' office space at the end of each of the past five years.



      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1998 office lease
expirations for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.



Showroom Space

      The Merchandise Mart Properties' showroom space aggregates 4,177,000
square feet of which 2,611,000 square feet is located in the Merchandise Mart
building and 350 North Orleans in Chicago, 1,223,000 square feet is located in
the Market Square Complex (including the National Furniture Mart) in High Point,
North Carolina and 343,000 square feet is located in the Design Center in
Washington, D.C. The showroom space consists of 2,850,000 square feet of
permanent mart space (leased to manufacturers and distributors whose clients are
retailers, specifiers and end users), 966,000 square feet of permanent design
center space (leased to wholesalers whose principal clientele is interior
designers), and 361,000 square feet of temporary market suite space (used for
trade shows).

      The showrooms provide manufacturers and wholesalers with permanent and
temporary space in which to display products for buyers, specifiers and end
users. The showrooms are also used for hosting trade shows for the contract
furniture, casual furniture, gift-ware, carpet, residential furnishings, crafts,
and design industries. The Merchandise Mart Properties own and operate five of
the leading furniture/gift-ware trade shows including the contract furniture
industry's largest trade show, the NeoCon Show, which attracts over 50,000
attendees annually and is hosted at the Merchandise Mart building in Chicago.
The Market Square Complex co-hosts the home furniture industry's semi-annual
market weeks which occupy over 8,800,000 square feet in the High Point, North
Carolina region.


                                      -36-


      As of March 1, 1999 the occupancy rate of the Merchandise Mart Properties'
showroom space was 95%. The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and
the average escalated rent per square foot for this space at the end of each of
the past five years.



      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1998 showroom lease
expirations for each of the next 10 years assuming that none of the tenants
exercise their renewal options.

                                               
                                                   
Retail Stores

      The Merchandise Mart Properties' portfolio also contains approximately
200,000 square feet of retail stores which were 66% occupied at March 1, 1999.

Merchandise Mart in Chicago

      The Merchandise Mart in Chicago is a 25-story industry building. Built in
1930, the Merchandise Mart is one of the largest buildings in the nation,
containing over 4,000,000 gross square feet of which approximately 3,440,000
square feet is rentable.


                                      -37-


      As of March 1, 1999, the occupancy rate of the Merchandise Mart in Chicago
was 96%. The following table sets forth the occupancy rate and the average
escalated rent per square foot at the end of each of the past five years.



      The following table sets forth as of December 31, 1998 lease expirations
at the Merchandise Mart in Chicago for each of the next 10 years assuming that
none of the tenants exercise renewal options.



      The aggregate undepreciated tax basis of depreciable real property at the
Merchandise Mart in Chicago for Federal income tax purposes was approximately
$165,000,000 as of December 31, 1998, and depreciation for such property is
computed for Federal income tax purposes on the straight-line method over
thirty-nine years.

      For the 1997 tax year, the tax rate in Chicago for commercial real estate
is $8.84 for $100 assessed value which results in real estate taxes of
$9,156,000 for the Merchandise Mart.


                                      -38-


Merchandise Mart Properties:

      The following table sets forth certain information for the Merchandise
Mart Properties owned by the Company as of December 31, 1998.



(1)   Represents annualized monthly base rent excluding rent for leases which
      had not commenced as of December 31, 1998, which are included in percent
      leased.
(2)   Represents annualized monthly base rent including tenant pass-throughs of
      operating expenses (exclusive of tenant electricity costs) and real estate
      taxes.


                                      -39-


Alexander's Properties

      The following table shows as of December 31, 1998 the location,
approximate size and leasing status of each of the properties owned by
Alexander's in which the Company has a 29.3% interest.



- ----------
(1)   Excludes parking garages.
(2)   Excludes 330,000 square foot Macy's store, owned and operated by Federated
      Department Stores, Inc.
(3)   Leased by the Company through January 2027.
(4)   Caldor announced that it is closing all of its stores and rejected
      this lease effective March 29, 1999.
(5)   Alexander's is razing the existing buildings and is evaluating
      redevelopment plans for this site which may involve developing a large
      multi-use building. 
(6)   Alexander's has approvals to develop a shopping center at this site 
      containing 550,000 square feet.


                                      -40-


      Alexander's estimates that its capital expenditures for redevelopment
projects at the above properties will include: (i) approximately $100,000,000
for the redevelopment of its Paramus property, (ii) approximately $30,000,000 to
renovate the mall and $15,000,000 to renovate the Macy's store at its Kings
Plaza Regional Shopping Center and (iii) more than $300,000,000 to develop its
Lexington Avenue site. While Alexander's anticipates that financing will be
available after tenants have been obtained for these redevelopment projects,
there can be no assurance that such financing will be obtained, or if obtained,
that such financings will be on terms that are acceptable to the Company. In
addition, it is uncertain as to when these projects will commence.

Hotel Pennsylvania

      The Company owns an 80% interest in the Hotel Pennsylvania, which is
located on Seventh Avenue opposite Madison Square Garden in Manhattan, New York.
The property is owned through a joint venture with Planet Hollywood
International, Inc. The venture intends to refurbish the hotel. Under the terms
of the mortgage on this property, in connection with the refurbishment, the
Company is required to escrow $37,000,000 prior to September 30, 1999. The Hotel
Pennsylvania contains approximately 800,000 square feet of hotel space with
1,700 rooms and 400,000 square feet of retail and office space. The Company
manages the property's retail and office space, and manages the hotel with Hotel
Properties Limited.

      The following table presents rental information for the hotel:



      As of December 31, 1998, the property's retail and office space was 86%
and 55% occupied. 26 tenants occupy the retail and commercial space. Annual rent
per square foot of retail and office space in 1998 were $41 and $16.

Newkirk Joint Ventures

      In July and September 1998, the Company invested an aggregate of
$56,000,000 for a 30% share in joint ventures with affiliates of Apollo Real
Estate Investment Fund III, L.P., collectively Newkirk Joint Ventures
("Newkirk"). Newkirk owns various equity and debt interests relating to 120
limited partnerships which own real estate primarily net leased to credit rated
tenants. The Company has issued letters of credit of $15,600,000 in connection
with these joint ventures.

      In March 1999, the Company and its joint venture partner completed an
acquisition of additional equity interests in certain limited partnerships. The
Company's additional investment of $52,435,000 consisted of $47,790,000 in
Operating Partnership Units and $4,645,000 in cash.

Dry Warehouse/Industrial Properties

      The Company's dry warehouse/industrial properties consist of eight
buildings containing approximately 2.0 million square feet. At December 31,
1998, the occupancy rate of the properties was 82%. The average term of a
tenant's lease is three to five years. Average annual rent per square foot at
December 31, 1998 was $3.19.

Insurance

      The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended
coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to its properties with policy
specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties.
Management of the Company believes that the Company's insurance coverage
conforms to industry norms.


                                      -41-


Item 3.  Legal Proceedings

      The Company is from time to time involved in legal actions arising in the
ordinary course of its business. In the opinion of management, after
consultation with legal counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or results of
operations.

Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders

      No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the fourth
quarter of the year ended December 31, 1998.

Executive Officers of the Registrant

      The following is a list of the names, ages, principal occupations and
positions with Vornado of the executive officers of Vornado and the positions
held by such officers during the past five years. All executive officers of
Vornado have terms of office which run until the next succeeding meeting of the
Board of Trustees of Vornado following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders unless
they are removed sooner by the Board.



- ----------
(1)   As of March 17, 1999, Mr. McNamara is an employee of the partnership which
      purchased the non-real estate assets of AmeriCold Logistics.


                                      -42-


                                     PART II

Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters

      Vornado's common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange under
the symbol "VNO".

      Quarterly price ranges of the common shares and dividends paid per share
for the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 were as follows:



      All share and per share information has been adjusted for a 2-for-1 share
split in October 1997.

      The approximate number of record holders of common shares of Vornado at
December 31, 1998, was 2,700.


                                      -43-


Item 6. Selected Consolidated Financial Data




                                      -44-




- ----------
(1)   The earnings per share amounts prior to 1997 have been restated to comply
      with Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 128, "Earnings Per
      Share" (SFAS 128). For further discussion of earnings per share and the
      impact of SFAS 128, see the notes to the consolidated financial
      statements. All share and per share information has also been adjusted for
      a 2-for-1 share split in October 1997.
(2)   Funds from operations does not represent cash generated from operating
      activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and
      is not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs which
      is disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the
      applicable periods. There are no material legal or functional restrictions
      on the use of funds from operations. Funds from operations should not be
      considered as an alternative to net income as an indicator of the
      Company's operating performance or as an alternative to cash flows as a
      measure of liquidity. Management considers funds from operations a
      supplemental measure of operating performance and along with cash flow
      from operating activities, financing activities and investing activities,
      it provides investors with an indication of the ability of the Company to
      incur and service debt, to make capital expenditures and to fund other
      cash needs. Funds from operations may not be comparable to similarly
      titled measures employed by other REITs since a number of REITs, including
      the Company, calculate funds from operations in a manner different from
      that used by the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts
      ("NAREIT"). Funds from operations, as defined by NAREIT, represents net
      income applicable to common shares before depreciation and amortization,
      extraordinary or non-recurring items and gains or losses on sales of real
      estate. Funds from operations as disclosed above has been modified to
      adjust for the effect of straight-lining of property rentals for rent
      escalations and leasing fee income.
(3)   Includes adding back of (i) income taxes of $4,287 and related items which
      are considered non-recurring because of the expected conversion of Cold
      Storage Companies to REITs and (ii) non-recurring unification costs of
      $4,585.
(4)   The number of shares that should be used for determining funds from
      operations per share is the number used for diluted earnings per share.
      (See Note 15 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)


                                      -45-


Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results
        of Operations

      (All of the amounts presented are in thousands, except share amounts and
percentages)

   Overview

      The Company's net income was $152,854 in the year ended December 31, 1998,
as compared to $61,023 in the prior year, an increase of $91,831. EBITDA, as
defined,(1) was $427,088 in the year ended December 31, 1998, as compared to
$150,426 in the prior year, an increase of $276,662. The Company's net income
was $61,364 and its EBITDA was $87,048 in the year ended December 31, 1996 when
it operated in only one segment.

      Below is a summary of net income and EBITDA by segment for the years ended
December 31, 1998 and 1997:



      Footnotes 1-5 are explained on the following page.


                                      -46-


(1)   EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation and
      amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or losses on
      sales of real estate and the effect of straight-lining of property rentals
      for rent escalations. Management considers EBITDA a supplemental measure
      for making decisions and assessing the performance of its segments. EBITDA
      may not be comparable to similarly titled measures employed by other
      companies.
(2)   Other includes (i) the operations of the Company's warehouse and
      industrial properties, (ii) investments in the Hotel Pennsylvania,
      Alexander's, and Newkirk Joint Ventures, (iii) corporate general and
      administrative expenses and (iv) unallocated investment income and
      interest and debt expense.
(3)   Includes adding back of (i) $4,287 of income taxes and related items,
      which are considered non-recurring because of the expected conversion of
      the Cold Storage Companies to REITS and (ii) non-recurring unification
      costs of $4,585.
(4)   Primarily represents the Company's equity in Alexander's loss from the
      write-off of the carrying value of Alexander's Lexington Avenue buildings.
(5)   Interest and debt expense, depreciation and amortization and
      straight-lining of rents included in the reconciliation of net income to
      EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income from partially-owned
      entities.


                                      -47-


Results of Operations

   Years Ended December 31, 1998 and December 31, 1997

      Below are the details of the changes by segment in EBITDA. The change in
the Cold Storage EBITDA is discussed in Income from partially-owned entities.



            * not applicable

(1)   EBITDA for "Other" and in "Total" for the year ended December 31, 1997
      reflects the amortization of a deferred payment due to an officer of
      $22,917; the percentage increases in same store operations have been
      adjusted to exclude the increase in EBITDA in 1998 resulting therefrom.
(2)   Represents operations which were owned for the same period in each year.

   Revenues

      The Company's revenues, which consist of property rentals, tenant expense
reimbursements and other income were $509,860 in the year ended December 31,
1998, compared to $209,131 in the prior year, an increase of $300,729. These
increases by segment resulted from:




                                      -48-


Expenses

      The Company's expenses were $295,008 in the year ended December 31, 1998,
compared to $134,225 in the prior year, an increase of $160,783. These increases
by segment resulted from:



      (1)   Retail general and administrative expenses are included in corporate
            expenses which are not allocated.
      (2)   Of this increase: (i) $6,631 is attributable to acquisitions, (ii)
            $4,641 resulted from payroll, primarily for additional employees and
            corporate office expenses, and (iii) $3,758 resulted from
            professional fees.
      (3)   The Company recognized an expense of $22,917 in the prior year
            representing the amortization of the deferred payment due to the
            Company's President, which was fully amortized at December 31, 1997.

      Income (loss) applicable to Alexander's (loan interest income, equity in
income (loss) and depreciation) was $3,123 in the year ended December 31, 1998,
compared to $7,873 in the prior year, a decrease of $4,750. This decrease
resulted primarily from (i) the Company's equity in the write-off of the
carrying value of Alexander's Lexington Avenue building, of $4,423, partially
offset by (ii) income from the commencement of leases at Alexander's Rego Park
and Kings Plaza store properties and (iii) income from Alexander's acquisition
of the remaining 50% interest in the Kings Plaza Mall.

      Income from partially-owned entities was $32,025 in the year ended
December 31, 1998, compared to $4,658 in the prior year, an increase of $27,367.
This increase by segment resulted from:




                                      -49-


      Interest and other investment income (interest income on mortgage loans
receivable, other interest income, dividend income and net gains on marketable
securities) was $24,074 for the year ended December 31, 1998, compared to
$23,767 in the prior year, an increase of $307. This increase resulted primarily
from gains on the sale of marketable securities of $2,395, partially offset by a
decrease in interest income due to lower average investments this year.

      Interest and debt expense was $114,686 for the year ended December 31,
1998, compared to $42,888 in the prior year, an increase of $71,798. This
increase resulted primarily from debt in connection with acquisitions.

      In the third quarter of 1998, the Company recorded a net gain of $9,649,
in connection with an insurance settlement and condemnation proceeding (see Note
11 to the Consolidated Financial Statements).

      The minority interest is comprised of:

      
      
            * For the period from April 15, 1997 to December 31, 1997

      The preferred stock dividends of $21,690 for the year ended December 31,
1998 and $15,549 for the period from April 15, 1997 to December 31, 1997 apply
to the Company's $3.25 Series A Convertible Preferred Shares issued in April and
December 1997 and include accretion of expenses of issuing them.

      Years Ended December 31, 1997 and December 31, 1996

            The Company's revenues, which consist of property rentals, tenant
expense reimbursements and other income, were $209,131 in the year ended
December 31, 1997, compared to $116,887 in the prior year, an increase of
$92,244. This increase was primarily comprised of $90,520 of revenues from
properties acquired in 1997.

            Property rentals were $168,321 in the year ended December 31, 1997,
compared to $87,424 in the prior year, an increase of $80,897. This increase
resulted from:



            Tenant expense reimbursements were $36,652 in the year ended
December 31, 1997, compared to $26,644 in the prior year, an increase of
$10,008. This increase was primarily comprised of $11,320 of reimbursements from
tenants at properties acquired in 1997, partially offset by a reduction in
reimbursements at the Company's other properties due to lower expenses passed
through to tenants.

            Operating expenses were $74,745 in the year ended December 31, 1997,
as compared to $36,412 in the prior year, an increase of $38,333. This increase
was primarily comprised of $39,645 of expenses from properties acquired in 1997,
partially offset by lower snow removal costs and repairs and maintenance at the
Company's other properties.


                                      -50-


            Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 1997 as compared
to 1996, primarily as a result of acquisitions.

            General and administrative expenses were $13,580 in the year ended
December 31, 1997 compared to $5,167 in the prior year, an increase of $8,413.
This increase resulted primarily from (i) Mendik Division payroll and corporate
office expenses of $2,760, (ii) cash compensation attributable to the employment
of the Company's President of $2,350 and (iii) professional fees of $1,641.

            The Company recognized expense of $22,917 in the year ended December
31, 1997 and $2,083 in the prior year representing the amortization of the
$25,000 deferred payment due to the Company's President.

            Income applicable to Alexander's (loan interest income, equity in
income and depreciation) was $7,873 in the year ended December 31, 1997,
compared to $7,956 in the prior year, a decrease of $83. This decrease resulted
primarily from a $327 reduction in loan interest income due to the reset of the
interest rate on the loan, partially offset by an increase in equity in
non-recurring income.

            Income from partially-owned entities was $4,658 in the year ended
December 31, 1997, compared to $1,855 in the prior year, an increase of $2,803.
This increase consists of: (i) $1,720 from the Cold Storage Companies, (ii) $424
from partially owned properties acquired as part of the Mendik Transaction,
(iii) $1,055 from the Company's 40% interest in Hotel Pennsylvania and (iv) $85
from the Company's 15% interest in Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty L.P.,
partially offset by (v) lower management fee income.

            Interest and other investment income (interest income on mortgage
loans receivable, other interest income, dividend income and net gains on
marketable securities) was $23,767 for the year ended December 31, 1997,
compared to $6,643 in the prior year, an increase of $17,124. Of this increase,
$9,047 resulted primarily from income earned on higher average investments
(resulting from proceeds from stock offerings and temporary borrowings) and
$7,901 resulted from investments in mortgage loans receivable.

            Interest and debt expense was $42,888 for the year ended December
31, 1997, compared to $16,726 in the prior year, an increase of $26,162. Of this
increase, (i) $13,369 resulted from borrowings under the Company's revolving
credit facility and a term loan, (ii) $9,009 resulted from debt on the
properties acquired in the Mendik Transaction and (iii) $3,784 resulted from
borrowings related to the acquisition of the Montehiedra Town Center in April
1997.

            The minority interest unit holders in the Operating Partnership are
entitled to preferential distributions which aggregated $7,293 for the year
ended December 31, 1997.

            The preferred stock dividends of $15,549 apply to the 6.5% preferred
shares issued in April 1997 and include accretion of expenses of issuing them of
$1,918.

            The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to continue
to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986
as amended. Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least 95% of its
REIT taxable income as a dividend to its shareholders each year and which meets
certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its taxable income
which is distributed to its shareholders. The Company has distributed to its
shareholders an amount greater than its taxable income. Therefore, no provision
for Federal income taxes is required.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

   Cash Flows for the Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996

      Years Ended December 31, 1998

      Cash flows provided by operating activities of $189,406 was primarily
comprised of (i) income of $143,205 (net income of $152,854 less net gain from
insurance settlement and condemnation proceeding of $9,649), (ii) adjustments
for non-cash items of $27,657, and (iii) the net change in operating assets and
liabilities of $18,544. The adjustments for non-cash items are primarily
comprised of (i) depreciation and amortization of $59,227 and (ii) minority
interest of $16,183, partially offset by (iii) the effect of straight-lining of
rental income of $17,561 and (iv) equity in net income of partially-owned
entities of $32,025.

      Net cash used in investing activities of $1,257,367 was primarily
comprised of (i) acquisitions of real estate of $896,800 (see detail below),
(ii) investments in partially-owned entities of $308,000 (see detail below),
(iii) capital expenditures of $68,085 (see detail below) and investments in
securities of $73,513 (including purchase of Capital Trust Preferred Stock of
$48,700), partially offset by (v) proceeds from the repayment of mortgage loans
receivable of $57,600.


                                      -51-


      Acquisitions of real estate and investments in partially-owned entities
were comprised of:



Capital expenditures were comprised of:




                                      -52-


      Net cash provided by financing activities of $879,815 was primarily
comprised of (i) proceeds from borrowings of $1,427,821, (ii) proceeds from the
issuance of common shares of $445,247 and (iii) proceeds from the issuance of
preferred shares of $85,313, partially offset by (iv) repayment of borrowings of
$883,475, (v) dividends paid on common shares of $154,440 and (vi) dividends
paid on preferred shares of $18,816.

     Year Ended December 31, 1997

      Cash flows provided by operating activities of $115,473 was comprised of
(i) net income of $61,023, (ii) adjustments for non-cash items of $39,723 and
(iii) the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $14,727. The
adjustments for non-cash items are primarily comprised of (i) amortization of
deferred officer's compensation expense of $22,917 and (ii) depreciation and
amortization of $24,460.

      Net cash used in investing activities of $1,064,484 was primarily
comprised of (i) acquisitions of real estate of $887,423 (see detail below),
(ii) investments in mortgage loans receivable of $71,663 (see detail below),
(iii) capital expenditures of $23,789, (iv) restricted cash for tenant
improvements of $27,079 and (v) real estate deposits of $46,152. Acquisitions of
real estate and investments in mortgage loans receivable are comprised of:



      Net cash provided by financing activities of $1,215,269 was primarily
comprised of proceeds from (i) borrowings of $770,000 (ii) issuance of common
shares of $688,672, and (iii) issuance of preferred shares of $276,000,
partially offset by (iv) repayment of borrowings of $409,633, (v) dividends paid
on common shares of $77,461, (vi) dividends paid on preferred shares of $15,549
and (vii) the repayment of borrowings on U.S. Treasury obligations of $9,636.


                                      -53-


      Year Ended December 31, 1996

      Cash flows provided by operating activities of $70,703 was comprised of
(i) net income of $61,364 and (ii) adjustments for non-cash items of $9,972,
less (iii) the net change in operating assets and liabilities of $633. The
adjustments for non-cash items are primarily comprised of depreciation and
amortization of $12,586 and amortization of deferred officers compensation
expense of $2,083, partially offset by the effect of straight-lining of rental
income of $2,676 and equity in income from Alexander's of $1,108. The net change
in "Leasing fees receivable" and "Deferred leasing fee income" included in item
(iii) above reflects a decrease of $1,717 resulting from the rejection of a
lease by an Alexander's tenant in March 1996 and an increase of $1,738 resulting
from the releasing of a portion of this space. "Leasing fees receivable" of
$2,500 were collected during this period.

      Net cash provided by investing activities of $14,912 was comprised of (i)
proceeds from sale or maturity of securities available for sale of $46,734,
partially offset by (ii) the Company's investment in a mortgage note receivable
of $17,000 and (iii) capital expenditures of $14,822 (including $8,923 for the
purchase of an office building).

      Net cash used in financing activities of $15,046 was primarily comprised
of (i) dividends paid of $59,558, (ii) the net repayment of borrowings on U.S.
Treasury obligations of $34,239, (iii) the net repayment on mortgages of $966,
partially offset by (iv) net proceeds from the issuance of common shares of
$73,060 and (v) the proceeds from the exercise of stock options of $6,657.

      Cash increased during the period from December 31, 1995 to December 31,
1996, from $19,127 to $89,696, primarily as the result of the issuance of common
shares in the fourth quarter of 1996 as noted above.

   Funds from Operations for the Years Ended December 31, 1998 and 1997

      Funds from operations were $218,899 in the year ended December 31, 1998,
compared to $72,619 in the prior year, an increase of $146,280. Funds from
operations for the year ended December 31, 1997 reflect amortization of the
deferred payment due to the Company's President and related compensation of
$25,397, compared to no such amortization in 1998. The following table
reconciles funds from operations and net income:



      The number of shares that should be used for determining funds from
operations per share is the number used for diluted earnings per share. (See
Note 15 of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.)


                                      -54-


      Funds from operations does not represent cash generated from operating
activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and is
not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs, which is
disclosed in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the applicable
periods. There are no material legal or functional restrictions on the use of
funds from operations. Funds from operations should not be considered as an
alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's operating performance
or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Management
considers funds from operations a supplemental measure of operating performance
and along with cash flow from operating activities, financing activities and
investing activities, it provides investors with an indication of the ability of
the Company to incur and service debt, to make capital expenditures and to fund
other cash needs. Funds from operations may not be comparable to similarly
titled measures reported by other REITs since a number of REITs, including the
Company, calculate funds from operations in a manner different from that used by
the National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"). Funds from
operations, as defined by NAREIT, represents net income applicable to common
shares before depreciation and amortization, extraordinary items and gains or
losses on sales of real estate. Funds from operations as disclosed above has
been modified to adjust for the effect of straight-lining of property rentals
for rent escalations and leasing fee income. Below are the cash flows provided
by (used in) operating, investing and financing activities:



   Certain Cash Requirements

In January 1999, the Company acquired the leasehold interest in 888 Seventh
Avenue for approximately $100,000 including $55,000 of indebtedness. Further, in
1999, under the mortgage for the Hotel Pennsylvania, in connection with the
redevelopment, the Company is required to escrow $37,000.

      The Company has budgeted approximately $39,805 for capital expenditures
(excluding acquisitions) over the next year as follows:



- ----------
(1)   Represents the Company's 60% share of the Vornado/Crescent Partnership's
      obligation to fund up to $5,000 of capital expenditures per annum.

      Tenant allowances and leasing commissions for the New York City Office
properties approximate $21.00 per square foot for renewal space and $52.00 per
square foot for vacant space. Historically, approximately two-thirds of existing
tenants renew their leases.

      In addition to the capital expenditures reflected above, the Company is
currently engaged in or considering certain multi-year development and
redevelopment projects for which it has budgeted approximately $387 million as
outlined in the "Development and Redevelopment Projects" section of Item
1--Business (Items (i) through (vi)). The $387 million does not include amounts
for other projects which are also included in the "Development and Redevelopment
Projects" section of Item 1--Business, as no budgets for them have been
finalized. There can be no assurance that any of the above projects will be
ultimately completed, completed on time or completed for the budgeted amount.

      No cash requirements have been budgeted for the capital expenditures and
amortization of debt of CESCR, Newkirk or Alexander's, which are partially owned
by the Company. These investees are expected to fund their own cash
requirements. Newkirk and Alexander's are not expected to distribute any cash to
the Company in 1999. In 1999, the Company expects to receive at a minimum,
preferred distributions from CESCR of approximately $13.9 million (7,679,365
preferred units at $1.81 per unit) and common distributions of approximately
$3.5 million (2,500,000 common units at $1.40 per unit - current dividend rate).
The minimum preferred distribution rate increases by .25% each year for the next
three years.


                                      -55-


      In July 1997, the Company obtained a $600,000 unsecured three-year
revolving credit facility. In February 1998, the facility was increased to
$1,000,000. At December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately $687,250
outstanding under the facility.

      In February 1998, the Company completed a $160,000 refinancing of the
Green Acres Mall and prepaid the then existing $118,000 debt on the property.
The new 10-year debt matures in March 2008 and bears interest at 6.75%.

      In June 1998, the Company completed a $275,000 refinancing of its One Penn
Plaza office building and borrowed $170,000 pursuant thereto. In the third
quarter of 1998, the Company borrowed the remaining $105,000. The debt matures
in June 2002, is prepayable at anytime, and bears interest at LIBOR + 1.25%
(currently 6.35%). This debt replaced the $93,000 bridge-mortgage loan financing
put in place when the property was acquired.

      In April 1998, the Cold Storage Companies completed a $550,000 ten-year
loan secured by 58 of its warehouses. The loan bears interest at 6.89%. The net
proceeds from the loan together with working capital were used to repay $607,000
of bridge financing, which replaced high yield debt assumed at the date of
acquisition.

      In October 1998, the Company completed its spin-off of Vornado Operating
Company, which the Company capitalized with an equity contribution of $25,000 of
cash. In addition, Vornado entered into a $75,000 revolving credit agreement
with Vornado Operating Company.

      On March 12, 1999 the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of the Cold Storage Companies encompassing the operations
of the cold storage business for approximately $48,000 to a new partnership
owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc.

      In November and December of 1998, the Company sold an aggregate of $87,500
of 8.5% Series D-1 Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units in the Operating
Partnership to an institutional investor in a private placement, resulting in
net proceeds of approximately $85,300. The perpetual Preferred Units may be
called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on November 12,
2003.

      In February 1999, the Company completed a $165,000 refinancing of its Two
Penn Plaza office building and prepaid the then existing $80,000 debt on the
property. The new 5-year debt matures in February 2004 and bears interest at
7.08%.

      In February 1999, the Company also exercised its option to extend the
maturity date on the $250,000 loan on its Chicago Merchandise Mart building from
March 31, 1999 to September 30, 1999. In connection therewith, the Company paid
a fee of 1/8%.

      On March 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 3 million 8.5% Series
B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price $25.00 per share, pursuant
to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $72,200. Further on March 22, 1999, 400,000 shares were sold when
the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in additional
net proceeds to the Company of $9,700. The perpetual preferred shares may be
called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on March 17,
2004.

      The Company has an effective shelf registration under which it can offer
an aggregate of $1.5 billion of equity securities and an aggregate of $1.0
billion of debt securities.

      The Company anticipates that cash from continuing operations will be
adequate to fund business operations and the payment of dividends and
distributions on an on-going basis for more than the next twelve months;
however, capital outlays for significant acquisitions will require funding from
borrowings or equity offerings.


                                      -56-


Acquisition Activity

      As a result of acquisitions, the book value of the Company's assets have
grown from $2,524,089 at December 31, 1997 to $4,425,779 at December 31, 1998.

      The Company's future success will be affected by its ability to integrate
the assets and businesses it acquires and to effectively manage those assets and
businesses. The Company currently expects to continue to grow at a relatively
fast pace. However, its ability to do so will be dependent on a number of
factors, including, among others, (a) the availability of reasonably priced
assets that meet the Company's acquisition criteria and (b) the price of the
Company's common stock, the rates at which the Company is able to borrow money
and, more generally, the availability of financing on terms that, in the
Company's view, make such acquisitions financially attractive.

Recently Issued Accounting Standards

      In June 1998, the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 133, "Accounting for Derivative Instruments
and Hedging Activities". This statement establishes accounting and reporting
standards for derivative instruments, including certain derivative instruments
embedded in other contracts, and for hedging activities. It is effective for all
fiscal quarters of fiscal years beginning after June 15, 1999. Because the
Company does not currently utilize derivatives or engage in significant hedging
activities, management does not anticipate that implementation of this statement
will have a material effect on the Company's financial statements.

      In April, 1998 the American Institute of Certified Public Accountants
Issued Statement of Position 98-5, "Reporting on the Costs of Start-up
Activities", (98-5) which is effective for the Company in the first quarter of
1999. The Company has no deferred organization costs or other deferred start-up
costs as defined in 98-5, and therefore adoption of 98-5 will have no impact in
the first quarter of 1999.

Year 2000 Issues

      Year 2000 compliance programs and information systems modification were
initiated by the Company in early 1998 to address the risk posed by the year
2000 issue. The Company developed a plan to address their affected informational
(accounting, billing, payroll) and operational (refrigeration, HVAC, security,
elevators, lighting, energy management) systems. The Company's plan also
considers statements from outside vendors as to their year 2000 readiness.

      The Company and its partially-owned entities have completed their initial
assessment, inventory and planning phases of their plan and have determined that
the majority of their systems, including all mission critical systems are
already year 2000 compliant. The Company anticipates that any issues encountered
with informational or operational systems will be remediated. The Company
expects that where appropriate, all mission critical systems will be tested by
June 30, 1999. The cost of the Company's year 2000 plan was not material to 1998
operations and is not expected to be material to 1999 operations.

      The Company believes that its exposure may be the failure of third parties
(i.e., energy providers) in meeting their commitments which may result in
temporary business interruption at the Company's buildings, retail centers, mart
properties, cold storage warehouses and other real estate related properties.
The Company has contingency plans for its own day to day informational and
operational systems and is in the process of updating these plans. Failure of
third parties with which the Company conducts business to successfully respond
to their year 2000 issues may have an adverse effect on the Company.

Economic Conditions

      Substantially all of the Company's office, retail and permanent showroom
leases contain step-ups in rent. Such rental increases are not designed to, and
in many instances do not, approximate the cost of inflation, but do have the
effect of mitigating the adverse impact of inflation. In addition, substantially
all of the Company's leases contain provisions that require the tenant to
reimburse the Company for the tenant's share of common area charges (including
roof and structure in strip shopping centers, unless it is the tenant's direct
responsibility) and real estate taxes or for increases of such expenses over a
base amount, thus offsetting, in part, the effects of inflation on such
expenses.

      Inflation did not have a material effect on the Company's results for the
periods presented.


                                      -57-


Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk

      At December 31, 1998, the Company has $1,426,777,000 of variable rate debt
at a weighted average rate of 6.55% and $624,223,000 of fixed rate debt bearing
interest at a weighted average rate of 7.00%. A one-percent increase in the base
used to determine the interest rate of the variable rate debt would result in a
$14,268,000 decrease in the Company's net income ($.18 per diluted share). The
fair value of the Company's debt at December 31, 1998, based on discounted cash
flows at the current rate at which similar loans would be made to borrowers with
similar credit ratings for the remaining term of such debt approximates its
carrying value.

      In July 1998, the Company entered into an interest rate cap agreement to
reduce the impact of changes in interest rates on its $275,000,000 One Penn
Plaza loan. The agreement caps the Company's interest rate in the event that
LIBOR increases above 8.5% through January 20, 2000 and 9% thereafter, until the
termination date of the cap agreement on July 30, 2001 (the debt matures in June
2002). The Company is exposed to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by
the other parties to the interest rate cap agreement. However, the Company does
not anticipate nonperformance by the counterparty. The fair value of the
interest rate cap agreement at December 31, 1998 approximates its cost.


                                      -58-


Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data

                          INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

                                                                            Page
                                                                            ----
Independent Auditors' Report.............................................     60
Consolidated Balance Sheets at December 31, 1998 and 1997................     61
Consolidated Statements of Income for the years ended December 31, 1998, 
  1997 and 1996...........................................................    62
Consolidated Statements of Shareholders' Equity for the years ended 
  December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996........................................    63
Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended  
  December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996........................................    64
Notes to Consolidated Financial Statement.................................    65

Item 9. Changes In and Disagreements With Independent Auditors on Accounting
        and Financial Disclosure

      Not applicable.


                                      -59-


                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT

Shareholders and Board of Trustees
Vornado Realty Trust
Saddle Brook, New Jersey

      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Vornado
Realty Trust as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the related consolidated
statements of income, shareholders' equity and cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 1998. Our audits also included the
financial statement schedules listed in the Index at Item 14. These financial
statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of the
Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

      We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

      In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in
all material respects, the financial position of Vornado Realty Trust at
December 31, 1998 and 1997, and the results of their operations and their cash
flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1998 in
conformity with generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion,
such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to the basic
consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in all
material respects the information set forth therein.


DELOITTE & TOUCHE LLP

Parsippany, New Jersey
March 24, 1999


                                      -60-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                           CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      -61-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                        CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      -62-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                 CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      -63-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                      CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS



                 See notes to consolidated financial statements.


                                      -64-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

1. Organization and Business

      Vornado Realty Trust is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
("REIT"). In April 1997, Vornado transferred substantially all of its assets to
Vornado Realty L.P., a Delaware limited partnership (the "Operating
Partnership"). As a result, Vornado now conducts its business through, the
Operating Partnership. Vornado is the sole general partner of, and owned
approximately 85% of the limited partnership common interest in, the Operating
Partnership at March 17, 1999. All references to the "Company" and "Vornado"
refer to Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries, including the
Operating Partnership.

      The Company currently owns directly or indirectly:

Office Building Properties ("Office"):

            (i) all or portions of 21 office building properties in the New York
      City metropolitan area (primarily Manhattan) containing approximately 12.5
      million square feet;

            (ii) a 34% limited partnership interest in Charles E. Smith
      Commercial Realty L.P. ("CESCR"), a limited partnership, which owns
      interests in and manages approximately 10.7 million square feet of office
      properties in Northern Virginia and Washington D.C., and manages an
      additional 14.6 million square feet of office and other commercial
      properties in the Washington, D.C. area;

Retail Properties ("Retail"):

            (iii) 59 shopping center properties in seven states and Puerto Rico
      containing approximately 12.2 million square feet, including 1.4 million
      square feet built by tenants on land leased from the Company;

Cold Storage Companies ("Cold Storage"):

            (iv) a 60% interest in partnerships that own 88 warehouse facilities
      nationwide with an aggregate of approximately 450 million cubic feet of
      refrigerated, frozen and dry storage space; (excludes 13 additional
      warehouses containing approximately 30 million cubic feet managed by the
      Cold Storage Companies - see "Spin-off of Vornado Operating Company");

Merchandise Mart Properties:

            (v) the Merchandise Mart properties containing approximately 6.7
      million square feet, including the 3.4 million square foot Merchandise
      Mart in Chicago;

Other Real Estate Investments:

            (vi) approximately 29.3% of the outstanding common stock of
      Alexander's, Inc. ("Alexander's"), which has eight properties in the New
      York City metropolitan area;

            (vii) an 80% interest in the Hotel Pennsylvania, a New York City
      hotel which contains 800,000 square feet of space with 1,700 rooms and
      400,000 square feet of retail and office space;

            (viii) eight dry warehouse/industrial properties in New Jersey
      containing approximately 2.0 million square feet; and

            (ix) other real estate and investments.


                                      -65-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

Spin-off of Vornado Operating Company

   General

      Vornado Operating Company ("Vornado Operating"), was incorporated on
October 30, 1997, as a wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. In order to
maintain its status as a REIT for federal income tax purposes, the Company is
required to focus principally on investment in real estate assets. Accordingly,
the Company is prevented from owning certain assets and conducting certain
activities that would be inconsistent with its status as a REIT. Vornado
Operating was formed to own assets that Vornado could not itself own and conduct
activities that Vornado could not itself conduct. Vornado Operating is intended
to function principally as an operating company, in contrast to the Company's
principal focus on investment in real estate assets. Vornado Operating is able
to do so because it is taxable as a regular "C" corporation rather than a REIT.

      Vornado Operating will seek to become the operator of businesses conducted
at properties it leases from the Company, as contemplated by the Intercompany
Agreement between the Company and Vornado Operating (the "Intercompany
Agreement"), referred to below. Vornado Operating expects to rely exclusively on
the Company to identify business opportunities and currently expects that those
opportunities will relate in some manner to the Company and its real estate
investments rather than to unrelated businesses.

   The Distribution

      On October 16, 1998, the Operating Partnership made a distribution (the
"Distribution") of one share of common stock, par value $.01 per share (the
"Common Stock"), of Vornado Operating for 20 units of limited partnership
interest of the Operating Partnership (including units owned by the Company)
held of record as of the close of business on October 9, 1998 and Vornado Realty
Trust in turn made a distribution of the Common Stock it received to the holders
of its common shares of beneficial interest. While no Common Stock was
distributed in respect of the Company's $3.25 Series A Convertible Preferred
Shares, the Company adjusted the Conversion Price to take into account the
Distribution. Vornado Operating's Common Stock is listed on the American Stock
Exchange under the symbol "VOO".

   Capital Contribution and Revolving Credit Agreement.

      The Company initially capitalized Vornado Operating with an equity
contribution of $25,000,000 of cash. As part of its formation, Vornado Operating
was granted a $75,000,000 unsecured five-year revolving credit facility from
Vornado (the "Revolving Credit Agreement"). Borrowings under the Revolving
Credit Agreement bear interest at a floating rate per annum equal to LIBOR plus
3%. Commencing January 1, 1999, Vornado Operating pays the Company a commitment
fee equal to 1% per annum on the average daily unused portion of the facility.
Amounts may be borrowed under the Revolving Credit Agreement, repaid and
reborrowed from time to time on a revolving basis (so long as the principal
amount outstanding at any time does not exceed $75,000,000). Only interest and
commitment fees are payable under the Revolving Credit Agreement until it
expires. The Revolving Credit Agreement prohibits Vornado Operating from
incurring indebtedness to third parties (other than certain purchase money debt
and certain other exceptions) and prohibits Vornado Operating from paying
dividends. Debt under the Revolving Credit Agreement is recourse to Vornado
Operating.

   Intercompany Agreement.

      The Company and Vornado Operating have entered into the Intercompany
Agreement pursuant to which, among other things, (a) the Company will under
certain circumstances offer Vornado Operating an opportunity to become the
lessee of certain real property owned now or in the future by the Company (under
mutually satisfactory lease terms) and (b) Vornado Operating will not make any
real estate investment or other REIT-Qualified Investment unless it first offers
the Company the opportunity to make such investment and the Company has rejected
that opportunity.


                                      -66-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                   NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS

      Under the Intercompany Agreement, the Company has agreed to provide
Vornado Operating with certain administrative, corporate, accounting, financial,
insurance, legal, tax, data processing, human resources and operational
services. For these services, Vornado Operating will compensate the Company in
an amount determined in good faith by the Company as the amount an unaffiliated
third party would charge Vornado Operating for comparable services and will
reimburse the Company for certain costs incurred and paid to third parties on
behalf of Vornado Operating. For the period from October 16, 1998 (commencement
date) to December 31, 1998, approximately $50,000 of compensation for such
services was charged pursuant to the Intercompany Agreement.

      Vornado Operating and the Company each have the right to terminate the
Intercompany Agreement if the other party is in material default of the
Intercompany Agreement or upon 90 days written notice to the other party at any
time after December 31, 2003. In addition, the Company has the right to
terminate the Intercompany Agreement upon a change in control of Vornado
Operating.

   Vornado Operating's Management.

      Messrs. Roth, Fascitelli, West and Wight are directors of Vornado
Operating. Mr. Roth is also Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of
Vornado Operating, Mr. Fascitelli is also President of Vornado Operating, and
certain other members of the Company's senior management hold a corresponding
position with Vornado Operating.

   The Cold Storage Companies.

      On October 31, 1997, partnerships (the "Vornado/Crescent Partnerships") in
which affiliates of the Company have a 60% interest and affiliates of Crescent
Real Estate Equities Company have a 40% interest acquired each of Americold
Corporation ("Americold") and URS Logistics, Inc. ("URS"). In June 1998, the
Vornado/Crescent Partnerships acquired the assets of Freezer Services, Inc. and
in July 1998 acquired the Carmar Group (Americold, URS, Freezer Services, Inc.
and the Carmar Group, collectively, the "Cold Storage Companies").

      On March 12, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of the Cold Storage Companies encompassing the operations
of the cold storage business for approximately $48,000,000 to a new partnership
owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc. The
new partnership leases the underlying cold storage warehouses used in this
business from the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships which continue to own the real
estate. The leases have a 15 year term with two-five year renewal options and
provide for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage rent based on customer
revenues. The new partnership is required to pay for all costs arising from the
operation, maintenance and repair of the properties, as well as property capital
expenditures in excess of $5,000,000 annually. Fixed base rent and percentage
rent for the initial lease year is projected to be approximately $151 million.
The new partnership has the right to defer a portion of the rent for up to three
years beginning on March 12, 1999 to the extent that available cash, as defined
in the leases, is insufficient to pay such rent.

      Disposition and Acquisition of Interest in CESCR

      On December 31, 1998, the Company sold approximately 1.7% of the
outstanding partnership units of CESCR, (a Delaware limited partnership that
owns interests in and manages approximately 10.7 million square feet of office
properties in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia, a suburb of Washington, D.C.,
and manages an additional 14.6 million square feet of office and other
commercial properties in the Washington, D.C. area), to Vornado Operating
Company, for an aggregate purchase price of approximately $12,900,000 or $34 per
unit (which is the price at which CESCR issued partnership units in October 1998
in connection with a significant "roll-up" transaction). The purchase price was
funded out of Vornado Operating's working capital. After giving effect to this
purchase, the Company owned approximately 9.6% of CESCR as of December 31, 1998.
In connection with this purchase, the Company granted to Vornado Operating an
option to require the Company to repurchase all of the CESCR units at the price
at which Vornado Operating purchased the CESCR units, plus a cumulative return
on such amount at a rate of 10% per annum. The option was exercised on March 4,
1999. Accordingly, the Company reacquired the CESCR units from Vornado Operating
for $13,200,000.


                                      -67-



                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

2. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies

      Basis of Presentation: The accompanying consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of Vornado Realty Trust and its majority-owned subsidiary,
Vornado Realty L.P. as well as interests acquired that individually (or in the
aggregate with prior interests) exceed a 50% interest and the Company exercises
unilateral control. All significant intercompany amounts have been eliminated.
Equity interests in partially-owned entities include partnerships, joint
ventures and preferred stock affiliates (corporations in which the Company owns
all of the preferred stock and none of the common equity) and are accounted for
under the equity method of accounting as the Company exercises significant
influence. These investments are recorded initially at cost and subsequently
adjusted for net equity in income (loss) and cash contributions and
distributions. Ownership of the preferred stock entitles the Company to
substantially all of the economic benefits in the preferred stock affiliates.
The common stock of the preferred stock affiliates is owned by Officers and
Trustees of Vornado.

      Management has made estimates and assumptions that affect the reported
amounts of assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and
the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.

      Real Estate: Real estate is carried at cost, net of accumulated
depreciation and amortization. Betterments, major renewals and certain costs
directly related to the acquisition, improvement and leasing of real estate are
capitalized. Maintenance and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.
Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the assets estimated
useful lives which range from 7 to 40 years. Tenant allowances are amortized on
a straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases.

      The Company's properties are reviewed for impairment if events or changes
in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the property may not be
recoverable. In such an event, a comparison is made of the current and projected
operating cash flows of each such property into the foreseeable future on an
undiscounted basis, to the carrying amount of such property. Such carrying
amount would be adjusted, if necessary, to reflect an impairment in the value of
the asset.

      Cash and Cash Equivalents: Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly
liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less.
Cash and cash equivalents does not include cash restricted for tenant
improvements at the Company's Two Penn Plaza office building of $25,708,000 and
cash restricted in connection with an officer's deferred compensation payable of
$4,823,000.

      Marketable Securities: The Company has classified debt and equity
securities which it intends to hold for an indefinite period of time as
securities available for sale, equity securities it intends to buy and sell on a
short term basis as trading securities and its preferred stock investment in
Capital Trust as securities held to maturity. Unrealized gains and losses are
included in earnings for trading securities and as a component of shareholder's
equity and other comprehensive income for securities available for sale.
Realized gains or losses on the sale of securities are recorded based on average
cost.

      At December 31, 1998 and 1997, marketable securities had an aggregate cost
of $83,043,000 and $34,950,000 and an aggregate market value of $77,156,000 and
$34,469,000 (of which $6,826,000 and $7,583,000 represents trading securities).
The securities held to maturity of $48,530,000 are reported at amortized cost.
Gross unrealized gains and losses were $513,000 and $6,400,000 at December 31,
1998 and $1,583,000 and $2,064,000 at December 31, 1997.

      Mortgage Loans Receivable: The Company evaluates the collectibility of
both interest and principal of each of its loans, if circumstances warrant, to
determine whether it is impaired. A loan is considered to be impaired, when
based on current information and events, it is probable that the Company will be
unable to collect all amounts due according to the existing contractual terms.
When a loan is considered to be impaired, the amount of the loss accrual is
calculated by comparing the recorded investment to the value determined by
discounting the expected future cash flows at the loan's effective interest
rate. Interest on impaired loans is recognized on a cash basis.


                                      -68-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

      Officers Compensation Payable: In July 1998, the Emerging Issues Task
Force (EITF) of the Financial Accounting Standards Board issued EITF 97-14
"Accounting for Deferred Compensation Arrangements Where Amounts Earned are Held
in a Rabbi Trust and Invested" (EITF 97-14). EITF 97-14 applies to the Company's
accounting treatment of the Officers Compensation Payable as reflected in the
balance sheet. The transition guidance of EITF 97-14 required the Company to
record a charge to equity of $10,464,000 which represents the appreciation in
the value of the stock from the date the trust was established (at which time
the price of the stock was $21.75 per share) to September 30, 1998 (at which
time the price of the stock was $33.13 per share). In subsequent periods,
appreciation in the stock's price above $33.13 will be recognized as
compensation expense and if the price fluctuates between $33.13 and $21.75,
equity would be adjusted. For the quarter ended December 31, 1998, approximately
$340,000 was recognized as compensation expense as the price per share at
December 31, 1998 was $33.50.

      Fair Value of Financial Instruments: All financial instruments of the
Company are reflected in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets at amounts
which, in management's estimation, based upon an interpretation of available
market information and valuation methodologies (including discounted cash flow
analyses with regard to fixed rate debt) are considered appropriate, and
reasonably approximate their fair values. Such fair value estimates are not
necessarily indicative of the amounts that would be realized upon disposition of
the Company's financial instruments.

      Deferred Charges: Direct financing costs are deferred and amortized over
the terms of the related agreements as a component of interest expense. Direct
costs related to leasing activities are capitalized and amortized on a
straight-line basis over the lives of the related leases. All other deferred
charges are amortized on a straight-line basis in accordance with the terms of
the agreements to which they relate.

      Revenue Recognition: Base rents, additional rents based on tenants' sales
volume and reimbursement of the tenants' share of certain operating expenses are
generally recognized when due from tenants. The straight-line basis is used to
recognize base rents under leases entered into after November 14, 1985, which
provide for varying rents over the lease terms.

      Income Taxes: The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to
continue to qualify as a REIT under Sections 856-860 of the Internal Revenue
Code of 1986 as amended. Under those sections, a REIT which distributes at least
95% of its REIT taxable income as a dividend to its shareholders each year and
which meets certain other conditions will not be taxed on that portion of its
taxable income which is distributed to its shareholders. The Company has
distributed to shareholders an amount greater than its taxable income.
Therefore, no provision for Federal income taxes is required. Dividend
distributions for the year ended December 31, 1998, were characterized for
Federal income tax purposes as ordinary income (81%), return of capital (17%)
and capital gain (2%). The distributions for the tax years ended December 31,
1997 and 1996 were characterized for Federal income tax purposes as ordinary
income.

      The net basis of the Company's assets and liabilities for tax purposes is
approximately $920,000,000 lower than the amount reported for financial
statement purposes.

      Amounts Per Share: Basic earnings per share is computed based on average
shares outstanding. Diluted earnings per share considers the effect of options,
warrants and convertible securities. All share and per share information has
also been adjusted for a 2-for-1 stock split in October 1997.

      Stock Options: The Company accounts for stock-based compensation using the
intrinsic value method. Under the intrinsic value method compensation cost is
measured as the excess, if any, of the quoted market price of the Company's
stock at the date of grant over the exercise price of the option granted.
Compensation cost for stock options, if any, is recognized ratably over the
vesting period. The Company's policy is to grant options with an exercise price
equal to the quoted market price of the Company's stock on the grant date.
Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for the Company's stock
option plans.


                                      -69-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

3. Acquisitions

      The Company completed approximately $2.4 billion of real estate
acquisitions or investments from January 1, 1998 through March, 1999 and $2.0
billion in 1997. These acquisitions were consummated through subsidiaries or
preferred stock affiliates of the Company and were recorded under the purchase
method of accounting. Related net assets and results of operations have been
included in these financial statements since their respective dates of
acquisition. The respective purchase costs were allocated to acquired assets and
assumed liabilities using their relative fair values as of the closing dates,
based on valuations and other studies certain of which are not yet complete.
Accordingly, the initial valuations are subject to change as such information is
finalized. The Company believes that any such change will not be significant
since the allocations were principally to real estate. The following are the
details of the acquisitions or investments by segment:

Office:

   Mendik Transaction

      In April 1997, Vornado consummated the acquisition of interests in all or
a portion of seven Manhattan office buildings and the management company held by
Bernard H. Mendik, David R. Greenbaum and certain entities controlled by them
(the "Mendik Group") and certain of their affiliates, which is operated as the
Mendik Division. The properties acquired include (i) four wholly owned
properties: Two Penn Plaza, Eleven Penn Plaza, 1740 Broadway and 866 U.N. Plaza
and (ii) three partially owned properties: Two Park Avenue (40% interest), 330
Madison Avenue (24.8% interest) and 570 Lexington Avenue (5.6% interest). The
consideration for the transaction was approximately $656,000,000, including
$264,000,000 in cash, $177,000,000 in the limited partnership units of the
Operating Partnership ("Minority Interests") and $215,000,000 in indebtedness.

   90 Park Avenue

      In May 1997, the Company acquired a mortgage loan from a consortium of
banks collateralized by an office building located at 90 Park Avenue, Manhattan,
New York. On August 21, 1997, the Company entered into an agreement with the
owners of 90 Park Avenue pursuant to which the Company restructured the
mortgage, took title to the land and obtained a 43-year lease on the building
under which the Company manages the building and receives the building's cash
flow. As part of the restructuring, the amount of the debt was adjusted from the
face value of $193,000,000 to the May 1997 acquisition cost of $185,000,000, the
maturity date of the debt was extended to August 31, 2022 and the interest rate
was set at 7.5%. The Company purchased the land from the borrower for
$8,000,000, which was further applied to reduce the debt to $177,000,000. This
investment is classified as real estate.

   20 Broad Street

      In September 1997, the Company purchased, at a discount, a mortgage on an
office building at 20 Broad Street in Manhattan, New York for $27,000,000. The
mortgage, which was in default, yielded approximately 12%. In August 1998, the
Company acquired the Mendik Group's 60% interest in the leasehold for
approximately $600,000 of Operating Partnership Units. In a related transaction,
the Company sold a 40% interest in the mortgage to the other unrelated owner of
the property for $10,800,000. The purchase from the Mendik Group includes a
provision for a future earn-out, capped at $4,400,000 in additional units, based
on leasing activity through December 31, 2004.

   Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty Investment ("CESCR")

      In October 1997, the Company acquired a 15% limited partnership interest
in CESCR for $60,000,000. CESCR owns interests in and manages approximately 10.7
million square feet of office properties in Northern Virginia and Washington,
D.C. and manages an additional 14.6 million square feet of office and other
commercial properties in the Washington, D.C. area. In October 1998, CESCR
issued partnership units in connection with a significant roll-up transaction
reducing the Company's limited partnership interest to 11.3%.


                                      -70-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

      On December 31, 1998, the Company sold approximately 1.7% of the
outstanding partnership units of CESCR to Vornado Operating for an aggregate
price of approximately $12,900,000. In connection with this purchase, the
Company granted Vornado Operating an option to require the Company to repurchase
the units. The option was exercised on March 4, 1999. Accordingly, the Company
reacquired the CESCR units from Vornado Operating for $13,200,000.

      On March 4, 1999 the Company made an additional $242,000,000 investment in
CESCR by contributing to CESCR the land under certain CESCR office properties in
Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia and partnership interests in certain CESCR
subsidiaries. The Company acquired these assets from Commonwealth Atlantic
Properties, Inc, ("CAPI"), an affiliate of Lazard Freres Real Estate Investors
L.L.C., immediately prior to the contribution to CESCR. Together with the
Company's investment in CESCR made in 1997 and the units it reacquired from
Vornado Operating Company, Vornado now owns approximately 34% of CESCR's limited
partnership units. In addition, the Company acquired from CAPI for $8,000,000
the land under a Marriott Hotel located in Crystal City.

      The purchase price was paid to CAPI by Vornado issuing $250,000,000 of 6%
Convertible Preferred Units of the Company's operating partnership. The
Preferred Units are convertible at $44 per unit and the coupon increases to
6.50% over the next three years and then fixes at 6.75% in year eight. The
Company will appoint one of three members to CESCR's Board of Managers,
increasing under certain circumstances to two of four members in March 2002.

      In connection with these transactions, the Company agreed to make a
five-year $41,000,000 loan to CAPI with interest at 8%, increasing to 9% ratably
over the term. The loan is secured by approximately $55,000,000 of the Company's
units issued to CAPI as well as certain real estate assets.

   640 Fifth Avenue

      In December 1997, the Company acquired 640 Fifth Avenue, a Manhattan
office building located at the corner of 51st Street, for approximately
$64,000,000.

   Westport Corporate Office Park

      In January 1998, the Company acquired the Westport Corporate Office Park
from a limited partnership that included members of the Mendik Group. The
purchase price was approximately $14,000,000 consisting of $6,000,000 of cash
and an $8,000,000 mortgage loan for the two buildings.

   One Penn Plaza

      In February 1998, the Company acquired a long-term leasehold interest in
One Penn Plaza, a Manhattan office building for approximately $410,000,000.

   150 East 58th Street

      In March 1998, the Company acquired 150 East 58th Street (the "Architects
and Design Center"), a Manhattan office building, for approximately
$118,000,000.

   570 Lexington Avenue - additional investment

      In April 1998, the Company increased its interest from 5.6% to
approximately 50% in 570 Lexington Avenue, an office building located in midtown
Manhattan. The Company purchased the additional interest for approximately
$37,200,000, including $4,900,000 of existing debt.


                                      -71-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

   888 Seventh Avenue and 40 Fulton Street

      In June, 1998, the Company entered into an agreement to acquire the
leasehold interest in 888 Seventh Avenue, a 46 story office building located in
midtown Manhattan, and simultaneously acquired 40 Fulton Street, a 29 story
office building located in downtown Manhattan. The aggregate consideration for
both buildings is approximately $154,500,000. The acquisition of 888 Seventh
Avenue was completed in January 1999.

   770 Broadway

      In July 1998, the Company acquired 770 Broadway, a Manhattan office
building, for approximately $149,000,000, including $18,000,000 of Operating
Partnership Units.

   689 Fifth Avenue

      In August 1998, the Company acquired 689 Fifth Avenue, a 84,000 square
foot Manhattan specialty building for approximately $33,000,000 from a
partnership that included Bernard H. Mendik, a former trustee of the Company.

   Mendik Real Estate Limited Partnership Properties

      In November 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of certain
properties from the Mendik Real Estate Limited Partnership ("Mendik RELP"). The
acquired real estate assets include (i) a leasehold interest in the Saxon Woods
Corporate Center located at 550/600 Mamaroneck Avenue, in Harrison, New York,
(ii) the remaining 60% interest in an office building located at Two Park
Avenue, in Manhattan (the Company already owned 40%) and (iii) a leasehold
interest in an office building located at 330 West 34th Street, also in
Manhattan. The aggregate purchase price of approximately $106,000,000, consists
of $31,000,000 of cash, $29,000,000 of the Company's common shares and
$46,000,000 of debt.

Retail:

   Montehiedra Town Center

      In April 1997, the Company acquired The Montehiedra Town Center
("Montehiedra"), a shopping center, located in San Juan, Puerto Rico, for
approximately $74,000,000, of which $63,000,000 was newly issued ten-year
indebtedness.

   Arbor Property Trust

      In December 1997, the Company acquired Arbor Property Trust ("Arbor") for
approximately 2,936,000 common shares of beneficial interest of Vornado and
39,400 Series A Convertible Preferred Shares of Vornado. The approximate value
of the transaction was $225,000,000, subject to property level debt of
$125,000,000. Arbor was a single property real estate investment trust which
owned the Green Acres Mall, a super-regional enclosed shopping mall complex
situated in Nassau County, Long Island, New York, approximately one-mile east of
the borough of Queens, New York.

Las Catalinas Mall

      In October 1998, the Company completed the acquisition of Kmart
Corporation's ("Kmart") 50% interest in the Las Catalinas Mall located in
Caguas, Puerto Rico (adjacent to San Juan). In addition, the Company acquired
75% and the Company's partner in the Mall acquired 25% of Kmart's anchor store.
The Company's purchase price of $38,000,000 was fully financed with 15 year
debt.


                                      -72-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Cold Storage

      In October 1997, two partnerships in which preferred stock affiliates of
the Company have 60% interests and affiliates of Crescent Real Estate Equities
Company have 40% interests acquired Americold Corporation ("Americold") and URS
Logistics, Inc. ("URS") from affiliates of Kelso & Company, Inc. and other
owners. Americold and URS are cold storage and logistics warehouse companies.
The consideration for these transactions totaled approximately $1,000,000,000,
including $628,000,000 of indebtedness. The Company's share of the purchase
price was approximately $600,000,000.

      In June 1998, a partnership in which Vornado owns a 60% interest through a
preferred stock affiliate acquired the assets of Freezer Services, Inc.,
consisting of nine cold storage warehouses in the central United States for
approximately $133,000,000, including $107,000,000 in cash and $26,000,000 in
indebtedness. The Company's share of this investment was $80,000,000.
Additionally, in July 1998, the Carmar Group cold storage warehouse business was
acquired for approximately $158,000,000, including $144,000,000 in cash and
$14,000,000 in indebtedness. The Company's share of this investment was
$95,000,000. Carmar owns and operates five cold storage distribution warehouses
in the midwest and southeast United States. See "Subsequent Events".

Merchandise Mart Properties:

   The Merchandise Mart Properties

      In April 1998, the Company acquired a real estate portfolio from the
Kennedy Family for approximately $630,000,000, consisting of $187,000,000 in
cash, $116,000,000 in Operating Partnership Units, $77,000,000 in existing debt
and $250,000,000 of newly issued debt. The acquired real estate assets consist
of a portfolio of properties used for office, retail and trade showroom space
which aggregate approximately 5.4 million square feet and include the
Merchandise Mart in Chicago. The transaction also included the acquisition of
Merchandise Mart Properties, Inc., which manages the properties and owns and
operates trade shows.

   Market Square Complex

      In December 1998, Vornado completed the acquisition of the 1.07 million
square foot Market Square Complex of showrooms in High Point, North Carolina.
The consideration was approximately $97,000,000 consisting of $46,000,000 in
debt, $44,000,000 in Operating Partnership Units and 6.5% Preferred Operating
Partnership Units convertible at $43.74 per unit and $7,000,000 of cash. The
acquired real estate assets include the Market Square, Hamilton Market and
Furniture Plaza showroom buildings and the High Point Holiday Inn hotel.

      In a second transaction, the Company acquired the 243,000 square foot
National Furniture Mart, which is adjacent to the forementioned properties, in
High Point. The price was approximately $17,700,000 consisting of $3,800,000 in
cash and $13,900,000 in debt.

Other Real Estate Investments:

   Riese Transaction

      In June 1997, the Company acquired four properties for approximately
$26,000,000. The properties were previously owned by affiliates of the Riese
Organization. These properties are located in midtown Manhattan. The Company
also made a $41,000,000 mortgage loan to Riese affiliates cross-collateralized
by ten other Manhattan properties. The mortgage loan which had a five-year term
and an initial interest rate of 9.75% increasing annually, was repaid in May
1998.


                                      -73-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

   Hotel Pennsylvania

      In September 1997, the Company acquired a 40% interest in the Hotel
Pennsylvania, which is located on Seventh Avenue opposite Madison Square Garden
in Manhattan, New York. The property was acquired in a joint venture with Hotel
Properties Limited and Planet Hollywood International, Inc. from a group of
partnerships. Under the joint venture agreement, Hotel Properties Limited and
Planet Hollywood International, Inc. had 40% and 20% interests, respectively.
The joint venture acquired the hotel for approximately $159,000,000, of which
$120,000,000 was newly issued five-year financing. The Company's share of the
purchase price was approximately $64,000,000. In May 1998, the Company acquired
an additional 40% interest in the Hotel Pennsylvania increasing its ownership to
80%. The Company purchased the additional 40% interest from Hotel Properties
Limited (one of its joint venture partners) for approximately $70,000,000,
including $48,000,000 of existing debt. The Company manages the property's
retail and office space, and manages the hotel with Hotel Properties Limited.

   Newkirk Joint Ventures

      In July and September 1998, the Company invested an aggregate of
$56,000,000 for a 30% share in joint ventures with affiliates of Apollo Real
Estate Investment Fund III, L.P., collectively Newkirk Joint Ventures
("Newkirk"). Newkirk owns various equity and debt interests relating to 120
limited partnerships which own real estate primarily net leased to credit rated
tenants. The Company has issued letters of credit of $15,600,000 in connection
with these joint ventures.

      In March 1999, the Company and its joint venture partner completed an
acquisition of additional equity interests in certain limited partnerships. The
Company's additional investment of $52,435,000 consisted of $47,790,000 in
Operating Partnership Units and $4,645,000 in cash.

   YMCA Development

      In September 1997, the Company and its joint venture partner entered into
an agreement with the YMCA to develop a property now occupied by the YMCA. The
property overlooks Central Park and is located between West 63rd and 64th
Streets in Manhattan, New York. The transaction closed in February 1999.

      Pursuant to the agreement, the joint venture entity, of which the Company
owns 80%, will develop a 40 story mixed-use complex. The YMCA will own and use
approximately 94,000 square feet of the new building and the joint venture
intends to sell the remaining 119,000 square foot portion of the building as
residential condominiums. The project is expected to cost approximately
$96,000,000 which will be funded by the Company and is expected to be completed
in 2001.

      To date, the Company has expended approximately $6,400,000 in connection
with this transaction, and has provided the YMCA with letters of credit
totalling $7,750,000.

      The Company will receive a preferential return on its funds invested and
the return of its funds invested prior to the other joint venture partner
receiving any distribution.


                                      -74-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

   Pro Forma Information

The unaudited pro forma information set forth below presents (i) the condensed
consolidated operating results for the Company for the years ended December 31,
1998 and 1997 as if (a) the acquisitions described above and the financings
attributable thereto had occurred on January 1, 1997 and (ii) the condensed
consolidated pro forma balance sheet data of the Company as of December 31,
1998, as if the acquisitions and financings subsequent to December 31, 1998 (See
"Subsequent Events") had occurred on December 31, 1998.

   Condensed Pro Forma Consolidated Operating Results (unaudited)



  Pro Forma revenues and net income applicable to common shares after giving
effect only to the acquisitions and financings completed prior to December 31,
1998 were $611,965 and $125,381 for the year ended December 31, 1998 and
$574,602 and $105,251 for the year ended December 31, 1997. The pro forma
results for the year ended December 31, 1997, include non-recurring lease
cancellation income of $14,350,000, partially offset by related expenses of
$2,775,000.

   Condensed Pro Forma Consolidated Balance Sheet Data (Unaudited)




                                      -75-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

4. Investments in Partially-Owned Entities

      The Company's investments in partially-owned entities and income
recognized from such investments is disclosed below. Summarized financial data
is provided for (i) investments in entities which exceed 10% of the Company's
total assets and (ii) investments in which the Company's share of
partially-owned entities pre-tax income exceeds 10% of the Company's net income.

Balance Sheet Data:




                                      -76-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Below is a summary of the debt of partially owned entities as of December 31,
1998, none of which is guaranteed by the Company.



(1)   On March 4, 1999, the Company increased its ownership interest to 34%.
(2)   As of March 4, 1999, CESCR's interest in these properties increased to
      approximately 100% and accordingly, CESCR's proportionate share of the
      applicable debt increased from $156,463 to $316,023.


                                      -77-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Income Statement Data:



- ----------
*     1998 net loss includes the write-off of the carrying value of the
      Lexington Avenue buildings of $15,096. 1997 net income includes income
      from the condemnation of a portion of a property of $8,914. 1996 income
      includes income from discontinued operations of $11,602 and a
      non-recurring gain of $14,372.

   Alexander's

      The Company owns 29.3% of the outstanding shares of common stock of
Alexander's. In March 1995, the Company lent Alexander's $45,000,000. The loan,
which was originally scheduled to mature in March 1998, has been renewed for two
additional one year periods and currently matures in March 2000. The interest
rate was reset in March 1999 from 13.87% per annum to 14.18% per annum.

      The investment in and loans and advances to Alexander's are comprised of:




                                      -78-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Income applicable to Alexander's is comprised of :



      Alexander's is managed by and its properties are leased by the Company,
pursuant to agreements with a one-year term expiring in March of each year which
are automatically renewable. The annual management fee payable to the Company by
Alexander's is equal to the sum of (i) $3,000,000, (ii) 3% of the gross income
from the Kings Plaza Mall, plus (iii) 6% of development costs with minimum
guaranteed fees of $750,000 per annum.

      The leasing agreement provides for the Company to generally receive a fee
of (i) 3% of sales proceeds and (ii) 3% of lease rent for the first ten years of
a lease term, 2% of lease rent for the eleventh through the twentieth years of a
lease term and 1% of lease rent for the twenty-first through thirtieth year of a
lease term. Subject to the payment of rents by Alexander's tenants, the Company
is due $5,145,000 at December 31, 1998. Such amount is receivable annually in an
amount not to exceed $2,500,000 until the present value of such installments
(calculated at a discount rate of 9% per annum) equals the amount that would
have been paid had it been paid on September 21, 1993, or at the time the
transactions which gave rise to the commissions occurred, if later.

      As of December 31, 1998, Interstate Properties owned approximately 15.2%
of the common shares of beneficial interest of the Company and 27.1% of
Alexander's common stock. Interstate Properties is a general partnership in
which Steven Roth, David Mandelbaum and Russell B. Wight, Jr. are partners. Mr.
Roth is the Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
the Managing General Partner of Interstate Properties, and the Chief Executive
Officer and a director of Alexander's, Messrs. Mandelbaum and Wight are trustees
of the Company and are also directors of Alexander's.

   Cold Storage

      Investment represented a 60% interest in partnerships held by preferred
stock affiliates. Income recognized from the Cold Storage Companies is comprised
of:



      *     Period from November 1, 1997 (date of acquisition) to December 31,
            1997.

      See "Subsequent Events".


                                      -79-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

   Mendik Partially-Owned Office Buildings

      These investments represented the Company's interests in the
partially-owned properties included in the Mendik Transaction: Two Park Avenue
(40% interest), 330 Madison Avenue (24.8% interest) and 570 Lexington Avenue
(5.6% interest).

      In April 1998, the Company increased its interest in 570 Lexington Avenue
to approximately 50%. Income for the year ended December 31, 1998 is comprised
of equity in net income of 570 Lexington at 5.6% until the additional investment
was made in April 1998, at which time equity in net income was recorded at
approximately 50%. In November 1998, the Company acquired the remaining 60%
interest in Two Park Avenue. Income for the year ended December 31, 1998 is
comprised of equity in net income of Two Park Avenue until November, 1998 at
which time, the property was accounted for on a consolidated basis for the
remainder of 1998.

   Vornado Management Corp., Mendik Management Company and Merchandise Mart
   Properties Inc.

      These investments represent non-voting interest in preferred stock
affiliates. Income is comprised of equity in the net income of these preferred
stock affiliates.


                                      -80-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

5. Debt

      Following is a summary of the Company's debt:




                                      -81-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

      The net carrying value of properties collateralizing the notes and
mortgages amounted to $2,114,246,000 at December 31, 1998. As at December 31,
1998, the maturities for the next five years and thereafter are as follows:



      In July 1997, the Company obtained a $600,000,000 unsecured three-year
revolving credit facility. In February 1998, the facility was increased to
$1,000,000,000. The facility contains customary loan covenants including, among
others, limits on total outstanding indebtedness; maximum loan to value ratio;
minimum debt service coverage and minimum market capitalization requirements.
Interest is at LIBOR plus .70% to 1.00% depending on the Company's senior debt
rating. The credit facility has a competitive bid option program, which allows
the Company to hold auctions among banks participating in the facility for short
term borrowings of up to $500,000,000. The Company paid an origination fee in
July 1997 of .30%, origination and amendment fees in February 1998 of .39% and
pays a commitment fee quarterly over the remaining term of the facility ranging
from .15% to .20% on the facility amount.

      In February 1998, the Company completed a $160,000,000 refinancing of the
Green Acres Mall and prepaid the then existing $118,000,000 debt on the
property. The new 10-year debt matures in March 2008, requires amortization
based on a 30-year term, bears interest at 6.75% and may be defeased after 2001.

      In June 1998, the Company completed a $275,000,000 refinancing of its One
Penn Plaza office building and borrowed $170,000,000 pursuant thereto. In the
third quarter of 1998, the Company borrowed the remaining $105,000,000. the debt
matures in June 2002, is prepayable at anytime, and bears interest at LIBOR +
1.25% (currently 6.35%). This debt replaced the $93,192,000 bridge-mortgage loan
financing put in place when the property was acquired. The Company entered into
an interest rate cap agreement to reduce the impact of changes in interest rates
on this loan. The agreement caps the Company's interest rate in the event that
LIBOR increases above 8.5% through January 20, 2000 and 9% thereafter, until the
termination date of the cap agreement on July 30, 2001. The Company is exposed
to credit loss in the event of nonperformance by the other parties to the
interest rate cap agreement. However, the Company does not anticipate
nonperformance by the counterparty. The fair value of the interest rate cap
agreement at December 31, 1998 approximates its cost.

      In February 1999, the Company completed a $165,000,000 refinancing of its
Two Penn Plaza office building and prepaid the then existing $80,000,000 debt on
the property. The new 5-year debt matures in February 2004 and bears interest at
7.08%.

6. Shareholders' Equity

      In April 1998, the Company completed the sale of 10,000,000 common shares
of beneficial interest, par value $.04 per share pursuant to an effective
registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of approximately
$401,000,000. On April 29, 1998, the Company sold 1,132,420 common shares to a
unit investment trust, which were valued for the purpose of the trust at $41.06
per share, resulting in net proceeds of approximately $44,000,000.

      In connection with the acquisition of the Mendik RELP properties in
November 1998, the Company issued 842,200 common shares with an approximate
value of $29,063,000.

      During the year ended December 31, 1998, certain Operating Partnership
limited partners converted their units into approximately 894,000 common shares.
The value of these shares were approximately $32,780,000.


                                      -82-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

      In September 1998, the Company implemented a dividend reinvestment plan
which provides holders of record of common shares and the limited partners of
the Operating Partnership the opportunity to automatically reinvest all or a
portion of their cash distributions received on common shares and units of the
Operating Partnership into common shares. During the year ended December 31,
1998, 706 shares were issued and proceeds of approximately $24,000 were received
from dividend reinvestment.

      In April 1997, Vornado completed its public offering of 5,750,000 Series A
Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, liquidation preference
$50.00 per share. The preferred shares bear a coupon of 6 1/2% and are
convertible into common shares at $36.11 per share. The offering, net of
expenses, generated approximately $276,000,000 which was used to fund the cash
portion of the Mendik Transaction. In connection with the acquisition of Arbor
in December 1997, the Company issued approximately 2,936,000 common shares and
39,400 Series A Convertible Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest. The
approximate value of the shares issued at the time of the acquisition was
$102,000,000. Dividends on the preferred shares in 1998 and 1997 were
approximately $21,690,000 and $15,549,000 (including accretion of expenses in
connection with the offering of $2,874,000 and $1,918,000).

      On October 20, 1997, the Company paid a 100% common share dividend to
shareholders. All share and per share information has been adjusted to reflect
this two-for-one share split.

      In October 1997, Vornado sold 14,000,000 common shares and an additional
2,100,000 common shares in November 1997 when the underwriters exercised in full
their over-allotment option. The shares were sold at a price of $45.00 per share
which, net of expenses, yielded approximately $688,672,000. The net proceeds
were used to repay $310,000,000 outstanding under the Company's line of credit
and to fund a portion of the purchase price of certain acquisitions previously
described.

7. Employees' Share Option Plan

      Under the Omnibus Share Plan (the "Plan"), various officers and employees
have been granted incentive share options and non-qualified options to purchase
common shares. Options granted are at prices equal to 100% of the market price
of the Company's shares at the date of grant, 1,055,066 shares vest on a
graduated basis, becoming fully vested 27 months after grant, 3,500,000 shares
(granted in connection with Mr. Fascitelli's employment agreement) vest on a
graduated basis becoming fully vested 60 months after grant and 4,169,250 shares
vest on a graduated basis, becoming fully vested 36 months after grant. All
options expire ten years after grant.

      The Plan also provides for the award of Stock Appreciation Rights,
Performance Shares and Restricted Stock, as defined, none of which have been
awarded as of December 31, 1998.


                                      -83-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

      If compensation cost for Plan awards had been determined based on fair
value at the grant dates, net income and income per share would have been
reduced to the pro-forma amounts below, for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996:



      The fair value of each option grant is estimated on the date of grant
using the Binomial option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions used for grants in the periods ending December 31, 1998, 1997 and
1996.



      A summary of the Plan's status, and changes during the years then ended,
is presented below:




                                      -84-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

      The following table summarizes information about options outstanding under
the Plan at December 31, 1998:



Shares available for future grant under the Plan at December 31, 1998 were
4,103,382.

      In connection with the acquisition of Arbor in December 1997, the Company
issued 60,000 options to a third party outside of the Plan parameters. These
options were granted at $43.75 per share and immediately vested. No expense was
incurred related to this issuance as it was accounted for as component of the
acquisition price.

8. Retirement Plan

      In December 1997, benefits under the Plan were frozen. Prior to December
31, 1997, the Company's qualified retirement plan covered all full-time
employees. The Plan provided annual pension benefits that were equal to 1% of
the employee's annual compensation for each year of participation. The funding
policy is in accordance with the minimum funding requirements of ERISA.

      Pension expense includes the following components:



      *     Not applicable, as benefits under the Plan were frozen in December
            1997.


                                      -85-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

      The following table sets forth the Plan's funded status and the amount
recognized in the Company's balance sheet:



      Plan assets are invested in U.S. government obligations and securities
backed by U.S. government guaranteed mortgages.

9. Leases

      As lessor:

      The Company leases space to tenants in shopping centers and office
buildings under operating leases. Most of the leases provide for the payment of
fixed base rentals payable monthly in advance. Shopping center leases provide
for the pass-through to tenants of real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance.
Office building leases generally require the tenants to reimburse the Company
for operating costs and real estate taxes above their base year costs. Shopping
center leases also provide for the payment by the lessee of additional rent
based on a percentage of the tenants' sales. As of December 31, 1998, future
base rental revenue under noncancellable operating leases, excluding rents for
leases with an original term of less than one year and rents resulting from the
exercise of renewal options, is as follows:



      These amounts do not include rentals based on tenants' sales. These
percentage rents approximated $2,493,000, $1,786,000 and $936,000 for the years
ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

      None of the Company's tenants represented more than 10% of the Company's
total revenues for the year ended December 31, 1998.


                                      -86-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

      As lessee:

      The Company is a tenant under operating leases for certain properties.
These leases will expire principally during the next thirty years. Future
minimum lease payments under operating leases at December 31, 1998, are as
follows:



      Rent expense was $5,937,000, $2,001,000 and $1,465,000 for the years ended
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996.

10. Contingencies

      At December 31, 1998, in addition to the $687,250,000 balance outstanding
under the Company's revolving credit facility, the Company had utilized
$100,165,000 of availability under the facility for letters of credit and
guarantees primarily related to pending acquisitions.

      Each of the Company's properties has been subjected to varying degrees of
environmental assessment at various times. The environmental assessments did not
reveal any material environmental contamination. However, there can be no
assurance that the identification of new areas of contamination, change in the
extent or known scope of contamination, the discovery of additional sites, or
changes in cleanup requirements would not result in significant costs to the
Company.

      From time-to-time, the Company has disposed of substantial amounts of real
estate to third parties for which, as to certain properties, it remains
contingently liable for rent payments or mortgage indebtedness.

      There are various legal actions against the Company in the ordinary course
of business. In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal
counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a material effect on the
Company's financial condition, results of operations or cash flow.

11. Net Gain From Insurance Settlement and Condemnation Proceedings

      In April 1997, the Company's Lodi shopping center was destroyed by a fire.
In the third quarter of 1998, the Company and its insurer agreed that the
estimated cost to reconstruct the shopping center is approximately $9,012,000
and the Company recorded a gain of $7,955,000 (the agreed upon amount, net of
the carrying value of the shopping center of $1,057,000). The insurance carrier
had previously advanced $5,550,000 to the Company. The reconstruction of the
shopping center is expected to be completed in 1999.

      On September 1, 1998, Atlantic City condemned the Company's vacant
property. In the third quarter of 1998, the Company recorded a gain of
$1,694,000, (which reflects the condemnation award of $3,100,000, net of the
carrying value of the property of $1,406,000). The Company is contesting the
amount of the award.


                                      -87-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

12. Repurchase Agreements

      The Company enters into agreements for the purchase and resale of U.S.
government obligations for periods of up to one week. The obligations purchased
under these agreements are held in safekeeping in the name of the Company by
various money center banks. The Company has the right to demand additional
collateral or return of these invested funds at any time the collateral value is
less than 102% of the invested funds plus any accrued earnings thereon.

13. Other Related Party Transactions

      Pursuant to his employment contract, in December 1996 Mr. Fascitelli, the
President of the Company, received a deferred payment consisting of $5,000,000
in cash and a $20,000,000 convertible obligation payable at the Company's option
in 919,540 of its common shares or the cash equivalent of their appreciated
value but not less than $20,000,000. Accordingly, cash of $5,000,000 and 919,540
common shares are being held in an irrevocable trust (the fair value of this
obligation was $35,628,000 at December 31, 1998).

      During 1998, the Company made loans to Mr. Fascitelli aggregating
$7,600,000 in accordance with the terms of his employment contract. The loans
have a five-year term and bear interest, payable quarterly, at a weighted
average rate of 5.16% (based on the mid-term applicable federal rate provided
under the Internal Revenue Code).

      At December 31, 1998, the loans due from Mr. Roth, Mr. Rowan and Mr.
Macnow in connection with their stock option exercises were $13,930,000
($4,897,000 of which is shown as a reduction in shareholders' equity), $144,000
and $130,000, respectively. The loans bear interest at a rate equal to the
broker call rate (6.50% at December 31, 1998) but not less than the minimum
applicable federal rate provided under the Internal Revenue Code. Interest on
the loan to Mr. Roth is payable quarterly. Mr. Roth's loan is due in December
2002. The Company has agreed on each January 1st (commencing January 1, 1997) to
forgive one-fifth of the amounts due from Mr. Rowan and Mr. Macnow, provided
that they remain employees of the Company.

      The Company currently manages and leases the real estate assets of
Interstate Properties pursuant to a management agreement for which the Company
receives a quarterly fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and
certain other commissions. The management agreement has a term of one year and
is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on sixty
days' notice at the end of the term. Although the management agreement was not
negotiated at arms length, the Company believes based upon comparable fees
charged by other real estate companies, that its terms are fair to the Company.
For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, $1,365,000 and $1,184,000
and $2,074,000 of management fees were earned by the Company pursuant to the
management agreement.

      The Mendik Group owns an entity which provides cleaning and related
services and security services to office properties, including the Company's
Manhattan office properties. Although the terms and conditions of the contracts
pursuant to which these services are provided were not negotiated at arms
length, the Company believes based upon comparable fees charged to other real
estate companies, that the terms and conditions of such contracts are fair to
the Company. The Company was charged fees in connection with these contracts of
$25,686,000 for the year ended December 31, 1998 and $9,965,000 for the period
from April 15, 1997 (date of acquisition of the Mendik portfolio) to December
31, 1997.

      The common stock of the preferred stock affiliates which own interests in
the Cold Storage Companies, Hotel Pennsylvania and related management companies
is owned by Officers and Trustees of Vornado.


                                      -88-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

14. Minority Interest

      The minority interest represents limited partners, other than Vornado,
interests in the Operating Partnership and are comprised of:



      ----------
      (a)   Class A units are convertible into one common share of beneficial
            interest in Vornado or cash at Vornado's option.
      (b)   Class C unit holders participated in distributions at an annual rate
            of $1.69, then pari passu with the Class A rate.
      (c)   Mandatory conversion of Class C units occurs after four consecutive
            quarters of distributions of at least $.4225 per unit ($1.69
            annually).
      (d)   Mandatory conversion of Class D units occurs after four consecutive
            quarters of distributions of at least $.50375 per unit ($2.015
            annually), then pari passu with the Class A rate. 
      (e)   Convertible into an equivalent Vornado 8.5% preferred share.


                                      -89-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

15. Earnings Per Share

      The following table sets forth the computation of basic and diluted
earnings per share:



16. Summary of Quarterly Results (Unaudited)

      The following summary represents the results of operations for each
quarter in 1998 and 1997:



- ----------
(1)   The total for the year may differ from the sum of the quarters as a result
      of weighting.


                                      -90-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

17. Segment Information

      The Company has four business segments: Office, Retail, Cold Storage and
Merchandise Mart Properties. Prior to April 1997, the Company operated in one
segment-retail real estate, primarily in the Northeast section of the United
States. Accordingly, selected financial information related to each segment is
presented for 1998 and 1997 only.



- ----------
      See footnotes 1-5 on the next page.


                                      -91-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)

Notes to segment information:

      (1)   EBITDA represents net income before interest, taxes, depreciation
            and amortization, extraordinary or non-recurring items, gains or
            losses on sales of real estate and the effect of straight-lining of
            property rentals for rent escalations. Management considers EBITDA a
            supplemental measure for making decisions and assessing the
            performance of its segments. EBITDA may not be comparable to
            similarly titled measures employed by other companies.
      (2)   Other includes (i) the operations of the Company's warehouse and
            industrial properties, (ii) investments in the Hotel Pennsylvania,
            Alexander's, and Newkirk Joint Ventures, (iii) corporate general and
            administrative expenses and (iv) unallocated investment income and
            interest and debt expense.
      (3)   Includes adding back of (i) $4,287 of income taxes and related
            items, which are considered non-recurring because of the expected
            conversion of the Cold Storage Companies to REITS and (ii)
            non-recurring unification costs of $4,585.
      (4)   Primarily represents the Company's equity in Alexander's loss from
            the write-off of the carrying value of Alexander's Lexington Avenue
            buildings.
      (5)   Interest and debt expense, depreciation and amortization and
            straight-lining of rents included in the reconciliation of net
            income to EBITDA reflects amounts which are netted in income from
            partially-owned entities.

18. Subsequent Events

   Acquisition of 888 Seventh Avenue

      On January 12, 1999, the Company completed the acquisition of 888 Seventh
Avenue, a 46 story Manhattan office building for approximately $100,000,000.

   Additional Investment in Newkirk

      In March 1999, the Company and its joint venture partner completed an
acquisition of additional equity interests in certain limited partnerships. The
Company's additional investment of $52,435,000 consisted of $47,790,000 in
Operating Partnership Units and $4,645,000 in cash.

   Charles E. Smith Commercial Realty L.P.

      On March 4, 1999, the Company made an additional $242,000,000 investment
in CESCR by contributing to CESCR the land under certain CESCR office properties
in Crystal City, Arlington, Virginia and partnership interests in certain CESCR
subsidiaries. The Company acquired these assets from Commonwealth Atlantic
Properties, Inc. ("CAPI"), an affiliate of Lazard Freres Real Estate Investors
L.L.C., immediately prior to the contribution to CESCR. Together with the
Company's investment in CESCR made in 1997 and the units it reacquired on March
4, 1999 from Vornado Operating Company, the Company owns approximately 34% of
CESCR's limited partnership units. In addition, the Company acquired from CAPI
for $8,000,000 the land under a Marriott Hotel located in Crystal City.

      The purchase price was paid to CAPI by the Company issuing $250,000,000 of
6% Convertible Preferred Units of the Company's operating partnership. The
Preferred Units are convertible at $44 per unit and the coupon increases to
6.50% over the next three years and then fixes at 6.75% in year eight. The
Company will appoint one of three members to CESCR's Board of Managers,
increasing under certain circumstances to two of four members in March 2002.

      In connection with these transactions, the Company made a five-year
$41,000,000 loan to CAPI with interest at 8%, increasing to 9% ratably over the
term. The loan is secured by approximately $55,000,000 of the Operating
Partnership's units issued to CAPI as well as certain real estate assets.

   Offering of Preferred Shares

      On March 17, 1999, the Company completed the sale of 3 million 8.5% Series
B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares, at a price $25.00 per share, pursuant
to an effective registration statement with net proceeds to the Company of
approximately $72,200,000. Further on March 22, 1999, 400,000 shares were sold
when the underwriters exercised their over-allotment option resulting in
additional net proceeds to the Company of $9,700,000. The perpetual preferred
shares may be called without penalty at the option of the Company commencing on
March 17, 2004.


                                      -92-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued)
Sale of Non-Real Estate Assets of AmeriCold Logistics
      On March 12, 1999, the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships sold all of the
non-real estate assets of the Cold Storage Companies encompassing the operations
of the cold storage business for approximately $48,000,000 to a new partnership
owned 60% by Vornado Operating Company and 40% by Crescent Operating Inc. The
new partnership leases the underlying cold storage warehouses used in this
business from the Vornado/Crescent Partnerships which continue to own the real
estate. The leases have a 15 year term with two-five year renewal options and
provide for the payment of fixed base rent and percentage rent based on customer
revenues. The new partnership is required to pay for all costs arising from the
operation, maintenance and repair of the properties, as well as property capital
expenditures in excess of $5,000,000 annually. Fixed base rent and percentage
rent for the initial lease year is projected to be approximately $151 million.
The new partnership has the right to defer a portion of the rent for up to three
years beginning on March 12, 1999 to the extent that available cash, as defined
in the leases, is insufficient to pay such rent.


                                      -93-


                                    PART III

Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant

      Information relating to trustees of the Registrant will be contained in a
definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of trustees which the
Registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 not later than 120 days
after December 31, 1998, and such information is incorporated herein by
reference. Information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears
at page 40 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

Item 11. Executive Compensation

      Information relating to executive compensation will be contained in the
Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10, "Directors and Executive Officers
of the Registrant", and such information is incorporated herein by reference.

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management

      Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial owners
and management will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10,
"Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant", and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions

      Information relating to certain relationships and related transactions
will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10, "Directors and
Executive Officers of the Registrant", and such information is incorporated
herein by reference.


                                      -94-


                                     PART IV

Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules, and Reports on Form 8-K

      (a) The following documents are filed as part of this report:

                  1.    The consolidated financial statements are set forth in
                        Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

                  2.    Financial Statement Schedules.

      The following financial statement schedules should be read in conjunction
with the financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form
10-K.



      Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they are not
applicable or the information required is included in the consolidated financial
statements or the notes thereto.

      The consolidated financial statements of Alexander's, Inc. for the year
ended December 31, 1996 are hereby incorporated by reference to Item 14(a)1 of
the 1996 Annual Report on Form 10-K of Alexander's, Inc. for the year ended
December 31, 1996.

                  3.    The following exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are
                        filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



      (b)   Reports on Form 8-K and Form 8-K/A

      During the last quarter of the period covered by this Annual Report on
Form 10-K described below.




                                      -95-


                                   SIGNATURES

      Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on
its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        VORNADO REALTY TRUST


                                        By:         /s/ Irwin Goldberg
                                           -------------------------------------
                                              Irwin Goldberg, Vice President,
                                                  Chief Financial Officer

                                        Date: March 24, 1999

      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:




                                      -96-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                   SCHEDULE II
                        VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS



                                      -97-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 1998
                             (amounts in thousands)




                                      -98-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 1998
                             (amounts in thousands)




                                      -99-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 1998
                             (amounts in thousands)




                                      -100-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 1998
                             (amounts in thousands)




                                      -101-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 1998
                             (amounts in thousands)




                                      -102-


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                                December 31, 1998
                             (amounts in thousands)



*     These encumbrances are cross collateralized under a blanket mortgage in
      the amount of $227,000,000 at December 31, 1998.

Notes:

      1)    Initial cost is cost as of January 30, 1982 (the date on which
            Vornado commenced real estate operations) unless acquired subsequent
            to that date -- see Column H.

      2)    The net basis of the company's assets and liabilities for tax
            purposes is approximately $920,000,000 lower than the amount
            reported for financial statement purposes.

      3)    Date of original construction -- many properties have had
            substantial renovation or additional construction -- see Column D.

      4)    Buildings on these properties were demolished in 1993.As a result,
            the cost of the buildings and improvements, net of accumulated
            depreciation, were transferred to land. In addition, the cost of the
            land in Kearny is net of a $1,615,000 insurance recovery.

      5)    Building was destroyed by fire and is being rebuilt.


                                      -103-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                             (amounts in thousands)

      The following is a reconciliation of real estate assets and accumulated
depreciation:




                                     -104-


                                 EXHIBIT INDEX

Exhibit 
  No. 
- ------- 

3.1       -- Amended and Restated Declaration of Trust of Vornado, amended April
              3, 1997 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of Vornado's
              Registration Statement on Form S-8 (File No. 333-29011), filed on
              June 12, 1997..................................................*

3.2       -- Articles of Amendment of Declaration of Trust of Vornado, as filed
              with the State Department of Assessments and Taxation of Maryland
              on April 22, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
              Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 22, 1998 (File
              No. 001-11954), filed on April 28, 1998.........................*

3.3       -- Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado's $3.25 Series A
              Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, liquidation preference
              $50.00 per share - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 of
              Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 3, 1997 (File
              No. 001-11954), filed on April 8, 1997..........................*

3.4       -- Articles Supplementary Classifying Vornado's Series D-1 8.5%
              Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, no
              par value (the "Series D-1 Preferred Shares") - Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 3.1 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K,
              dated November 12, 1998 (file No. 001-11954), filed on November
              30, 1998........................................................*

3.5       -- Articles Supplementary Classifying Additional Series D-1 Preferred
              Shares - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of Vornado's
              Current Report on Form 8-K/A, dated November 12, 1998 (File No.
              001-11954), filed on February 9, 1999...........................*

3.6       -- Articles Supplementary classifying 8.5% Series B Cumulative
              Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, liquidation
              preference $25.00 per share, no par value - Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 3.3 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K,
              dated March 3, 1999 (File No. 001-11954), filed on March 17,
              1999............................................................*

3.7       -- By-laws of Vornado, as amended on April 28, 1997 - Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 3(b) of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form
              10-Q for the period ended March 31, 1997 (File No. 001-11954),
              filed on May 14, 1997...........................................*

3.8       -- Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the
              Operating Partnership, dated as of October 20, 1997 - Incorporated
              by reference to Exhibit 3.4 of Vornado's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1997 filed on March 31, 1998
              (the "1997 10-K")...............................................*

3.9       -- Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
              Partnership of Vornado Realty L.P., dated as of December 16,
              1997--Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 of the 1997
              10-K............................................................*

- ----------------------
*     Incorporated by reference


                                     -105-


Exhibit 
   No. 
- ------- 

3.10      -- Second Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
              Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of
              April 1, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.5 of
              Vornado's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-50095),
              filed on April 14, 1998.........................................*

3.11      -- Third Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
              Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of November 12,
              1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of Vornado's
              Current Report on Form 8-K, dated November 12, 1998 (File No.
              001-11954), filed on November 30, 1998..........................*

3.12      -- Fourth Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of
              Limited Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of
              November 30, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of
              Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated December 1, 1998 (File
              No. 001-11954), filed on February 9, 1999.......................*

3.13      -- Exhibit A, dated as of December 22, 1998, to Second Amended and
              Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of the Operating
              Partnership - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.4 of
              Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K/A, dated November 12, 1998
              (File No. 001-11954), filed on February 9, 1999.................*

3.14      -- Fifth Amendment to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
              Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of March 3,
              1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 of Vornado's
              Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 3, 1999 (File
              No. 001-11954), filed on March 17, 1999.........................*

3.15      -- Exhibit A to Second Amended and Restated Agreement of Limited
              Partnership of the Operating Partnership, dated as of March 11,
              1999 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 of Vornado's
              Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 3, 1999 (File No.
              001-11954), filed on March 17, 1999.............................*

4.1       -- Instruments defining the rights of security holders (see Exhibits
              3.1 through 3.15 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K)

4.2       -- Indenture dated as of November 24, 1993 between Vornado Finance
              Corp. and Bankers Trust Company, as Trustee - Incorporated by
              reference to Vornado's current Report on Form 8-K dated November
              24, 1993 (File No. 001-11954), filed December 1, 1993...........*

4.3       -- Specimen certificate representing Vornado's Common Shares of
              Beneficial Interest, par value $0.04 per share - Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 4.1 of Amendment No. 1 to Registration
              Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 33-62395), filed on October 26,
              1995............................................................*

4.4       -- Specimen certificate representing Vornado's $3.25 Series A
              Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest, liquidation preference
              $50.00 per share - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 of
              Vornado's

- --------------------------
*Incorporated by reference


                                     -106-


Exhibit
  No.
- -------
              Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 3, 1997 (File No.
              001-11954), filed on April 8, 1997..............................*

4.5       -- Specimen certificate evidencing Vornado's Series B 8.5% Cumulative
             Redeemable Preferred Shares of Beneficial Interest-Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 4.2 of Vornado's registration Statement on
             Form 8-A (File No. 001-11954), on March 15, 1999.................*

10.1      -- Second Amendment, dated as of June 12, 1997, to Vornado's
              1993 Omnibus Share Plan, as amended - Incorporated by
              reference to Vornado's Registration Statement on Form S-8
              (File No. 333-29011) filed on June 12, 1997.....................*

10.2      -- Master Agreement and Guaranty, between Vornado, Inc. and
              Bradlees New Jersey, Inc. dated as of May 1, 1992 -
              Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Quarterly Report on
              Form 10-Q for quarter ended March 31, 1992 (File No.
              001-11954), filed May 8, 1992...................................*

10.3**    -- Mortgage, Security Agreement, Assignment of Leases and
              Rents and Fixture Filing dated as of November 24, 1993 made
              by each of the entities listed therein, as mortgagors to
              Vornado Finance Corp., as mortgagee - Incorporated by
              reference to Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
              November 24, 1993 (File No. 001-11954), filed December 1,
              1993............................................................*

10.4**    -- 1985 Stock Option Plan as amended - Incorporated by
              reference to Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for
              quarter ended May 2, 1987 (File No. 001-11954), filed June 9,
              1987............................................................*

10.5**    -- Form of Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with
              incentive stock options issued pursuant to Vornado, Inc. 1985
              Stock Option Plan - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended October 26,
              1985 (File No. 001-11954), filed December 9, 1985...............*

10.6**    -- Form of Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with
              incentive stock options issued pursuant to Vornado, Inc. 1985
              Stock Option Plan--Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended May 2, 1987
              (File No. 001-11954), filed June 9, 1987........................*

10.7**    -- Form of Stock Option Agreement for use in connection with
              incentive stock options issued pursuant to Vornado, Inc. 1985
              Stock Option Plan--Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
              Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for quarter ended October 26,
              1985 (File No. 001-11954), filed December 9, 1985...............*

10.8**    -- Employment Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust and Joseph Macnow
              dated January 1, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.7
              of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
              September 30, 1998 (File No. 001-11954), filed November 12,
              1998............................................................*

10.9**    -- Employment Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust and Richard Rowan
              dated January 1, 1998 - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8
              of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
              September 30, 1998 (File No. 001-11954), filed November 12,
              1998............................................................*

10.10**   -- Employment Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust and Irwin
              Goldberg, dated December 11, 1997-Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.10 of Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the
              year ended December 31,1997 (File No. 001-11954), Filed on April
              14, 1998........................................................*

10.11**   -- Employment Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust and
              Michael D. Fascitelli dated December 2, 1996 - Incorporated
              by reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1996 (File No. 001-11954), filed
              March 13, 1997..................................................*

- ----------------------
*     Incorporated by reference
**    Management contract or compensatory plan


                                     -107-


Exhibit
  No.
- -------
10.12     -- Promissory Notes from Steven Roth to Vornado, Inc. dated
              December 29, 1992 and January 15, 1993 - Incorporated by
              reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed
              February 16, 1993...............................................*

10.13     -- Registration Rights Agreement between Vornado, Inc. and
              Steven Roth Dated December 29, 1992 - Incorporated by
              reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed
              February 16, 1993...............................................*

10.14     -- Stock Pledge Agreement between Vornado, Inc. and Steven
              Roth dated December 29, 1992 - Incorporated by reference to
              Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 16,
              1993............................................................*

10.15     -- Promissory Note from Steven Roth to Vornado Realty Trust
              dated April 15, 1993 and June 17, 1993 - Incorporated by
              reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
              year ended December 31, 1993 (File No. 001-11954), filed
              March 24, 1994..................................................*

10.16     -- Promissory Note from Richard Rowan to Vornado Realty Trust
              - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No.
              001-11954), filed March 24, 1994................................*

10.17     -- Promissory Note from Joseph Macnow to Vornado Realty Trust
              - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No.
              001-11954), filed March 24, 1994................................*

10.18     -- Management Agreement between Interstate Properties and
              Vornado, Inc. dated July 13, 1992 -Incorporated by reference
              to Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
              December 31, 1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 16,
              1993............................................................*

10.19     -- Real Estate Retention Agreement between Vornado, Inc.,
              Keen Realty Consultants, Inc. and Alexander's, Inc., dated as
              of July 20, 1992 - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1992 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 16, 1993..............*

10.20     -- Amendment to Real Estate Retention Agreement dated
              February 6, 1995 - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
              Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
              1994 (File No. 001-11954), filed March 23, 1995.................*

10.21     -- Stipulation between Keen Realty Consultants Inc. and
              Vornado Realty Trust re: Alexander's Retention Agreement -
              Incorporated by reference to Vornado's annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1993 (File No.
              001-11954), filed March 24, 1994................................*

10.22     -- Stock Purchase Agreement, dated February 6, 1995, among
              Vornado Realty Trust and Citibank, N.A. Incorporated by
              reference to Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K dated
              February 6, 1995 (File No. 001-11954), filed February 21,
              1995............................................................*

10.23     -- Management and Development Agreement, dated as of February
              6, 1995 - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Current
              Report on Form 8-K dated February 6, 1995 (File No.
              001-11954), filed February 21, 1995.............................*

10.24     -- Standstill and Corporate Governance Agreement, dated as of
              February 6, 1995 - Incorporated by reference to Vornado's
              Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 6, 1995 (File No.
              001-11954), filed February 21, 1995.............................*

- ----------------------
*     Incorporated by reference


                                     -108-


Exhibit
  No.
- -------
10.25     -- Credit Agreement, dated as of March 15, 1995, among
              Alexander's Inc., as borrower, and Vornado Lending Corp., as
              lender - Incorporated by reference from Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 (File No. 001 -
              11954), filed March 23, 1995....................................*

10.26     -- Subordination and Intercreditor Agreement, dated as of
              March 15, 1995 among Vornado Lending Corp., Vornado Realty
              Trust and First Fidelity Bank, National Association -
              Incorporated by reference to Vornado's Annual Report on Form
              10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 (File No.
              001-11954), filed March 23, 1995................................*

10.27     -- Revolving Credit Agreement dated as of February 27, 1995
              among Vornado Realty Trust, as borrower, and Union Bank of
              Switzerland, as Bank and Administrative Agent - Incorporated
              by reference to Exhibit 10(F)9 of Vornado's Annual Report on
              Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1994 (File No.
              001-11954), filed March 23, 1995................................*

10.28     -- Form of Intercompany Agreement between Vornado Realty L.P.
              and Vornado Operating, Inc. -Incorporated by reference to
              Exhibit 10.1 of Amendment No. 1 to Vornado Operating, Inc.'s
              Registration Statement on Form S-11 (File No. 333-40701),
              filed on January 23, 1998.......................................*

10.29     -- Form of Revolving Credit Agreement between Vornado Realty
              L.P. and Vornado Operating, Inc., together with related form
              of Note - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 of
              Amendment No. 1 to Vornado Operating, Inc.'s Registration
              Statement on Form S-11 (File No.333-40701)......................*

10.30     -- Amended and Restated Revolving Credit Agreement, dated as
              of February 23, 1998, between Vornado Realty L.P., as
              Borrower, Vornado Realty Trust, as General Partner and Union
              Bank of Switzerland (New York Branch), as Bank, the other
              banks signatory hereto, each as a bank, Union Bank of
              Switzerland (New York Branch), as Administrative Agent and
              Citicorp Real Estate, Inc., The Chase Manhattan Bank and
              Nationsbank, as Syndication Agents - Incorporated by
              reference to Exhibit 10.29 of the 1997 10-K.....................*

10.31     -- Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 15, 1997,
              between Vornado Realty Trust and the holders of Units listed
              on Schedule A thereto - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10.2 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No.
              001-11954), filed on April 30, 1997.............................*

10.32     -- Noncompetition Agreement, dated as of April 15, 1997, by
              and among Vornado Realty Trust, the Mendik Company, L.P., and
              Bernard H. Mendik - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3
              of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-11954),
              filed on April 30, 1997.........................................*

10.33     -- Employment Agreement, dated as of April 15, 1997, by and
              among Vornado Realty Trust, The Mendik Company, L.P. and
              David R. Greenbaum - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
              10.4 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K (File No.
              001-11954), filed on April 30, 1997.............................*

10.34     -- Agreement, dated September 28, 1997, between Atlanta
              Parent Incorporated, Portland Parent Incorporated and
              Crescent Real Estate Equities, Limited Partnership -
              Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.6 of Vornado's
              Current Report on Form 8-K (File No. 001-11954), filed on
              October 8, 1997.................................................*

10.35     -- Contribution Agreement between Vornado Realty Trust, Vornado Realty
              L.P. and The Contributors Signatory - thereto - Merchandise Mart
              Properties, Inc. (DE) and Merchandise Mart Enterprises, Inc.
              Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 of Vornado's Annual
              Report on Form 10-K/A for the year ended December 31, 1997 (File
              No. 001-11954), Filed on April 8, 1998..........................*

10.36     -- Sale Agreement executed November 18, 1997, and effective December
              19, 1997, between MidCity Associates, a New York partnership, as
              Seller, and One Penn Plaza LLC, a New York Limited liability
              company; as purchaser. Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35
              of Vornado's Annual Report on Form 10-K/A for the Year ended
              December 31, 1997 (File No.001-11954), Filed on April 8, 1998...*

- ----------------------
*     Incorporated by reference


                                     -109-

 Exhibit No. ------- 

10.37     -- Promissory Notes from Michael D. Fascitelli to Vornado Realty
             Trust dated March 2, 1998 and April 30, 1998. Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.37 of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form
             10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 1998 (File No. 001-11954),
             filed May 13, 1998...............................................*

10.38     -- Credit Agreement dated as of June 22, 1998 among One Penn Plaza,
             LLC, as Borrower, The Lenders Party Hereto, The Chase Manhattan
             Bank, as Administrative Agent Incorporated by reference to Exhibit
             10 of Vornado's Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended
             June 30, 1998 (File No. 001-11954), filed August 13,
             1998.............................................................*

10.39    --  Registration Rights Agreement, dated as of April 1, 1998, between
             Vornado and the Unit Holders named therein - Incorporated by
             reference to Exhibit 10.2 of Amendment No. 1 to Vornado's
             Registration Statement on Form S-3 (File No. 333-50095), filed on
             May 6, 1998......................................................*

10.40     -- Underwriting Agreement, dated April 9, 1998, among Vornado, Vornado
             Realty L.P. and Goldman, Sachs & Co. - Incorporated by reference to
             Exhibit 1.1 of Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 9,
             1998 (file No. 001-11954), filed on April 16, 1998...............*

10.41     -- Pricing Agreement, dated April 9, 1998, between Vornado and
             Goldman, Sachs & Co. - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.2 of
             Vornado's current report on Form 8-K, dated April 9, 1998 (File No.
             001-11954), filed on April 16, 1998..............................*

10.42     -- Underwriting Agreement, dated April 23, 1998, among Vornado,
             Vornado Realty L.P. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
             Incorporated - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1 of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated April 22, 1998 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on April 28, 1998..........................*

10.43     -- Underwriting Agreement, dated March 12, 1999, among Vornado,
             Vornado Realty L.P., Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith
             Incorporated - Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 1.1. of
             Vornado's Current Report on Form 8-K, dated March 3, 1999 (File
             No. 001-11954), filed on March 17, 1999..........................*

12        -- Consolidated Ratios of Earnings to Fixed Charges and Combined Fixed
             Charges and Preferred Share 111 Dividend Requirements..........111

13        -- Not applicable

16        -- Not applicable

18        -- Not applicable

19        -- Not applicable

21        -- Subsidiaries of the Registrant.................................112

22        -- Not applicable

23        -- Consent of independent auditors................................117

25        -- Not applicable

27        -- Financial Data Schedule........................................118

29        -- Not applicable

- ----------------------
*     Incorporated by reference


                                     -110-

