
10-K405
FORM 10-K




                                                       EXHIBIT INDEX ON PAGE 44

                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549

                                   FORM 10-K

/XX/   ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
       ACT OF 1934

For the Fiscal Year Ended:    DECEMBER 31, 1994

                                       or

/ /    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
       EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For the transition period from                   to


Commission File Number:        1-5098


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
             (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)

                     MARYLAND                                 22-1657560

         (State or other jurisdiction of                  (I.R.S. Employer
         incorporation or organization)                 Identification Number)

PARK 80 WEST, PLAZA II, SADDLE BROOK, NEW JERSEY               07663
(Address of Principal Executive Offices)                     (Zip Code)

Registrant's telephone number including area code:      (201) 587-1000

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

   Title of Each Class                Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered

Common Shares of beneficial
interest $.04 par value per share               New York Stock Exchange
                                             

       Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  NONE

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports) and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.    YES   X     NO
                                           ---       ---

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this
Form 10-K.  / X /

The aggregate market value of the voting shares held by non-affiliates of the
registrant, i.e. by persons other than officers and trustees of Vornado Realty
Trust as reflected in the table in Item 12 of this Annual Report, at March 9,
1995 was $466,429,315.

As of March 9, 1995, there were 21,697,608 shares of the registrant's shares of
beneficial interest outstanding.

                      Documents Incorporated by Reference

Part III:  Proxy Statement for Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be held May 3,
1995.

                                   Page 1 of 209




                               

NOTE:       Vornado Realty Trust and its consolidated subsidiaries are sometimes
            referred to in this Annual Report on Form 10-K as "Vornado",
            "Registrant" or the "Company".




(1)       These items are omitted because the Registrant will file a
          definitive Proxy Statement pursuant to Regulation 14A involving the
          election of directors with the Securities and Exchange Commission
          not later than 120 days after December 31, 1994.  Information
          relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears on page 10
          of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.
     
     


                                      -2-





                                     PART I

ITEM 1.          BUSINESS

                 GENERAL

                The Company is a fully-integrated real estate investment trust
("REIT") which owns, leases, develops, redevelops and manages retail and
industrial properties primarily located in the Midatlantic and Northeast regions
of the United States.  The Company's primary focus is on shopping centers.  As
of December 31, 1994, the Company owned 56 shopping centers in seven states
containing 9.5 million square feet, including .9 million square feet built by
tenants on land leased from the Company.  The Company's shopping centers
accounted for 91% and 93%, respectively, of the Company's rental revenue for the
years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993.  The occupancy rate of the Company's
shopping center properties as of December 31, 1994 was 94% and has been over 90%
for the past five years.  In addition, the Company owns eight
warehouse/industrial properties in New Jersey containing 2.0 million square feet
and one office building in New Jersey containing 0.1 million square feet.

                The Company's shopping centers generally are located on major
regional highways in mature, densely populated areas. The Company believes there
is strong demand from large tenants relative to the level of supply for retail
space in well located shopping centers in densely populated areas in the
Midatlantic and Northeast regions of the United States.  This is principally a
result of the shortage of land in such areas, as well as restrictive zoning
which limits the development of retail properties.  The Company believes its 
properties attract consumers from a regional, rather than a neighborhood, 
marketplace because of (i) their location on regional highways and (ii) the 
high percentage of square feet dedicated to large, national stores.

                As of December 31, 1994, approximately 80% of the square
footage of the Company's shopping centers was leased to large stores (over
20,000 square feet) and over 93% was leased to tenants whose businesses are
national or regional in scope.   The Company's large tenants include discount
department stores, supermarkets, home improvements stores, discount apparel
stores, membership warehouse clubs, other "destination retailers" and "category
killers."  Category killers are large stores which offer a complete selection
of a category items (e.g., toys, office supplies, etc.) at low prices, often in
a warehouse format. The Company's large store tenants typically offer basic
consumer necessities such as food, health and beauty aids, moderately priced
clothing, building materials and home improvement supplies, and compete
primarily on the basis of price.  The Company believes that this tenant mix
mitigates the effects on its properties of adverse changes in general economic
conditions. Substantially all of the Company's large store leases are long-term
leases having fixed base rents with step-ups in rent typically occurring every
five years.

                In addition, the Company's leases generally provide for
additional rents based on a percentage of tenants' sales.  Of the Company's
$70,755,000 of rental revenue in 1994, base rents accounted for approximately
98.7% and percentage rents accounted for approximately 1.3%.  The Company's
leases generally pass through to tenants the tenant's share of all common area
charges (including roof and structure, unless it is the tenant's direct
responsibility), real estate taxes and insurance costs and certain capital
expenditures.  As of December 31, 1994, the average base rent per square foot
for the Company's shopping centers was $8.05.

                From 1990 through 1994, the Company's property rental revenue
for shopping centers (including the effects of straight-lining of rents) was
$52,000,000, $54,700,000, $56,900,000, $61,900,000 and $64,700,000,
respectively.  Straight-lining of rents averages the rent increases provided for
in leases such that rental revenue for financial statement purposes is constant
throughout the term of the lease.  This convention applies to leases entered
into after November 14, 1985.

                As of December 31, 1994, no single shopping center property
accounted for more than 3.1% of the Company's total leasable area for its
shopping center properties or more than 5.7% of annualized rental revenue for
its shopping center properties. Bradlees, Inc. accounted for 19% of property
rentals for the year ended December 31, 1994 and 18% for the years ended
December 31, 1993 and 1992.

                                      -3-



ITEM 1.          BUSINESS - continued

                Vornado, Inc., the immediate predecessor to the Company, was
merged with the Company on May 6, 1993 in connection with the Company's
conversion to a REIT.

                The Company administers all operating functions, including
leasing, management, construction, finance, legal, accounting and data
processing, from its executive offices (other than the leasing of the Company's
three Texas properties, which is done by an employee locally).

                The Company's principal executive offices are located at Park 80
West, Plaza II, Saddle Brook, New Jersey 07663; telephone (201) 587-1000.

                RELATIONSHIP WITH ALEXANDER'S

                On March 2, 1995, following bankruptcy court approval of the
loan and management arrangements described below, the Company purchased all of
the 1,353,468 shares of common stock of Alexander's, Inc. ("Alexander's") owned
by Citibank, N.A. ("Citibank") for $40.50 per share in cash (the "Acquisition"),
representing 27.1% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander's. After the
Acquisition, the Company owns 29.3% of the outstanding shares of common stock of
Alexander's.  Interstate Properties, which owns 31% of the common shares of
beneficial interest of the Company, currently owns 27.1% of the outstanding
shares of Alexander's common stock.  Alexander's common stock is listed on the 
New York Stock Exchange under the symbol "ALX".  Alexander's will elect to 
qualify as a REIT in 1995.

                Alexander's owns eight properties (where its former department
stores were located) consisting of (i) 39.3 acres at the intersection of Routes
4 and 17 in Paramus, New Jersey to be redeveloped into a shopping center, (ii) a
359,000 square foot building (currently being rehabed) leased to Sears, Caldor
and Marshalls on Queens Boulevard and 63rd Road in Rego Park, Queens, New York
together with one and one-half square blocks of vacant adjacent land, (iii) a
general partnership interest and a 92% limited partnership interest in the
square block, including a 418,000 square foot building, between Lexington Avenue
and Third Avenue and 58th and 59th Street in Manhattan, New York, to be
developed, (iv) 50% of the 427,000 square feet of mall stores at the
Kings Plaza regional shopping center on Flatbush Avenue in Brooklyn, New York,
(v) a 320,000 square foot anchor store which is one of the two anchor stores at
the Kings Plaza regional shopping center, which is to be redeveloped, (vi) a
303,000 square foot building leased to Caldor on Fordham Road in the Bronx, New
York, (vii) 177,000 square foot building subleased to Caldor at Roosevelt Avenue
and Main Street in Flushing, New York and (viii) 173,000 square foot building
leased to Conways located at Third Avenue and 157th Street in the Bronx, New
York.  

                The Company and Alexander's have entered into a three year
management and development agreement (the "Management Agreement") under which
the Company has agreed to manage all Alexander's business affairs and manage and
develop Alexander's properties for an annual fee of $3,000,000; plus 6% of
development costs with a minimum guaranteed fee for the development portion of 
$1,650,000 in the first year and $750,000 in each of the second and third 
years.  Pursuant to the Management Agreement, Mr.  Roth, the Company's 
Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, also became Chief Executive Officer of 
Alexander's.

                The fees pursuant to the Management Agreement discussed above,
are in addition to leasing fees the Company receives from Alexander's under a
leasing agreement in effect since 1992.  The term of the leasing agreement has
been extended to be co-terminus with the term of the Management Agreement.

                On March 15, 1995, the Company and a bank lent Alexander's
$75,000,000 in a secured financing, of which $45,000,000 was funded by the
Company and the balance was funded by the bank.  The Company's loan, which is
subordinate to that of the bank, has a three year term and bears interest at
16.43% per annum for the first two years and at a fixed rate for the third year
of 992 basis points over one year treasury bills.  In addition, Alexander's paid
a loan origination fee of $1,500,000 to the Company.

                In connection with the Acquisition, the Company and Interstate
are restricted for three years from owning in excess of two-thirds of
Alexander's common stock or entering into certain other transactions with
Alexander's, without the consent of the independent directors of Alexander's.

                                      -4-





ITEM 1.          BUSINESS - continued

                 COMPETITION

                The leasing of real estate is highly competitive.  The principal
means of competition are price, location and the nature and condition of the
facility to be leased.  The Company directly competes with all lessors and
developers of similar space in the areas in which its properties are located.

                 ENVIRONMENTAL REGULATIONS

                See "Note 10 - Contingencies" to the Consolidated Financial
                Statements at page 30.

                 EMPLOYEES

                The Company employs 64 people.

                 SEGMENT AND OTHER FINANCIAL DATA

                "Note 11 - Business Segments" to the Consolidated Financial
Statements at page 30, and the information concerning financial condition
contained in the statement "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations - Financial Condition" at page 13, are
incorporated herein by reference.  Vornado engages in no foreign operations.









                                      -5-

ITEM 2.   PROPERTIES

          The Company leases 27,000 square feet in Saddle Brook, New Jersey for
          use as its executive offices.

          The following table sets forth certain information as of December 31,
          1994 relating to the properties owned by the Company.





                                     -6-





                                     -7-





(1) Average annualized base rent per square foot does not include rent for
leases which have not commenced as of December 31, 1994 or rent for ground
leases (which leases are included in percent leased).

(2)  The tenant at these locations has subleased or assigned its space from
Montgomery Ward & Co., Inc. which remains liable under the lease for that
portion of the rent not exceeding the rent previously payable by Montgomery
Ward.

(3)  These leases are guaranteed by the Stop & Shop Companies, Inc.

(4)  Tenant occupies between 30,000 and 39,000 square feet.

(5)  These leases had not commenced as of December 31, 1994 and are not included
in the "number of tenants" column.

(6)  The tenant has ceased operations at these locations but continues to 
pay rent.

(7)  Square footage excludes Albertson's which owns its land and building.

                                     -8-


          INSURANCE

          The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, flood, extended
coverage and rental loss insurance with respect to its properties with policy
specifications and insured limits customarily carried for similar properties.
Management of the Company believes that the Company's insurance coverage
conforms to industry norms.


ITEM 3.   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

          The Company is from time to time involved in legal actions arising in
the ordinary course of its business.  In the opinion of management, after
consultation with legal counsel, the outcome of such matters will not have a
material effect on the Company's financial condition or results of operations.



ITEM 4.   SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

          No matters were submitted to a vote of security holders during the
fourth quarter of the year ended December 31, 1994.















                                      -9-





EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT



       The following is a list of the names, ages, principal occupations and
positions with Vornado of the executive officers of Vornado and the positions
held by such officers during the past five years.  All executive officers of
Vornado have terms of office which run until the next succeeding meeting of the
Board of Trustees of Vornado following the Annual Meeting of Shareholders unless
they are removed sooner by the Board.












                                      -10-


                                    PART II



ITEM 5.  MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

Vornado's common shares are traded on the New York Stock Exchange.
                                                                  
Quarterly price ranges of the common shares and dividends per share paid 
for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 were as follows:     




* Does not include a special dividend of $3.36 per share of accumulated earnings
  and profits paid in June 1993.

  The approximate number of record holders of common shares of Vornado at
  December 31, 1994, was 2,000.










                                      -11-


ITEM 6.  SELECTED CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL DATA





(1) In 1990, the Company changed to a calendar year end from a fiscal year
ending on the last Saturday in January.  The amounts for the year ended December
31, 1990 are included for comparative purposes only.

(2) Funds from operations does not represent cash generated from operating
activities in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles and is
not necessarily indicative of cash available to fund cash needs.  Funds from
operations should not be considered as an alternative to net income as an
indicator of the Company's operating performance or as an alternative to cash
flows as a measure of liquidity.

Amounts included in revenues and expenses have been reclassified to conform with
the current year's presentation.

                                      -12-





ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION  AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1994
  AND DECEMBER 31, 1993

Funds from operations improved to $49,847,000 in 1994 from $35,214,000 in 1993,
an increase of $14,633,000 or 41.5%.

Funds from operations is defined as income from continuing operations before
income taxes plus depreciation and amortization (including debt issuance costs)
less straight-lining of rents and realized gains on securities available for
sale and excluding costs incurred in connection with the merger of Vornado, Inc.
into Vornado Realty Trust in 1993.  Funds from operations does not represent
cash generated from operating activities in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles and is not necessarily indicative of cash available to
fund cash needs. Funds from operations should not be considered as an
alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's operating performance
or as an alternative to cash flows as a measure of liquidity.  Nonetheless,
management considers funds from operations an appropriate supplemental measure
of the Company's operating performance.

The Company's revenues, which consist of property rentals, tenant expense
reimbursements and other income were $93,998,000 in 1994, compared to
$88,790,000 in 1993, an increase of $5,208,000 or 5.9%.

Property rentals from shopping centers were $63,778,000 in 1994, compared to
$60,919,000 in 1993, an increase of $2,859,000 or 4.7%.  This increase resulted
from rental step-ups in leases which are not subject to the straight-line method
of revenue recognition of $1,700,000 and $1,300,000 of rents from tenants at
expansions of shopping centers.  Property rentals from new tenants were
approximately the same as property rentals lost from vacating tenants.  Property
rentals from the remainder of the portfolio were $6,090,000 in 1994 as compared
to $5,340,000 in 1993, an increase of $750,000 or 14.0%.  This increase resulted
primarily from  property rentals received from new tenants exceeding property
rentals lost from vacating tenants.  Percentage rent was $887,000 in 1994 as
compared to $954,000 in 1993.

Tenant expense reimbursements were $21,784,000 in 1994, compared to $19,839,000
in 1993, an increase of $1,945,000.  This increase reflects a corresponding
increase in operating expenses passed through to tenants.


Other income was greater in 1993 than in 1994 primarily as a result of
reimbursements recognized under the Company's leasing agreement with Alexander's
in 1993.

Operating expenses were $30,223,000 in 1994 as compared to $27,994,000 in 1993,
an increase of $2,229,000.  This increase resulted primarily from an increase in
real estate taxes, snow removal costs and other common area maintenance charges.

Depreciation and amortization expense increased in 1994 primarily as a result of
the completion of property expansions.

General and administrative expenses were $6,495,000 in 1994 as compared to
$5,890,000 in 1993, an increase of $605,000.  This increase resulted from higher
professional fees and payroll.

Investment income from cash and cash equivalents, and marketable securities, net
of amounts due for U.S. Treasury obligations (collectively, "Liquid
Investments"), was $8,132,000 in 1994 compared to $11,883,000 in 1993, a
decrease of $3,751,000 or 31.6%.  The change in investment income resulted
primarily from a decrease in interest and dividend income of $4,131,000 as a
result of lower average investments due to the use of approximately $100,000,000
to reduce debt in November 1993, partially offset by an increase in net gains on
marketable securities.

Interest and debt expense was $14,209,000 in 1994 as compared to $31,155,000 in
1993, a decrease of $16,946,000 or 54.3%.  Of this decrease, (i) $14,586,000
resulted from the refinancing of a blanket mortgage loan (see Note 6), and (ii)
$1,300,000 resulted from an increase in capitalized interest during
construction.

The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to continue to qualify as
a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under Sections 856-860 of the Internal
Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the "Code").  Under those sections, a REIT
which distributes at least 95% of its REIT taxable income to its shareholders
each year and which meets certain other conditions will not be taxed on that
portion of its taxable income which is distributed to its shareholders.  The
Company has distributed to its shareholders an amount greater than its taxable
income.  Therefore, no provision for Federal income taxes is required.  In 1993,
as



                                      -13-



ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
            RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (continued)

a result of the Company's conversion to a REIT, the deferred tax balance of
$6,369,000 at December 31, 1992 was reversed.

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1993 AND DECEMBER 31, 1992

Funds from operations improved to $35,214,000 in 1993 from $26,337,000 in 1992,
an increase of $8,877,000 or 33.7%.

The Company's revenues, which consist of property rentals, tenant expense
reimbursements and other income were $88,790,000 in 1993, compared to 
$81,997,000 in 1992, an increase of $6,793,000 or 8.3%.

Property rentals from shopping centers were $60,919,000 in 1993, compared to
$56,185,000 in 1992, an increase of $4,734,000 or 8.4%. This increase resulted
from rental step-ups in existing tenant leases which are not subject to the
straight-line method of revenue recognition of $2,061,000 and property rentals
received from new tenants exceeding property rentals lost from vacating tenants.
Property rentals from the remainder of the portfolio were $5,340,000 in 1993 as
compared to $6,316,000 in 1992, a decrease of $976,000 or 15.4%.  Of this
decrease (i) $477,000 resulted from the closing of the outlet department store
at the Company's Watchung, New Jersey location on June 1, 1993 as part of a
redevelopment plan (see Liquidity and Capital Resources) and (ii) $499,000
resulted from the excess of property rentals lost from vacating tenants over
property rentals received from new tenants. Percentage rent was $954,000 in 1993
as compared to $685,000 in 1992.

Tenant expense reimbursements were $19,839,000 in 1993, compared to $17,898,000
in 1992, an increase of $1,941,000.  This increase relates to a corresponding
increase in operating expenses passed through to tenants and reimbursements from
tenants under leases which commenced subsequent to January 1, 1992.

Other income increased as a result of reimbursements of $750,000 recognized in
1993 under the Company's leasing agreement with Alexander's and a full year of
management fees received from Interstate Properties in 1993 as compared to a
partial year in 1992. 

Operating expenses were $27,994,000 in 1993 as compared to $27,587,000
in 1992, an increase of $407,000.  This increase resulted primarily from a 
rise in real estate taxes offset by savings of $500,000 in connection with 
the closing of the abovementioned outlet department store.

Depreciation and amortization expense for 1993 did not change significantly from
1992.

General and administrative expenses were $5,890,000 in 1993 as compared to
$4,612,000 in 1992, an increase of $1,278,000.  This increase resulted from
increases in (i) payroll of $500,000, of which $300,000 was applicable to
employees added in connection with the management of Interstate Properties (see
other income above), (ii) professional fees of $408,000 and (iii) general 
corporate office expenses of $370,000.

In connection with the merger of Vornado, Inc. into Vornado Realty Trust, the
Company incurred costs of $856,000.

Investment income from Liquid Investments was $11,883,000 in 1993 compared to
$11,334,000 in 1992, an increase of $549,000 or 4.8%. The change in investment
income resulted primarily from an increase in interest and dividend income of
$3,065,000 offset by a decrease in net gains on the sale of marketable
securities of $2,516,000 (including $1,932,000 from the Company's former
investment in a limited partnership, which was liquidated at December 31, 1992
at book value for cash).  Of the increase in interest and dividend income,
$1,912,000 was attributable to interest income earned on the net proceeds from
the issuance of 5,211,700 common shares of beneficial interest in May 1993, net
of a distribution of accumulated earnings and profits and working capital used
to prepay a blanket mortgage loan.  The balance of the increase resulted from
the mix of other investments.

Interest and debt expense was $31,155,000 in 1993 as compared to $33,910,000 in
1992, a decrease of $2,755,000 or 8.1%.  Of this decrease, (i) $1,600,000
resulted from the refinancing of a blanket mortgage loan (see Note 6), and (ii)
$282,000 was due to an increase in capitalized interest during construction.

                                      -14-


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (continued)



LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

On December 31, 1994, the Company had Liquid Investments of $77,600,000
(excluding unrealized gains on securities available for sale) compared to
$100,400,000 at December 31, 1993, a decrease of $22,800,000.  The decrease in
Liquid Investments resulted primarily from (i) dividends paid to shareholders of
$43,200,000 and (ii) capital expenditures of $25,400,000 exceeding net cash
provided from operating activities of $46,900,000.

The major items of capital expenditures for 1994 were (i) $11,400,000 for
expansions in three  shopping centers, (ii) $3,900,000 for the acquisition of a
building in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania and (iii) $2,100,000 for the tenant
improvements at the Company's retail property at 14th Street in Manhattan, New
York.  The Company has budgeted approximately $13,500,000 for investment over
the next two years of which $10,000,000 is for future expansions and $2,000,000
is for tenant improvements at the Company's retail property in Philadelphia,
noted above.  In addition, the Company will continue its program of upgrading
its shopping centers by  refurbishing its parking lots (including resurfacing,
new lighting, updated landscaping, islands and curbing) and re-roofing of
buildings, the cost of which will be substantially reimbursed by tenants in
accordance with existing lease terms.

In July 1992, the Company was retained by Alexander's Inc. to act as a special
real estate consultant.  The Company is due approximately $12,400,000 for
transactions completed to date.  Of this amount, the Company was due to receive
$500,000 on July 1, 1994 but has not received such payment.  The balance of
$11.9 million will be payable over a seven year period in an amount not to
exceed $2,500,000 in any calendar year until the present value of such
installments (calculated at a discount rate of 9% per annum) equals the amount
that would have been paid had it been paid on September 21, 1993 or at the time
the  transactions which gave rise to the commissions occurred, if later.  Such
receipts are subject to payment of rents by the underlying tenants pursuant to
the leases and to the prior satisfaction of all payments to which certain
creditors of Alexander's are entitled under the plan of reorganization confirmed
by such creditors (see Notes 13-D and 17).

On March 2, 1995, following bankruptcy court approval of the loan and management
arrangements described below, the Company purchased all of the 1,353,468 shares
of common stock of Alexander's, Inc. ("Alexander's") owned by Citibank, N.A.
("Citibank") for $40.50 per share in cash (the "Acquisition"), representing
27.1% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander's.  After the Acquisition,
the Company owns 29.3% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Alexander's.
Interstate Properties, which owns 31% of the common shares of beneficial
interest of the Company, currently owns 27.1% of the outstanding shares of
Alexander's common stock.

The Company and Alexander's have entered into a three year management and
development agreement (the "Management Agreement") under which the Company has
agreed to manage all Alexander's business affairs and manage and develop
Alexander's properties for an annual fee of $3,000,000; plus 6% of development
costs with a minimum guaranteed fee for the development portion of $1,650,000 
in the first year and $750,000 in each of the second and third years.

The fees pursuant to the Management Agreement discussed above, are in addition
to leasing fees the Company receives from Alexander's under a leasing agreement
in effect since 1992.  The term of the leasing agreement has been extended to be
co-terminus with the term of the Management Agreement.

On March 15, 1995, the Company and a bank lent Alexander's $75,000,000 in a
secured financing, of which $45,000,000 was funded by the Company and the
balance was funded by the  bank.  The Company's loan, which is subordinate to
that of the bank, has a three year term and bears interest at 16.43% per annum
for the first two years and at a fixed rate for the third year of 992 basis
points over one year treasury bills.  In addition, Alexander's paid a loan 
origination fee of $1,500,000 to the Company.

                                      -15-


ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
         RESULTS OF OPERATIONS - (continued)


On February 27, 1995, the Company entered into a three year unsecured revolving
credit facility with a bank providing for borrowings of up to $75,000,000.
Borrowings bear annual interest, at the Company's election, at Libor plus 1.50%
or the higher of the federal funds rate plus 1% or prime rate plus .50%.  At
March 15, 1995, the Company had borrowed $60,000,000 under the agreement.

In May 1994, the Company's shelf registration statement relating to $350,000,000
of securities became effective.

The Company anticipates that cash from continuing operations, working capital,
borrowings under its revolving credit facility and/or proceeds from the issuance
of securities under the Company's shelf registration statement will be adequate
to fund its business operations, capital expenditures, continuing debt service
obligations, the payment of dividends and the Alexander's transactions noted
above.

ECONOMIC CONDITIONS

Substantially all of the Company's leases contain step-ups in rent.  Such rental
increases are not designed to, and in many instances do not, approximate the
cost of inflation, but do have the effect of mitigating the adverse impact of
inflation.  In addition, substantially all of the Company's leases contain
provisions that require the tenant to reimburse the Company for the tenant's
share of common area charges (including roof and structure, unless it is the
tenant's direct responsibility) and real estate taxes thus passing through to
the tenants the effects of inflation on such expenses.

Inflation did not have a material effect on the Company's results for the
periods presented.




                                      -16-





ITEM 8.      FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

                         Index to Financial Statements





ITEM 9.      CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH INDEPENDENT AUDITORS ON
             ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

             Not applicable.











                                      -17-




INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT



Shareholders and Board of Trustees
Vornado Realty Trust
Saddle Brook, New Jersey

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Vornado Realty
Trust and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the related
consolidated statements of income, shareholders' equity (deficit) and cash flows
for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 1994.  Our audits
also included the financial statement schedules listed in Item 14.  These
financial statements and financial statement schedules are the responsibility of
the Company's management.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards.  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement.  An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements.  An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all
material respects, the financial position of Vornado Realty Trust and
subsidiaries at December 31, 1994 and 1993, and the results of their operations
and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1994 in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.  Also, in
our opinion, such financial statement schedules, when considered in relation to
the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly in
all material respects the information set forth therein.

As discussed in Note 2 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company
changed its method of accounting for marketable securities effective January 1,
1994 to conform to Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 115.




Deloitte & Touche LLP
Parsippany, New Jersey
March 9, 1995
(March 15, 1995 as to Note 17)










                                      -18-



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS








                                      -19-



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS (CONTINUED)



See notes to consolidated financial statements.











                                      -20-


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME


See notes to consolidated financial statements.










                                      -21-


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS' EQUITY (DEFICIT)


*  Not adjusted for applicable stock splits.

** Includes $3,435 in unrealized gains attributable to the Company's investment
   in the common stock of Alexander's, Inc. (see Note 13-C).

See notes to consolidated financial statements.













                                      -22-


CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS


See notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      -23-



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
1.  ORGANIZATION

ORGANIZATION:  On May 6, 1993, Vornado, Inc. merged into Vornado Realty Trust, a
Maryland real estate investment trust.  Vornado Realty Trust was formed on March
29, 1993, as a wholly-owned subsidiary of Vornado, Inc., specifically for the
purpose of the merger.

On May 21, 1993, the Company completed the sale of 5,211,700 common shares of
beneficial interest (including 211,700 shares which closed on June 4, 1993
pursuant to an election of the underwriters to exercise, in part, their
over-allotment option) in a public offering at $35 1/2, which net of expenses
yielded $172,051,000 to the Company.

On June 3, 1993, in connection with its conversion to a real estate investment
trust, the Company distributed to its shareholders a special dividend of
$54,022,000 of accumulated earnings and profits as determined for Federal income
tax purposes.


2. SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

BASIS OF PRESENTATION:  The accompanying consolidated financial statements
include the accounts of Vornado Realty Trust and its subsidiaries, all of which
are wholly-owned. All significant intercompany balances and transactions have
been eliminated.

Effective December 31, 1994, to be consistent with the prevalent real estate
industry practice, the Company changed the presentation of its consolidated
statements of income to show tenant reimbursements of expenses, previously
offset against operating expenses, as part of revenues and to reflect other
income (including fee income from related parties) previously offset against
operating and general and administrative expenses, as part of revenues.  Prior
period's amounts have been reclassified to conform with the current year's
presentation.

The financial statements for the applicable periods present the Steinwurtzel
fleece apparel wholesaling business as a discontinued operation. 

REAL ESTATE:  Real estate is carried at the lower of cost or net realizable 
value.  Betterments, major renewals and certain costs directly related to the
acquisition, improvement and leasing of real estate are capitalized. Maintenance
and repairs are charged to operations as incurred.  Depreciation is provided on
a straight-line basis over the assets  estimated useful lives. Additions to real
estate include interest expense capitalized during construction of $1,582,000
and $282,000 for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993.

CASH AND CASH EQUIVALENTS: Cash and cash equivalents consist of highly liquid
investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less.

MARKETABLE SECURITIES:  On January 1, 1994, the Company adopted Statement of
Financial Accounting Standards No. 115 - Accounting for Certain Investments in
Debt and Equity Securities (SFAS No. 115) under which securities are carried at
market.  The Company has classified debt and equity securities which it intends
to hold for an indefinite period of time as securities available for sale and
equity securities it intends to buy and sell on a short term basis as trading
securities.  Unrealized gains and losses are included in earnings for trading
securities and as a component of shareholder's equity for securities available
for sale.  Realized gains or losses on the sale of securities are recorded based
on average cost.

REVENUE RECOGNITION:  Base rents, additional rents based on tenants' sales
volume and  reimbursement of the tenants' share of certain operating expenses
are generally recognized when due from tenants.  The straight-line basis is used
to recognize base rents under leases entered into after November 14, 1985 which
provide for varying rents over the lease terms.

INCOME TAXES:  The Company operates in a manner intended to enable it to
continue to qualify as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") under Sections
856-860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 as amended (the "Code").  Under
those sections, a REIT which distributes at least 95% of its REIT taxable income
to its




                                      -24-




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
shareholders each year and which meets certain other conditions will not be
taxed  on that portion of its taxable income which is distributed to its
shareholders.  The Company  has distributed to shareholders an amount greater
than its taxable income. Therefore, no provision for Federal income taxes is
required.  As a result of the Company's conversion to a REIT in 1993,  the
deferred tax balance at December 31, 1992 was reversed in 1993.

AMOUNTS PER SHARE:  Amounts per share are computed based upon the weighted
average number of shares outstanding during the year and the dilutive effect of
stock options.


3. MARKETABLE SECURITIES

   The aggregate cost and market value of securities held at December 31, 1994
and 1993 were as follows:
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


Of the U.S. treasury obligations at December 31, 1994, $10,020,000 (market value
$10,106,000) matures within one year and $56,307,000 (market value $56,179,000)
matures within three years.

U.S. treasury obligations with a fair market value of $35,205,000 and
$26,656,000 were held as collateral for amounts due for U.S. treasury
obligations at December 31, 1994 and 1993.  Amounts due for U.S. treasury
obligations bear variable interest rates which averaged 4.36% and 3.19% for the
years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993.

4. FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

The estimated fair value of cash and cash equivalents, due from officer,
accounts receivable, accounts payable, and accrued expenses are reflected in the
balance sheet.  The fair value of marketable securities and the investment in
Alexander's, Inc. are based on quoted market prices.  At December 31, 1994 and
1993, the fair value of marketable securities was $87,206,000 and $103,496,000
compared to carrying value of $87,206,000 and $99,130,000 at their respective
dates.  The fair value of the investment in Alexander's was $5,980,000 and
$6,871,000 compared to carrying values of $5,980,000 and $2,545,000 at December
31, 1994 and 1993, respectively.  The fair value of notes and

                                      -25-


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
4.  FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS (continued)

mortgages payable has been estimated by comparing the current rate at which
similar loans would be made to borrowers with similar credit ratings for the
remaining term, versus the stated interest rates in the loans.  At December 31,
1994 and 1993, the fair value of notes and mortgages payable were estimated to
be $205,496,000 and $233,462,000, respectively.  The  fair value estimates
presented herein are based on pertinent information available to management as 
of December 31, 1994 and 1993.  Although management is not aware of any factors 
that would significantly affect the estimated fair value amounts, such amounts 
have not been comprehensively revalued for purposes of these  financial 
statements since that date, and current estimates of fair value may differ 
significantly from the amounts presented herein.

5. INCOME TAXES

The provision for income taxes for the year ended December 31, 1992 was
$1,080,000 of which $239,000 was the current federal provision and $841,000 was
the deferred provision.  The effective tax rate for the year ended December 31,
1992 was 47.7% of which 34.0% represents the statutory tax rate and 13.7%
resulted from costs incurred upon exercise of a stock option by an officer not
deductible for income tax purposes.

6. NOTES AND MORTGAGES PAYABLE

In November 1993, a private placement of $227,000,000 aggregate principal
amount of secured notes due December 1, 2000 was completed by Vornado Finance
Corp., a wholly-owned, special-purpose subsidiary of the  Company.  The 7-year
notes bear a fixed rate of interest of 6.36% per annum.  The net proceeds from
the offering, together with working capital of Vornado Realty Trust, were used
to prepay  $327,132,000 of debt including $313,539,000 under a blanket mortgage
loan which bore interest at a rate of 9.36% per annum and was scheduled to
mature in January 1994.  As a result of the early extinguishment of debt, a
fourth quarter extraordinary charge of $3,202,000, which primarily represented
prepayment penalties, was recorded in 1993.


Notes and mortgages are summarized by range of interest rates as follows:
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


The net book value of property securing the notes and mortgages amounted to
$172,622,000 at December 31, 1994.  In addition, $7,000,000 (face amount) of
U.S. Treasury Obligations have been escrowed as additional collateral for the
$227,000,000 of notes and will be released upon completion of a shopping center
expansion.  As at December 31, 1994, the maturities for the next five years are
as follows:




                                      -26-

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
7. EMPLOYEES' SHARE OPTION PLAN

Various officers and key employees have been granted incentive share options
and/or nonqualified options to purchase common shares. Options granted are at
prices equal to 100% of the market price of the Company's shares at date of
grant, become exercisable up to 27 months after grant, and expire ten years
after the date of grant.
 
The changes in number of shares under option for the three years ended December
31, 1994 were as follows:
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------


*  Option prices and number of shares have been adjusted, as applicable, to
   reflect the impact of a $3.36 special dividend paid in June 1993, in
   accordance with the terms of the Plan.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
Shares available for future grant at December 31, 1994 were 1,327,816.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------









                                      -27-


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

8.  RETIREMENT PLAN
 
The Company's qualified retirement plan covers all full-time employees. The Plan
provides annual pension benefits that are equal to 1% of the employee's annual
compensation for each year of participation.

The funding policy is in accordance with the minimum funding requirements of
ERISA.

Pension expense includes the following components:



The following table sets forth the Plan's funded status and the amount
recognized in the Company's balance sheet:



Plan assets are invested in U.S. government obligations and securities backed by
U.S. government guaranteed mortgages.
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------







                                      -28-



NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------


9.  LEASES

As lessor:

The Company leases properties to tenants. The lease terms range from less than
five years for smaller tenant spaces to as much as thirty years for major
tenants. Most of the leases provide for the payment of fixed base rentals
payable monthly in advance, and for the payment by the lessee of additional
rents based on a percentage of the tenants' sales as well as reimbursements of
real estate taxes, insurance and maintenance. As of December 31, 1994,  future
base rental revenue under noncancellable operating leases, excluding rents for
leases with an original term of less than one year and rents resulting from the
exercise of renewal options, is as follows:



These amounts do not include rentals based on tenants' sales. These percentage
rents approximated $887,000, $954,000 and $685,000 for the years ended December
31, 1994, 1993 and 1992.

As lessee:

The Company is a tenant under leases for certain properties. These leases will
expire principally during the next twenty years. Future minimum lease payments
under operating leases at December 31, 1994, are as follows:



Rent expense was $1,313,000, $1,366,000 and $1,446,000 for the years ended
December 31, 1994, 1993 and 1992.



                                      -29-


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

10. CONTINGENCIES

In order to comply with environmental laws and with relevant health-based
standards, the Company has an active monitoring and maintenance program for
asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs") on its properties.  While the Company
believes that its program to remove friable ACMs has been substantially
completed, one location still requires further work.  The Company has received
an estimate of $500,000 to remove ACMs, which, pursuant to the lease is the
lessee's responsibility.  The Company does not believe that this expenditure
will have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial condition or
results of operations.

The Company also has certain other existing and potential environmental
liabilities with respect to compliance costs relating to underground storage
tanks and cleanup costs relating to tanks and to three Company sites at which
preexisting contamination was found.

The Company believes that known and potential environmental liabilities will not
have a material adverse effect on the Company's business, assets or results of
operation.  However, there can be no assurance that the identification of new
areas of contamination, change in the known scope of contamination, the
discovery of additional sites, or changes in cleanup requirements would not
result in significant costs to the Company.

At December 31, 1994, the Company had outstanding $1,400,000 of real estate
related standby letters of credit which were drawn under a $5,000,000 unsecured
line of credit with a bank bearing interest at prime.

From time-to-time, the Company has disposed of substantial amounts of real
estate to third parties for which, as to certain properties, it remains
contingently liable for rent payments or mortgage indebtedness.

There are various legal actions against the Company in the ordinary course of
business.  In the opinion of management, after consultation with legal counsel,
the outcome of such matters will not have a material effect on the Company's
financial condition or results of operations.

11. BUSINESS SEGMENTS

The Company operates in one business segment -- real estate. Bradlees, Inc.
accounted for 19% of property rentals for the year ended December 31, 1994 and
18% for the years ended December 31, 1993 and 1992.  The Company does not engage
in any foreign operations.

12. REPURCHASE AGREEMENTS

The Company enters into agreements for the purchase and resale of U.S.
government obligations for periods of up to one week. The obligations purchased
under these agreements are held in safekeeping in the name of the Company by
various money center banks. The Company has the right to demand additional
collateral or return of these invested funds at any time the collateral value is
less than 102% of the invested funds plus any accrued earnings thereon.









                                      -30-


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

Steven Roth, Chairman of the Board and Chief Executive Officer of the Company,
is a general partner of Interstate Properties, a 31.0% shareholder of the
Company at December 31, 1994.

A) On December 29, 1992, Mr. Roth exercised a stock option granted to him on
October 4, 1985, for 1,500,000 shares of the Company's stock, in order to
entitle the Company to a $10.8 million cash reduction in income taxes, the value
of which would have been substantially, if not totally, eliminated if the option
were exercised once the Company became a REIT.  In connection with the exercise,
the Company lent Mr. Roth $15,245,000 in 1992 ($9,410,000 of the exercise price
of $9,450,000 and $5,835,000 for withholding taxes which were immediately
payable by him and $7,000,000 in 1993 for additional taxes payable.  In
addition, the Company granted him registration rights with respect to such
shares.  The loan bears interest, payable quarterly, at a rate equal to the
broker call rate (7.25% at December 31, 1994) but not less than the minimum
applicable federal rate provided under the Internal Revenue Code and is due on
December 29, 1997.

On February 4, 1993, the Company repurchased 750,000 shares of this stock from
Mr. Roth at $27.17 per share, the closing price on February 3, 1993.  As of
December 31, 1992, the Company recorded an expense of $15,650,000, representing
the difference between the repurchase price and the option price.  In connection
with the repurchase, Mr. Roth repaid $9,122,500 of the loan including $1,500,000
of the amount he borrowed in 1993.

At December 31, 1994, the loan due from Mr. Roth was $13,122,500 ($4,705,000 of
which is shown as a reduction in shareholders' equity).

B) In 1993, the Company lent Messrs. Rowan and Macnow, Vice Presidents, $253,000
and $227,000, respectively, representing amounts owed by such persons in
connection with their option exercises.  The loans (which are reflected as a
reduction in shareholders' equity) accrue interest at a rate equal to the broker
call rate (7.25% at December 31, 1994) but not less than the minimum applicable
federal rate provided under the Internal Revenue Code and are due December 31,
1995.

C) At December 31, 1994 and 1993, the Company owned 113,100 shares of
Alexander's, Inc. common stock.  The investment is recorded at market value of
$5,980,000 at December 31, 1994 and at cost of $2,545,000 at December 31, 1993.
The market value was $6,871,000 at December 31, 1993.  Additionally, advances
and deferred charges in connection with the property development of Alexander's
were $1,370,000 and $607,000 at December 31, 1994 and 1993.  These amounts above
are shown on the accompanying balance sheet as Investment in and advances to
Alexander's, Inc.  On March 2, 1995, the Company acquired an additional
1,353,468 shares, or 27.1% of the common stock of Alexander's from Citibank,
N.A.  As a result of the increase in its investment, the Company will change its
accounting for its investment in Alexander's to the equity method which will
result in a reduction of its investment to cost by reducing the unrealized gain
recorded in shareholders' equity at December 31, 1994 by $3,435,000.  Interstate
owns 1,354,568 shares, or 27.1%, of the common stock of Alexander's and Mr. Roth
is a Director and Chief Executive Officer of Alexander's. Interstate, Mr. Roth
and the Company have filed as a "group" with the Securities and Exchange
Commission in connection with their respective holdings in Alexander's (see Note
17).








                                      -31-


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- ------------------------------------------------------------------------------

13.  RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS - (continued)

D) In July 1992, the Company was retained by Alexander's, Inc. to act as a
special real estate consultant with respect to the leasing or sale of certain
assets in connection with Alexander's reorganization proceedings under Chapter
11 of the Bankruptcy Code.

The terms of the leasing agreement provided the Company with exclusive rights
to sell and/or lease the assets of Alexander's through September 21, 1994 and
thereafter, shall automatically renew on a year-to-year basis, and is terminable
by either party at the end of each year on not less than 60 days prior notice
(agreement extended through 1997 - see Note 17).  The agreement provides for the
Company to generally receive a fee of (i) 3% of sales proceeds and (ii) 3% of
lease rent for the first ten years of a lease term, 2% of lease rent for the
eleventh through the twentieth years of a lease term and 1% of lease rent for
the twenty-first through thirtieth year of the lease term.

Subject to the payment of rents by underlying tenants pursuant to leases and to
the prior satisfaction of all payments to which certain creditors of Alexander's
are entitled under a plan of reorganization (approved by the Bankruptcy Court in
September 1993), the Company is due approximately $12.4 million for transactions
completed to date.  Of this amount, the Company was due to receive $500,000 on
July 1, 1994 but has not received such payment.  The balance of $11.9 million
will be payable over a seven year period in an amount not to exceed $2,500,000
in any calendar year until the present value of such installments (calculated at
a discount rate of 9% per annum) equals the amount that would have been paid had
it been paid on September 21, 1993 or at the time the transactions which gave
rise to the commissions occurred, if later.

The Company will recognize net fee income on leasing ($11.0 million) over the
life of the leases as rentals are paid and interest income ($.6  million) when
installments are received.

E) See Note 17 for a discussion of the terms of the Management and Development
Agreement entered into with Alexander's in March 1995.

F) The Company currently manages and leases the six shopping centers of
Interstate Properties pursuant to a Management Agreement for which the Company
receives a quarterly fee equal to 4% of base rent and percentage rent and
certain other commissions.  The Management Agreement has a term of one year and
is automatically renewable unless terminated by either of the parties on sixty
days' notice at the end of the term.   Although the Management Agreement was not
negotiated at arms length, the Company believes based upon comparable fees
charged by other real estate companies, that its terms are fair to the Company.
For the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 and the period from July 13, 1992
through December 31, 1992, $894,000, $913,000 and $367,000 of management fees
were earned by the Company pursuant to the Management Agreement.












                                      -32-


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

14. SUMMARY OF QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)



1)  The decrease in income in the quarter ended June 30, 1993 is due primarily
    to the Company recording an expense of $856,000 in connection with the
    merger of Vornado, Inc. into Vornado Realty Trust.

2)  The totals for the years ended December 31, 1994 and 1993 differ from the
    sum of the quarters as a result of the weighting of the average number of
    shares outstanding and the dilutive effect of stock options.

Amounts included in revenues and expenses have been reclassified to conform with
the current year's presentation.






                                      -33-


NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------

15.  STOCK SPLIT

On March 8, 1993, the Board of Trustees approved a three-for-two stock split by
declaring a dividend of one share of common stock for each two shares issued and
outstanding as of the close of business on March 18, 1993. This distribution
resulted in a transfer of $214,000 to the common stock account from additional
capital.  The additional shares and cash payments in lieu of fractional shares
were issued March 25, 1993.

16.  DIVIDEND DISTRIBUTIONS

Dividends are characterized for Federal income tax purposes as follows:



*  For shareholders who received all dividends distributed during 1993.

17. SUBSEQUENT EVENTS

On March 2, 1995, following bankruptcy court approval of the loan and management
arrangements described below, the Company purchased all of the 1,353,468 shares
of common stock of Alexander's, Inc. ("Alexander's") owned by Citibank, N.A.
("Citibank") for $40.50 per share in cash (the "Acquisition"), representing
27.1% of the outstanding common stock of Alexander's.  After the Acquisition,
the Company owns 29.3% of the outstanding shares of common stock of Alexander's.
Interstate Properties, which owns 31% of the common shares of beneficial
interest of the Company, currently owns 27.1% of the outstanding shares of
Alexander's common stock.

The Company and Alexander's have entered into a three year management and
development agreement (the "Management Agreement") under which the Company has
agreed to manage all Alexander's business affairs and manage and develop
Alexander's properties for an annual fee of $3,000,000; plus 6% of development
costs with a minimum guaranteed fee for the development portion of $1,650,000 
in the first year and $750,000 in each of the second and third years.  
Pursuant to the Management Agreement, Mr. Roth, the Company's Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer, also became Chief Executive Officer of Alexander's.
                      
The fees pursuant to the Management Agreement discussed above, are in addition
to leasing fees the Company receives from Alexander's under a leasing agreement
in effect since 1992. The term of the leasing agreement has been extended to be
co-terminus with the term of the Management Agreement.

On March 15, 1995, the Company and a bank lent Alexander's $75,000,000 in a
secured financing, of which $45,000,000 was funded by the Company and the
balance was funded by the bank.  The Company's loan, which is subordinate to
that of the bank has a three year term and bears  interest at 16.43% per annum
for the first two years and at a fixed rate for the third year of 992 basis
points over one year treasury bills.  In addition, Alexander's paid a
loan origination fee of $1,500,000 to the Company.








                                      -34-




NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (CONTINUED)
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------
17.  SUBSEQUENT EVENTS (continued)

In connection with the Acquisition, the Company and Interstate are restricted
for three years from owning in excess of two-thirds of Alexander's common stock
or entering into certain other transactions with Alexander's, without the
consent of the independent directors of Alexander's.

On February 27, 1995, the Company entered into a three year unsecured revolving
credit facility with a bank providing for borrowings of up to $75,000,000.
Borrowings bear annual interest, at the Company's election, at Libor plus 1.50%
or the higher of the federal funds rate plus 1% or prime rate plus .50%.

The facility contains customary loan covenants including, among others, limits
on total outstanding indebtedness; maximum loan to value ratios; minimum debt
service coverage, funds from operations, and equity requirements and a negative
pledge with respect to certain unencumbered assets.  At March 15, 1995, the
Company had borrowed $60,000,000 under the agreement.




                                      -35-




                                    PART III

ITEM 10.   DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

           Information relating to trustees of the Registrant will be contained
in a definitive Proxy Statement involving the election of trustees which the
Registrant will file with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to
Regulation 14A under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 not later than 120 days
after December 31, 1994, and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.  Information relating to Executive Officers of the Registrant appears
at page 10 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 11.   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

           Information relating to executive compensation will be contained in
the Proxy Statement referred to above in Item 10, "Directors and Executive
Officers of the Registrant", and such information is incorporated herein by
reference.

ITEM 12.   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

           Information relating to security ownership of certain beneficial
owners and management will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in
Item 10, "Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant", and such
information is incorporated herein by reference.

ITEM 13.   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

           Information relating to certain relationships and related
transactions will be contained in the Proxy Statement referred to in Item 10,
"Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant", and such information is
incorporated herein by reference.



                                      -36-



                                    PART IV

ITEM 14.      EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES, AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

              (a)       The following documents are filed as part of this
                        report:

                      1.       The consolidated financial statements are set
                               forth in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form
                               10-K.

                      2.       Financial Statement Schedules.

                        The following financial statement schedules should be
read in conjunction with the financial statements included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report on Form 10-K.



              Schedules other than those listed above are omitted because they
are not applicable or the information required is included in the consolidated
financial statements or the notes thereto.

                      3.       Exhibits.  See the Exhibit Index at page 44 of
                               this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The following
                               exhibits listed on the Exhibit Index are filed
                               with this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 




                                      -37-







                                   SIGNATURES

             Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the
Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to
be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                         VORNADO REALTY TRUST


                                         By: /s/JOSEPH MACNOW
                                             ---------------------------------
                                                Joseph Macnow, Vice President-
                                                  Chief Financial Officer

                                         Date:  March 15, 1995

             Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of
the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated:








                                      -38-




                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST

                                AND SUBSIDIARIES

                                  SCHEDULE II

                       VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS

- --------------------------------------------------------------------------------






                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994
                             (amounts in thousands)







                             ----- CONTINUED -----


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994
                             (amounts in thousands)









                               --- CONTINUED ---


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                               DECEMBER 31, 1994
                             (amounts in thousands)









  * These encumbrances are cross collateralized under a blanket mortgage in the
  amount of $227,000,000 at December 31, 1994.

Notes:
    1) Initial cost is cost as of January 30, 1982 (the date on which Vornado
       commenced real estate operations) unless acquired subseqent to that date
       - see Column H.

    2) Aggregate cost is approximately the same for federal income tax purposes.

    3) Date of original construction - many properties have had substantial
       renovation or additional construction - see Column D.

    4) Buildings on these properties were demolished in 1993.  As a result, the
       cost of the buildings and improvements, net of accumulated depreciation,
       were transferred to land. In addition, the cost of the land in Kearny is
       net of a $1,615,000 insurance recovery.


                              VORNADO REALTY TRUST
                                AND SUBSIDIARIES
                                  SCHEDULE III
                    REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
                             (amounts in thousands)


The following is a reconciliation of real estate assets and accumulated
depreciation:









                                      -43-



                                 EXHIBIT INDEX


- ------------
*  Incorporated by reference
** Management contract or compensatory plan



                                      -44-



- ------------
*  Incorporated by reference
** Management contract or compensatory plan

                                      -45-



- ------------
* Incorporated by reference





                                      -46-



