ITEM 1.BUSINESS

NiSource Inc.

NiSource is an energy holding company whose subsidiaries provide natural gas, electricity and other
products and services to approximately 3.8 million customers located within a corridor that runs
from the Gulf Coast through the Midwest to New England. NiSource is the successor to an Indiana
corporation organized in 1987 under the name of NIPSCO Industries, Inc., which changed its name to
NiSource on April 14, 1999.

NiSource
is one of the nation’s largest natural gas distribution Companies as
measured by number of customers. NiSource’s principal subsidiaries include Columbia, a
vertically-integrated natural gas distribution, transmission and storage holding company whose
subsidiaries provide service to customers in the Midwest, the Mid-Atlantic and the Northeast;
Northern Indiana, a vertically-integrated gas and electric company providing service to customers
in northern Indiana; and Bay State, a natural gas distribution company serving customers in
Massachusetts. NiSource derives substantially all of its revenues and earnings from the operating
results of its fifteen direct subsidiaries.

NiSource’s business segments are: Gas Distribution Operations; Gas Transmission and Storage
Operations; Electric Operations; and Other Operations. Following is a summary of the business for
each reporting segment. Refer to Item 7, “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial
Condition and Results of Operations”, for additional information for each segment.

Gas Distribution Operations

NiSource’s natural gas distribution operations serve more than 3.3 million customers in seven
states and operate approximately 58 thousand miles of pipeline. Through its wholly-owned
subsidiary, Columbia, NiSource owns five distribution subsidiaries that provide natural gas to
approximately 2.2 million residential, commercial and industrial customers in Ohio, Pennsylvania,
Virginia, Kentucky and Maryland. NiSource also distributes natural gas to approximately 792
thousand customers in northern Indiana through three subsidiaries: Northern Indiana, Kokomo Gas
and Northern Indiana Fuel and Light. Additionally, NiSource’s subsidiary, Bay State, distributes
natural gas to approximately 294 thousand customers in Massachusetts.

Gas Transmission and Storage Operations

NiSource’s Gas Transmission and Storage Operations subsidiaries own and operate nearly 15 thousand
miles of interstate pipelines and operate one of the nation’s largest underground natural gas
storage systems capable of storing approximately 639 Bcf of natural gas. Through its subsidiaries,
Columbia Transmission, Columbia Gulf and Crossroads Pipeline, NiSource owns and operates an
interstate pipeline network extending from the Gulf of Mexico to Lake Erie, New York and the
eastern seaboard. Together, these companies serve customers in 16 northeastern, mid-Atlantic,
midwestern and southern states and the District of Columbia.

NiSource’s Gas Transmission and Storage Operations continue to capture growth opportunities
leveraging NiSource’s strategically positioned pipeline and storage assets. A number of Gas
Transmission and Storage Operations’ new growth projects are designed to support increasing
Marcellus Shale production, while the company also has continued to grow and adapt its system to
provide critical transportation and storage services to markets across its high-demand service
territory. For example:

•In April 2009, storage gas injections began for the Ohio Storage Expansion Project,
which increased Gas Transmission and Storage Operations market-area storage capacity by 6.7
billion cubic feet and enhances delivery from two Ohio storage fields.•In August 2009, Gas Transmission and Storage Operations placed in service its
Appalachian Expansion Project, which leverages the company’s existing infrastructure to
provide approximately 100,000 Dth per day of new transportation to three key Appalachian
producers.•Gas Transmission and Storage Operations advanced growth projects representing more than
$125 million in investment in the Marcellus Shale region during 2009, with potential to
provide market access for approximately 600,000 Dth per day of new natural gas supplies.








ITEM 1.BUSINESS (continued)

NiSource Inc.

The Gas Transmission and Storage Operations subsidiaries are also involved in two joint ventures,
Millennium and Hardy Storage, which effectively expand their facilities and throughput. Millennium
pipeline, which includes 182 miles of 30-inch-diameter pipe across New York’s Southern Tier and
lower Hudson Valley, was substantially completed in December 2008 and has the capability to
transport up to 525,400 Dth per day of natural gas to markets along its route, as well as to the
New York City markets through its pipeline interconnections. Millennium is jointly owned by
affiliates of NiSource, DTE Energy and National Grid. Hardy Storage commenced operations in April
of 2007, receiving customer injections and withdrawing natural gas from its new underground natural
gas storage facility in West Virginia. Hardy Storage has a working storage capacity of 12 Bcf and
the ability to deliver 176,000 Dth of natural gas per day. Hardy Storage is a joint venture of
subsidiaries of Columbia Transmission and Piedmont.

Electric Operations

NiSource generates, transmits and distributes electricity through its subsidiary Northern Indiana
to approximately 457 thousand customers in 20 counties in the northern part of Indiana and engages
in wholesale and transmission transactions. Northern Indiana owns four and operates three
coal-fired electric generating stations. The three operating facilities have a net capability of
2,574 mw. Northern Indiana also owns and operates Sugar Creek, a CCGT plant with a 535 mw capacity
rating, four gas-fired generating units located at Northern Indiana’s coal-fired electric
generating stations with a net capability of 203 mw and two hydroelectric generating plants with a
net capability of 10 mw. These facilities provide for a total system operating net capability of
3,322 mw. Sugar Creek was purchased in May, 2008 and dispatched into MISO on December 1, 2008.
Northern Indiana’s transmission system, with voltages from 69,000 to 345,000 volts, consists of
2,792 circuit miles. Northern Indiana is interconnected with five neighboring electric utilities.

During the year ended December 31, 2009, Northern Indiana generated 85.2% and purchased 14.8% of
its electric requirements. Northern Indiana’s Mitchell Station, indefinitely shut down in 2002, is
not included in the net capacity of the three coal-fired generation stations. In the electric base
rate case Northern Indiana filed in August 2008, Northern Indiana provided testimony that it
intends to retire the Mitchell Station, demolish it, and remediate the site to industrial
condition, subject to the ability to recover these costs.

Northern Indiana participates in the MISO transmission service and wholesale energy market. The
MISO is a nonprofit organization created in compliance with the FERC, to improve the flow of
electricity in the regional marketplace and to enhance electric reliability. Additionally, MISO is
responsible for managing the energy markets, managing transmission constraints, managing the
day-ahead, real-time and FTRs markets and managing the ancillary market. Northern Indiana
transferred functional control of its electric transmission assets to MISO and transmission service
for Northern Indiana occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission Tariff.

Other Operations

NiSource has made a decision to significantly scale back the unregulated natural gas marketing
activities. The move is part of NiSource’s long-term strategy of focusing on its core regulated
businesses. NiSource has notified its current customers of this decision.

Divestiture of Non-Core Assets

In recent years, NiSource sold certain businesses judged to be non-core to NiSource’s strategy.
NiSource sold Whiting Clean Energy to BPAE in April 2008 for $216.7 million which included $16.1
million in working capital. In December 2008, NiSource sold Northern Utilities and Granite State
Gas for $209.1 million which included $49.1 million in working capital. Columbia Gulf sold a
portion of Columbia Gulf’s offshore assets to Tennessee Gas Pipeline in June 2008. Lake Erie Land,
a wholly-owned subsidiary of NiSource, sold its Sand Creek Golf Club assets in June 2006, to a
private real estate developer. Lake Erie Land is pursuing the sale of certain other real estate
assets it owns. NiSource Corporate Services is continuing to work with several potential buyers to
sell its Marble Cliff facility. NDC Douglas Properties, a subsidiary of NiSource Development
Company, is in the process of exiting some of its low income housing investments.

Business Strategy

NiSource focuses its business strategy on its core, rate-regulated asset-based businesses with
virtually 100% of its operating income generated from the rate-regulated businesses. With the
nation’s fourth largest natural gas pipeline,






ITEM 1.BUSINESS (continued)

NiSource INC.

the largest natural gas distribution network east of the Rocky Mountains and one of the nation’s
largest natural gas storage networks, NiSource operates throughout the energy-intensive corridor
that extends from the supply areas in the Gulf Coast through the consumption centers in the
Midwest, Mid-Atlantic, New England and Northeast. This corridor includes over 40% of the nation’s
population and close to 50% of its natural gas consumption. NiSource continues to position its
assets to meet the corridor’s growing energy needs.

Competition and Changes in the Regulatory Environment

The regulatory frameworks applicable to NiSource’s operations, at both the state and federal
levels, continue to evolve. These changes have had and will continue to have an impact on
NiSource’s operations, structure and profitability. Management continually seeks new ways to be
more competitive and profitable in this changing environment, including providing gas customers
with increased choices for products and services.

Natural Gas Competition.Open access to natural gas supplies over interstate pipelines and the
deregulation of the commodity price of gas has led to tremendous change in the energy markets. LDC
customers and marketers purchase gas directly from producers and marketers and an open, competitive
market for gas supplies has emerged. This separation or “unbundling” of the transportation and
other services offered by pipelines and LDCs allows customers to purchase the commodity independent
of services provided by the pipelines and LDCs. The LDCs continue to purchase gas and recover the
associated costs from their customers. NiSource’s Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries are
involved in programs that provide customers the opportunity to purchase their natural gas
requirements from third parties and use the NiSource Gas Distribution Operations’ subsidiaries for
transportation services.

Electric Competition.Northern Indiana currently dispatches all power from its plants into the
MISO. Transmission service for Northern Indiana occurs under the MISO Open Access Transmission
Tariff.

Financing Subsidiary

NiSource Finance is a wholly-owned, consolidated finance subsidiary of NiSource that engages in
financing activities to raise funds for the business operations of NiSource and its subsidiaries.
NiSource Finance was incorporated in February 2000 under the laws of the state of Indiana.
NiSource Finance’s obligations are fully and unconditionally guaranteed by NiSource.

Other Relevant Business Information

NiSource’s customer base is broadly diversified, with no single customer accounting for a
significant portion of revenues.

As of December 31, 2009, NiSource had 7,616 employees of whom 3,261 were subject to collective
bargaining agreements.

For a listing of certain subsidiaries of NiSource refer to Exhibit 21.

NiSource files various reports with the SEC. The reports include the annual report on Form 10-K,
quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed
or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. NiSource
makes all SEC filings available without charge to the public on its web site athttp://www.nisource.com.








