10-K


b78158e10vk.htm

BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION

e10vk


UNITED STATES

SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION

Washington, D.C. 20549

FORM 10-K

ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO

SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE

SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934

For
the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009

Commission File No. 1-11083

BOSTON SCIENTIFIC CORPORATION

(Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

DELAWARE

04-2695240

(State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization)

(I.R.S. Employer Identification No.)

ONE BOSTON SCIENTIFIC PLACE, NATICK, MASSACHUSETTS 01760-1537

(Address of principal executive offices)

(508) 650-8000

(Registrant’s telephone number)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:

COMMON STOCK, $.01 PAR VALUE PER SHARE

NEW YORK STOCK EXCHANGE

(Title of each class)

(Name of exchange on which registered)

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:

NONE

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule
405 of the Securities Act.

Yes:

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or
Section 15(d) of the Act.

Yes:

o

No

þ

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by
Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for
such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been
subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes:

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its
corporate Website, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant
to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorted period that the
registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes:

þ

No

o

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is
not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant’s knowledge, in
definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K
or any amendment to this Form 10-K.

o

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer,  a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company.
See the definitions of “large accelerated filer,” “accelerated filer” and “smaller reporting company” in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one):

Large Accelerated Filer

þ

Accelerated Filer

o

Non-Accelerated Filer

o

Smaller Reporting Company

o

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the
Act). Yes:

o

No

þ

The aggregate market value of the registrant’s common stock held by non-affiliates was
approximately $14.7 billion based on the closing price of the registrant’s common stock on June 30,
2009, the last business day of the registrant’s most recently completed second fiscal quarter.

The number of shares outstanding of the registrant’s common stock as of January 31, 2010 was
1,511,368,790.

Documents Incorporated by Reference

Portions
of the registrant’s definitive proxy statement to be filed with
the Securities and Exchange Commission in connection with  its Annual Meeting of Stockholders to
be held on May 11, 2010 are incorporated by reference into
Part III of this 10-K.




PART I

ITEM 1. BUSINESS

The Company

Boston Scientific Corporation is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical
devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties including
 cardiac rhythm management,  electrophysiology, interventional cardiology, peripheral interventions,
neurovascular, endoscopy, urology, women’s health and neuromodulation. Our mission is to improve
the quality of patient care and the productivity of health care delivery through the development
and advocacy of less-invasive medical devices and procedures. This is accomplished through the
continuing refinement of existing products and procedures and the investigation and development of
new technologies that can reduce risk, trauma, cost, procedure time and the need for aftercare.
When used in this report, the terms “we,” “us,” “our” and “the Company” mean Boston Scientific
Corporation and its divisions and subsidiaries.

Our history began in the late 1960s when our co-founder, John Abele, acquired an equity interest in
Medi-tech, Inc., a research and development company focused on developing alternatives to surgery.
In 1969, Medi-tech introduced a family of steerable catheters used in some of the first
less-invasive procedures performed. In 1979, John Abele joined with Pete Nicholas to form Boston
Scientific Corporation, which indirectly acquired Medi-tech. This acquisition began a period of
active and focused marketing, new product development and organizational growth. Since then, we
have advanced the practice of less-invasive medicine by helping physicians and other medical
professionals treat a variety of diseases and improve patients’ quality of life by providing
alternatives to surgery and other medical procedures that are typically traumatic to the body. Some
of the uses of our products include: enlarging narrowed blood vessels to prevent heart attack and
stroke; clearing passages blocked by plaque to restore blood flow; detecting and managing fast,
slow or irregular heart rhythms; mapping electrical problems in the heart; performing biopsies and
intravascular ultrasounds; placing filters to prevent blood clots from reaching the lungs, heart or
brain; treating urological, gynecological, renal, pulmonary, neurovascular and gastrointestinal
diseases; and modulating nerve activity to treat chronic pain.

Our net sales have increased substantially over the last thirty years, growing from $2 million in
1979 to approximately $8.2 billion in 2009. Our growth has been fueled in part by strategic
acquisitions and alliances designed to improve our ability to take advantage of growth
opportunities in the medical device industry. On April 21, 2006, we consummated our acquisition of
Guidant Corporation. With this acquisition, we became a major provider in the worldwide cardiac
rhythm management (CRM) market, enhancing our overall competitive position and long-term growth
potential and further diversifying our product portfolio. This acquisition has established us as
one of the world’s largest cardiovascular device companies and a global leader in microelectronic
therapies. This and other strategic acquisitions have helped us to add promising new technologies
to our pipeline and to offer one of the broadest product portfolios in the world for use in
less-invasive procedures. We believe that the depth and breadth of our product portfolio has also
enabled us to compete more effectively in, and better absorb the pressures of, the current
healthcare environment of cost containment, managed care, large buying groups, government
contracting and hospital consolidation and will generally assist us in navigating the current
turmoil in the global economic markets and potential U.S. healthcare reform measures.

Business Strategy

Our business strategy is to lead global markets for less-invasive medical devices by developing and
marketing innovative products, services and therapies that address
unmet patient needs, provide  superior clinical outcomes and
demonstrate proven economic value. The components of our
business strategy are as follows:





endeavor to expand our footprint in the hospital beyond our current product offerings to
provide us greater strategic mass.

We believe that the execution of this strategy will drive innovation, accelerate profitable growth
and increase shareholder value.

Research and Development

Our investment in research and development is critical to driving our future growth. We have
directed our development efforts toward regulatory compliance and innovative technologies designed
to expand current markets or enter new markets. We believe that streamlining, prioritizing and
coordinating our technology pipeline and new product development activities are essential to our
ability to stimulate growth and maintain leadership positions in our markets. Our approach to new
product design and development is through focused, cross-functional teams. We believe that our
formal process for technology and product development aids in our ability to offer innovative and
manufacturable products in a consistent and timely manner. Involvement of the research and
development, clinical, quality, regulatory, manufacturing and marketing teams early in the process
is the cornerstone of our product development cycle. This collaboration allows these teams to
concentrate resources on the most viable and clinically relevant new products and technologies and
bring them to market in a timely manner. In addition to internal development, we work with hundreds
of leading research institutions, universities and clinicians around the world to develop, evaluate
and clinically test our products.

We believe our future success will depend upon the strength of these development efforts. We
expended more than $1 billion on research and development in 2009, 2008 and 2007, representing
approximately 13 percent of our net sales each year. Our investment in research and development
reflects:

•

regulatory compliance, clinical science, and internal research and
development programs, as well as others obtained through our strategic
acquisitions and alliances; and

•

sustaining engineering efforts which incorporate customer feedback
into continuous improvement efforts for currently marketed and next
generation products.

Acquisitions and Alliances

Since 1995, we have undertaken strategic acquisitions to assemble the lines of business necessary
to achieve the critical mass that allows us to continue to be a leader in the medical device
industry. We expect to continue to invest in our core technologies, and are also investigating
opportunities to further expand our presence in, and diversify into, areas including atrial
fibrillation, underserved defibrillator populations, acute ischemic stroke, coronary artery
disease, peripheral vascular disease, structural heart disease, vascular closure, hypertension,
women’s health, endoluminal surgery, diabetes/obesity, endoscopic pulmonary intervention and deep
brain stimulation.

Products

During 2009, our products were offered for sale by six dedicated business groups—CRM, including our
Cardiac Rhythm Management and Electrophysiology businesses; Cardiovascular, including
our Interventional Cardiology and Peripheral Interventions businesses; Neurovascular; Endoscopy;
Urology/Women’s Health; and Neuromodulation. In 2010, we began the implementation of a restructured
business model that will allow us to operate in a more effective and efficient manner, and includes
the integration of our former CRM and Cardiovascular groups into a newly formed Cardiology, Rhythm
and Vascular group, which will include an Endovascular unit that will encompass Peripheral
Interventions, Neurovascular, Imaging and Electrophysiology.



During 2009, we derived 31 percent of our net sales from our CRM group, 43 percent from our
Cardiovascular group, 12 percent from our Endoscopy business, six percent from our
Urology/Women’s Health business, four percent from our Neuromodulation business, and four percent
from our Neurovascular business. The following section describes certain of our product offerings:

Cardiac Rhythm Management

We develop, manufacture and market a variety of implantable devices that monitor the heart and
deliver electricity to treat cardiac abnormalities, including:

•

Implantable cardiac defibrillator (ICD) systems used to detect and
treat abnormally fast heart rhythms (tachycardia) that could result in
sudden cardiac death, including implantable cardiac resynchronization
therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) systems used to treat heart failure; and

•

Implantable pacemaker systems used to manage slow or irregular heart
rhythms (bradycardia), including implantable cardiac resynchronization
therapy pacemaker (CRT-P) systems used to treat heart failure.

A key component of many of our implantable device systems is our remote LATITUDE® Patient
Management System, which enables physicians to monitor device performance remotely while patients
are in their homes, allowing for more frequent monitoring in order to guide treatment decisions.
Previously available only in the U.S. market, during 2009, we received CE Mark approval and
launched our LATITUDE® Patient Management System in our Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) region and
certain Inter-Continental countries.

Throughout 2008 and 2009, we launched several new CRM products, which accounted for 74 percent of
our worldwide CRM group net sales in 2009. We have experienced continued success with our
next-generation COGNIS® CRT-D and TELIGEN® ICD systems, as well as our ALTRUA® family of pacemaker
systems. In 2010, we will continue to execute on our product pipeline with the expected U.S.
launches of a new lead delivery system and next-generation line of defibrillators, which includes
new features designed to improve functionality, diagnostic capability and ease of use. Further, we
expect to launch our next-generation INGENIO™ pacemaker system in 2011.

Electrophysiology

Within our Electrophysiology business, we offer medical devices for the diagnosis and treatment of
cardiac arrhythmias. Included in our product offerings are RF generators, intracardiac ultrasound
and steerable ablation catheters, and diagnostic catheters. Our leading brands include the Blazer™
cardiac ablation catheter, the Chilli II® cooled ablation catheter and the MAESTRO 3000® Cardiac
Ablation System. During 2010, we anticipate several new product launches within our
Electrophysiology business, including the launch of the next-generation Blazer Prime™ in our EMEA
region and certain Inter-Continental countries.

Interventional Cardiology

Coronary Stent Systems

Our broad, innovative product offerings have enabled us to become a leader in the interventional
cardiology market. This leadership is due in large part to our coronary stent product offerings.
Coronary stents are tiny, mesh tubes used in the treatment of coronary artery disease, which are
implanted in patients to prop open arteries and facilitate blood flow to and from the heart. Our
Liberté® bare-metal coronary stent system is designed to enhance deliverability and conformability,
particularly in



challenging lesions. We have further enhanced the outcomes associated with the use of coronary
stents, particularly the processes that lead to restenosis


, through dedicated internal
and external product development, strategic alliances and scientific research of drug-eluting stent
systems. Since the worldwide launch of our proprietary polymer-based paclitaxel-eluting stent
technology, the TAXUS® Express


® coronary stent system, in 2004, we have become the worldwide
leader in the drug-eluting coronary stent market, exiting 2009 with 39 percent market share during
the fourth quarter of 2009. We are now the only company in the industry to offer a two-drug
platform strategy with our paclitaxel-eluting stent system, including our second-generation TAXUS®
Liberté® stent system, and our everolimus product franchise. We market the PROMUS®
everolimus-eluting stent system, currently supplied to us by Abbott Laboratories, as well as our
next-generation internally-manufactured everolimus-eluting stent system, the PROMUS® Element™ stent
system, which we launched in our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries in the fourth
quarter of 2009. Further, the 2009 launches of our TAXUS® Liberté® Atom™ stent system and TAXUS®
Liberté® Long stent system have added to our industry leadership for the widest range of coronary
stent sizes. We expect to launch our PROMUS® Element™ stent system in the U.S. and Japan in
mid-2012. Our product pipeline also includes the next-generation TAXUS® Element™ stent system,
which we expect to launch in our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries during the second quarter
of 2010, in the U.S. mid-2011 and Japan in late 2011 or early 2012.

Coronary Revascularization

We market a broad line of products used to treat patients with atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis, a
principal cause of coronary artery obstructive disease, is characterized by a thickening of the
walls of the coronary arteries and a narrowing of arterial openings caused by the progressive
development of deposits of plaque. The majority of our products in this market are used in
percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA) procedures and include bare-metal and
drug-eluting stent systems; PTCA balloon catheters, such as the Maverick® balloon catheter; the
Cutting Balloon® microsurgical dilatation device; rotational atherectomy systems; guide wires;
guide catheters and diagnostic catheters. We continue to hold a strong leadership position in the
PTCA balloon catheter market with approximately 57 percent share of the U.S. market in 2009, and are
planning a number of additional new product launches during 2010, including the Apex™ platinum
pre-dilatation balloon catheter for improved radiopacity, the NC Quantum Apex

Ô

post-dilatation balloon catheter and the Kinetix

Ô

family of guidewires.

Intraluminal Ultrasound Imaging

We market a family of intraluminal catheter-directed ultrasound imaging catheters and systems for
use in coronary arteries and heart chambers as well as certain peripheral vessels. The iLab®
Ultrasound Imaging System, available in the U.S., Japan and other international markets, continues
as our flagship console and is compatible with our full line of imaging catheters. This system
enhances the diagnosis and treatment of blocked vessels and heart disorders.

Peripheral Interventions

We sell various products designed to treat patients with peripheral disease (disease which appears
in blood vessels other than in the heart and in the biliary tree), including a broad line of
medical devices used in percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and peripheral vascular stenting. Our
peripheral product offerings include vascular access products, balloon catheters, stents and
peripheral vascular catheters, wires and accessories, as well as products used for peripheral
embolization procedures. We also sell products designed to treat patients with non-vascular disease
(disease which appears outside the blood system). Our non-vascular suite of products
includes biliary stents, drainage catheters and micro-puncture sets designed to treat, diagnose and
ease various forms of benign and malignant tumors. We


The growth of neointimal tissue within an
artery after angioplasty and stenting.



market the PolarCath™ peripheral dilatation system used in CryoPlasty® Therapy, an innovative
approach to the treatment of peripheral artery disease in the lower extremities. We believe that we
are well positioned in the growing Peripheral Interventions market, due in part to the recent
launches of our Carotid WALLSTENT® Monorail® Endoprosthesis for the treatment of patients with
carotid artery disease who are at high risk for surgery; our Express® SD Renal Monorail® premounted
stent system for use as an adjunct therapy to percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty in
certain lesions of the renal arteries; and our Sterling® Monorail® and Over-the-Wire balloon
dilatation catheter for use in the renal and lower extremity arteries. In addition, during the
first quarter of 2010, we expect to receive FDA approval for an iliac indication for our Express®
LD stent system.

Embolic Protection

Our FilterWire EZ™ Embolic Protection System is a low profile filter designed to capture embolic
material that may become dislodged during a procedure, which could otherwise travel into the
microvasculature where it could cause a heart attack or stroke. It is commercially available in the
U.S., our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries for multiple indications, including the
treatment of disease in peripheral, coronary and carotid vessels. It is also available in the U.S.
for the treatment of saphenous vein grafts and carotid artery stenting procedures.

Neurovascular

We market a broad line of coated and uncoated detachable coils, micro-delivery stents,
micro-guidewires, micro-catheters, guiding catheters and embolics to
neuro-interventional radiologists and neurosurgeons to treat diseases of the neurovascular system.
We currently market the GDC® Coils (Guglielmi Detachable Coil) and Matrix® systems to treat brain
aneurysms and plan to launch a next-generation family of detachable coils, including an enhanced
delivery system designed to reduce coil detachment times, in the U.S. in 2010. We also offer the
NeuroForm® stent for the treatment of wide neck aneurysms and the Wingspan® Stent System with
Gateway® PTA Balloon Catheter, each under a Humanitarian Device Exemption approval granted by the
FDA. The Wingspan Stent System is designed to treat atherosclerotic lesions or accumulated plaque
in brain arteries. Designed for the brain’s fragile vessels, the Wingspan Stent System is a
self-expanding, nitinol stent sheathed in a delivery system that enables it to reach and open
narrowed arteries in the brain. The Wingspan Stent System is currently the only device available in
the U.S. for the treatment of intracranial atherosclerotic disease (ICAD) and is indicated for
improving cerebral artery lumen diameter in patients with ICAD who are unresponsive to medical
therapy. Within our product pipeline, we are also developing next-generation technologies for the
treatment of aneurysms, ICAD and acute ischemic stroke, and are involved in numerous clinical
activities that are designed to expand the size of the worldwide Neurovascular market.

Endoscopy

Gastroenterology

We market a broad range of products to diagnose, treat and ease a variety of digestive diseases,
including those affecting the esophagus, stomach and colon. Common disease states include
esophagitis, portal hypertension, peptic ulcers and esophageal cancer. We offer the Radial Jaw® 4
Single-Use Biopsy Forceps, which are designed to enable collection of large high-quality tissue
specimens without the need to use large channel therapeutic endoscopes and, in 2009, began offering
this product in a variety of sizes. Our exclusive line of RX Biliary System™ devices provides
greater access and control for physicians to diagnose and treat challenging conditions of the bile
ducts, such as removing gallstones, opening obstructed bile ducts and obtaining biopsies in
suspected tumors. We also market the Spyglass® Direct Visualization System for direct imaging of
the pancreatico-biliary system. The Spyglass® System is the first single-operator
cholangioscopy device that offers clinicians a direct visualization of the pancreatico-biliary
system and includes supporting devices for tissue acquisition, stone management and lithotripsy.



We also offer the WallFlex® biliary stent system and WallFlex® esophageal stent, and our
Resolution® Clip Device, used to treat gastrointestinal bleeding, is the only currently-marketed
mechanical clip designed to open and close, up to five times, before deployment to help enable a
physician to see the effects of the clip before committing to deployment.

Interventional Bronchoscopy

We market devices to diagnose, treat and ease pulmonary disease systems within the airway and
lungs. Our products are designed to help perform biopsies, retrieve foreign bodies from the airway,
open narrowings of an airway, stop internal bleeding, and ease symptoms of some types of airway
cancers. Our product line includes pulmonary biopsy forceps, transbronchial aspiration needles,
cytology brushes and tracheobronchial stents used to dilate narrowed airway passages or for tumor
management.

Urology/Women’s Health

We sell a variety of products designed to treat patients with urinary stone disease, benign
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH), stress urinary incontinence, pelvic organ prolapse and excessive
uterine bleeding. We offer the Prolieve Thermodilatation® System, a transurethral microwave
thermotherapy system for the treatment of BPH, and distribute and market the DuoTome™ SideLite™
holmium laser treatment system for treatment of symptoms associated with BPH. We offer a full line
of mid-urethral sling products, sling materials, graft materials, pelvic floor reconstruction kits,
suturing devices and injectables and have exclusive U.S. distribution rights to the Coaptite®
Injectable Implant, a next-generation bulking agent, for the treatment of stress urinary
incontinence.

We continue to expand our focus on women’s health. We market a range of devices for the treatment
of conditions such as female urinary incontinence, pelvic floor reconstruction (rebuilding of the
anatomy to its original state), and menorrhagia (excessive menstrual bleeding). Our Hydro
ThermAblator® System offers a less-invasive technology for the treatment of excessive uterine
bleeding by ablating the endometrial lining of the uterus, the tissue responsible for menstrual
bleeding.

Neuromodulation

Within our Neuromodulation business, we market the Precision® Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) system,
used for the management of chronic intractable pain of the trunk and/or limbs. This system delivers
pain management by applying an electrical signal to mask pain signals traveling from the spinal
cord to the brain. The Precision System utilizes a rechargeable battery and features a programming
system. We believe that we continue to have a technology advantage over our competitors with
proprietary features such as Multiple Independent Current Control, which is intended to allow the
physician to target specific areas of pain more precisely. As a demonstration of our commitment to
strengthening clinical evidence with spinal cord stimulation, we are initiating a trial to assess
the therapeutic effectiveness and cost effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation compared to
reoperation in patients with failed back surgery syndrome. We believe that this trial could result
in consideration of spinal cord stimulation much earlier in the continuum of care. Further, we
expect to launch two new lead products during 2010, which we believe will provide us with continued
growth in our Neuromodulation business.

Marketing and Sales

A dedicated sales force of approximately 5,000 individuals in over 40 countries worldwide marketed
our products as of December 31, 2009. The majority of our net sales are derived from countries in
which we have direct sales organizations. A network of distributors and dealers who offer our
products worldwide accounts for our remaining sales. We will continue to leverage our
infrastructure in markets where commercially appropriate and use third parties in those markets
where it is not economical or strategic to establish or maintain a direct presence. We also have a
dedicated corporate sales organization in the U.S.



focused principally on selling to major buying groups and integrated healthcare networks. We
consistently strive to understand and exceed the expectations of our customers. Each of our
business groups maintains dedicated sales forces and marketing teams focusing on physicians who
specialize in the diagnosis and treatment of different medical conditions. We believe that this
focused disease state management enables us to develop highly knowledgeable and dedicated sales
representatives and to foster collaborative relationships with physicians. We believe that we have
positive working relationships with physicians and others in the medical industry, which enable us
to gain a detailed understanding of new therapeutic and diagnostic alternatives and to respond
quickly to the changing needs of physicians and their patients.

In 2009, we sold our products to over 10,000 hospitals, clinics, outpatient facilities and medical
offices. We are not dependent on any single institution and no single institution accounted for
more than ten percent of our net sales in 2009, 2008, or 2007. However, large group purchasing organizations,
hospital networks and other buying groups have become increasingly important to our business and
represent a substantial portion of our U.S. net sales.

International Operations

International net sales accounted for approximately 43 percent of our net sales in 2009. Net sales
and operating income attributable to our 2009 geographic regions are presented in

Note P—Segment
Reporting

to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. During
the first quarter of 2009, we reorganized our international structure to provide more direct sales
focus in the marketplace and operate through three international business units, in addition to our
U.S. operating segment: EMEA, consisting of Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Japan; and
Inter-Continental, consisting of Asia Pacific and the Americas. We have reclassified previously
reported segment results to be consistent with the 2009 presentation,
contained in

Results of
Operations

and

Note P

. In 2010, we will further restructure our international business into the
following business units, in addition to our U.S. operating segment: Europe, Japan, and Emerging
Markets, in order to be more effective in executing our business strategy. Maintaining and
expanding our international presence is an important component of our long-term growth plan.
Through our international presence, we seek to increase net sales and market share, leverage our
relationships with leading physicians and their clinical research programs, accelerate the time to
bring new products to market, and gain access to worldwide technological developments that we can
implement across our product lines.

We have five international manufacturing facilities in Ireland, two in Costa Rica and one in Puerto
Rico. Approximately 50 percent of our products sold worldwide during 2009 were manufactured at
these facilities. In early 2009, we announced our Plant Network Optimization program designed to
simplify our plant network, reduce our manufacturing costs and improve gross margins. In connection
with this program, we expect to rationalize two of our international manufacturing plants by the
end of 2011. Additionally, we maintain international research and development capabilities in
Ireland and Miyazaki, Japan, as well as physician training centers in Paris, France and Tokyo,
Japan.

A discussion of the risks associated with our international operations is contained in Item 1A of
this Annual Report.

Manufacturing and Raw Materials

We are focused on continuously improving our supply chain effectiveness, strengthening our
manufacturing processes and increasing operational efficiencies within our organization. By
shifting global manufacturing along product lines, we are able to leverage our existing resources
and concentrate on new product development, including the enhancement of existing products, and
their commercial launch. We are implementing new systems designed to provide improved quality and
reliability, service, greater efficiency and lower supply chain costs. We have substantially
increased our focus on process



controls and validations, supplier controls, distribution controls and providing our operations
teams with the training and tools necessary to drive continuous improvement in product quality. We
continue to focus on examining our operations and general business activities to identify
cost-improvement opportunities in order to enhance our operational effectiveness. Our Plant Network
Optimization program calls for reducing the number of our manufacturing plants from 17 to 12, and
relocating approximately 15 percent of our current value of production to different facilities. We
estimate that the program, combined with activities under our 2007
Restructuring plan, discussed in Item 7 of this Annual Report,   will result
in annual reductions of manufacturing costs of approximately $100 million to $120 million in 2012.

We design and manufacture the majority of our products in technology centers around the world. Many
components used in the manufacture of our products are readily fabricated from commonly available
raw materials or off-the-shelf items available from multiple supply sources. Certain items are
custom made to meet our specifications. We believe that in most cases, redundant capacity exists at
our suppliers and that alternative sources of supply are available or could be developed within a
reasonable period of time. We also have an on-going program to identify single-source components
and to develop alternative back-up supplies. However, in certain cases, we may not be able to
quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers for specific materials, components or
products, largely due to the regulatory approval system and the complex nature of our manufacturing
processes and those of our suppliers. A reduction or interruption in supply, an inability to
develop and validate alternative sources if required, or a significant increase in the price of raw
materials, components or products could adversely affect our operations and financial condition,
particularly materials or components related to our CRM products and drug-eluting stent systems. In
addition, our products require sterilization prior to sale and we utilize a mix of internal
resources and third party vendors to perform this service. To the extent our sterilizers
are unable to process our products, whether due to raw material, capacity, regulatory or other
constraints, we may be unable to transition to other providers in a timely manner, which could have
an adverse impact on our operations.

Certain products are manufactured for us by third parties. We are currently reliant on Abbott
Laboratories for our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems in the U.S. and Japan. Our supply
agreement with Abbott for everolimus-eluting stent systems in these regions extends through the end
of the second quarter of 2012. At present, we believe that our supply of everolimus-eluting stent
systems from Abbott and our current launch plans for our next-generation internally-manufactured
everolimus-eluting stent system in these regions is sufficient to meet customer demand. However,
any production or capacity issues that affect Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities or our process
for forecasting, ordering and receiving shipments may impact the ability to increase or decrease
our level of supply in a timely manner; therefore, our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems
supplied to us by Abbott may not align with customer demand, which could have an adverse effect on
our operating results. We launched our internally developed and manufactured next-generation
everolimus-eluting stent system, our PROMUS® Element™ stent system, in our EMEA region and certain
Inter-Continental countries in the fourth quarter of 2009, and expect to launch this product in the
U.S. and Japan in mid-2012.

Quality Assurance

In January 2006, legacy Boston Scientific received a corporate warning letter from the U.S. Food
and Drug Administration (FDA) notifying us of serious regulatory problems at three of our
facilities and advising us that our corporate-wide corrective action plan relating to three
site-specific warning letters issued to us in 2005 was inadequate. During 2008, the FDA reinspected
a number of our facilities and, in October 2008, informed us that our quality system is now in
substantial compliance with its Quality System Regulations. The FDA has approved all of our
requests for final approval of Class III product submissions previously on hold due to the
corporate warning letter and is processing all requests for Certificates to Foreign Governments. In
November of 2009 and January of 2010, the FDA reinspected two official action-indicated Boston
Scientific sites to follow-up on observations from the 2008 FDA inspections. Both of these FDA
inspections confirmed that all issues at the sites have been resolved and all



restrictions related to the corporate warning letter have been removed. The corporate warning
letter remains in place pending FDA internal administrative procedures.

In addition, during the first quarter of 2009, we acquired a third-party sterilization facility
which was subject to a warning letter from the FDA. The FDA had requested documentation and
explanations regarding various corrective actions related to the facility. This information was
provided to the FDA and the FDA has since re-inspected the facility, issuing no observations, and
subsequently removed all restrictions related to the warning letter.

We are committed to providing high quality products to our customers. To meet this commitment, we
have implemented updated quality systems and concepts throughout our organization. Our quality
system starts with the initial product specification and continues through the design of the
product, component specification process and the manufacturing, sales and servicing of the product.
Our quality system is intended to build in quality and process control and to utilize continuous
improvement concepts throughout the product life. These systems are designed to enable us to
satisfy the various international quality system regulations, including those of the FDA with
respect to products sold in the U.S. All of our manufacturing facilities, including our U.S. and
European distribution centers, are certified under the ISO13485:2003 quality system standard for
medical devices, which requires, among other items, an implemented quality system that applies to
component quality, supplier control, product design and manufacturing operations. This
certification can be obtained only after a complete audit of a company’s quality system by an
independent outside auditor. Maintenance of the certification requires that these facilities
undergo periodic re-examination.

In addition, we maintain an on-going initiative to seek ISO14001 certification at our plants around
the world. ISO14001 is a globally recognized standard for Environmental Management Systems,
established by the International Standards Organization, which provides a voluntary framework to
identify key environmental aspects associated with our business. We engage in continuous
environmental performance improvement around these aspects. At present, nine of our manufacturing
and distribution facilities have attained ISO14001 certification. We are committed to achieving
ISO14001 certification at all of our manufacturing and distribution centers worldwide.

Competition

We encounter significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which we sell
our products from various companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing
resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Johnson & Johnson (including its subsidiary,
Cordis Corporation); Medtronic, Inc.; Abbott Laboratories and St. Jude Medical, Inc.; as well as a
wide range of medical device companies that sell a single or limited number of competitive products
or participate in only a specific market segment. We also face competition from non-medical device
companies, such as pharmaceutical companies, which may offer alternative therapies for disease
states intended to be treated using our products.

We believe that our products compete primarily on their ability to safely and effectively perform
diagnostic and therapeutic procedures in a less-invasive manner, including clinical outcomes, ease
of use, comparative effectiveness, reliability and physician familiarity. In the current
environment of managed care, economically-motivated buyers, consolidation among healthcare
providers, increased competition and declining reimbursement rates, we have been increasingly
required to compete on the basis of price, value, reliability and efficiency. We believe the
current global economic conditions and potential U.S. healthcare reform measures could put
additional competitive pressure on us, including on our average selling prices, overall procedure
rates and market sizes. We recognize that our continued competitive success will depend upon our
ability to offer products with differentiated clinical outcomes, create or acquire innovative,
scientifically advanced technology, apply our technology cost-effectively and with superior quality
across product lines and markets, develop or acquire proprietary products, attract and



retain skilled development personnel, obtain patent or other protection for our products, obtain
required regulatory and reimbursement approvals, continually enhance our quality systems,
manufacture and successfully market our products either directly or through outside parties and
supply sufficient inventory to meet customer demand.

Regulatory Environment

The medical devices that we manufacture and market are subject to regulation by numerous regulatory
bodies, including the FDA and comparable international regulatory agencies. These agencies require
manufacturers of medical devices to comply with applicable laws and regulations governing the
development, testing, manufacturing, labeling, marketing and distribution of medical devices.
Devices are generally subject to varying levels of regulatory control, the most comprehensive of
which requires that a clinical evaluation be conducted before a device receives approval for
commercial distribution.

In the U.S., permission to distribute a new device generally can be met in one of three ways. The
first process requires that a pre-market notification (510(k) Submission) be made to the FDA to
demonstrate that the device is as safe and effective as, or substantially equivalent to, a legally
marketed device that is not subject to pre-market approval (PMA), i.e., the “predicate” device. An
appropriate predicate device for a pre-market notification is one that (i) was legally marketed
prior to May 28, 1976, (ii) was approved under a PMA but then subsequently reclassified from
class III to class II or I, or (iii) has been found to be substantially equivalent and cleared for
commercial distribution under a 510(k) Submission. Applicants must submit descriptive data and,
when necessary, performance data to establish that the device is substantially equivalent to a
predicate device. In some instances, data from human clinical trials must also be submitted in
support of a 510(k) Submission. If so, these data must be collected in a manner that conforms to
the applicable Investigational Device Exemption (IDE) regulations. The FDA must issue an order
finding substantial equivalence before commercial distribution can occur. Changes to existing
devices covered by a 510(k) Submission that do not raise new questions of safety or effectiveness
can generally be made without additional 510(k) Submissions. More significant changes, such as new
designs or materials, may require a separate 510(k) with data to support that the modified device
remains substantially equivalent. The FDA has recently begun to review its clearance process in an
effort to make it more rigorous, which may require additional clinical data, time and effort for
product clearance.

The second process requires the submission of an application for PMA to the FDA to demonstrate that
the device is safe and effective for its intended use as manufactured. This approval process
applies to certain class III devices. In this case, two steps of FDA approval are generally
required before marketing in the U.S. can begin. First, we must comply with the applicable IDE
regulations in connection with any human clinical investigation of the device in the U.S. Second,
the FDA must review our PMA application, which contains, among other things, clinical information
acquired under the IDE. The FDA will approve the PMA application if it finds that there is a
reasonable assurance that the device is safe and effective for its intended purpose.

The third process requires that an application for a Humanitarian Device Exemption (HDE) be made to
the FDA for the use of a Humanitarian Use Device (HUD). A HUD is intended to benefit patients by
treating or diagnosing a disease or condition that affects, or is manifested in, fewer than 4,000
individuals in the U.S. per year. The application submitted to the FDA for an HDE is similar in
both form and content to a PMA application, but is exempt from the effectiveness requirements of a
PMA. This approval process demonstrates that there is no comparable device available to treat or
diagnose the condition, the device will not expose patients to unreasonable or significant risk,
and the benefits to health from use outweigh the risks. The HUD provision of the regulation
provides an incentive for the development of devices for use in the treatment or diagnosis of
diseases affecting smaller patient populations.

The FDA can ban certain medical devices; detain or seize adulterated or misbranded medical devices;
order repair, replacement or refund of these devices; and require notification of health
professionals and



others with regard to medical devices that present unreasonable risks of substantial harm to the
public health. The FDA may also enjoin and restrain certain violations of the Food, Drug and
Cosmetic Act and the Safe Medical Devices Act pertaining to medical devices, or initiate action for
criminal prosecution of such violations. International sales of medical devices manufactured in the
U.S. that are not approved by the FDA for use in the U.S., or that are banned or deviate from
lawful performance standards, are subject to FDA export requirements. Exported devices are subject
to the regulatory requirements of each country to which the device is exported. Some countries do
not have medical device regulations, but in most foreign countries, medical devices are regulated.
Frequently, regulatory approval may first be obtained in a foreign country prior to application in
the U.S. to take advantage of differing regulatory requirements. Most countries outside of the U.S.
require that product approvals be recertified on a regular basis, generally every five years. The
recertification process requires that we evaluate any device changes and any new regulations or
standards relevant to the device and conduct appropriate testing to document continued compliance.
Where recertification applications are required, they must be approved in order to continue selling
our products in those countries.

In the European Union, we are required to comply with the Medical Devices Directive and obtain CE
Mark certification in order to market medical devices. The CE Mark certification, granted following
approval from an independent notified body, is an international symbol of adherence to quality
assurance standards and compliance with applicable European Medical Devices Directives. We are also
required to comply with other foreign regulations such as the requirement that we obtain approval
from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW) before we can launch new products in
Japan. The time required to obtain these foreign approvals to market our products may vary from
U.S. approvals, and requirements for these approvals may differ from those required by the FDA.

We are also subject to various environmental laws, directives and regulations both in the U.S. and
abroad. Our operations, like those of other medical device companies, involve the use of substances
regulated under environmental laws, primarily in manufacturing and sterilization processes. We do
not believe that compliance with environmental laws will have a material impact on our capital
expenditures, earnings or competitive position. However, given the scope and nature of these laws,
there can be no assurance that environmental laws will not have a material impact on our results of
operations. We assess potential environmental contingent liabilities on a regular basis. At
present, we are not aware of any such liabilities that would have a material impact on our
business.

We believe that sound environmental, health and safety performance contributes to our competitive
strength while benefiting our customers, shareholders and employees. We are committed to continuous
improvement in these areas by reducing pollution, the depletion of natural resources, and our
overall environmental footprint. Specifically, we are working to optimize energy and resource
usage, ultimately reducing greenhouse gas emissions and waste. We are certified to the FTSE4 Good
Corporate Social Responsibility Index, managed by The Financial Times and the London Stock
Exchange, which measures the performance of companies that meet globally recognized standards of
corporate responsibility. This certification recognizes our dedication to those standards, and it
places us in a select group of companies with a demonstrated commitment to responsible business
practices and sound environmental policies.

Government Affairs

We maintain a global Government Affairs presence in Washington D.C. to actively monitor and
influence a myriad of legislative and administrative policies impacting us, both on a domestic and
an international front. The Government Affairs office works closely with members of Congress, key
Congressional committee staff and White House and Administration staff, which facilitates our
active engagement on issues affecting our business. Our proactive approach and depth of political
and policy expertise are aimed at having our positions heard by federal, state and global
decision-makers, while also advancing our business objectives by educating policymakers on our
positions, key priorities and the value of our



technologies. The Government Affairs office also manages our political action committee and works
closely with trade groups on issues affecting our industry and healthcare in general.

Third-Party Coverage and Reimbursement

Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers
around the world that typically bill various third-party payors, including governmental programs
(e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care programs, for the
healthcare services provided to their patients. Third-party payors may provide or deny coverage for
certain technologies and associated procedures based on independently determined assessment
criteria. Reimbursement by third-party payors for these services is based on a wide range of
methodologies that may reflect the services’ assessed resource costs, clinical outcomes and
economic value. These reimbursement methodologies confer different, and sometimes conflicting,
levels of financial risk and incentives to healthcare providers and patients, and these
methodologies are subject to frequent refinements. Third-party payors are also increasingly
adjusting reimbursement rates, often downwards, and challenging the prices charged for medical
products and services. There can be no assurance that our products will be covered automatically by
third-party payors, that reimbursement will be available or, if available, that the third-party
payors’ coverage policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products profitably.

Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation, are also underway
in many countries in which we do business. Implementation of cost containment initiatives and
healthcare reforms in significant markets such as the U.S., Japan, Europe and other international
markets may limit the price of, or the level at which reimbursement is provided for, our products
and may influence a physician’s selection of products used to treat patients. Spending on healthcare in some countries, including the U.S., may also be affected by the global economic slowdown.

Proprietary Rights and Patent Litigation

We rely on a combination of patents, trademarks, trade secrets and non-disclosure agreements to
protect our intellectual property. We generally file patent applications in the U.S. and foreign
countries where patent protection for our technology is appropriate and available. As of December
31, 2009, we held more than 15,000 patents, and had approximately 10,000 patent applications
pending worldwide that cover various aspects of our technology. In addition, we hold exclusive and
non-exclusive licenses to a variety of third-party technologies covered by patents and patent
applications. There can be no assurance that pending patent applications will result in the
issuance of patents, that patents issued to or licensed by us will not be challenged or
circumvented by competitors, or that these patents will be found to be valid or sufficiently broad
to protect our technology or to provide us with a competitive advantage.

We rely on non-disclosure and non-competition agreements with employees, consultants and other
parties to protect, in part, trade secrets and other proprietary technology. There can be no
assurance that these agreements will not be breached, that we will have adequate remedies for any
breach, that others will not independently develop equivalent proprietary information or that third
parties will not otherwise gain access to our trade secrets and proprietary knowledge.

There has been substantial litigation regarding patent and other intellectual property rights in
the medical device industry, particularly in the areas in which we compete. We have defended, and
will continue to defend, ourselves against claims and legal actions alleging infringement of the
patent rights of others. Adverse determinations in any patent litigation could subject us to
significant liabilities to third parties, require us to seek licenses from third parties, and, if
licenses are not available, prevent us from manufacturing, selling or using certain of our
products, which could have a material adverse effect on our business. Additionally, we may find it
necessary to initiate litigation to enforce our patent rights, to protect our trade secrets or
know-how and to determine the scope and validity of the proprietary rights of others. Patent
litigation can be costly and time-consuming, and there can be no assurance that our



litigation expenses will not be significant in the future or that the outcome of litigation will be
favorable to us. Accordingly, we may seek to settle some or all of our pending litigation,
particularly to manage risk over time. Settlement may include cross licensing of the patents that
are the subject of the litigation as well as our other intellectual property and may involve
monetary payments to or from third parties.

See
Item 3.

Legal Proceedings

and

Note L — Commitments and Contingencies

to our 2009 consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of patent and other
litigation and proceedings in which we are involved. In management’s opinion, we are not currently
involved in any legal proceeding other than those specifically identified in

Note L,

which,
individually or in the aggregate, could have a material effect on our financial condition, results
of operations and liquidity.

Risk Management

The testing, marketing and sale of human healthcare products entails an inherent risk of product
liability claims. In the normal course of business, product liability and securities claims are
asserted against us. Product liability and securities claims may be asserted against us in the
future related to events unknown at the present time. We are substantially self-insured with
respect to product liability and intellectual property infringement claims. We maintain insurance policies providing limited coverage
against securities claims. The absence of significant third-party insurance coverage increases our
potential exposure to unanticipated claims or adverse decisions. Product liability claims, product
recalls, securities litigation and other litigation in the future, regardless of outcome, could
have a material adverse effect on our business. We believe that our risk management practices,
including limited insurance coverage, are reasonably adequate to protect against anticipated
product liability and securities litigation losses. However, unanticipated catastrophic losses
could have a material adverse impact on our financial position, results of operations and
liquidity.

Employees

As of December 31, 2009, we had approximately 26,000 employees, including approximately 14,000 in
operations; 6,000 in selling, marketing and distribution; 4,000 in clinical, regulatory and
research and development; and 2,000 in administration. Of these employees, we employed
approximately 10,000 outside the U.S., approximately 6,000 of whom are in the operations function.
We believe that the continued success of our business will depend, in part, on our ability to
attract and retain qualified personnel.

Community Outreach

We are committed to making more possible in the communities where we work and live. We bring this
commitment to life by supporting health, education and research initiatives on a global, national
and local basis. Through the Boston Scientific Foundation, we fund non-profit organizations in our
local communities and medical education fellowships at institutions throughout the United States.
Our community grants support programs aimed at improving the lives of those with unmet needs by
engaging in partnerships that promote long-term, systemic change. The Foundation is committed to
funding organizations focused on increasing access to quality health care and improving educational
opportunities, particularly with regards to math, science, engineering and technology. A prominent
example of our ongoing commitment to patients is the Close the Gap program, which addresses
disparities in cardiovascular care for the underserved patient populations of women, black
Americans, and Latino Americans. Close the Gap increases awareness of cardiovascular risk factors,
teaches health care providers about cultural beliefs and barriers to treatment, and advocates for
measures that help ensure all patients receive the cardiovascular care they need.



Seasonality

Our worldwide sales do not reflect any significant degree of seasonality; however, customer
purchases have historically been lighter in the third quarter of the year, as compared to other
quarters. This reflects, among other factors, lower demand during summer months, particularly in
European countries.

Available Information

Copies of our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on
Form 8-K and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of
the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 are available free of charge on our website
(www.bostonscientific.com) as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file the
material with or furnish it to the SEC. Printed copies of these posted materials are also available
free of charge to shareholders who request them in writing from Investor Relations, One Boston
Scientific Place, Natick, MA 01760-1537. Information on our website or connected to our website is
not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report.

Safe Harbor for Forward-Looking Statements

Certain statements that we may make from time to time, including statements contained in this
report and information incorporated by reference into this report, constitute “forward-looking
statements” within the meaning of Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934.
Forward-looking statements may be identified by words like “anticipate,” “expect,” “project,”
“believe,” “plan,” “estimate,” “intend” and similar words and include, among other things,
statements regarding our financial performance; our growth strategy; our intentions and
expectations regarding our business strategy, in particular those discussed in Item 1 “Business,”
under the heading “Business Strategy”; the effectiveness of our restructuring,
and Plant Network Optimization initiatives and expected cost savings; timing of
regulatory approvals and plant certifications; our regulatory and quality compliance; the impact of
product recalls; expected research and development efforts; product development and iterations; new
product launches and launches of our existing products in new geographies; our market position in
the marketplace for our products and our sales and marketing strategy; the effect of new accounting
pronouncements; the outcome of matters before taxing authorities; intellectual property,
governmental proceedings and litigation matters; our ability to finance our capital needs and
expenditures; the ability of our suppliers and sterilizers to meet our requirements; our ability to
meet the financial covenants required by our revolving credit facility, or to renegotiate the terms
of or obtain waivers for compliance with those covenants and our intent to refinance the majority
of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit facility; our tax position; and our strategy
regarding acquisitions, divestitures and strategic investments, as well as integration execution.
Forward-looking statements are based on our beliefs, assumptions and estimates using information
available to us at this time and are not intended to be guarantees of future events or performance.
If our underlying assumptions turn out to be incorrect, or if certain risks or uncertainties
materialize, actual results could vary materially from the expectations and projections expressed
or implied by our forward-looking statements. As a result, investors are cautioned not to place
undue reliance on any of our forward-looking statements.

Except as required by law, we do not intend to update any forward-looking statements even if new
information becomes available or other events occur in the future. We have identified these
forward-looking statements, which are based on certain risks and uncertainties, including the risk
factors described in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors.” Factors that could cause actual
results to differ materially from those expressed in forward-looking statements are contained below
and in the risk factors described in Item 1A under the heading “Risk Factors.”

CRM Products

•

Our estimates for the worldwide CRM market, the increase in the size of the CRM market above
existing levels and our ability to increase CRM net sales and market share;



Coronary Stent Business



•

Enhanced requirements to obtain regulatory approval in the U.S. and around the world and the associated
impact on new product launch schedules and the cost of product approval and compliance; and

•

Our ability to retain key members of our cardiology sales force and other key personnel.

Litigation and Regulatory Compliance

Innovation



International Markets

•

Our dependency on international net sales to achieve growth;

•

Changes in our international structure and leadership;

•

Risks associated with international operations, including compliance
with local legal and regulatory requirements as well as changes in
reimbursement practices and policies; and

•

The potential effect of foreign currency fluctuations and interest
rate fluctuations on our net sales, expenses and resulting margins.

Liquidity

•

Our ability to generate sufficient cash flow to fund operations,
capital expenditures, litigation settlements and strategic investments
and acquisitions, as well as to effectively manage our debt levels and
covenant compliance;

•

Our ability to access the public and private capital markets when
desired and to issue debt or equity securities on terms reasonably
acceptable to us, including our ability to refinance timely the
majority of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit facility on
favorable terms;

•

Our ability to resolve open tax matters favorably and recover
substantially all of our deferred tax assets; and

•

The impact of examinations and assessments by domestic and
international taxing authorities on our tax provision, financial
condition or results of operations.

Restructuring Initiatives

•

Our ability to implement, fund, and achieve timely and sustainable
cost improvement measures consistent with our expectations, including
our 2010 Restructuring plan, 2007 Restructuring plan, and Plant
Network Optimization program, each described in Item 7 of this Annual
Report;



Several important factors, in addition to the specific risk factors discussed in connection with
forward-looking statements individually and the risk factors described in Item 1A under the heading
“Risk Factors,” could affect our future results and growth rates and could cause those results and
rates to differ materially from those expressed in the forward-looking statements and the risk
factors contained in this report. These additional factors include, among other things, future
economic, competitive, reimbursement and regulatory conditions; new product introductions;
demographic trends; intellectual property, litigation and government investigations; financial
market conditions; and future business decisions made by us and our competitors, all of which are
difficult or impossible to predict accurately and many of which are beyond our control. Therefore,
we wish to caution each reader of this report to consider carefully these factors as well as the
specific factors discussed with each forward-looking statement and risk factor in this report and
as disclosed in our filings with the SEC. These factors, in some cases, have affected and in the
future (together with other factors) could affect our ability to implement our business strategy
and may cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the statements
expressed in this report.

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS

In addition to the other information contained in this Annual Report and the exhibits hereto, the
following risk factors should be considered carefully in evaluating our business. Our business,
financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected by any of these
risks. This section contains forward-looking statements. You should refer to the explanation of the
qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements set forth at the end of Item 1 of this
Annual Report. Additional risks not presently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may
also adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We derive a significant portion of our net sales from the sale of drug-eluting coronary stent
systems and CRM products. A decline in market size, average selling prices and procedural volumes;
increased competition; market perceptions of results of clinical trials conducted by us or our
competitors; interruption in supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems; changes in our sales
personnel; or product launch delays may materially adversely affect our results of operations and
financial position, including our goodwill balances.

Net sales from drug-eluting coronary stent systems represented approximately 23 percent of our
consolidated net sales during 2009. Recent competitive launches and clinical publications have
negatively



impacted our share of the worldwide drug-eluting stent market, and have resulted in competitive
pricing pressure, especially in the U.S. market. We estimate that the average selling price of our
drug-eluting stent systems in the U.S. decreased approximately eight percent in 2009, as compared
to the prior year. Further, recently published data from a single-center, non-double blinded,
underpowered study sponsored by one of our competitors have negatively affected, and may continue
to have a negative impact on, physician and patient confidence in our technology and net sales of
our TAXUS® paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent systems. In addition, perceptions of excessive use of
drug-eluting stent systems based on evidence from a third-party clinical trial comparing
drug-eluting stent systems to pharmaceuticals may have an adverse impact on our net sales of
drug-eluting stent systems. We expect to launch our next-generation TAXUS® Element

Ô

stent
system in our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries during the first half of 2010, in
the U.S. mid-2011 and Japan in late 2011 or early 2012. A delay in the timing of the launch of
next-generation products may result in a further decline in our market share and have an adverse
impact on our results of operations.

We share, with Abbott Laboratories, rights to everolimus-eluting stent technology, and are reliant
on Abbott for our supply of PROMUS® everolimus-eluting stent systems in the U.S. and Japan. Any
production or capacity issues that affect Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities or our process for
forecasting, ordering and receiving shipments may impact our ability to increase or decrease the
level of supply to us in a timely manner; therefore, our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems
supplied to us by Abbott may not align with customer demand. We expect to launch our internally
developed and manufactured next-generation everolimus-eluting stent system, the PROMUS® Element™
platinum chromium coronary stent system, in the U.S. and Japan in mid-2012. Our supply agreement
for the PROMUS® stent system from Abbott extends through the end of the second quarter of 2012 in
the U.S. and Japan. Our inability to obtain regulatory approval and timely launch our PROMUS®
Element stent system in these regions may materially adversely affect our results of operations or
financial condition.

Worldwide CRM market growth rates in recent years, including the U.S. ICD market, have been below
those experienced in prior years, resulting primarily from industry field actions and from a lack
of new indications for use. There can be no assurance that the size of the CRM market will
increase above existing levels or that we will be able to increase CRM market share or increase net
sales in a timely manner, if at all. Our U.S. ICD sales represented approximately 50 percent of our
worldwide CRM net sales in 2009, and any changes in this market could have a material adverse
effect on our financial condition. Additionally, average selling prices have declined in the past
year due, in part, to competitive pressures and general economic conditions. Further, recent
disciplinary actions we have taken against certain of our U.S. CRM sales personnel, as well as attrition
beyond those subject to disciplinary actions, could result in lost U.S. CRM net sales. Net sales
from our CRM group represented approximately 31 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2009.
Therefore, further decreases in net sales and average selling prices of our CRM products could have
a significant impact on our results of operations. In addition, our inability to increase our
worldwide CRM net sales could result in future goodwill and other intangible asset impairment
charges. We expect to launch our next-generation line of defibrillators in 2010 and a new
wireless pacemaker in the U.S. and Europe in early 2011. Variability in the timing of the launch
of next-generation products may result in excess or expired inventory positions and future
inventory charges, which may adversely impact our results from operations.

The profit margin of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott, including any
improvements or iterations approved for sale during the term of the applicable supply arrangements
and of the type that could be approved by a supplement to an approved FDA pre-market approval, is
significantly lower than that of our TAXUS

®

stent systems, and an increase in sales of
everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott relative to
TAXUS

®

stent system net sales may continue to
adversely impact our gross profit and operating profit margins. The price we pay Abbott for our
supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott is further impacted by our
arrangements with Abbott and is subject to retroactive adjustment, which may also
negatively impact our profit margins.



Under the terms of our supply arrangement with Abbott, the gross profit and operating profit margin
of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott, including any improvements or
iterations approved for sale during the term of the applicable supply arrangements and of the type
that could be approved by a supplement to an approved FDA pre-market
approval, are significantly
lower than that of our TAXUS® stent system. Therefore, if sales of everolimus-eluting stent
systems supplied to us by Abbott continue to increase in relation to our total drug-eluting stent
system sales, our profit margins will continue to decrease. Further, the price we pay for our
supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott is determined by our contracts
with them. Our cost is based, in part, on previously fixed estimates of Abbott’s manufacturing
costs for everolimus-eluting stent systems and third-party reports of our average selling price of
these stent systems. Amounts paid pursuant to this pricing arrangement are subject to a retroactive
adjustment approximately every two years based on Abbott’s actual costs to manufacture these stent
systems for us and our average selling price of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by
Abbott. Pursuant to these adjustments, we may make a payment to Abbott based on the differences
between their actual manufacturing costs and the contractually stipulated manufacturing costs and
differences between our actual average selling price and third-party reports of our average selling
price, in each case, with respect to our purchases of everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott.
As a result, our profit margins in the years in which we record payments related to purchases of
everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott may decrease.

We incurred substantial indebtedness in connection with our acquisition of Guidant and if we are
unable to manage our debt levels, through refinancing or otherwise, it could have an adverse effect
on our financial condition or results of operations.

We had total debt of $5.918 billion as of December 31, 2009, attributable in large part to our 2006
acquisition of Guidant Corporation, of which $1.750 billion, as
well as our revolving credit facility,  will mature in 2011. We expect to
refinance the majority of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit facility by
mid-2010. Although Standard & Poor’s Ratings Services recently upgraded our credit rating to BBB-,
an investment grade rating, our current credit rating from Fitch Ratings is BB+, and from Moody’s
Investor Service is Ba1, both of which are below investment grade. Our inability to regain
investment grade credit ratings could impact our ability to obtain financing on terms reasonably
acceptable to us, and increase the cost of borrowing funds in the future. If we are unable to
refinance this indebtedness on satisfactory terms, we may be required to dedicate a more
substantial portion of our operating cash flows to our indebtedness, which may limit our
flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business or investing in our growth.
In addition, our revolving credit facility agreement contains financial covenants that require us
to maintain specified financial ratios. If we are unable to satisfy these covenants, we may be
required to obtain waivers from our lenders and no assurance can be made that our lenders would
grant such waivers on favorable terms or at all, and we could be required to repay any borrowings
under this facility on demand. Our revolving credit facility matures in 2011.

We may record future goodwill impairment charges related to one or more of our business units, which
could materially adversely impact our results of
operations.

We test our April 1 goodwill balances during the second quarter of each year for impairment, or more
frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may exist.  We
assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level and, in evaluating the potential for impairment
of goodwill, we make assumptions regarding the amount and timing of future expected cash flows,
terminal value growth rates and appropriate discount rates. While we do not believe there are indicators
of impairment as of December 31, 2009 to necessitate the performance of an interim impairment test, we
have considered current and future expected economic conditions as of year end and, as a result, we have
identified two reporting units with a material amount of goodwill that are at higher risk of potential
failure of the first step of the impairment test in future reporting
periods.

Although we use consistent methodologies in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the
fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and can vary
from actual results.  We have allocated a significant portion of the goodwill associated with our 2006
acquisition of Guidant Corporation to our U.S. CRM and EMEA reporting units. Changes in the fair value
of these reporting units could make it reasonably likely that an impairment may occur over the next
twelve months in these reporting units. Future goodwill impairment charges could materially adversely
impact our results of operations.

We may not realize the expected benefits from our restructuring and Plant Network Optimization
initiatives; our long-term expense reduction programs may result in an increase in short-term
expense; and our efforts may lead to additional unintended consequences.

In February 2010, we announced our 2010 Restructuring plan designed to strengthen and position us
for long-term success. Key activities under the plan include the integration of our Cardiovascular
and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring of certain other businesses and corporate
functions; the centralization of our research and development organization; the realignment of our
international structure; and the reprioritization and diversification of our product portfolio. In
connection with this plan and our strategy to reduce risk, increase operational leverage and
accelerate profitable growth, we may explore opportunities to divest one or more select businesses.
However, our ability to complete business divestitures may be limited by the inability to locate a
buyer or to agree to terms that are favorable to us. Additionally, in early 2009, we announced our
Plant Network Optimization program,



aimed at simplifying our plant network, reducing our manufacturing costs and improving gross
margins. Cost reduction initiatives under both plans include cost improvement measures, resource
reallocations, head count reductions, the sale of certain non-strategic assets and efforts to
streamline our business, among other actions. These measures could yield unintended consequences,
such as distraction of our management and employees, business disruption, attrition beyond our
planned reduction in workforce and reduced employee productivity. We may be unable to attract or
retain key personnel. Attrition beyond our planned reduction in workforce or a material decrease
in employee morale or productivity could negatively affect our business, sales, financial condition
and results of operations. In addition, head count reductions may subject us to the risk of
litigation, which could result in substantial cost. Moreover, our expense reduction programs will
result in charges and expenses that will impact our operating results. We cannot guarantee that
these measures, or other expense reduction measures we take in the future, will result in the
expected cost savings.

Healthcare policy changes, including pending proposals to reform the U.S. healthcare system, may
have a material adverse effect on us.

Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential
fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and
private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation,
competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies,
technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do
business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on
the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. We are undertaking certain restructuring
initiatives in order to address this trend; however, the execution of these initiatives may not
achieve the desired effect. Further, uncertainty remains regarding proposed significant reforms to
the U.S. healthcare system, including the potential excise tax on medical device companies.
We cannot predict to what extent the increased focus on healthcare systems and costs in the U.S.
and abroad may negatively impact our average selling prices, our net sales and profit margins,
procedural volumes and reimbursement rates from third party payors.

Our products, including those of our cardiovascular businesses, are continually subject to clinical
trials conducted by us, our competitors or other third parties, the results of which may be unfavorable, or
perceived as unfavorable by the market, and could have a material adverse effect on our business,
financial condition or results of operations.

As a part of the regulatory process of obtaining marketing clearance for new products, we conduct
and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient populations
and trial endpoints. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future clinical
trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the market’s perception of this
clinical data, may adversely impact our ability to obtain product approvals, our position in, and
share of, the markets in which we participate and our business, financial condition, results of
operations or future prospects.

Our future growth is dependent upon the development of new products, which requires significant
research and development, clinical trials and regulatory approvals, all of which are very expensive
and time-consuming and may not result in a commercially viable product.

In order to develop new products and improve current product offerings, we focus our research and
development programs largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings
across multiple programs and divisions, particularly in our core franchises, including our
drug-eluting stent and CRM programs. We expect to launch
our internally-manufactured next-generation everolimus-eluting
stent system, the PROMUS® Element™ platinum chromium coronary stent in the U.S. and Japan in
mid-2012, subject to regulatory approval. In addition, we expect to continue to invest in our CRM
technologies, including our LATITUDE® Patient Management System and our next-generation products
and technologies. If we are unable to develop and launch these and other products as anticipated,
our ability to maintain or expand



our market position in the drug-eluting stent and CRM markets may be materially adversely impacted.
Further, we are investigating opportunities to further expand our presence in, and diversify into,
areas including atrial fibrillation, underserved defibrillator populations, acute ischemic stroke,
coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, structural heart disease, vascular closure,
hypertension, women’s health, endoluminal surgery, diabetes/obesity, endoscopic pulmonary
intervention and deep brain stimulation. Expanding our focus beyond our current businesses is
expensive and time-consuming. Further, there can be no assurance that we will be able to access
these technologies on terms favorable to us, or that these technologies will achieve commercial
feasibility, obtain regulatory approval or gain market acceptance. A delay in the development or
approval of these technologies or our decision to reduce our investments may adversely impact the
contribution of these technologies to our future growth.

We may not be successful in our strategic acquisitions of, investments in, or alliances with, other
companies and businesses, which have been a significant source of historical growth for us, and
will be key to our diversification into new markets and technologies.

Our strategic acquisitions, investments and alliances are intended to further expand our ability to
offer customers effective, high quality medical devices that satisfy their interventional needs. If
we are unsuccessful in our acquisitions, investments and alliances, we may be unable to continue to
grow our business significantly or may record asset impairment charges in the future. These
acquisitions, investments and alliances have been a significant source of our growth. The success
of any acquisition, investment or alliance that we may undertake in
the future will depend on a number of
factors, including:

Any potential future acquisitions we consummate may be dilutive to our earnings and may require
additional debt or equity financing, depending on their size or nature.

The medical device industry is experiencing greater scrutiny and regulation by governmental
authorities and is the subject of numerous investigations, often involving marketing and other
business practices. These investigations could result in the commencement of civil and criminal
proceedings; substantial fines, penalties and administrative remedies; divert the attention of our
management; impose administrative costs and have an adverse effect on our financial condition,
results of operations and liquidity; and may lead to greater governmental regulation in the future.



The medical devices we design, develop, manufacture and market are subject to rigorous regulation
by the FDA and numerous other federal, state and foreign governmental authorities. These
authorities have been increasing their scrutiny of our industry. We have received subpoenas and
other requests for information from Congress and other state and federal governmental agencies,
including, among others, the U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ), the Office of Inspector General of
the Department of Health and Human Services (HHS), and the Department of Defense. These
investigations relate primarily to financial arrangements with health care providers, regulatory
compliance and product promotional practices. We are cooperating with these investigations and are
responding to these requests.

In addition, we recently entered into a civil settlement with the DOJ regarding the Department’s
investigation relating to certain post-market surveys conducted by Guidant Corporation before we
acquired Guidant in 2006. As part of the settlement, we entered into a Corporate Integrity
Agreement (CIA) with the Office of Inspector General for HHS. The CIA requires enhancements to
certain compliance procedures related to financial arrangements with
health care providers.
The obligations imposed upon us by the CIA and cooperation with ongoing investigations will involve
human resources costs and diversion of management and employee focus. Cooperation typically also
involves document production costs. We cannot predict when the investigations will be resolved, the
outcome of these investigations or their impact on us. An adverse outcome in one or more of these
investigations could include the commencement of civil and criminal
proceedings; substantial fines,
penalties and administrative remedies, including exclusion from government reimbursement programs
and entry into additional CIAs or an amendment to the existing CIA. In addition, resolution of any
of these matters could involve the imposition of additional and costly compliance obligations,
including entering into additional CIAs. We may incur greater future
costs to fulfill the obligations imposed upon us by the CIA. Furthermore, the CIA, and if any of
the ongoing investigations continue over a long period of time, could further divert the attention
of management from the day-to-day operations of our business and impose significant additional
administrative burdens on us. These potential consequences, as well as any adverse outcome from
these investigations, could have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of
operations and liquidity.

In addition, certain states, including Massachusetts, where we are headquartered, have passed or
are considering legislation restricting our interactions with health care providers and requiring
disclosure of payments to them, compliance with which will require significant human resource and
financial costs as well as complex information technology systems. The Federal government has
introduced similar legislation, which may or may not preempt state laws. We are devoting
substantial time and financial resources in order to develop and implement enhanced structure,
policies, systems and processes in order to comply with enhanced legal and regulatory requirements.
Recent Supreme Court case law has clarified that the FDA’s authority over medical devices preempts
state tort laws, but legislation has been introduced at the Federal level to allow state
intervention, which could lead to increased and inconsistent regulation at the state level. We
anticipate that the government will continue to scrutinize our industry closely and that we will be
subject to more rigorous regulation by governmental authorities in the future.

Should we be unable to resolve our FDA corporate warning letter, our business, financial condition
and results of operations, our relationship with the FDA, and physician perception of our products
could be materially adversely affected.

In January 2006, legacy Boston Scientific received a corporate warning letter from the FDA
notifying us of serious regulatory problems at three of our facilities and advising us that our
corrective action plan relating to three site-specific warning letters issued to us in 2005 was
inadequate. During 2008, the FDA reinspected a number of our facilities and, in October 2008,
informed us that our quality system is now in substantial compliance with its Quality System
Regulations. The FDA has approved all of our requests for final approval of Class III product
submissions previously on hold due to the corporate warning letter, and is processing all requests
for Certificates to Foreign Governments. In November 2009



and January 2010, the FDA reinspected two official action-indicated sites to follow up on
observations from the 2008 FDA inspections. Both of these FDA inspections confirmed that all issues
at the sites have been resolved and all restrictions related to the corporate warning letter have
been removed. The corporate warning letter remains in place pending FDA internal administrative
proceedings.

We may not meet regulatory quality standards applicable to our manufacturing and quality processes,
which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations.

As a medical device manufacturer, we are required to register with the FDA and are subject to
periodic inspection by the FDA for compliance with its Quality System Regulation
requirements, which require manufacturers of medical devices to adhere to certain regulations,
including testing, quality control and documentation procedures. In addition, the Federal Medical
Device Reporting regulations require us to provide information to the FDA whenever there is
evidence that reasonably suggests that a device may have caused or contributed to a death or
serious injury or, if a malfunction were to occur, could cause or contribute to a death or serious
injury. Compliance with applicable regulatory requirements is subject to continual review and is
monitored rigorously through periodic inspections by the FDA. In the European Community, we are
required to maintain certain International Standards Organization
(ISO) certifications in order to sell our products and must undergo
periodic inspections by notified bodies to obtain and maintain these certifications. If we, or our
manufacturers, fail to adhere to quality system regulations or ISO requirements, this could delay
production of our products and lead to fines, difficulties in obtaining regulatory clearances,
recalls, enforcement actions, including injunctive relief or consent decrees, or other
consequences, which could, in turn, have a material adverse effect on our financial condition or
results of operations.

We are subject to extensive and dynamic medical device regulation, which may impede or hinder the
approval or sale of our products and, in some cases, may ultimately result in an inability to
obtain approval of certain products or may result in the recall or seizure of previously approved
products.

Our products, development activities and manufacturing processes are subject to extensive and
rigorous regulation by the FDA pursuant to the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FDC Act), by
comparable agencies in foreign countries, and by other regulatory agencies and governing bodies.
Under the FDC Act, medical devices must receive FDA clearance or approval before they can be
commercially marketed in the U.S. The FDA is reviewing its clearance process in an effort to make
it more rigorous, which may require additional clinical data, time and effort for product
clearance. In addition, most major markets for medical devices outside the U.S. require clearance,
approval or compliance with certain standards before a product can be commercially marketed. The
process of obtaining marketing approval or clearance from the FDA for new products, or with respect
to enhancements or modifications to existing products, could:

Countries around the world have adopted more stringent regulatory requirements that have added or
are expected to add to the delays and uncertainties associated with new product releases, as well
as the clinical and regulatory costs of supporting those releases. Even after products have
received marketing approval or clearance, product approvals and clearances by the FDA can be
withdrawn due to failure to



comply with regulatory standards or the occurrence of unforeseen problems following initial
approval. There can be no assurance that we will receive the required clearances for new products
or modifications to existing products on a timely basis or that any approval will not be
subsequently withdrawn or conditioned upon extensive post-market study requirements.

In addition, regulations regarding the development, manufacture and sale of medical devices are
subject to future change. We cannot predict what impact, if any, those changes might have on our
business. Failure to comply with regulatory requirements could have a material adverse effect on
our business, financial condition and results of operations. Later discovery of previously unknown
problems with a product or manufacturer could result in fines, delays or suspensions of regulatory
clearances, seizures or recalls of products, physician advisories or other field actions, operating
restrictions and/or criminal prosecution. We may also initiate field actions as a result of a
failure to strictly comply with our internal quality policies. The failure to receive product
approval clearance on a timely basis, suspensions of regulatory clearances, seizures or recalls of
products, physician advisories or other field actions, or the withdrawal of product approval by the
FDA could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of
operations.

Current economic conditions could adversely affect our results of operations.

The global financial crisis has caused extreme disruption in the financial markets, including
severely diminished liquidity and credit availability. There can be no assurance that there will
not be further deterioration in the global economy, and these conditions may adversely affect our
ability to borrow money in the credit markets. Our customers may experience financial difficulties
or be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability or
decision to purchase our products, particularly capital equipment, or to pay for our products they
do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. The strength and timing of any economic recovery remains
uncertain, and we cannot predict to what extent the global economic slowdown may negatively impact
our average selling prices, our net sales and profit margins, procedural volumes and reimbursement
rates from third party payors. In addition, the current economic conditions may adversely affect
our suppliers leading them to experience financial difficulties or to be unable to borrow money to
fund their operations, which could cause disruptions in our ability to produce our products.

We may not effectively be able to protect our intellectual property rights, which could have a
material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

The medical device market in which we primarily participate is largely technology driven. Physician
customers, particularly in interventional cardiology, have historically moved quickly to new
products and new technologies. As a result, intellectual property rights, particularly patents and
trade secrets, play a significant role in product development and differentiation. However,
intellectual property litigation is inherently complex and unpredictable. Furthermore, appellate
courts can overturn lower court patent decisions.

In addition, competing parties frequently file multiple suits to leverage patent portfolios across
product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between the parties.
In some cases, several competitors are parties in the same proceeding, or in a series of related
proceedings, or litigate multiple features of a single class of devices. These forces frequently
drive settlement not only of individual cases, but also of a series of pending and potentially
related and unrelated cases. In addition, although monetary and injunctive relief is typically
sought, remedies and restitution are generally not determined until the conclusion of the trial
court proceedings and can be modified on appeal. Accordingly, the outcomes of individual cases are
difficult to time, predict or quantify and are often dependent upon the outcomes of other cases in
other geographies.



Several third parties have asserted that our current and former stent systems infringe patents
owned or licensed by them. We have similarly asserted that stent systems or other products sold by
our competitors infringe patents owned or licensed by us. Adverse outcomes in one or more of the
proceedings against us could limit our ability to sell certain stent products in certain
jurisdictions, or reduce our operating margin on the sale of these products and could have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

Patents and other proprietary rights are and will continue to be essential to our business, and our
ability to compete effectively with other companies will be dependent upon the proprietary nature
of our technologies. We rely upon trade secrets, know-how, continuing technological innovations,
strategic alliances and licensing opportunities to develop, maintain and strengthen our competitive
position. We pursue a policy of generally obtaining patent protection in both the U.S. and abroad
for patentable subject matter in our proprietary devices and attempt to review third-party patents
and patent applications to the extent publicly available in order to develop an effective patent
strategy, avoid infringement of third-party patents, identify licensing opportunities and monitor
the patent claims of others. We currently own numerous U.S. and foreign patents and have numerous
patent applications pending. We also are party to various license agreements pursuant to which
patent rights have been obtained or granted in consideration for cash, cross-licensing rights or
royalty payments. No assurance can be made that any pending or future patent applications will
result in the issuance of patents, that any current or future patents issued to, or licensed by, us
will not be challenged or circumvented by our competitors, or that our patents will not be found
invalid. In addition, we may have to take legal action in the future to protect our patents, trade
secrets or know-how or to assert them against claimed infringement by others. Any legal action of
that type could be costly and time consuming and no assurances can be made that any lawsuit will be
successful. We are generally involved as both a plaintiff and a defendant in a number of patent
infringement and other intellectual property-related actions.

The invalidation of key patents or proprietary rights that we own, or an unsuccessful outcome in
lawsuits to protect our intellectual property, could have a material adverse effect on our
business, financial position or results of operations.

Pending and future intellectual property litigation could be costly and disruptive to us.

We operate in an industry that is susceptible to significant intellectual property litigation and,
in recent years, it has been common for companies in the medical device field to aggressively
challenge the patent rights of other companies in order to prevent the marketing of new devices. We
are currently the subject of various patent litigation proceedings and other proceedings described
in more detail under

Item 3. Legal Proceedings.

Intellectual property litigation is expensive,
complex and lengthy and its outcome is difficult to predict. Adverse outcomes in one or more of
these matters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell certain products and on
our operating margins, financial position, results of operation or liquidity. Pending or future
patent litigation may result in significant royalty or other payments or injunctions that can
prevent the sale of products and may significantly divert the attention of our technical and
management personnel. In the event that our right to market any of our products is successfully
challenged, we may be required to obtain a license on terms which may not be favorable to us, if at
all. If we fail to obtain a required license or are unable to design around a patent, our
business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially adversely affected.

Pending and future product liability claims and other litigation, including private securities
litigation, shareholder derivative suits and contract litigation, may adversely affect our
business, reputation and ability to attract and retain customers.

The design, manufacture and marketing of medical devices of the types that we produce entail
an inherent risk of product liability claims. Many of the medical devices that we manufacture and
sell are designed to be implanted in the human body for long periods of time or indefinitely. A
number of factors



could result in an unsafe condition or injury to, or death of, a patient with respect to these or
other products that we manufacture or sell, including component failures, manufacturing flaws,
design defects or inadequate disclosure of product-related risks or product-related information.
These factors could result in product liability claims, a recall of one or more of our products or
a safety alert relating to one or more of our products. Product liability claims may be brought by
individuals or by groups seeking to represent a class.

The outcome of litigation, particularly class action lawsuits, is difficult to assess or quantify.
Plaintiffs in these types of lawsuits often seek recovery of very large or indeterminate amounts,
including not only actual damages, but also punitive damages. The magnitude of the potential losses
relating to these lawsuits may remain unknown for substantial periods of time. In addition, the
cost to defend against any future litigation may be significant. Further, we are substantially
self-insured with respect to product liability and intellectual
property infringement claims. We maintain insurance policies providing
limited coverage against securities claims. The absence of significant third-party insurance
coverage increases our potential exposure to unanticipated claims and adverse decisions. Product
liability claims, product recalls, securities litigation and other litigation in the future,
regardless of the outcome, could have a material adverse effect on our financial position, results
of operations or liquidity.

We face intense competition and may not be able to keep pace with the rapid technological changes
in the medical devices industry, which could have an adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

The medical device market in which we primarily participate is highly competitive. We encounter
significant competition across our product lines and in each market in which our products are sold
from various medical device companies, some of which may have greater financial and marketing
resources than we do. Our primary competitors include Johnson & Johnson (including its subsidiary,
Cordis Corporation); Medtronic, Inc.; Abbott Laboratories; and St. Jude Medical, Inc. In addition,
we face competition from a wide range of companies that sell a single or a limited number of
competitive products or which participate in only a specific market segment, as well as from
non-medical device companies, including pharmaceutical companies, which may offer alternative
therapies for disease states intended to be treated using our products.

Additionally, the medical device market is characterized by extensive research and development, and
rapid technological change. Developments by other companies of new or improved products, processes
or technologies may make our products or proposed products obsolete or less competitive and may
negatively impact our net sales. We are required to devote continued efforts and financial
resources to develop or acquire scientifically advanced technologies and products, apply our
technologies cost-effectively across product lines and markets, attract and retain skilled
development personnel, obtain patent and other protection for our technologies and products, obtain
required regulatory and reimbursement approvals and successfully manufacture and market our
products consistent with our quality standards. If we fail to develop new products or enhance
existing products, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition or
results of operations.

Because we derive a significant amount of our net sales from international operations and a
significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come from international operations,
changes in international economic or regulatory conditions could have a material impact on our
business, financial condition or results of operations.

Sales outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 43 percent of our net sales in 2009.
Additionally, a significant percentage of our future growth is expected to come from international
operations. As a result, our sales growth and profitability from our international operations may
be limited by risks and uncertainties related to economic conditions in these regions, foreign
currency fluctuations, interest rate
fluctuations, regulatory and reimbursement approvals, competitive offerings, infrastructure



development, rights to intellectual property and our ability to implement our overall business
strategy. Further, international markets are also being affected by economic pressure to contain
reimbursement levels and healthcare costs; and international markets may also be impacted
by foreign government efforts to understand healthcare practices and pricing in other countries,
which could result in increased pricing transparency across geographies and pressure to
harmonize reimbursement and ultimately reduce the selling prices of our products. The trend in
countries around the world, including Japan, toward more stringent regulatory requirements for
product clearance, changing reimbursement models and more rigorous inspection and enforcement
activities has generally caused or may cause medical device manufacturers to experience more
uncertainty, delay, risk and expense. In addition, most international jurisdictions have adopted
regulatory approval and periodic renewal requirements for medical devices, and we must comply with
these requirements in order to market our products in these jurisdictions. Any significant changes
in the competitive, political, legal, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we
conduct international operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or
results of operations. In 2010, we intend to realign our international structure and will devote
resources to focus on increasing net sales in emerging markets. Sales practices in certain
international markets may be inconsistent with our desired business practices and U.S. legal
requirements, which may impact our ability to expand as planned.

Healthcare cost containment pressures and legislative or administrative reforms resulting in
restrictive reimbursement practices of third-party payors or preferences for alternate therapies
could decrease the demand for our products, the prices which customers are willing to pay for those
products and the number of procedures performed using our devices, which could have an adverse
effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.

Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers
around the world that typically bill various third-party payors, including governmental programs
(e.g., Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed care programs, for the
healthcare services provided to their patients. The ability of customers to obtain appropriate
reimbursement for their products and services from private and governmental third-party payors is
critical to the success of medical technology companies. The availability of reimbursement affects
which products customers purchase and the prices they are willing to pay. Reimbursement varies from
country to country and can significantly impact the acceptance of new products and services. After
we develop a promising new product, we may find limited demand for the product unless reimbursement
approval is obtained from private and governmental third-party payors. Further legislative or
administrative reforms to the reimbursement systems in the U.S., Japan, or other international
countries in a manner that significantly reduces reimbursement for procedures using our medical
devices or denies coverage for those procedures, including price regulation, competitive pricing,
coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies, technology assessments and
managed-care arrangements, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial
condition or results of operations.

Major third-party payors for hospital services in the U.S. and abroad continue to work to contain
healthcare costs. The introduction of cost containment incentives, combined with closer scrutiny of
healthcare expenditures by both private health insurers and employers, has resulted in increased
discounts and contractual adjustments to hospital charges for services performed and has shifted
services between inpatient and outpatient settings. Initiatives to limit the increase of healthcare
costs, including price regulation, are also underway in several countries in which we do business.
Hospitals or physicians may respond to these cost-containment pressures by substituting lower cost
products or other therapies for our products. In connection with Guidant’s product recalls, certain
third-party payors have sought, and others may seek, recourse against us for amounts previously
reimbursed.

Consolidation in the healthcare industry could lead to demands for price concessions or the
exclusion of some suppliers from certain of our significant market segments, which could have an
adverse effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations.



The cost of healthcare has risen significantly over the past decade and numerous initiatives and
reforms by legislators, regulators and third-party payors to curb these costs have resulted in a
consolidation trend in the healthcare industry, including hospitals. This in turn has resulted in
greater pricing pressures and the exclusion of certain suppliers from important market segments as
group purchasing organizations, independent delivery networks and large single accounts continue to
consolidate purchasing decisions for some of our hospital customers. We expect that market demand,
government regulation, third-party reimbursement policies, government contracting requirements, and
societal pressures will continue to change the worldwide healthcare industry, resulting in further
business consolidations and alliances among our customers and competitors, which may reduce
competition, exert further downward pressure on the prices of our products and adversely impact our
business, financial condition or results of operations.

Changes in tax laws or exposure to additional income tax liabilities could have a material impact
on our financial condition, results of operations and liquidity.

We are subject to income taxes as well as non-income based taxes, in both the United States and
various foreign jurisdictions. We are subject to ongoing tax audits in various jurisdictions. Tax
authorities may disagree with certain positions we have taken and assess additional taxes. We
regularly assess the likely outcomes of these audits in order to determine the appropriateness of
our tax provision. However, there can be no assurance that we will accurately predict the outcomes
of these audits, and the actual outcomes of these audits could have a material impact on our net
income or financial condition. Additionally, changes in tax laws or tax rulings could materially
impact our effective tax rate. For example, proposals for fundamental U.S. international tax
reform, such as the recent proposal by the Obama administration, if enacted, could have a
significant adverse impact on our future results of operations. In particular, Congressional
leadership has proposed an annual fee on medical device manufacturers. This proposal would require
medical device companies to pay additional taxes of up to
$2 billion each year, beginning in 2011. President Obama’s
recent proposal includes an excise tax in the same amount, starting in 2013, which would be administrated by the IRS.

 A fee or excise tax, if
passed, could result in a significant increase in the tax burden on the medical device industry,
which could have a material, negative impact on our results of operations and our cash flows.

We rely on external manufacturers to supply us with certain materials, components and products, as
well as external providers to sterilize our products. Any disruption in our sources of supply or
our ability to sterilize our products could adversely impact our production efforts and could
materially adversely affect our business, financial condition or results of operations.

We vertically integrate operations where integration provides significant cost, supply or quality
benefits. However, we purchase many of the materials and components used in manufacturing our
products, some of which are custom made. Certain supplies are purchased from single-sources due to
quality considerations, expertise, costs or constraints resulting from regulatory requirements. We
may not be able to establish additional or replacement suppliers for certain components, materials
or products in a timely manner largely due to the complex nature of our and many of our suppliers’
manufacturing processes. Production issues, including capacity constraint; quality issues affecting
us or our suppliers; an inability to develop and validate alternative sources if required; or a
significant increase in the price of materials or components could adversely affect our operations
and financial condition.

In addition, our products require sterilization prior to sale and we rely on a mix of internal
resources and third party vendors to perform this service. To the extent our sterilizers
are unable to process our products, whether due to raw material, capacity, regulatory or other
constraints, we may be unable to transition to other providers in a timely manner, which could have
an adverse impact on our operations.



Our share price will fluctuate, and accordingly, the value of an investment in our common stock may
also fluctuate.

Stock markets in general, and our common stock in particular, have experienced significant price
and volume volatility over recent years. The market price and trading volume of our common stock
may continue to be subject to significant fluctuations due not only to general stock market
conditions, but also to variability in the prevailing sentiment regarding our operations or
business prospects, as well as, among other things, changing investment priorities of our
shareholders.



ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS

None.

ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Our world headquarters are located in Natick, Massachusetts, with additional support provided from
regional headquarters located in Tokyo, Japan and Paris, France. As of December 31, 2009, our
principal manufacturing and technology centers were located in Minnesota, California, Florida,
Indiana, Utah, Ireland, Costa Rica and Puerto Rico. Our products are distributed internationally
from customer fulfillment centers in Massachusetts, The Netherlands and Japan. As of December 31,
2009, we maintained 17 manufacturing facilities, including nine in the U.S.; one in Puerto Rico;
five in Ireland; and two in Costa Rica; as well as various distribution and technology centers.
Many of these facilities produce and manufacture products for more than one of our divisions and
include research facilities. The following is a summary of our facilities as of December 31, 2009
(in square feet):

Owned

Leased

Total

U.S.

5,486,831

1,771,186

7,258,017

International

1,727,599

1,068,577

2,796,176

7,214,430

2,839,763

10,054,193

In connection with our 2007 Restructuring plan and Plant Network Optimization program, described in
Items 1 and 8 of this Annual Report, we intend to close two of our manufacturing plants in Ireland
and three manufacturing plants in the U.S. by the end of 2012, representing a total of
approximately 500,000 square feet.

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

See

Note L — Commitments and Contingencies

to our 2009 consolidated financial statements included in
Item 8 of this Annual Report.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

None.



PART II

ITEM 5.

MARKET FOR THE COMPANY’S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF
EQUITY SECURITIES

Our common stock is traded on the New York Stock Exchange (NYSE) under the symbol “BSX.” The
following table provides the market range for our common stock for each of the last eight quarters
based on reported sales prices on the NYSE.

High

Low


First Quarter

$

9.41

$

6.14

Second Quarter

10.42

8.05

Third Quarter

11.75

9.63

Fourth Quarter

10.29

7.99


First Quarter

$

13.21

$

10.98

Second Quarter

14.11

12.23

Third Quarter

13.89

11.75

Fourth Quarter

11.47

5.48

The closing price of our common stock on February 19, 2010 was $7.69.

We did not pay a cash dividend in 2009, 2008 or 2007. We currently do not intend to pay dividends,
and intend to retain all of our earnings to repay indebtedness and invest in the continued growth
of our business. We may consider declaring and paying a dividend in the future; however, there can
be no assurance that we will do so.

We did not repurchase any of our common stock in 2009, 2008 or 2007. There are approximately
37 million remaining shares authorized for purchase under our share repurchase program. We
currently do not anticipate material repurchases in 2010.

As of February 19, 2010, there were 17,414 record holders of our common stock.



Stock Performance Graph

The graph below compares the five-year total return to stockholders on our common stock with the
return of the Standard & Poor’s (S&P) 500 Stock Index and the S&P Healthcare
Equipment Index. The graph assumes $100 was invested in our common stock and in each of the named
indices on January 1, 2005, and that all dividends were reinvested.

COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN

Among Boston Scientific Corporation, The S&P

500 Index And The S&P Health Care Equipment Index

Copyright© 2010 S&P, a division of The McGraw-Hill Companies Inc. All rights reserved.



ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

FIVE-YEAR SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA

(in millions, except per share data)

Operating Data

Year Ended December 31,






Net sales

$

8,188

$

8,050

$

8,357

$

7,821

$

6,283

Gross profit

5,612

5,581

6,015

5,614

4,897

Selling, general and administrative expenses

2,635

2,589

2,909

2,675

1,814

Research and development expenses

1,035

1,006

1,091

1,008


Royalty expense






Loss on program termination


Amortization expense






Goodwill impairment charges

2,613

Other intangible asset impairment charges






Acquisition-related milestone

(250

)

Purchased research and development




4,119


Gain on divestitures

(250

)

Loss on assets held for sale


Restructuring charges




Litigation-related net charges

2,022




Total operating expenses

6,506

7,086

6,029

8,563

3,929

Operating (loss) income

(894

)

(1,505

)

(14

)

(2,949

)


(Loss) income before income taxes

(1,308

)

(2,031

)

(569

)

(3,535

)


Net (loss) income

(1,025

)

(2,036

)

(495

)

(3,577

)


Net (loss) income per common share:

Basic

$

(0.68

)

$

(1.36

)

$

(0.33

)

$

(2.81

)

$

0.76

Assuming dilution

$

(0.68

)

$

(1.36

)

$

(0.33

)

$

(2.81

)

$

0.75

Weighted-average shares outstanding — basic

1,507.9

1,498.5

1,486.9

1,273.7

825.8

Weighted-average shares outstanding — assuming
dilution

1,507.9

1,498.5

1,486.9

1,273.7

837.6

Balance Sheet Data

As of December 31,






Cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities

$


$

1,641

$

1,452

$

1,668

$


Working capital

1,039

2,219

2,691

3,399

1,152

Total assets

25,177

27,139

31,197

30,882

8,196

Borrowings (long-term and short-term)

5,918

6,745

8,189

8,902

2,020

Stockholders’ equity

12,301

13,174

15,097

15,298

4,282

Book value per common share

$

8.14

$

8.77

$

10.12

$

10.37

$

5.22

See also the notes to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report.



ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT’S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion and analysis should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial
statements and accompanying notes contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Introduction

Boston Scientific Corporation is a worldwide developer, manufacturer and marketer of medical
devices that are used in a broad range of interventional medical specialties. Our business strategy
is to lead global markets for less-invasive medical devices by developing and marketing innovative
products, services and therapies that address unmet patient needs, provide superior
clinical outcomes and demonstrate compelling value.

In the first quarter of 2008, we completed the divestiture of certain non-strategic businesses. Our
operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007 include a full year of results of these
businesses. Our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008 include the results of these
businesses through the date of separation. We are involved in several post-closing separation
activities through transition service agreements, some from which we continued to generate net
sales during 2009. Many of these transition service agreements expired throughout 2009 and the
remainder will be completed during the first half of 2010. Refer to the

Restructuring Initiatives

section and

Note F — Divestitures

to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of
this Annual Report for a description of these business divestitures.

Executive Summary

Financial Highlights and Trends

Our net sales in 2009 were $8.188 billion, which included net sales from divested businesses of $11
million, as compared to net sales of $8.050 billion in 2008, which included net sales from divested
business of $69 million, an increase of $138 million, or two percent. Foreign currency fluctuations
decreased our net sales by $92 million in 2009, as compared to 2008. Excluding the impact of
foreign currency and net sales from divested businesses, our net sales increased $288 million, or
four percent, as compared to the prior year.

Worldwide net sales in our cardiac rhythm management (CRM) group increased $123 million, or five
percent in 2009, as compared to 2008. Excluding the negative impact of foreign currency, our
worldwide CRM group net sales increased seven percent. This increase was driven by the continued
success of our next-generation COGNIS® cardiac resynchronization therapy defibrillator (CRT-D) and
our TELIGEN® implantable cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) systems, launched in the U.S., our
Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) region and certain Inter-Continental countries in 2008 and in
Japan in 2009, as well as growing adoption of our ALTRUA® family of pacemaker systems, launched
worldwide during 2008. In addition, worldwide net sales of our coronary stent systems increased $28
million, or two percent, on the success of our two-drug platform strategy and industry leadership
for the widest range of coronary stent sizes. We are the only company in the industry to offer a
two-drug platform strategy, which we believe has enabled us to maintain our leadership position in
the worldwide drug-eluting stent market. Worldwide net sales from our Endoscopy business grew $63
million, or seven percent, achieving net sales of $1.006 billion in 2009, on the continued success
of our biliary and hemostasis franchises. Worldwide net sales from our Urology/Women’s Health
business grew $25 million, or six percent, due primarily to several successful product launches
within our Women’s Health franchise during the year. Our Neuromodulation division increased
worldwide net sales $40 million, or 17 percent, in 2009, as compared to 2008, as a result of the
continued adoption of our Precision® Spinal Cord Stimulation system. Net sales from our
Neurovascular business decreased $12 million, or three percent, in 2009, as compared to 2008,



but are expected to benefit from upcoming product launches in 2010. Refer to the

Business and
Market Overview

and

Results of Operations

sections for discussion of our net sales by division and
region.

Our reported net loss in 2009 was $(1.025) billion, or $(0.68) per share, on approximately 1.5
billion weighted-average shares outstanding, as compared to a net loss in 2008 of $(2.036) billion,
or $(1.36) per share, also on 1.5 billion weighted-average shares outstanding. Our reported results
for 2009 included intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and
restructuring-related net charges; and discrete tax items of $1.785 billion (after-tax), or $1.18
per share, consisting of:

On February 1, 2010, we announced the settlement of three patent litigation matters with Johnson &
Johnson for $1.725 billion, plus interest. We have accounted for this settlement as of December 31,
2009 in our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Refer to
the

Results of Operations

section and

Note L

—

Commitments and Contingencies

to our consolidated
financial statements for further information.

Our reported results for 2008 included goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges;
acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related net charges; and discrete tax
items of $2.796 billion (after-tax), or $1.87 per share, consisting of:

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the decline in our stock price and our market capitalization
created an indication of potential impairment of our goodwill balance. Therefore, we performed an
interim impairment test and recorded a $2.613 billion goodwill impairment charge associated with
our acquisition of Guidant Corporation. The impact of economic conditions, and the related increase
in volatility in the equity and credit markets, on our risk-adjusted weighted-average cost of
capital, along with reductions in market demand for products in our U.S. CRM reporting unit
relative to our assumptions at the time of our acquisition of Guidant, were the key factors
contributing to the



impairment charge. Refer to

Note E — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

to
our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more
information.

Cash generated by operating activities was $835 million in 2009 and $1.216 billion in 2008, and
continues to be a major source of funds for servicing our outstanding debt obligations and
investing in our growth. Our cash flows from operations in 2009 includes a $716 million payment to
Johnson & Johnson related to certain patent disputes, discussed in

Note L — Commitments and
Contingencies

to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report.
As of December 31, 2009, we had total debt of $5.918 billion, cash and cash equivalents of $864
million and working capital of $1.039 billion. On February 1, 2010, we made a $1.000 billion
litigation-related payment to Johnson & Johnson, using $800 million of cash on hand, and $200
million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and will pay an additional $725 million
on or before January 3, 2011. During 2009, we issued $2.0 billion of senior notes and prepaid all
$2.825 billion remaining under our term loan. In addition, Standard & Poor’s upgraded our credit
rating to investment grade with a stable outlook. This rating improvement reflects the strength of
our product portfolio, our commitment to debt reduction, our improving financial fundamentals, and
the progress we are making in driving profitable sales growth. We expect to refinance the majority
of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit facility by mid-2010.

Healthcare Reform and Current Economic Climate

Political, economic and regulatory influences are subjecting the healthcare industry to potential
fundamental changes that could substantially affect our results of operations. Government and
private sector initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs, including price regulation,
competitive pricing, coverage and payment policies, comparative effectiveness of therapies,
technology assessments and managed-care arrangements, are continuing in many countries where we do
business, including the U.S. These changes are causing the marketplace to put increased emphasis on
the delivery of more cost-effective treatments. Although we believe our less-invasive products and
technologies generate favorable clinical outcomes, value and cost efficiency, the resources
necessary to demonstrate comparative effectiveness may be significant. In addition, uncertainty
remains regarding proposed significant reforms to the U.S. healthcare system, including the
potential innovation tax on medical device companies.

Additionally, our results of operations could be substantially affected by global economic factors
and local operating and economic conditions. Our customers may experience financial difficulties or
be unable to borrow money to fund their operations which may adversely impact their ability or
decision to purchase our products, particularly capital equipment, or to pay for our products they
do purchase on a timely basis, if at all. We cannot predict to what extent global economic
conditions and the increased focus on healthcare systems and costs in the U.S. and abroad may
negatively impact our average selling prices, our net sales and profit margins, procedural volumes
and reimbursement rates from third party payors.

Restructuring Initiatives

We are a diversified worldwide medical device leader and hold number one or two positions in the
majority of the markets in which we compete. Over the past thirty years, we have generated
impressive revenue growth driven by product innovation, strategic acquisitions and robust
investments in research and development. We generate strong cash flow, which has enabled us to
reduce our debt obligations
and further invest in our growth. On an on-going basis, we monitor the dynamics of the economy, the
healthcare industry, and the markets in which we compete; and we continue to assess opportunities
for improved operational effectiveness and efficiency, and better alignment of expenses with
revenues, while preserving our ability to make the investments in quality, research and development
projects, capital and our people that are essential to our long-term success. As a result of these
assessments, we have undertaken various restructuring initiatives to focus our business, diversify
and reprioritize our product



portfolio and redirect research and development and other spending
toward higher payoff products in order to enhance our growth potential. These initiatives are
described below.

2010 Restructuring Plan

On February 6, 2010, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a series of management
changes and restructuring initiatives (the 2010 Restructuring plan) designed to strengthen and
position us for long-term success. Key activities under the plan include the integration of our
Cardiovascular and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring of certain other businesses and
corporate functions; the centralization of our research and development organization; the
re-alignment of our international structure, and the reprioritization and diversification of our
product portfolio, in order to drive innovation, accelerate profitable growth and increase both
accountability and shareholder value. Activities under the 2010 Restructuring Plan will be
initiated in the first quarter of 2010 and are expected to be substantially completed by the end of
2011. We expect the execution of the 2010 Restructuring plan will result in the elimination of
approximately 1,000 to 1,300 positions worldwide by the end of 2011. Refer to

Results of Operations

and

Note H — Restructuring-related Activities

to our consolidated financial statements contained in
Item 8 of this Annual Report for information on our restructuring-related activities and estimated
costs.

Plant Network Optimization

In January 2009, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a Plant Network Optimization
program, which is intended to simplify our manufacturing plant structure by transferring certain
production lines among facilities and by closing certain other facilities. The program is a
complement to our 2007 Restructuring plan, and is intended to improve overall gross profit margins.
Activities under the Plant Network Optimization program were initiated in the first quarter of 2009
and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2011. Refer to

Results of Operations

and

Note H — Restructuring-related Activities

to our consolidated financial statements contained in
Item 8 of this Annual Report for information on our restructuring-related activities and estimated
costs.

2007 Restructuring Plan

In October 2007, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, an expense and head count
reduction plan (the 2007 Restructuring plan), These initiatives were designed to enhance short-
and long-term shareholder value, including the restructuring of several of our businesses and
product franchises; the sale of non-strategic businesses and investments; and significant expense
and head count reductions. Our goal was, and continues to be, to better align expenses with
revenues, while preserving our ability to make the investments in quality, research and
development, capital improvements and our people that are essential to our long-term success. These
initiatives have helped to provide better focus on our core businesses and priorities, which we
believe will strengthen Boston Scientific for the future and position us for increased, sustainable
and profitable sales growth. The execution of this plan enabled us to reduce research and
development and selling, general and administrative expenses by an annualized run rate of
approximately $500 million exiting 2008, and resulted in the elimination of approximately 2,300
positions worldwide. We initiated activities under the plan in the fourth quarter of 2007 and
substantially completed the major activities under the plan as of December 31, 2009. Refer to

Results of Operations

and

Note H — Restructuring-related Activities

to our consolidated financial
statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for information on our restructuring-related
activities and estimated costs.

Divestitures

During 2007, we determined that our Auditory, Vascular Surgery, Cardiac Surgery, Venous Access and
Fluid Management businesses, as well as our TriVascular Endovascular Aortic Repair (EVAR) program
were no longer strategic to our on-going operations. We completed the sale of these businesses in
the first



quarter of 2008, receiving pre-tax proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion, and eliminated
2,000 positions in connection with these divestitures. Refer to

Results of Operations

for more
information.

During 2007, we announced our intent to monetize those investments in our portfolio determined to
be non-strategic. During 2008, we entered transactions to sell the majority of our investments in,
and notes receivable from, certain publicly traded and privately held entities, and received
pre-tax proceeds for investments sold of $149 million. During 2009, we completed the sale of our
non-strategic investments, and received additional proceeds of $45 million.

In connection with our 2010 Restructuring plan and strategy to reduce risk, increase operational
leverage and accelerate profitable growth, we may explore opportunities to divest one or more
select businesses.

Business and Market Overview

Cardiac Rhythm Management

We estimate that the worldwide CRM market, including Electrophysiology, approximated $12.6 billion
in 2009, as compared to $12.2 billion in 2008. During the third quarter of 2009, results were
published in the New England Journal of Medicine from the Boston Scientific sponsored MADIT-CRT
clinical trial, which provide evidence that Boston Scientific’s CRT-D therapy significantly reduces
the relative risk of all-cause mortality or first heart failure intervention when compared to
traditional ICD therapy. These results demonstrated that early intervention with Boston
Scientific’s CRT-D therapy in certain patients can slow the progression of heart failure. In
addition, during the second quarter of 2009, we announced eight-year follow-up data from our MADIT
II clinical study, which demonstrated that the life-saving benefits of ICD therapy improved over
time. We have completed a pre-market approval filing with the U.S. Food and Drug Administration
(FDA) for an expanded CRT-D indication, and believe that we can reasonably expect FDA approval by
mid-2010. We believe an expanded indication would create an opportunity to strengthen the CRM
market and further enhance our position within that market.

Our CRM group net sales represented approximately 31 percent of our consolidated net sales in 2009
and 2008. Our worldwide CRM group net sales increased $123 million, or five percent, in 2009, as
compared to 2008. The following are the components of our worldwide CRM group net sales:

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

(in millions)

U.S.

International

Total

U.S.

International

Total

ICD systems

$

1,248

$


$

1,792

$

1,140

$


$

1,681

Pacemaker systems







CRM products

1,594


2,413

1,480


2,286

Electrophysiology







Total CRM group

$

1,710

$


$

2,562

$

1,596

$


$

2,439

Our U.S. CRM group net sales increased $114 million, or seven percent, in 2009, as compared to
2008. Our U.S. net sales benefited from the continued success of our next-generation COGNIS® CRT-D
and TELIGEN® ICD systems, and our ALTRUA® family of pacemaker systems, as well as marginal growth
in the size of the U.S. CRM market. In 2010, we will continue to execute on our product pipeline
and expect to launch our next-generation line of defibrillators in the U.S. by the end of the year,
which includes new features designed to improve functionality, diagnostic capability and ease of
use, and
anticipate launching our next-generation INGENIO™ pacemaker system in the U.S. in the first quarter
of 2011.

Our international CRM group net sales increased $9 million, or one percent, in 2009, as compared to
2008. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, which contributed a negative
$42 million to



2009 CRM group net sales as compared to the prior year, international sales of our
ICD systems (including CRT-D systems) grew $31 million, or six percent, driven by the continued
adoption of our COGNIS® CRT-D and TELIGEN® ICD systems. Further, our international pacemaker system
net sales increased $18 million, or seven percent, excluding the impact of foreign currency
exchange rates, in 2009, as compared to 2008, driven primarily by growing adoption of our ALTRUA®
family of pacemakers. In the fourth quarter of 2009, we launched our COGNIS® CRT-D, TELIGEN® ICD
and ALTRUA® pacemaker systems in Japan. We are targeting the completion of our international launch
of these systems in early 2010. In addition, in July 2009, we received CE Mark approval for our
LATITUDE® Patient Management System and have begun a phased launch in certain European countries.
The LATITUDE® technology, which enables physicians to monitor device performance remotely while
patients are in their homes, is a key component of many of our implantable device systems. We also
plan to launch our next-generation INGENIO™ pacemaker system in our EMEA region and certain
Inter-Continental countries in the first quarter of 2011, and in Japan in the fourth quarter of
2011, and believe that these launches position us well within the worldwide CRM market.

Net sales from our CRM group represent a significant source of our overall net sales. Therefore,
increases or decreases in our CRM group net sales could have a significant impact on our results of
operations. Recent disciplinary actions we have taken against certain of our U.S. CRM sales
personnel could result in lost U.S. CRM net sales in the short term. We believe that with sustained
targeted investments we can continue to grow our worldwide CRM business. However, the following
variables may impact the size of the CRM market and/or our share of that market:

Coronary Stents

Net sales of our coronary stent systems represented approximately 23 percent of our consolidated
net sales in 2009 and 2008. We estimate that the worldwide coronary stent market approximated
$5.0 billion in 2009 and 2008. The size of the coronary stent market is driven primarily by the
number of



percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) procedures performed, as well as the percentage
of those in which stents are implanted; the number of devices used per procedure; average selling
prices; and the drug-eluting stent penetration rate


. Historically, uncertainty
regarding the efficacy of drug-eluting stent systems, as well as the perceived risk of late stent
thrombosis


following the use of drug-eluting stent systems, contributed to a decline in
the worldwide drug-eluting stent market size. However, data addressing this risk and supporting the
safety of drug-eluting stent systems positively affected trends in the growth of the drug-eluting
stent market throughout 2008 and 2009, as referring cardiologists regained and maintain confidence
in this technology.

We are the only company in the industry to offer a two-drug platform strategy with our TAXUS®
paclitaxel-eluting stent system and our everolimus product franchise, consisting of the PROMUS®
stent system, currently supplied to us by Abbott Laboratories, and our next-generation
internally-manufactured everolimus-eluting stent system, the PROMUS® Element™ stent system, which
we launched in our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries in the fourth quarter of
2009. We expect to launch our PROMUS® Element™ stent system in the U.S. and Japan in mid-2012. Our
product pipeline also includes the next-generation TAXUS® Element™ stent system, which we expect to
launch in EMEA and certain Inter-Continental countries during the second quarter of 2010, in the
U.S. in mid-2011 and Japan in late 2011 or early 2012. Recently published data from a
single-center, non-double blinded, underpowered study sponsored by one of our competitors are
inconsistent with the overall body of evidence supporting our TAXUS® paclitaxel-eluting coronary
stent system. However, perceptions of these data have negatively affected, and may continue to have
a negative impact on, physician and patient confidence in our technology and net sales of our
TAXUS® stent systems. The following are the components of our worldwide coronary stent system
sales:

Year Ended

Year Ended

December 31, 2009

December 31, 2008

(in millions)

U.S.

International

Total

U.S.

International

Total

TAXUS®

$


$


$

1,027

$


$


$

1,318

PROMUS®







Drug-eluting



1,708



1,634

Bare-metal







$


$


$

1,879

$


$


$

1,851

Our U.S. net sales of drug-eluting stent systems increased $78 million, or nine percent, in 2009,
as compared to the prior year. Despite an increase in competition following two new market entrants
during 2008, we maintained our leadership position during 2009 with an estimated 49 percent share
of the U.S. drug-eluting stent market, exiting the year with an estimated 46 percent share during
the fourth quarter of 2009. We believe we have maintained our position in this market due to the
success of our two-drug platform strategy. The strength of our TAXUS® Liberté® stent system and the
PROMUS® stent system, as well as our TAXUS® Express


® Atom™ stent system, launched in
the U.S. during the fourth quarter of 2008, have combined to enable us to sustain our leadership in
the U.S. drug-eluting stent market. In the second quarter of 2009, we received FDA approval for the
TAXUS® Liberté® Atom™ stent system and, in July 2009, we received approval for the TAXUS® Liberté®
Long stent system, further adding to our industry leadership for the widest range of coronary stent
sizes. In addition, increasing penetration rates
have had a positive effect on the size of the U.S. drug-eluting stent market and our net sales.
Average drug-eluting stent penetration rates in the U.S. were 75 percent during 2009, exiting at 77
percent for the fourth quarter of 2009, as compared to 68 percent for 2008, with an exit rate of 73
percent. Penetration rates in the U.S. consistently increased throughout 2008 and have remained
steady throughout 2009,


A measure of the mix between bare-metal
and drug-eluting stents used across procedures.


Late stent thrombosis is the formation of
a clot, or thrombus, within the stented area one year or more after
implantation of the stent.



indicating a recovery and stabilization of the U.S. drug-eluting stent
market. Partially offsetting the impact of increased penetration rates on the size of the market
were reductions in average selling prices in 2009, as compared to 2008, as a result of competitive
pricing pressures. We estimate that the average selling price of our drug-eluting stent systems in
the U.S. decreased approximately eight percent in 2009, as compared to the prior year.

Our international drug-eluting stent system net sales decreased $4 million, or less than one
percent, in 2009 as compared to 2008, but were negatively impacted by $22 million, as compared to
the same period in the prior year, as a result of foreign currency exchange rates. Within our
international business, net sales of our drug-eluting stent systems in Japan increased $45 million,
or 20 percent, in 2009, as compared to the prior year, driven primarily by the favorable impact of
foreign currency exchange rates in that region, as well as the February launch of our
second-generation TAXUS® Liberté® stent system. We estimate that our share of the drug-eluting
stent market in Japan was 49 percent in 2009, exiting at 44 percent, as compared to a 2008 average
market share of 45 percent. Previously, our TAXUS® drug-eluting stent system was one of only two
drug-eluting stent products on the market in Japan. In May 2009, however, an additional competitor
entered this market, which negatively impacted our share throughout the second half of the year. In
the first quarter of 2010, we received approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and
Welfare (MHLW) for the PROMUS® stent, and subsequently launched this product in Japan. Our net
sales of drug-eluting stent systems in our EMEA region decreased $42 million, or eleven percent,
and net sales of these systems in our Inter-Continental region decreased $7 million, or three
percent, both due primarily to the negative impact of foreign currency exchange rates and
reductions in our average selling prices. In November 2009, we announced receipt of CE Mark
approval to market our next-generation internally-manufactured everolimus-eluting stent system, the
PROMUS® Element™ stent system, and simultaneously launched this stent system in our EMEA region and
certain Inter-Continental countries. Our PROMUS® Element™ stent system incorporates a unique
platinum chromium alloy offering greater radial strength and flexibility than older alloys, and
provides enhanced visibility and reduced recoil. The innovative stent design improves
deliverability and allows for more consistent lesion coverage and drug distribution. This latest
product offering demonstrates our commitment to drug-eluting stent market leadership and continued
innovation. Our product pipeline also includes the next-generation TAXUS® Element™ stent system,
which we expect to launch in EMEA and certain Inter-Continental countries during the first half of
2010, in the U.S. in mid-2011 and Japan in late 2011 or early 2012.

We market the PROMUS® everolimus-eluting coronary stent system, a private-labeled XIENCE V® stent
system supplied to us by Abbott Laboratories. As of the closing of Abbott’s 2006 acquisition of
Guidant Corporation’s vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, we obtained a
perpetual license to the intellectual property used in Guidant’s drug-eluting stent system program
purchased by Abbott. We believe that being the only company to offer two distinct drug-eluting
stent platforms provides us a considerable advantage in the drug-eluting stent market and has
enabled us to sustain our worldwide leadership position, with an estimated 39 percent market share
exiting 2009. However, under the terms of our supply arrangement with Abbott, the gross profit and
operating profit margin of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott, including any
improvements or iterations approved for sale during the term of the applicable supply arrangements
and of the type that could be approved by a supplement to an approved FDA pre-market approval, is
significantly lower than that of our TAXUS® stent system. Specifically, the PROMUS® stent system
has operating profit margins that approximate half of our TAXUS® stent system operating profit
margin. Therefore, if sales of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott increase
in relation to our total drug-eluting stent system sales, our profit margins will decrease. Refer
to our

Gross Profit

discussion for more information on the impact this sales mix has had on our
gross profit margins. We expect that our PROMUS® Element

TM

stent
system, launched in our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries in November 2009, will
have gross profit margins more comparable to our TAXUS® stent system and will positively affect our
overall gross profit and operating profit margins in these regions. However, this positive impact
on our



gross profit margin will be offset by the impact of recent approval and launch of the
PROMUS® stent system, supplied to us by Abbott, in Japan.

Further, the price we pay for our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott is
determined by contracts with Abbott and is based, in part, on previously fixed estimates of
Abbott’s manufacturing costs for everolimus-eluting stent systems and third-party reports of our
average selling price of these stent systems. Amounts paid pursuant to this pricing arrangement are
subject to a retroactive adjustment approximately every two years based on Abbott’s actual costs to
manufacture these stent systems for us and our average selling price of everolimus-eluting stent
systems supplied to us by Abbott. Our gross profit margin may be positively or negatively impacted
in the future as a result of this adjustment process.

We are currently reliant on Abbott for our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems in the U.S.
and Japan. Our supply agreement with Abbott for everolimus-eluting stent systems in these regions
extends through the end of the second quarter of 2012. At present, we believe that our supply of
everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott and our current launch plans for our next-generation
internally-manufactured everolimus-eluting stent system is sufficient to meet customer demand.
However, any production or capacity issues that affect Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities or our
process for forecasting, ordering and receiving shipments may impact the ability to increase or
decrease our level of supply in a timely manner; therefore, our supply of everolimus-eluting stent
systems supplied to us by Abbott may not align with customer demand, which could have an adverse
effect on our operating results. We expect to launch an internally developed and manufactured
next-generation everolimus-eluting stent system, our PROMUS® Element™ stent system, in the U.S. and
Japan in mid-2012.

Historically, the worldwide coronary stent market has been dynamic and highly competitive with
significant market share volatility. In addition, in the ordinary course of our business, we
conduct and participate in numerous clinical trials with a variety of study designs, patient
populations and trial end points. Unfavorable or inconsistent clinical data from existing or future
clinical trials conducted by us, by our competitors or by third parties, or the market’s perception
of these clinical data, may adversely impact our position in, and share of the drug-eluting stent
market and may contribute to increased volatility in the market.

We believe that we can sustain our leadership position within the worldwide drug-eluting stent
market for a variety of reasons, including:

However, a decline in net sales from our drug-eluting stent systems could have a significant
adverse impact on our operating results and operating cash flows. The most significant variables
that may impact the size of the drug-eluting stent market and our position within this market
include:



•

changes in FDA clinical trial data and post-market surveillance
requirements, as well as international regulatory requirements, and
the associated impact on new product launch schedules and the cost of
product approvals and compliance; and

•

physician and patient confidence in our current and next-generation
technology, including drug-eluting stent technology; and

•

changes in drug-eluting stent penetration rates, the overall number of
PCI procedures performed and average number of stents used per
procedure.

During 2009, we successfully negotiated closure of several long-standing legal matters, including
multiple matters with Johnson & Johnson; all outstanding litigation between us and Medtronic, Inc.
with respect to interventional cardiology and endovascular repair cases; and all outstanding
litigation between us and Bruce Saffran, M.D., Ph.D. However, there continues to be significant
intellectual property litigation in the coronary stent market. In particular, although our recent
settlements with Johnson & Johnson resolved 17 litigation matters, we continue to be involved in
patent litigation with Johnson & Johnson relating to drug eluting stent delivery systems. We have
each asserted that products of the other infringe patents owned or exclusively licensed by each of
us. Adverse outcomes in one or more of these matters could have a material adverse effect on our
ability to sell certain products and on our operating margins, financial position, results of
operation or liquidity. See

Note L- Commitments and Contingencies

to our consolidated financial
statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a description of these legal proceedings.

Interventional Cardiology

(excluding coronary stent systems)

In addition to coronary stent systems, our Interventional Cardiology business markets balloon
catheters, rotational atherectomy systems, guide wires, guide catheters, embolic protection
devices, and diagnostic catheters used in percutaneous transluminal coronary angioplasty (PTCA)
procedures; as well as ultrasound imaging systems. Our worldwide net sales of these products
decreased to $980 million in 2009, as compared to $1.028 billion in 2008, a decrease of $48 million
or five percent. Our U.S. net sales represented $409 million in 2009, as compared to $461 million
in the prior year, a decrease of $52 million or 11 percent. This decrease was the result of a delay
in new product introductions, and competitive product launches, as well as the impact of product
recalls associated with a third-party provider. Our international net sales of these products
increased to $571 million in 2009, as compared to $567 million in 2008. Despite an overall decrease
in our Interventional Cardiology net sales, we continue to hold a strong
leadership position in the PTCA balloon catheter market with more than 50 percent share of the U.S.
market, and are planning a number of additional new product launches during 2010, including the



Apex™ platinum pre-dilatation balloon catheter for improved radiopacity, the NC Quantum Apex

Ô

post-dilatation balloon catheter and the Kinetix

Ô

family of guidewires.

Peripheral Interventions

Our Peripheral Interventions business product offerings include stents, balloon catheters, sheaths,
wires and vena cava filters, which are used to diagnose and treat peripheral vascular disease. Our
worldwide net sales of these products decreased to $661 million in 2009, as compared to
$684 million in 2008, a decrease of $23 million or three percent. Foreign currency exchange rates
contributed a negative $10 million to our 2009 Peripheral Interventions net sales, as compared to
the same period in the prior year. We believe that we are well positioned in the growing Peripheral
Interventions market, due in part to the recent launches of our Carotid WALLSTENT® Monorail®
Endoprosthesis for the treatment of patients with carotid artery disease who are at high risk for
surgery; our Express® SD Renal Monorail® premounted stent system for use as an adjunct therapy to
percutaneous transluminal renal angioplasty in certain lesions of the renal arteries; and our
Sterling® Monorail® and Over-the-Wire balloon dilatation catheter for use in the renal and lower
extremity arteries. In addition, during the first quarter of 2010, we expect to receive FDA
approval for an iliac indication for our Express® LD stent system. We believe that these product
offerings will continue to provide positive momentum for our Peripheral Interventions business.

Endoscopy

Our Endoscopy division develops and manufactures devices to treat a variety of medical conditions
including diseases of the digestive and pulmonary systems. Our worldwide net sales of these
products increased $63 million, or seven percent, to $1.006 billion in 2009, as compared to $943
million in 2008. Our U.S. net sales of these products increased $40 million to $517 million, as
compared to the same period in the prior year, and our international net sales increased $23
million, despite an $11 million negative impact from foreign currency exchange rates, to
$489 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, our worldwide Endoscopy net
sales increased eight percent in 2009, as compared to 2008. This increase was due primarily to
higher net sales within our stent franchise, due largely to the U.S. launch of the WallFlex®
biliary stent system and continued commercialization of the WallFlex® esophageal stent. In
addition, our hemostasis franchise net sales benefited from increased utilization of our
Resolution® Clip Device, an endoscopic mechanical clip to treat gastrointestinal bleeding, and our
biliary franchise drove solid growth on the strength of our rapid exchange biliary devices. During
2010, we will continue the commercialization of our market-leading WallFlex® stent line; our
Dreamwire

Ô

high performance guidewire and Dreamtome

Ô

RX cannulating sphincterotome; as
well as expanded sizes of our Radial® Jaw 4 biopsy forceps.

Urology/Women’s Health

Our Urology/Women’s Health division develops and manufactures devices to treat various urological
and gynecological disorders. Our worldwide net sales of these products increased $25 million, or
six percent, to $456 million in 2009. Our U.S. net sales increased $18 million during 2009, as
compared to the prior year, to $353 million, and our international net sales increased $7 million,
as compared to 2008, to $103 million. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates, net
sales of our Urology/Women’s Health products increased $27 million, or six percent, in 2009, as
compared to 2008, and were negatively impacted by a July 2009 recall related to catheters used in
our Prolieve Thermodilatation® System for the treatment of benign prostatic hyperplasia. This
recall had a negative impact of approximately $8 million resulting from estimated lost sales. The
product issue that resulted in this recall has been corrected, and we re-launched the new catheter
in November 2009. We do not expect that this recall will have a material future impact on our
Urology/Women’s Health net sales. Our Women’s Health business grew
approximately 19 percent in 2009, as compared to the prior year, on the strength of several new
product launches, including our Solyx

Ô

single incision sling system and our Uphold

Ô

vaginal support system. In



addition, we executed two new Women’s Health product launches during
2009 with our second-generation ProCerva® Hydro ThermAblator® (HTA) procedure set, used in the
treatment of excessive uterine bleeding, as well as our new Pinnacle® posterior pelvic floor repair
kit. We expect these launches to continue to drive growth in our Women’s Health business.

Neuromodulation

Within our Neuromodulation business, we market the Precision® Spinal Cord Stimulation (SCS) system,
used for the management of chronic pain. Our worldwide net sales of Neuromodulation products
increased to $285 million for 2009, as compared to $245 million for 2008, an increase of
$40 million or approximately 17 percent. Our U.S. net sales of Neuromodulation products were $271
million for 2009, as compared to $234 million in the prior year. We believe that we continue to
have a technology advantage over our competitors with proprietary features such as Multiple
Independent Current Control, which is intended to allow the physician to target specific areas of
pain more precisely. As a demonstration of our commitment to strengthening clinical evidence with
spinal cord stimulation, we are initiating a trial to assess the therapeutic effectiveness and cost
effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation compared to reoperation in patients with failed back
surgery syndrome. We believe that this trial could result in consideration of spinal cord
stimulation much earlier in the continuum of care. In addition, we anticipate the launch of two new
lead products during 2010. These factors, coupled with the move of our Neuromodulation business to
a new state-of-the-art facility, position us well for continued growth in this market.

Neurovascular

We market a broad line of products used in treating diseases of the neurovascular system and hold
leading market positions in several product markets. Our worldwide net sales of Neurovascular
products decreased to $348 million in 2009, as compared to $360 million for 2008, a decrease of $12
million, or three percent, resulting primarily from new competitive
launches and a delay in the launch of our next-generation products. The unfavorable
impact of foreign currency exchange rates contributed a negative $4 million to our worldwide
Neurovascular sales in 2009, as compared to 2008. We plan to launch a next-generation family of
detachable coils, including an enhanced delivery system designed to reduce coil detachment times,
in the U.S. in 2010. Within our product pipeline, we are also developing next-generation
technologies for the treatment of aneurysms, ICAD and acute ischemic stroke, and are involved in
numerous clinical activities that are designed to expand the size of the worldwide Neurovascular
market.

Innovation

Our approach to innovation combines internally developed products and technologies with those we
may obtain externally through strategic acquisitions and alliances. Our research and development
efforts are focused largely on the development of next-generation and novel technology offerings
across multiple programs and divisions. We expect to continue to invest in our core franchises and
are also investigating opportunities to further expand our presence in, and diversify into, areas
including atrial fibrillation, underserved defibrillator populations, acute ischemic stroke,
coronary artery disease, peripheral vascular disease, structural heart disease, vascular closure,
hypertension, women’s health, endoluminal surgery, diabetes/obesity, endoscopic pulmonary
intervention and deep brain stimulation. There can be no assurance that these technologies will
achieve technological feasibility, obtain regulatory approvals or gain market acceptance. A delay
in the development or approval of these technologies may adversely impact our future growth.

We have historically entered strategic alliances with both publicly traded and privately held
companies. We enter these alliances to broaden our product technology portfolio and to strengthen
and expand our
reach into existing and new markets. During 2008, we monetized certain investments and alliances no
longer determined to be strategic (see the

Restructuring Initiatives

section for more information).
While we



believe our remaining strategic investments are within attractive markets with an outlook
for sustained growth, the full benefit of these alliances is highly dependent on the strength of
the other companies’ underlying technology and ability to execute. An inability to achieve
regulatory approvals and launch competitive product offerings, or litigation related to these
technologies, among other factors, may prevent us from realizing the benefit of these strategic
alliances. Certain of our equity investments give us the option to acquire the company in the
future. Any potential future acquisitions we consummate may be dilutive to our earnings and may
require additional debt or equity financing, depending on their size and nature.

Regulatory Compliance

In January 2006, legacy Boston Scientific received a corporate warning letter from the FDA
notifying us of serious regulatory problems at three of our facilities and advising us that our
corporate-wide corrective action plan relating to three site-specific warning letters issued to us
in 2005 was inadequate. We have identified solutions to the quality system issues cited by the FDA
and have made significant progress in transitioning our organization to implement those solutions.
During 2008, the FDA reinspected a number of our facilities and, in October 2008, informed us that
our quality system is now in substantial compliance with its Quality System Regulations. The FDA
has approved all of our requests for final approval of Class III product submissions previously on
hold due to the corporate warning letter and is processing all requests for Certificates to Foreign
Governments (CFGs). In November of 2009 and January of 2010, the FDA reinspected two official
action-indicated Boston Scientific sites to follow up on observations from the 2008 FDA
inspections. Both of these FDA inspections confirmed that all issues at the sites have been
resolved and all restrictions related to the corporate warning letter have been removed. The
corporate warning letter remains in place pending FDA internal administrative procedures.

During the first quarter of 2009, we acquired a third-party sterilization facility which was
subject to a warning letter from the FDA. The FDA had requested documentation and explanations
regarding various corrective actions related to the facility. This information was provided to the
FDA and the FDA has since re-inspected the facility, issuing no observations, and subsequently
removed all restrictions related to the warning letter.

Other Governmental Matters

Certain state governments have recently enacted, and the federal government has proposed,
legislation aimed at increasing transparency in relationships between industry and health care
professionals (HCPs). As a result, we are required by law to report many types of direct and
indirect payments and other transfers of value to HCPs licensed by certain states and expect that
we will have to make similar reports at the federal level in the near future. We are devoting
substantial time and financial resources in order to develop and implement enhanced structure,
policies, systems and processes in order to comply with these legal and regulatory requirements.
Our new systems are designed to provide enhanced visibility and consistency across our businesses
with respect to our interactions with health care professionals. Implementation of these policies,
systems and processes, or failure to comply with these policies could have a negative impact our
results of operations.

Reimbursement and Funding

Our products are purchased principally by hospitals, physicians and other healthcare providers
worldwide that typically bill various third-party payors, such as governmental programs (e.g.,
Medicare and Medicaid), private insurance plans and managed-care programs for the healthcare
services provided to their patients. Third-party payors may provide or deny coverage for certain
technologies and
associated procedures based on independently determined assessment criteria. Reimbursement by
third-party payors for these services is based on a wide range of methodologies that may reflect
the services’



assessed resource costs, clinical outcomes and economic value. These reimbursement
methodologies confer different, and sometimes conflicting, levels of financial risk and incentives
to HCPs and patients, and these methodologies are subject to frequent refinements. Third-party
payors are also increasingly adjusting reimbursement rates and challenging the prices charged for
medical products and services. There can be no assurance that our products will be automatically
covered by third-party payors, that reimbursement will be available or, if available, that the
third-party payors’ coverage policies will not adversely affect our ability to sell our products
profitably. Accordingly, the outcome of these reimbursement decisions could have an adverse impact
on our business. In addition, the current economic climate may impose further pressure on funds
available for reimbursement of healthcare and on reimbursement levels.

Manufacturing and Raw Materials

We design and manufacture the majority of our products in technology centers around the world. Many
components used in the manufacture of our products are readily fabricated from commonly available
raw materials or off-the-shelf items available from multiple supply sources. Certain items are
custom made to meet our specifications. We believe that in most cases, redundant capacity exists at
our suppliers and that alternative sources of supply are available or could be developed within a
reasonable period of time. We also have an on-going program to identify single-source components
and to develop alternative back-up supplies. However, in certain cases, we may not be able to
quickly establish additional or replacement suppliers for specific components, materials or
products, largely due to the regulatory approval system and the complex nature of our manufacturing
processes and those of our suppliers. A reduction or interruption in supply, an inability to
develop and validate alternative sources if required, or a significant increase in the price of raw
materials, components or products could adversely affect our operations and financial condition,
particularly materials or components related to our CRM products and drug-eluting stent systems. In
addition, our products require sterilization prior to sale and we utilize a mix of internal
resources and third party vendors to perform this service. To the extent our sterilizers
are unable to process our products, whether due to raw material, capacity, regulatory or other
constraints, we may be unable to transition to other providers in a timely manner, which could have
an adverse impact on our operations.

International Markets

Our profitability from our international operations may be limited by risks and uncertainties
related to economic conditions in these regions, currency fluctuations, regulatory and
reimbursement approvals, competitive offerings, infrastructure development, rights to intellectual
property and our ability to implement our overall business strategy. Any significant changes in the
competitive, political, regulatory, reimbursement or economic environment where we conduct
international operations may have a material impact on our business, financial condition or results
of operations. International markets, including Japan, are affected by economic pressure to contain
reimbursement levels and healthcare costs. Initiatives to limit the growth of healthcare costs,
including price regulation, are under way in many countries in which we do business. Implementation
of cost containment initiatives and healthcare reforms in significant markets such as Japan, Europe
and other international markets may limit the price of, or the level at which reimbursement is
provided for, our products and may influence a physician’s selection of products used to treat
patients. We expect these practices to put increased pressure on reimbursement rates in these
markets.

In addition, most international jurisdictions have adopted regulatory approval and periodic renewal
requirements for medical devices, and we must comply with these requirements in order to market our
products in these jurisdictions. Further, some emerging markets rely on the FDA’s CFGs in lieu of
their own regulatory approval requirements. Although the corporate warning letter has not been
formally
resolved, the FDA has approved all currently eligible requests for CFGs. However, any limits on our



ability to market our full line of existing products and to launch new products within these
jurisdictions could have an adverse impact on our business.

Results of Operations

Net Sales

We manage our international operating segments on a constant currency basis, and we manage market
risk from currency exchange rate changes at the corporate level. To calculate revenue growth rates
that exclude the impact of currency exchange, we convert current period and prior period net sales
from local currency to U.S. dollars using current period currency exchange rates. The regional
constant currency growth rates in the tables below can be recalculated from our net sales by
reportable segment as presented in

Note P — Segment Reporting

to our consolidated financial
statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. We exclude net sales related to divested
businesses from the net sales of our reportable segments. During the first quarter of 2009, we
reorganized our international structure to provide more direct sales focus in the marketplace.
Accordingly, we have revised our reportable segments to reflect the way we currently manage and
view our business. As of December 31, 2009, we had four reportable segments based on geographic
regions: the United States; EMEA, consisting of Europe, the Middle East and Africa; Japan; and
Inter-Continental, consisting of Asia Pacific and the Americas. The reportable segments represent
an aggregate of all operating divisions within each segment. We have reclassified previously
reported segment results to be consistent with the 2009 presentation.

The following table provides our worldwide net sales by region and the relative change on an as
reported and constant currency basis:

2009 versus 2008

2008 versus 2007

As Reported

Constant

As Reported

Constant

Year Ended December 31,

Currency

Currency

Currency

Currency

(in millions)




Basis

Basis

Basis

Basis

United States

$

4,675

$

4,487

$

4,522


%


%

(1

)%

(1

)%

EMEA

1,837

1,960

1,833

(6

)%


%


%


%

Japan





%


%


%

(2

)%

Inter-Continental





%


%


%

(1

)%

International

3,502

3,494

3,282


%


%


%


%

Subtotal

8,177

7,981

7,804


%


%


%


%

Divested businesses




N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Worldwide

$

8,188

$

8,050

$

8,357


%


%

(4

)%

(6

)%

The following table provides our worldwide net sales by division and the relative change on an
as reported and constant currency basis. During the first quarter of 2009, we combined our
Peripheral Embolization business, previously a component of our Neurovascular division, with our
Peripheral Interventions business. We have reclassified previously reported 2008 and 2007 results
to be consistent with the 2009 presentation.



2009 versus 2008

2008 versus 2007

As Reported

Constant

As Reported

Constant

Currency

Currency

Currency

Currency

(in millions)




Basis

Basis

Basis

Basis

Cardiac Rhythm Management

$

2,413

$

2,286

$

2,124


%


%


%


%

Electrophysiology




(2

)%

(1

)%


%


%

Cardiac Rhythm
Management Group

2,562

2,439

2,271


%


%


%


%

Interventional Cardiology

2,859

2,879

3,016

(1

)%


%

(5

)%

(7

)%

Peripheral Interventions




(3

)%

(2

)%

(1

)%

(5

)%

Cardiovascular Group

3,520

3,563

3,708

(1

)%


%

(4

)%

(7

)%

Neurovascular




(3

)%

(2

)%


%

(3

)%

Endoscopy

1,006




%


%


%


%

Urology/Women’s Health





%


%


%


%

Endosurgery Group

1,462

1,374

1,269



%


%


%

Neuromodulation





%


%


%


%

Subtotal

8,177

7,981

7,804


%


%


%

—

%

Divested businesses




N/A

N/A

N/A

N/A

Worldwide

$

8,188

$

8,050

$

8,357


%


%

(4

)%

(6

)%

The divisional constant currency growth rates in the tables above can be recalculated from the
reconciliations provided below. Growth rates are based on actual, non-rounded amounts and may not
recalculate precisely.

2009 Net Sales as compared to 2008

Change

Estimated

As Reported

Constant

Impact of

Currency

Currency

Foreign

in millions

Basis

Basis

Currency

Cardiac Rhythm Management

$


$


$

(41

)

Electrophysiology

(4

)

(3

)

(1

)

Cardiac Rhythm Management Group



(42

)

Interventional Cardiology

(20

)


(22

)

Peripheral Interventions

(23

)

(13

)

(10

)

Cardiovascular Group

(43

)

(11

)

(32

)

Neurovascular

(12

)

(8

)

(4

)

Endoscopy



(11

)

Urology/Women’s Health



(2

)

Endosurgery Group



(13

)

Neuromodulation



(1

)

Subtotal



(92

)

Divested Businesses

(58

)

(58

)


Worldwide

$


$


$

(92

)



2008 Net Sales as compared to 2007

Change

Estimated

As Reported

Constant

Impact of

Currency

Currency

Foreign

in millions

Basis

Basis

Currency

Cardiac Rhythm Management

$


$


$


Electrophysiology




Cardiac Rhythm Management Group




Interventional Cardiology

(137

)

(219

)


Peripheral Interventions

(8

)

(33

)


Cardiovascular Group

(145

)

(252

)


Neurovascular


(8

)


Endoscopy




Urology/Women’s Health




Endosurgery Group




Neuromodulation




Subtotal


(31

)


Divested Businesses

(484

)

(489

)


Worldwide

$

(307

)

$

(520

)

$


U.S. Net Sales

During 2009, our U.S. net sales, excluding net sales from divested businesses, increased
$188 million, or four percent, as compared to 2008. The increase was driven primarily by an
increase in U.S. CRM group sales of $114 million and an increase of $47 million in U.S. sales of
our coronary stent systems. In addition, U.S. sales in our Endosurgery group grew $58 million in
2009, as compared to the prior year, and our Neuromodulation division increased U.S. net sales
$37 million. These increases were partially offset by declines in U.S. net sales from our
Interventional Cardiology (excluding coronary stent systems) business of $52 million and a decrease
of $16 million in Peripheral Interventions U.S. net sales in 2009, as compared to the prior year.
Refer to the

Business and Market Overview

section for a more detailed discussion of our net sales
by U.S. division.

During 2008, our U.S. net sales, excluding net sales from divested businesses, decreased
$35 million, or one percent, as compared to 2007. The decrease was due primarily to a decrease in
Cardiovascular division sales of $222 million, driven primarily by declines in sales of our
drug-eluting stent systems as a result of increased competition. Partially offsetting this decrease
was an increase in CRM product sales of $109 million, as a result of numerous successful product
launches during 2008. In addition, U.S. sales in our Endosurgery division grew $43 million in
2008, as compared to 2007, driven by strength in our biliary and hemostasis franchises, and our
Neuromodulation division increased sales by $36 million, due to market growth and continued
physician adoption of our Precision Plus™ spinal cord stimulation technology.

International Net Sales

During 2009, our international net sales, excluding net sales from divested businesses, increased
$8 million, or less than one percent, as compared to 2008. Foreign currency exchange rates
contributed a negative $92 million to our international net sales, excluding divested businesses,
as compared to the prior year. Excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and net
sales from divested businesses, net sales in our EMEA region increased $11 million, or one percent,
in 2009, as compared the prior year. Our net sales in Japan increased $37 million, or four percent,
excluding the impact of foreign



currency exchange rates and net sales from divested businesses, in 2009, as compared to 2008, due
primarily to an increase in coronary stent system sales following the launch of our
second-generation TAXUS

®

Liberté

®

stent system in that region. Net sales in our Inter-Continental
region, excluding the impact of foreign currency exchange rates and net sales from divested
businesses, increased $52 million, or eight percent, in 2009, as compared to the prior year, with
the majority of our divisions and franchises contributing to the year over year growth. Refer to
the

Business and Market Overview

section for a more detailed discussion of our net sales by
division.

During 2008, our international net sales, excluding net sales from divested businesses, increased
$212 million, or six percent, as compared to 2007. The increase was attributable primarily to the
favorable impact of currency exchange rates, which contributed $208 million to our international
net sales, excluding sales from divested businesses. Within our international business, sales in
our Cardiovascular division increased $77 million and CRM product sales increased $53 million. In
addition, sales in our Endosurgery franchises increased $63 million in 2008, as compared to 2007.

Gross Profit

Our gross profit was $5.612 billion in 2009, $5.581 billion in 2008, and $6.015 billion in 2007. As
a percentage of net sales, our gross profit decreased to 68.5 percent in 2009, as compared to 69.3
percent in 2008 and 72.0 percent in 2007. The following is a reconciliation of our gross profit
margins and a description of the drivers of the change from period to period:

Year Ended

December 31,



Gross profit — prior year

69.3

%

72.0

%

Impact of shift in TAXUS

®

/ PROMUS

®

sales mix

(1.4

)%

(2.3

)%

All other shifts in product sales mix

(0.2

)%

Net impact of foreign currency

0.9

%

(0.5

)%

Impact of higher inventory charges

(0.4

)%

Impact of lower Project Horizon spend

0.7

%

All other

(0.3

)%

Gross profit — current year

68.5

%

69.3

%

The primary factor contributing to a shift in product sales mix toward lower margin products in
2009, as compared to 2008, and 2008, as compared to 2007, was a decrease in sales of our higher
margin TAXUS

®

drug-eluting stent systems. The shift in sales away from TAXUS

®

stent systems was due
primarily to increased sales of the PROMUS

®

stent system in the U.S., following its July 2008
approval and launch. Sales of the PROMUS

®

stent system represented approximately 40 percent of our
worldwide drug-eluting stent system sales in 2009, 19 percent in 2008, and two percent in 2007.
Under the terms of our supply arrangement with Abbott, the gross profit margin of a PROMUS

®

stent
system, supplied to us by Abbott, is significantly lower than that of our TAXUS

®

stent system. Our
gross profit margin for 2009, as compared to the prior year, was also positively impacted by 0.9
percentage points attributable to the settlement of foreign currency hedge contracts on
intercompany and third party transactions. The settlement of these contracts had a negative impact
on our gross profit margin of 0.5 percentage points in 2008, as compared to 2007.

In addition, our gross profit margins decreased by 0.4 percentage points in 2008, as compared to
2007, due to increases in period expenses associated with inventory charges. Inventory and
manufacturing equipment obsolescence charges in 2009 were relatively flat to 2008, and included
approximately $40 million of inventory write-downs and manufacturing equipment obsolescence
write-offs within our CRM division, related primarily to the resolution of a product advisory that
resulted in the transition to a new version of our COGNIS

®

CRT-D and TELIGEN

®

ICD system product
offerings. Further, our gross profit margin in 2008 benefited from lower spending associated with
Project Horizon, our corporate-wide



initiative to improve and harmonize our overall quality processes and systems, which ended as a
formal program as of December 31, 2007.

Operating Expenses

The following table provides a summary of certain of our operating expenses:




% of Net

% of Net

% of Net

(in millions)

$

Sales

$

Sales

$

Sales

Selling, general and
administrative expenses

2,635

32.2

2,589

32.2

2,909

34.8

Research and development expenses

1,035

12.6

1,006

12.5

1,091

13.1

Royalty expense


2.3


2.5


2.4

Selling, General and Administrative (SG&A) Expenses

In 2009, our SG&A expenses increased by $46 million, or two percent, as compared to 2008. This
increase was related primarily to the addition of direct selling expenses and head count, including
expanding our global sales force and an increase in costs associated with various
litigation-related matters. These increases were partially offset by a benefit from foreign
currency exchange rates of approximately $22 million. As a percentage of net sales, our SG&A
expenses were flat with 2008.

In 2008, our SG&A expenses decreased by $320 million, or 11 percent, as compared to 2007. The
decrease in our SG&A expenses related primarily to lower head count and spending resulting from our
2007 Restructuring plan, as well as a reduction of $160 million attributable to our first quarter
2008 divestiture of certain non-strategic businesses. Refer to the

Restructuring Initiatives

section for more discussion of these initiatives.

Research and Development (R&D) Expenses

Our investment in R&D reflects spending on new product development programs, as well as regulatory
compliance and clinical research. In 2009, our R&D expenses increased $29 million, or three
percent, as compared to 2008. As a percentage of net sales, our R&D expenses in 2009 were
relatively flat with 2008. We remain committed to advancing medical technologies and investing in
meaningful research and development projects across our businesses in order to maintain a healthy
pipeline of new products that will contribute to our short- and long-term profitable sales growth.

In 2008, our R&D expenses decreased by $85 million, or eight percent, as compared to 2007. As a
percentage of our net sales, R&D expenses decreased to 12.5 percent in 2008 from 13.1 percent in
2007. The decrease related primarily to lower head count and spending of $75 million resulting from
our first quarter 2008 divestiture of certain non-strategic businesses.

Royalty Expense

In 2009, our royalty expense decreased $12 million, or six percent, as compared to 2008. The
decrease was primarily the result of a reduction in royalty expense of $29 million attributable to
the expiration of a CRM royalty agreement during the first quarter of 2009. Partially offsetting
this decrease was an increase in royalty expense of $20 million as a result of an increase in sales
of our drug-eluting stent systems, as well as the shift in the mix of our drug-eluting stent system
sales towards the PROMUS

®

stent system, following its launch in the U.S. in mid-2008. The royalty
rate applied to sales of the PROMUS

®

stent system is, on average, higher than that associated with
sales of our TAXUS

®

stent system.

In 2008, our royalty expense increased by $1 million, or less than one percent, as compared to
2007. As a percentage of our net sales, royalty expense increased slightly to 2.5 percent from 2.4
percent for 2007.



Royalty expense attributable to sales of our drug-eluting stent systems increased $8 million as
compared to 2007, despite an overall decrease in drug-eluting stent system sales. This was due to a
shift in the mix of our drug-eluting stent system sales towards the PROMUS

®

stent system.
Offsetting this increase was a decrease in royalty expense of $6 million attributable to our first
quarter 2008 divestiture of certain non-strategic businesses.

Loss on Program Termination

In the second quarter of 2009, we cancelled one of our internal R&D programs in order to focus on
those with a higher likelihood of success. As a result, we recorded a pre-tax loss of $16 million,
in accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards
Codification

Ô

(ASC) Topic 420,

Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations

(formerly FASB Statement
No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities),

associated with future
payments that we believe we remain contractually obligated to make. We continue to focus on
developing new technologies that will contribute to profitable sales growth in the future and do
not believe that the cancellation of this program will have a material adverse impact on our future
results of operations or cash flows.

Amortization Expense

Our amortization expense was $511 million in 2009, as compared to $543 million in 2008, a decrease
of $32 million or six percent. This decrease was due primarily to the impact of certain
Interventional Cardiology-related intangible assets reaching the end of their accounting useful
life during 2008, as well as the write-down of certain intangible assets to their fair values in
2009 and 2008, described in

Other Intangible Asset Impairment Charges

below.

Our amortization expense was $543 million in 2008, as compared to $620 million in 2007, a decrease
of $77 million, or 12 percent. The decrease in our amortization expense related primarily to the
disposal of $581 million of amortizable intangible assets in connection with our first quarter 2008
business divestitures, and to certain Interventional Cardiology-related intangible assets reaching
the end of their accounting useful life.

Goodwill Impairment Charges

In 2008, we recorded goodwill impairment charges of $2.613 billion associated with our acquisition
of Guidant Corporation. Refer to

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

and

Note E -Goodwill
and Other Intangible Assets

to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this
Annual Report for more information.

Other Intangible Asset Impairment Charges

In 2009, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $12 million, associated primarily with
lower than anticipated market penetration of one of our Urology technology offerings. We do not
believe that these impairments will have a material impact on our future operations or cash flows.
Refer to

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

and

Note E -Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets

to our consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more
information.

In 2008, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $177 million, including a $131 million
write-down of certain of our Peripheral Interventions-related intangible assets, and a $46 million
write-down of certain Urology-related intangible assets. We do not believe that the write-down of
these assets will have a material impact on future operations or cash flows. Refer to

Critical
Accounting Policies and Estimates

and

Note E -Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

to our
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.



In 2007, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $21 million associated with our
acquisition of Advanced Stent Technologies (AST), due to our decision to suspend further
significant funding with respect to the Petal™ bifurcation stent. We do not expect this decision to
materially impact our future operations or cash flows. Refer to

Critical Accounting Policies and
Estimates

and

Note E -Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

to our consolidated financial statements
included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

Acquisition-related Milestone

In connection with Abbott’s 2006 acquisition of Guidant’s vascular intervention and endovascular
solutions businesses, Abbott agreed to pay us a milestone payment of $250 million upon receipt of
FDA approval to sell an everolimus-eluting stent in the U.S. In July 2008, Abbott received FDA
approval and launched its XIENCE V

®

everolimus-eluting coronary stent system in the U.S., and paid
us $250 million, which we recorded as a gain in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations. Under the terms of the agreement, we were also entitled to receive a second milestone
payment of $250 million from Abbott upon receipt of an approval from the Japanese MHLW to market
the XIENCE V

®

stent system in Japan. The MHLW approved the XIENCE V

®

stent system in the first
quarter in 2010 and we subsequently received the milestone payment from Abbott, which we will
record as a gain in our financial statements for the quarter ending March 31, 2010.

Purchased Research and Development

As of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

(codified within
ASC Topic 805,

Business Combinations

), a replacement for Statement No. 141. Additionally, Statement
No. 141(R) superseded FASB Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business
Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method

, which required research and development assets
acquired in a business combination that had no alternative future use to be measured at their fair
values and expensed at the acquisition date. Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) requires that
purchased research and development acquired in a business combination be recognized as an
indefinite-lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the associated research
and development efforts. During 2009, we did not consummate any material business combinations. For
any future business combinations that we enter, we will recognize purchased research and
development as an intangible asset.

Our policy is to record certain costs associated with strategic alliances as purchased research and
development. Our adoption of Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) did not change this policy with
respect to asset purchases. In accordance with this policy, during 2009, we recorded purchased
research and development charges of $21 million in conjunction with entering certain licensing and
development arrangements. Since the 2009 technology purchases did not involve the transfer of
processes or outputs as defined by Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805), the transactions did not
qualify as business combinations.

In 2008, we recorded $43 million of purchased research and development charges, including $17
million associated with our acquisition of Labcoat, Ltd., $8 million attributable to our
acquisition of CryoCor, Inc., and $18 million associated with entering certain licensing and
development arrangements. The in-process research and development associated with our acquisition
of Labcoat, Ltd. related to a novel technology Labcoat is developing for coating drug-eluting
stents. The in-process research and development associated with CryoCor represents cryogenic
technology for use in the treatment of atrial fibrillation, the most common and difficult to treat
cardiac arrhythmia (abnormal heartbeat). We intend to use this technology in order to further
pursue therapeutic solutions for atrial fibrillation and advance our existing CRM and
Electrophysiology product lines.

In 2007, we recorded $85 million of purchased research and development, including $75 million
associated with our acquisition of Remon Medical Technologies, Inc., $13 million resulting from the
application of equity method accounting for one of our strategic investments, and $12 million
associated



with payments made for certain early-stage CRM technologies. Additionally, in June 2007, we
terminated our product development agreement with Aspect Medical Systems relating to brain
monitoring technology that Aspect was developing to aid the diagnosis and treatment of depression,
Alzheimer’s disease and other neurological conditions. As a result, we recognized a credit to
purchased research and development of approximately $15 million during 2007, representing future
payments that we would have been obligated to make prior to the termination of the agreement. We do
not expect the termination of the agreement to impact our future operations or cash flows
materially. The in-process research and development acquired with Remon consists of a
pressure-sensing system development project, which we intend to combine with our existing CRM
devices. As of December 31, 2009, we estimate that the total cost to complete the development
project is between $75 million and $80 million. We expect to launch devices using pressure-sensing
technology in 2013 in our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries, in the U.S. in 2016,
and Japan in 2017, subject to regulatory approvals. We expect material net cash inflows from such
products to commence in 2016, following the launch of this technology in the U.S.

Gain on Divestitures

During 2008, we recorded a $250 million gain in connection with the sale of our Fluid Management
and Venous Access businesses and our TriVascular EVAR program. Refer to the

Restructuring
Initiatives

section and

Note F — Divestitures

to our consolidated financial statements included in
Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information on these transactions.

Loss on Assets Held for Sale

During 2007, we recorded a $560 million loss attributable primarily to the write-down of goodwill
in connection with the sale of certain of our non-strategic businesses. Refer to the

Restructuring
Initiatives

section and

Note F — Divestitures

to our consolidated financial statements included in
Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information on these transactions.

Restructuring

In October 2007, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, an expense and head count
reduction plan (the 2007 Restructuring plan), which resulted in the elimination of approximately
2,300 positions worldwide. We are providing affected employees with severance packages,
outplacement services and other appropriate assistance and support. The plan is intended to bring
expenses in line with revenues as part of our initiatives to enhance short- and long-term
shareholder value. Key activities under the plan include the restructuring of several businesses,
corporate functions and product franchises in order to better utilize resources, strengthen
competitive positions, and create a more simplified and efficient business model; the elimination,
suspension or reduction of spending on certain research and development projects; and the transfer
of certain production lines among facilities. We initiated these activities in the fourth quarter
of 2007. The transfer of production lines contemplated under the 2007 Restructuring plan will
continue throughout 2010; all other major activities under the plan were completed as of December
31, 2009.

We expect that the execution of this plan will result in total pre-tax expenses of approximately
$425 million to $435 million. We have recorded related costs of $407 million since the inception of
the plan, and are recording a portion of these expenses as restructuring charges and the remaining
portion through other lines within our consolidated statements of operations. We expect the plan to
result in cash payments of approximately $375 million to $385 million, of which we have made
payments of $330 million to date. The following provides a summary of our expected total costs
associated with the plan by major type of cost:



Total estimated amount expected to

Type of cost

be incurred

Restructuring charges:

Termination benefits

$205 million to $210 million

Fixed asset write-offs

$31 million

Other (1)

$65 million

Restructuring-related expenses:

Retention incentives

$66 million

Accelerated depreciation

$18 million

Transfer costs (2)

$40 million to $45 million

$425 million to $435 million

(1)

Consists primarily of consulting fees, contractual cancellations,
relocation costs and other costs.

(2)

Consists primarily of costs to transfer product lines among
facilities, including costs of transfer teams, freight and product
line validations.

As a result of the execution of our 2007 Restructuring plan and our divestiture-related
initiatives, we reduced research and development and SG&A expenses by an annualized run rate of
approximately $500 million exiting 2008. In addition, we expect annualized run-rate reductions of
manufacturing costs of approximately $35 million to $40 million as a result of our transfers of
production lines. Due to the longer-term nature of these initiatives, we do not expect to achieve
the full benefit of these reductions in manufacturing costs until 2012. We have partially
reinvested our savings from these initiatives into targeted head count increases, primarily in
customer-facing positions, to drive future sales growth.

In addition, in January 2009, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a Plant Network
Optimization program, which is intended to simplify our manufacturing plant structure by
transferring certain production lines among facilities and by closing certain other facilities. The
program is a complement to our 2007 Restructuring plan, and is intended to improve overall
gross profit margins. Activities under the Plant Network Optimization program were initiated in the
first quarter of 2009 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2011. We estimate
that the program will result in annual reductions of manufacturing costs of approximately
$65 million to $80 million in 2012. These savings are in addition to the estimated $35 million to
$40 million of annual reductions of manufacturing costs in 2012 from activities under our 2007
Restructuring plan.

We expect that the execution of the Plant Network Optimization program will result in total pre-tax
charges of approximately $135 million to $150 million, and that approximately $115 million to
$125 million of these charges will result in future cash outlays. The following provides a summary
of our estimates of costs associated with the Plant Network Optimization program by major type of
cost:

Total estimated amount expected to

Type of cost

be incurred

Restructuring charges:

Termination benefits

$40 million to $45 million

Restructuring-related expenses:

Accelerated depreciation

$20 million to $25 million

Transfer costs (1)

$75 million to $80 million

$135 million to $150 million

(1)

Consists primarily of costs to transfer product lines among
facilities, including costs of transfer teams, freight, idle
facility and product line validations.



We recorded restructuring charges of $63 million in 2009, $78 million in 2008 and $176 million in
2007. In addition, we recorded expenses within other lines of our accompanying consolidated
statements of operations related to our restructuring initiatives of $67 million in 2009, $55
million in 2008, and $8 million in 2007. The following presents these costs by major type and line
item within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations:

Year Ended December 31, 2009

Termination

Retention

Accelerated

Transfer

Fixed Asset

(in millions)

Benefits

Incentives

Depreciation

Costs

Write-offs

Other

Total

Restructuring charges

$


$


$


$


Restructuring-related expenses:

Cost of products sold

$


$


$



Selling, general and
administrative expenses





Research and development
expenses








$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Year Ended December 31, 2008

Termination

Retention

Accelerated

Transfer

Fixed Asset

(in millions)

Benefits

Incentives

Depreciation

Costs

Write-offs

Other

Total

Restructuring charges

$


$


$


$


Restructuring-related expenses:

Cost of products sold

$


$


$


$


Selling, general and
administrative expenses




Research and development
expenses



$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Year Ended December 31, 2007

Termination

Retention

Accelerated

Transfer

Fixed Asset

(in millions)

Benefits

Incentives

Depreciation

Costs

Write-offs

Other

Total

Restructuring charges

$


$


$


$


Restructuring-related expenses:

Cost of products sold

$


$


$


Selling, general and
administrative expenses




Research and development
expenses



$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Restructuring and restructuring-related costs recorded in 2008 and 2007 relate entirely to our
2007 Restructuring plan. Costs recorded in 2009 by plan were as follows:

Termination

Retention

Accelerated

Transfer

Fixed Asset

(in millions)

Benefits

Incentives

Depreciation

Costs

Write-offs

Other

Total

2007 Restructuring plan

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Plant Network
Optimization program





$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Termination benefits represent amounts incurred pursuant to our on-going benefit arrangements
and amounts for “one-time” involuntary termination benefits, and have been recorded in accordance
with ASC Topic 712,

Compensation — Non-retirement Postemployment Benefits

(formerly FASB Statement
No. 112,

Employer’s Accounting for Postemployment Benefits)

and ASC Topic 420 —

Exit or Disposal
Cost Obligations

(formerly FASB Statement No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or
Disposal Activities).

We expect to record the additional termination benefits in 2010 when we
identify with more specificity the job classifications, functions and locations of the remaining
head count to be eliminated. Retention



incentives represent cash incentives, which are being recorded over the service period during which
eligible employees must remain employed with us in order to retain the payment. Other restructuring
costs, which represent primarily consulting fees, are being recognized and measured at their fair
value in the period in which the liability is incurred in accordance with Topic 420. Accelerated
depreciation is being recorded over the adjusted remaining useful life of the related assets, and
production line transfer costs are being recorded as incurred.

We have incurred cumulative restructuring charges of $317 million and restructuring-related costs
of $130 million since we committed to each plan. The following presents these costs by major type
and by plan:


Plant

Restructuring

Network

(in millions)

Plan

Optimization

Total

Termination benefits

$


$


$


Fixed asset write-offs



Other



Total restructuring charges



$


Retention incentives



Accelerated depreciation




Transfer costs




Other



Restructuring-related expenses




$


$


$


In 2009, we made cash payments of approximately $100 million associated with restructuring
initiatives pursuant to our 2007 Restructuring plan, which related to termination benefits,
production line transfer costs and other restructuring costs. We have made cumulative cash payments
of approximately $330 million since we committed to the 2007 Restructuring plan. These payments
were made using cash generated from our operations. We expect to record the remaining costs
associated with the 2007 Restructuring plan through 2010, and make future cash payments throughout
2010 using cash generated from operations. In 2009, since the inception of our Plant Network
Optimization program, we have made associated cash payments of $12 million. These payments were
made using cash generated from our operations. We expect to record the remaining costs associated
with the Plant Network Optimization program through 2011, and make future cash payments through
2012 using cash generated from operations.

Further, on February 6, 2010, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a series of
management changes and restructuring initiatives (the 2010 Restructuring plan) designed to
strengthen and position us for long-term success. We estimate that the execution of this plan will
result in reductions in pre-tax operating expenses of approximately $200 million to $250 million,
once completed in 2011. We will reinvest a portion of the savings into customer facing and other
activities to help drive future sales growth and support the business. Key activities under the
plan include the integration of our Cardiovascular and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring
of certain other businesses and corporate functions; the centralization of our R&D organization;
the re-alignment of our international structure, and the reprioritization and diversification of
our product portfolio, in order to drive innovation, accelerate profitable growth and increase both
accountability and shareholder value. Activities under the 2010 Restructuring plan will be
initiated in early 2010 and are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2011.

We estimate that the 2010 Restructuring plan will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately
$180 million to $200 million, and that approximately $170 million to $190 million of these charges
will result in future cash outlays. We expect the execution of the plan will result in the
elimination of approximately



1,000 to 1,300 positions by the end of 2011. The following provides a summary of our expected total
costs associated with the plan by major type of cost:

Type of Cost

Total Expected Amounts

Restructuring charges:

Termination benefits

$115 million to $125 million

Asset write-offs

$5 million

Other (1)

$35 million to $40 million

Restructuring-related expenses:

Other (2)

$25 million to $30 million

$180 million to $200 million

(1)

Includes primarily consulting fees and costs associated with contractual
cancellations

(2)

Comprised of other costs directly related to restructuring plan, including accelerated
depreciation and infrastructure-related costs

Litigation-Related Charges

We record certain significant litigation-related activity as a separate line item in our
consolidated statements of operations. In 2009, we recorded litigation-related charges of $2.022
billion, associated primarily with an agreement to settle three patent disputes with Johnson &
Johnson for $1.725 billion, plus interest. In addition, in November 2009, we reached an agreement
in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to pay $296 million in order to resolve the U.S.
Government investigation of Guidant Corporation related to product advisories issued in 2005.
Further, during 2009, we recorded charges of $50 million associated with the settlement of all
outstanding litigation with Bruce Saffran, and reduced previously recorded reserves associated with
certain litigation-related matters following certain favorable court rulings, resulting in a credit
of $60 million. In 2008, we recorded litigation-related charges of $334 million as a result of a
ruling by a federal judge in a patent infringement case brought against us by Johnson & Johnson,
and, in 2007, recorded litigation-related charges of $365 million, associated with this case. Each
of these matters is discussed in

Note L — Commitments and Contingencies

to our 2009 consolidated
financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

Interest Expense

Our interest expense decreased to $407 million in 2009, as compared to $468 million in 2008. The
decrease in our interest expense was a result of a decrease in our average debt levels, due to term
loan prepayments during 2009. Partially offsetting these decreases were losses of $27 million
associated with the early termination of interest rate contracts for which there was no longer an
underlying exposure following the prepayment of our remaining term loan debt obligations, the
write-off of $7 million of debt issuance costs following the prepayment of our term loan, and a
slight increase in our average borrowing rate. Our average borrowing rate was 6.1 percent in 2009
and 6.0 percent in 2008. Refer to the

Liquidity and Capital Resources

section and

Note I —
Borrowings and Credit Arrangements

to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of
this Annual Report for information regarding our debt obligations.

Our interest expense decreased to $468 million in 2008 as compared to $570 million in 2007. The
decrease in our interest expense related primarily to a decrease in our average debt levels, due to
debt prepayments of $1.425 billion during the year, as well as a decrease in our average borrowing
rate. Our average borrowing rate was 6.0 percent for 2008 and 6.3 percent in 2007.



Other, net

Our other, net reflected expense of $7 million in 2009, expense of $58 million in 2008, and income
of $15 million in 2007. The following are the components of other, net:

Year Ended December 31,

(in millions)




Interest income

$


$


$


Foreign currency (losses) gains

(5

)



Net gains (losses) on investments and notes receivable


(93

)

(54

)

Fair value adjustment for sharing of proceeds feature
of the Abbott Laboratories stock purchase

(8

)

Other expense, net

(12

)

(17

)

(19

)

$

(7

)

$

(58

)

$


Other, net included interest income of $7 million in 2009, $47 million in 2008, and $79
million in 2007. Our interest income decreased in 2009, as compared to 2008, and in 2008, as
compared to 2007, due primarily to lower average investment rates available in the market, as well
as lower average cash balances. In addition, other, net included net gains of $3 million in 2009,
and net losses of $93 million in 2008 and $54 million in 2007, associated with our investment
portfolio. These gains and losses relate primarily to the sale of our non-strategic investments,
described in

Note G- Divestitures

to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of
this Annual Report.

In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Guidant Corporation and related transaction with Abbott
Laboratories, Abbott was required to sell its shares of our common stock and apply a portion of the
net proceeds from its sale of these shares in excess of specified amounts, if any, to reduce the
principal amount of the loan granted to us from Abbott as part of the Guidant transaction. We
recorded the fair value of this ‘sharing of proceeds’ feature, determined using a Monte Carlo
simulation methodology, as of the acquisition date and revalued the instrument each subsequent
reporting period. As a result, we recorded net expense of $8 million during 2007 to reflect a
decrease in fair value resulting from changes in our stock price, among other factors. There was no
fair value associated with this feature as of December 31, 2009 or 2008, and all underlying shares
of our common stock have been sold by Abbott.

Tax Rate

The following provides a summary of our reported tax rate:

Percentage

Point Increase (Decrease)






vs. 2008

vs. 2007

Reported tax rate

(21.6

)%

0.2

%

(13.0

)%

(21.8

)%

13.2

%

Impact of certain
charges

39.1

%

18.9

%

25.6

%

20.2

%

(6.7

)%

In 2009, the decrease in our reported tax rate, as compared to 2008, related primarily to the
impact of certain items that are taxed at different rates than our effective tax rate. In 2009,
these amounts included litigation-related net charges, intangible asset impairment charges,
purchased research and development and restructuring-related charges, as well as a favorable tax
ruling on a divestiture-related gain recognized in a prior period. In 2008, the increase in our
reported tax rate, as compared to 2007, related primarily to the impact of certain charges and
gains that are taxed at different rates than our effective tax rate. These amounts related
primarily to gains and losses associated with the divestiture of certain non-strategic businesses
and investments, goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges, litigation-related charges, and
changes in the geographic mix of our net sales.



As of December 31, 2009, we had $1.038 billion of gross
unrecognized tax benefits, of which a net $885 million, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.107
billion of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which a net $945 million, if recognized, would affect our
effective tax rate.

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of multiple state and foreign
jurisdictions. We have concluded all U.S. federal income tax matters through 2000 and substantially
all material state, local, and foreign income tax matters through 2001. During 2009, we received
the Revenue Agent’s Report for our federal tax examination covering years 2004 and 2005, which
contained proposed adjustments, related primarily to transfer pricing and transaction-related
issues. We agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $64 million, inclusive of
interest. We disagree with certain positions contained in the Report and intend to contest these
positions through applicable IRS and judicial procedures, as appropriate. We also continue to
disagree with and contest the significant proposed adjustment, related primarily to the allocation
of income between our US and foreign affiliates, contained in the Revenue Agent’s Report received
in 2008 for Guidant’s federal tax examination covering years 2001 through 2003. Although the final
resolution associated with these matters is uncertain, we believe that our income tax reserves are
adequate and that the resolution will not have a material impact on our financial condition or
results of operations.

During 2009, the Obama administration announced several legislative proposals to reform the United
States tax rules, including provisions that may limit the deferral of United States income tax on
our unremitted earnings, reduce or eliminate our ability to claim foreign tax credits, and
eliminate various tax deductions until foreign earnings are repatriated to the U.S. If any of these
proposals are enacted into law, they could have a material adverse impact on our financial position
and results of operations.

Liquidity and Capital Resources

The following provides a summary and description of our cash inflows (outflows) for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:

Year Ended December 31,

(in millions)




Cash provided by operating activities

$


$

1,216

$


Cash (used for) provided by investing
activities

(793

)


(474

)

Cash used for financing activities

(820

)

(1,350

)

(680

)

Operating Activities

Cash generated by our operating activities continues to be a major source of funds for
servicing our outstanding debt obligations and investing in our growth. The decrease in our
operating cash flow in 2009, as compared to 2008, is due primarily to litigation-related payments
of $823 million, associated primarily with patent litigation with Johnson & Johnson. Refer to

Note
L — Commitments and Contingencies

to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of
this Annual Report for discussion of our legal proceedings. These cash outflows were partially
offset by lower net tax payments of $370 million; and lower interest payments of $50 million, due
to lower average debt balances, as well as improvements in working capital, particularly the strong
collection of accounts receivable.

The increase in operating cash flow in 2008, as compared to 2007, is due primarily to the receipt
of a $250 million milestone payment from Abbott following the July 2008 FDA approval of the XIENCE
V

®

everolimus-eluting coronary stent system. In addition, we made lower interest payments of $129
million in 2008, as compared to 2007, due to lower average debt balances. These increases were
partially offset by $187 million of payments made in 2008 towards the Guidant multi-district
litigation (MDL) settlement, described in

Note L

.



Investing Activities

During 2009, our investing activities included $523 million of payments related to prior period
acquisitions, comprised primarily of a final fixed payment of approximately $500 million related to
our prior period acquisition of Advanced Bionics Corporation, described in

Note D — Acquisitions

to
our accompanying consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report. Our
investing activities in 2009 also included payments for investments in privately held companies,
and acquisitions of businesses and certain technology rights of $54 million, which were offset by
proceeds from the sale of investments in, and collection of notes receivable from, certain publicly
traded and privately held companies, of $91 million. Further, we made capital expenditures of
$312 million during 2009. We expect to incur total capital expenditures of approximately
$350 million to $400 million during 2010, which includes capital expenditures to further upgrade
our quality systems and information systems infrastructure, and to enhance our manufacturing
capabilities to support continued growth in our business units.

During 2008, our investing activities included proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion associated
with the divestiture of certain businesses, $149 million of proceeds associated with the sale of
investments and collections of notes receivable. These cash inflows were partially offset by $675
million in payments related to prior period acquisitions, associated primarily with Advanced
Bionics; and $39 million of net cash payments for investments in privately held companies, and
acquisitions of certain technology rights. In addition, we paid $21 million, net of cash acquired,
to acquire CryoCor, Inc. and $17 million, net of cash acquired, to acquire Labcoat, Ltd. Refer to

Note G — Investments and Notes Receivable

and

Note D — Acquisitions

to our consolidated financial
statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Further, our 2008
investing activities included capital expenditures of $362 million.

During 2007, our investing activities included $248 million of payments related to prior period
acquisitions, associated primarily with Advanced Bionics; and $53 million of cash payments for
investments in privately held companies, and acquisitions of certain technology rights. Further, we
paid approximately $70 million, net of cash acquired, to acquire Remon Medical Technologies, Inc.
We also issued approximately five million shares of our common stock valued at approximately $90
million and paid $10 million in cash, in addition to our previous investments of $40 million, to
acquire the remaining interests of EndoTex Interventional Systems, Inc. These cash outflows were
partially offset by $243 million of gross proceeds from the sale of several of our investments in,
and collection of notes receivable from, certain privately held and publicly traded companies.
Refer to

Note G — Investments and Notes Receivable

and

Note D — Acquisitions

to our consolidated
financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information. Further, our
2007 investing activities included capital expenditures of $363 million.

Financing Activities

Our cash flows from financing activities reflect issuances and repayments of debt and proceeds from
stock issuances related to our equity incentive programs.

Debt

In 2009, we issued $2.0 billion of senior notes and received net proceeds of $1.972 billion. We
used these proceeds, as well as cash generated from operations, to prepay all $2.825 billion
remaining under our term loan. We also prepaid $1.175 billion of our term loan debt in 2008. The
following is a summary of our net debt


position as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:


Management uses net debt to monitor and evaluate cash and debt levels and
believes it is a measure that provides valuable information regarding our net financial position
and interest rate exposure. Users of our financial statements should
consider this non-GAAP financial information in addition to, not as a substitute for, nor as superior to, financial information prepared in
accordance with GAAP.



As of December 31,

(in millions)



Short-term debt

$


$


Long-term debt

5,915

6,743

Total debt

5,918

6,745

Less: cash and cash equivalents


1,641

Net debt

$

5,054

$

5,104

Equity

During 2009, we received $33 million in proceeds from stock issuances related to our stock option
and employee stock purchase plans, as compared to $71 million in 2008 and $132 million in 2007.
Proceeds from the exercise of employee stock options and employee stock purchases vary from period
to period based upon, among other factors, fluctuations in the trading price of our common stock
and in the exercise and stock purchase patterns of employees.

We did not repurchase any of our common stock during 2009, 2008 or 2007. Approximately 37 million
shares remain under our previous share repurchase authorizations.

Contractual Obligations and Commitments

The following table provides a summary of certain information concerning our obligations and
commitments to make future payments, and is based on conditions in existence as of December 31,
2009. See

Note D — Acquisitions

and

Note I — Borrowings and Credit Arrangements

to our 2009
consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for additional
information regarding our acquisition and debt obligations.

Payments Due by Period

(in millions)






Thereafter

Total

Litigation settlements

$

1,299


$

2,049

Long-term debt obligations

1,750


3,600

5,950

Operating lease obligations (1)








Purchase obligations (1)(2)








Minimum royalty obligations (1)








Unrecognized tax benefits



Interest payments (1)






1,493

2,793

$

2,158

$

2,902

$


$


$


$

5,161

$

11,678

(1)

In accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the
United States, these obligations relate to expenses associated
with future periods and are not reflected in our consolidated
balance sheets.

(2)

These obligations relate primarily to non-cancellable inventory
commitments and capital expenditures entered in the normal course
of business.

The table above does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits of $1.236 billion, the timing of
which is uncertain. Refer to

Note K— Income Taxes

to our 2009 consolidated financial statements
included in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information on these unrecognized tax benefits.



Certain of our acquisitions involve the payment of contingent consideration. See

Note D -
Acquisitions

to our 2009 consolidated financial statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report
for the estimated maximum potential amount of future contingent consideration we could be required
to pay associated with our recent acquisitions. Since it is not possible to estimate when, or even
if, performance milestones will be reached, or the amount of contingent consideration payable based
on future revenues, the maximum contingent consideration has not been included in the table above.
Additionally, we may consider satisfying these commitments by issuing our stock or refinancing the
commitments with cash, including cash obtained through the sale of our stock.

Certain of our equity investments give us the option to acquire the company in the future. Since it
is not possible to estimate when, or even if, we will exercise our option to acquire these
companies, we have not included these future potential payments in the table above.

During the first quarter of 2010, we reached an agreement to settle three patent disputes with
Johnson & Johnson for $1.725 billion, plus interest. We paid $1.000 billion, consisting of $800
million of cash on hand and $200 million borrowed from our revolving credit facility, during the
first quarter of 2010 and will satisfy the remaining obligation on or before January 3, 2011. In
addition, during the first half of 2011, $1.750 billion of our
outstanding debt obligations, as well as our revolving credit facility, will
mature. We expect to refinance the majority of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit
facility by mid-2010.

As of
December 31, 2009, we had outstanding letters of credit of
$123 million, as compared to $819 million as of December 31, 2008, which consisted primarily of bank guarantees
and collateral for workers’ compensation programs. The decrease is due primarily to the payment of
$716 million to Johnson & Johnson during 2009 and the termination of an associated letter of
credit. In February 2010, we posted a $745 million letter of credit under our $1.750 billion
revolving credit facility as collateral for the future Johnson and Johnson obligation discussed
above, which reduces availability under the facility by the same amount. See

Note L — Commitments
and Contingencies

to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual
Report for a description of these legal proceedings. As of December 31, 2009, none of the
beneficiaries had drawn upon the letters of credit or guarantees, and, as of December 31, 2009 and
2008, we had accrued the Johnson & Johnson obligations in our consolidated financial statements.
Accordingly, we have not recognized a related liability for our outstanding letters of credit in
our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 or 2008. We believe we will generate
sufficient cash from operations to fund these payments without drawing on the letters of credit. We
also maintain a $350 million credit and security facility secured by our U.S. trade receivables. As
of December 31, 2009, we had $54 million of letters of credit outstanding under our revolving
credit facility. There were no other amounts borrowed under these facilities as of December 31,
2009 or December 31, 2008.

Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates

Our financial results are affected by the selection and application of accounting policies. We have
adopted accounting policies to prepare our consolidated financial statements in conformity with
generally accepted accounting principles in the United States (U.S. GAAP). We describe these
accounting polices in

Note A—Significant Accounting Policies

to our 2009 consolidated financial
statements included in Item 8 of this Annual Report.

To prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, management makes
estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our financial statements and the
reported amounts of our revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our actual results may
differ from these estimates.



We consider estimates to be critical if (i) we are required to make assumptions about material
matters that are uncertain at the time of estimation or if (ii) materially different estimates
could have been made or it is reasonably likely that the accounting estimate will change from
period to period. The following are areas requiring management’s judgment that we consider
critical:

Revenue Recognition

We generate revenue primarily from the sale of single-use medical devices, and present revenue net
of sales taxes in our consolidated statements of operations. We consider revenue to be realized or
realizable and earned when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of a sales
arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; the price is fixed or
determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. We generally meet these criteria at the
time of shipment, unless a consignment arrangement exists or we are required to provide additional
services. We recognize revenue from consignment arrangements based on product usage, or implant,
which indicates that the sale is complete. For our other transactions, we recognize revenue when
our products are delivered and risk of loss transfers to the customer, provided there are no
substantive remaining performance obligations required of us or any matters requiring customer
acceptance, and provided we can form an estimate for sales returns. For multiple-element
arrangements where the sale of devices is combined with future service obligations, as with our
LATITUDE

®

Patient Management System, we defer revenue on the undelivered element based on
verifiable objective evidence of fair value and using the residual method of allocation, and
recognize the associated revenue over the related service period.

We generally allow our customers to return defective, damaged and, in certain cases, expired
products for credit. We base our estimate for sales returns upon historical trends and record the
amount as a reduction to revenue when we sell the initial product. In addition, we may allow
customers to return previously purchased products for next-generation product offerings; for these
transactions, we defer recognition of revenue based upon an estimate of the amount of product to be
returned when the next-generation products are shipped to the customer.

We offer sales rebates and discounts to certain customers. We treat sales rebates and discounts as
a reduction of revenue and classify the corresponding liability as current. We estimate rebates for
products where there is sufficient historical information available to predict the volume of
expected future rebates. If we are unable to estimate the expected rebates reasonably, we record a
liability for the maximum rebate percentage offered. We have entered certain agreements with group
purchasing organizations to sell our products to participating hospitals at negotiated prices. We
recognize revenue from these agreements following the same revenue recognition criteria discussed
above.

Warranty Obligations

We estimate the costs that we may incur under our warranty programs based on historical experience.
We record a liability equal to the costs to repair or otherwise satisfy the claim as cost of
products sold at the time the product sale occurs. Factors that affect our warranty liability
include the number of units sold, the historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and the
cost per claim. We assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty liabilities on a quarterly basis
and adjust the amounts as necessary.

Inventory Provisions

We base our provisions for excess and obsolete inventory primarily on our estimates of forecasted
net sales. A significant change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to
forecasted amounts may result in recording additional provisions for excess and obsolete inventory
in the future. The industry in which we participate is characterized by rapid product development
and frequent new product introductions. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals,
variability in product



launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our estimates
related to excess and obsolete inventory.

Valuation of Business Combinations

We record intangible assets acquired in business combinations under the purchase method of
accounting. We allocate the amounts we pay for each acquisition to the assets we acquire and
liabilities we assume based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition, including
identifiable intangible assets and purchased research and development which either arise from a
contractual or legal right or are separable from goodwill. We base the fair value of identifiable
intangible assets and purchased research and development on detailed valuations that use
information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimates of
inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price
over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired to goodwill.
The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated cash flows and discount rates,
and alternative estimated useful life assumptions could result in different purchase price
allocations, amounts for purchased research and development, and intangible asset amortization expense
in current and future periods.

As of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

(codified within
ASC Topic 805,

Business Combinations

). Pursuant to the guidance in Statement No. 141(R) (Topic
805), in those circumstances where an acquisition involves contingent consideration, we would
recognize a liability equal to the fair value of the contingent payment at the acquisition date.
For acquisitions consummated prior to January 1, 2009, we will continue to record contingent
consideration as an additional element of cost of the acquired entity when the contingency is
resolved and consideration is issued or becomes issuable.

Purchased Research and Development

Our purchased research and development represents the value of acquired in-process projects that
have not yet reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future uses as of the date
of acquisition. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects
is obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products in an applicable geographic
region. Through December 31, 2008 we expensed the value attributable to these in-process projects
at the time of the acquisition in accordance with accounting standards effective through that date.
As discussed above, as of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R),

Business
Combinations

(codified within ASC Topic 805,

Business Combinations

), a replacement for Statement
No. 141. Statement No. 141(R) also superseded FASB Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability of FASB
Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method

, which required
research and development assets acquired in a business combination that had no alternative future
use to be measured at their fair values and expensed at the acquisition date. Statement No. 141(R)
(Topic 805) requires that purchased research and development acquired in a business combination be
recognized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the
associated research and development efforts. During 2009, we did not consummate any material
business combinations. For any future business combinations that we enter, we will recognize
purchased research and development as an intangible asset.

In addition, we record certain costs associated with strategic alliances as purchased research and
development. Our adoption of Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) did not change this policy with
respect to asset purchases.

We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our purchased research and development.
This approach calculates fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an
in-process project over its useful life and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a
present value. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected
market growth rates,



expected trends in technology and expected levels of market share. In arriving at the value of the
in-process projects, we consider, among other factors: the in-process projects’ stage of
completion; the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date; the costs already
incurred; the projected costs to complete; the contribution of core technologies and other acquired
assets; the expected introduction date; and the estimated useful life of the technology. We base
the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as of the date of acquisition on the time value
of money and medical technology investment risk factors. For the in-process projects acquired in
connection with our recent acquisitions, we used risk-adjusted discount rates of 34 percent in 2008
and 19 percent in 2007 to discount our projected cash flows. We believe that the estimated
in-process research and development amounts so determined represent the fair value at the date of
acquisition and do not exceed the amount a third party would pay for the projects. However, if the
projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the financial
benefits expected for these projects or for the acquisition as a whole.

Impairment of Intangible Assets

We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse
conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a
change in the remaining useful life. In addition, we test our indefinite-lived intangible assets at
least annually for impairment and reassess their classification as indefinite-lived assets.
Conditions that may indicate impairment include, but are not limited to, a significant adverse
change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, a product
recall, or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If an impairment indicator exists, we
test the intangible asset for recoverability. For purposes of the recoverability test, we group
our amortizable intangible assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level of
identifiable cash flows if the intangible asset does not generate cash flows independent of other
assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of the intangible asset (asset group) exceeds the
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the intangible
asset (asset group), we will write the carrying value down to the fair value in the period
identified. To test our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we calculate the fair
value of these assets and compare the calculated fair values to the respective carrying values.
If the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, we write the
carrying value down to the fair value.

We generally calculate fair value of our intangible assets as the present value of estimated future
cash flows we expect to generate from the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. In determining
our estimated future cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we use estimates and
assumptions about future revenue contributions, cost structures and remaining useful lives of the
asset (asset group). The use of alternative assumptions, including estimated cash flows, discount
rates, and alternative estimated remaining useful lives could result in different calculations of
impairment. See

Note E — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

for more information related to
impairment of intangible assets during 2009, 2008 and 2007.

For patents developed internally, we capitalize costs incurred to obtain patents, including
attorney fees, registration fees, consulting fees, and other expenditures directly related to
securing the patent. Legal costs incurred in connection with the successful defense of both
internally developed patents and those obtained through our acquisitions are capitalized and
amortized over the remaining amortizable life of the related patent.

Goodwill Impairment

We test our April 1 goodwill balances during the second quarter of each year for impairment, or
more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may
exist. In performing the assessment, we utilize the two-step approach prescribed under ASC Topic
350,

Intangibles-Goodwill and Other

(formerly FASB Statement No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets).

The first step requires a comparison of the carrying value of the reporting units, as
defined, to the fair value of



these units. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit level, which is defined as an
operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred to as a component. We determine
our reporting units by first identifying our operating segments, and then assess whether any
components of these segments constitute a business for which discrete financial information is
available and where segment management regularly reviews the operating results of that component.
We aggregate components within an operating segment that have similar economic characteristics. For
our April 1, 2009 annual impairment assessment, we identified our reporting units to be our six
U.S. operating segments, which in aggregate make up the U.S. reportable segment, and our four
international operating segments. When allocating goodwill from business combinations to our
reporting units, we assign goodwill to the reporting units that we expect to benefit from the
respective business combination at the time of acquisition. In addition, for purposes of performing
our annual goodwill impairment test, assets and liabilities, including corporate assets, which
relate to a reporting unit’s operations, and would be considered in determining its fair value, are
allocated to the individual reporting units. We allocate assets and liabilities not directly
related to a specific reporting unit, but from which the reporting unit benefits, based primarily
on the respective revenue contribution of each reporting unit.

During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we used only the income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow
(DCF) method, to derive the fair value of each of our reporting units in preparing our goodwill
impairment assessment. This approach calculates fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows
attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting these after-tax cash flows to a present value
using a risk-adjusted discount rate. We selected this method as being the most meaningful in
preparing our goodwill assessments because we believe the income approach most appropriately
measures our income producing assets. We have considered using the market approach and cost
approach but concluded they are not appropriate in valuing our reporting units given the lack of
relevant market comparisons available for application of the market approach and the inability to
replicate the value of the specific technology-based assets within our reporting units for
application of the cost approach. Therefore, we believe that the income approach represents the
most appropriate valuation technique for which sufficient data is available to determine the fair
value of our reporting units.

In applying the income approach to our accounting for goodwill, we make assumptions about the
amount and timing of future expected cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate
discount rates. The amount and timing of future cash flows within our DCF analysis is based on our
most recent operational budgets, long range strategic plans and other estimates. The terminal value
growth rate is used to calculate the value of cash flows beyond the last projected period in our
DCF analysis and reflects our best estimates for stable, perpetual growth of our reporting units.
We use  estimates of market participant risk-adjusted weighted-average costs of capital (WACC) as a basis for determining the
discount rates to apply to our reporting units’ future expected cash flows.

If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we then perform the second step
of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step
of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill to
its carrying value. If we were unable to complete the second step of the test prior to the issuance
of our financial statements and an impairment loss was probable and could be reasonably estimated,
we would recognize our best estimate of the loss in our current period financial statements and
disclose that the amount is an estimate. We would then recognize any adjustment to that estimate
in subsequent reporting periods, once we have finalized the second step of the impairment test.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the decline in our stock price and our market capitalization
created an indication of potential impairment of our goodwill balance. Therefore, we performed an
interim impairment test and recorded a $2.613 billion goodwill impairment charge associated with
our acquisition of Guidant Corporation. As a result of economic conditions and the related increase
in volatility in the equity and credit markets, which became more pronounced starting in the fourth
quarter of 2008, our estimated risk-adjusted WACC increased 150 basis points from 9.5 percent
during our 2008



second quarter annual goodwill impairment assessment to 11.0 percent during our 2008 fourth quarter
interim impairment assessment. This change, along with reductions in market demand for products in
our U.S. CRM reporting unit relative to our assumptions at the time of the Guidant acquisition,
were the key factors contributing to the impairment charge. Our estimated market participant WACC
decreased 50 basis points from 11.0 percent during our 2008 fourth quarter interim impairment
assessment to 10.5 percent during our 2009 second quarter annual goodwill impairment assessment,
and our other significant assumptions remained largely consistent. Our 2009 goodwill impairment
test did not identify any reporting units whose carrying values exceeded implied fair values.

The majority of our reporting units do not have a material amount of goodwill that is at risk of
failing a future impairment test.


While we do not believe there are indicators of impairment as of December 31, 2009 to necessitate the
performance of an interim impairment test, we have considered current and future expected economic
conditions as of year end and, as a result, we have identified two reporting units with a material amount
of goodwill that are at higher risk of potential failure of the first step of the impairment test in future
reporting periods.




 These reporting units include our U.S. CRM group and EMEA region, each to
which we have allocated a significant portion of the goodwill associated with our 2006 acquisition
of Guidant Corporation. The aggregate amount of goodwill allocated to
these reporting units was approximately
$7.4 billion as of December 31, 2009.   For each of these reporting units, the level of excess fair value over carrying value
exceeded 25 percent as of our second quarter 2009 impairment
assessment.

Although we use consistent methodologies in developing the assumptions and estimates underlying the
fair value calculations used in our impairment tests, these estimates are uncertain by nature and
can vary from actual results. The key variables that drive the fair value of our reporting units
are estimated revenue growth rates and discount rate assumptions. Future events that could have a
negative effect on the fair value of the reporting units include, but are not limited to:

Changes
in one or more of the factors outlined above could present a
situation whereby it   may be reasonably likely that an impairment
may occur over the next twelve months
in our U.S. CRM and EMEA reporting units.

Income Taxes

We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we
determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting
and tax bases of our assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using
the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse.

We had net deferred tax liabilities of $1.281 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $1.351 billion as
of December 31, 2008. Gross deferred tax liabilities of $2.445 billion as of December 31, 2009 and
$2.696



billion as of December 31, 2008 relate primarily to intangible assets acquired in connection with
our prior acquisitions. Gross deferred tax assets of $1.164 billion as of December 31, 2009 and
$1.345 billion as of December 31, 2008 relate primarily to the establishment of inventory and
product-related reserves, litigation and product liability reserves, purchased research and
development, investment write-downs, net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards.
In light of our historical financial performance and the extent of our deferred tax liabilities, we
believe we will recover substantially all of these assets. As of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB
Statement No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

, (codified within ASC Topic 805) which requires that we
recognize changes in acquired income tax uncertainties (applied to acquisitions before and after
the adoption date) as income tax expense or benefit. We reduce our deferred tax assets by a
valuation allowance if, based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not
that we will not realize some portion or all of the deferred tax assets. We consider relevant
evidence, both positive and negative, to determine the need for a valuation allowance. Information
evaluated includes our financial position and results of operations for the current and preceding
years, the availability of deferred tax liabilities and tax carrybacks, as well as an evaluation of
currently available information about future years.

We do not provide income taxes on unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries where we have
indefinitely reinvested such earnings in our foreign operations. It is not practical to estimate
the amount of income taxes payable on the earnings that are indefinitely reinvested in foreign
operations. Unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries that we have indefinitely reinvested
offshore are $9.355 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $9.327 billion as of December 31, 2008.

We provide for potential amounts due in various tax jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of
conducting business in multiple countries and tax jurisdictions, there are many transactions and
calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our
worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes
for all years subject to audit. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, we can make no
assurance that the final outcome of these matters will not be different from that which we have
reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a
material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which we make
such determination.

Legal, Product Liability Costs and Securities Claims

We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings, including intellectual property,
breach of contract, securities litigation and product liability suits. In some cases, the claimants
seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures or
impact our ability to sell our products. We are also the subject of certain governmental
investigations, which could result in substantial fines, penalties, and administrative remedies. We
are substantially self-insured with respect to product liability and intellectual property
infringement claims. We maintain insurance policies providing limited coverage against securities
claims. We generally record losses for claims in excess of the limits of purchased insurance in
earnings at the time and to the extent they are probable and estimable. In accordance with ASC
Topic 450,

Contingencies

(formerly FASB Statement No. 5,

Accounting for Contingencies),

we accrue
anticipated costs of settlement, damages losses for general product liability claims and, under
certain conditions, costs of defense, based on historical experience or to the extent specific
losses are probable and estimable. Otherwise, we expense these costs as incurred. If the estimate
of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the range is more likely, we accrue the minimum
amount of the range. We analyze litigation settlements to identify each element of the arrangement.
We allocate arrangement consideration to patent licenses received based on estimates of fair value,
and capitalize these amounts as assets if the license will provide an on-going future benefit. See

Note L — Commitments and Contingencies

to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8
of this Annual Report for discussion of our individual material legal proceedings.



New Accounting Standards

Standards Implemented

In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 168,

The FASB Accounting Standards Codification

Ô

and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

(codified within ASC Topic 105,

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

)

,

which establishes the FASB Accounting Standards
Codification

Ô

(ASC) as the single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP. The Codification

Ô

supersedes all previous non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. We adopted Statement No. 168
for our third quarter ended September 30, 2009 and have conformed all references to accounting
literature in this Annual Report to the appropriate reference within the Codification

Ô

. All
new authoritative guidance is issued in the form of ASC Updates. We have provided dual-referencing
for those standards that we adopted prior to the issuance of the Codification

Ô

. The adoption
of this standard did not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations.

Statement No. 165

(codified within ASC Topic 855)

In May 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 165,

Subsequent Events

(codified within ASC Topic 855,

Subsequent Events

)

,

which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events
occurring after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued or available
to be issued. We adopted Statement No. 165 for our
second quarter ended June 30, 2009. Its adoption did not impact our results of operations or
financial condition. Refer to

Note A — Significant Accounting Policies

to our consolidated
financial statements contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information regarding our
evaluation of subsequent events.

Statement No. 161

(codified within ASC Topic 815)

In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities

, (codified within ASC Topic 815,

Derivatives and Hedging

), which amends
Statement No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

, by requiring
expanded disclosures about an entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities. Statement No.
161 requires increased qualitative, quantitative, and credit-risk disclosures, including (a) how
and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how derivative instruments and related hedged
items are accounted for under Statement No. 133 and its related interpretations, and (c) how
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial position and financial
performance. We adopted Statement No. 161 as of our first quarter ended March 31, 2009. Refer to

Note C — Fair Value Measurements

contained in Item 8 of this Annual Report for more information.

Statement No. 141(R)

(codified within ASC Topic 805)

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

(codified within ASC
Topic 805,

Business Combinations

), a replacement for Statement No. 141. Statement No. 141(R)
retains the fundamental requirements of Statement No. 141, but requires the recognition of all
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination at their fair values as of the
acquisition date. It also requires, for acquisitions involving contingent consideration, the
recognition of a liability equal to the expected fair value of future contingent payments at the
acquisition date. Additionally, Statement No. 141(R) supersedes FASB Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase
Method

, which required research and development assets acquired in a business combination that had
no alternative future use to be measured at their fair values and expensed at the acquisition date.
Statement No. 141(R) now requires that purchased research and development acquired in a business
combination be recognized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the completion or
abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. Further, Statement No. 141(R)
requires that we recognize changes in acquired income tax uncertainties (applied to acquisitions



before and after the adoption date) as income tax expense or benefit. We were required to adopt all
other provisions of Statement No. 141(R) prospectively for any acquisitions on or after January 1,
2009. We did not consummate any material business combinations during 2009.

New Standards to be Implemented

ASC Update No. 2009-13

In October 2009, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2009-13,

Revenue Recognition (Topic 605):
Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements.

The consensus in Update No. 2009-13 supersedes certain
guidance in Topic 605 (formerly EITF Issue No. 00-21,

Multiple-Element Arrangements

). Update No.
2009-13 provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables
exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the revenue in the
arrangement among those separate deliverables. Update No. 2009-13 also expands the disclosure
requirements for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. We are required to adopt Update No.
2009-13 as of January 1, 2011 and are in the process of determining the impact that the adoption of
Update No. 2009-13 will have on our future results of operations or financial position.

ASC Update No. 2009-17

In December 2009, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2009-17,

Consolidations (Topic 810) —
Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities,

which
formally codifies FASB Statement No. 167,

Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R).

Update No.
2009-17 and Statement No. 167 amends Interpretation No. 46(R),

Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities,

to require that an enterprise perform an analysis to determine whether the enterprise’s
variable interests give it a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity (VIE).
The analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise that has both 1) the
power to direct activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity’s economic
performance and 2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits
from the entity. Update No. 2009-17 eliminated the quantitative approach previously required for
determining the primary beneficiary of a VIE and requires ongoing reassessments of whether an
enterprise is the primary beneficiary. We are required to adopt Update No. 2009-17 for our first
quarter ending March 31, 2010. We do not believe the adoption of Update No. 2009-17 will have a
significant impact on our future results of operations or financial position.

Additional Information

Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plans

Periodically,
certain of our executive officers adopt written stock trading plans in accordance with Rule
10b5-1 under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and our own Stock Trading Policy. A Rule 10b5-1
Trading Plan is a written document that pre-establishes the amounts, prices and dates (or
formula(s) for determining the amounts, prices and dates) of future purchases or sales of our
stock, including the exercise and sale of stock options, and is entered into at a time when the
person is not in possession of material non-public information about the company.

On
August 18, 2009, William H. Kucheman, our Executive Vice President and  President,
Cardiology, Rhythm and Vascular Group entered into a Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plan. Mr. Kucheman’s plan covers the sale of
17,668 shares of our stock to be acquired upon the exercise of 6,000 stock options expiring on July
25, 2010 and 11,668 stock options expiring on December 6, 2010. Transactions under Mr. Kucheman’s
plan are based upon pre-established dates and stock price thresholds and will expire once all of
the shares have been sold or August 31, 2010, whichever is earlier. On August 20, 2009, 11,668
stock options were exercised



and sold in accordance with the plan at the pre-established stock price threshold.

On February 16, 2010, Kenneth J. Pucel, our Executive Vice President, Global Operations, entered
into a Rule 10b5-1 Trading Plan. Mr. Pucel’s plan covers the sale of 5,000 shares of our stock to
be acquired upon the exercise of 5,000 stock options expiring on July 25, 2010. Transactions under
Mr. Pucel’s plan are based upon pre-established dates and stock price thresholds and will expire
once all of the shares have been sold or July 26, 2010, whichever is earlier. Any transaction under
Mr. Pucel’s plan will be disclosed publicly through appropriate filings with the Securities and
Exchange Commission.



Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

As the management of Boston Scientific Corporation, we are responsible for establishing and
maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. We designed our internal control
system to provide reasonable assurance to management and the Board of Directors regarding the
preparation and fair presentation of our financial statements.

We assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,
2009. In making this assessment, we used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring
Organizations of the Treadway Commission in Internal Control—Integrated Framework. Based on our
assessment, we believe that, as of December 31, 2009, our internal control over financial reporting
is effective at a reasonable assurance level based on these criteria.

Ernst & Young LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued an audit report on
the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This report in which they
expressed an unqualified opinion is included below.

/s/
J. Raymond Elliott

J. Raymond Elliott

/s/
Sam R. Leno

Sam R. Leno

President and Chief Executive Officer

Executive Vice President — Finance
& Information Systems and Chief
Financial Officer



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Boston Scientific Corporation

We have audited Boston Scientific Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control—Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (the COSO criteria). Boston
Scientific Corporation’s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over
financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial
reporting included in the accompanying Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial
Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company’s internal control over
financial reporting based on our audit.

We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was
maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal
control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and
evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk,
and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe
that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.

A company’s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable
assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial
statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A
company’s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1)
pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the
transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that
transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance
with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company
are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company;
and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company’s assets that could have a material effect on the
financial statements.

Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or
detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are
subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that
the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.

In our opinion, Boston Scientific Corporation maintained, in all material respects, effective
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2009, based on the COSO criteria.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Boston Scientific Corporation as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008 and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009 of Boston
Scientific Corporation and our report dated February 25, 2010 expressed an unqualified opinion
thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

February 25, 2010



ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK

We develop, manufacture and sell medical devices globally and our earnings and cash flows are
exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. We address these
risks through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments.
We operate the program pursuant to documented corporate risk management policies. We do not enter
derivative transactions for speculative purposes. Gains and losses on derivative financial
instruments substantially offset losses and gains on underlying hedged exposures. Furthermore, we
manage our exposure to counterparty risk on derivative instruments by entering into contracts with
a diversified group of major financial institutions and by actively monitoring outstanding
positions.

Our currency risk consists primarily of foreign currency denominated firm commitments, forecasted
foreign currency denominated intercompany and third party transactions and net investments in
certain subsidiaries. We use both nonderivative (primarily European manufacturing operations) and
derivative instruments to manage our earnings and cash flow exposure to changes in currency
exchange rates. We had currency derivative instruments outstanding in the contract amount of $4.742
billion as of December 31, 2009 and $4.396 billion as of December 31, 2008. We recorded $56 million
of other assets and $110 million of other liabilities to recognize the fair value of these
derivative instruments as of December 31, 2009, as compared to $132 million of other assets and
$195 million of other liabilities as of December 31, 2008. A ten percent appreciation in the U.S.
dollar’s value relative to the hedged currencies would increase the derivative instruments’ fair
value by $271 million as of December 31, 2009 and $315 million as of December 31, 2008. A ten
percent depreciation in the U.S. dollar’s value relative to the hedged currencies would decrease
the derivative instruments’ fair value by $331 million as of December 31, 2009 and by $385 million
as of December 31, 2008. Any increase or decrease in the fair value of our currency exchange rate
sensitive derivative instruments would be substantially offset by a corresponding decrease or
increase in the fair value of the hedged underlying asset, liability or forecasted transaction.

Our interest rate risk relates primarily to U.S. dollar borrowings partially offset by U.S. dollar
cash investments. We have historically used interest rate derivative instruments to manage our
earnings and cash flow exposure to changes in interest rates. We had no interest rate derivative
instruments outstanding as of December 31, 2009, as compared to the notional amount of $4.900
billion outstanding as of December 31, 2008. These interest rate derivative instruments fixed the
interest rate on our expected LIBOR-indexed floating-rate loans. During 2009, these interest rate
derivative instruments either matured as scheduled or were terminated in connection with the
prepayment of our bank term loan. We recognized $27 million of interest expense related to early
termination of these interest rate contracts during 2009. We recorded $46 million of other
liabilities to recognize the fair value of our interest rate derivative instruments as of December
31, 2008. A one-percentage point increase in interest rates would have increased the derivative
instruments’ fair value by $32 million as of December 31, 2008. A one-percentage point decrease in
interest rates would have decreased the derivative instruments’ fair value by $35 million as of
December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, $5.917 billion of our outstanding debt obligations was
at fixed interest rates, representing nearly 100 percent of our total debt.

See

Note C — Fair Value Measurements

to our consolidated financial statements contained in Item 8
of this Annual Report for detailed information regarding our derivative financial instruments.



Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm

The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Boston Scientific Corporation

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Boston Scientific Corporation as of
December 31, 2009 and 2008, and the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders’
equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2009. Our
audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a). These
financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company’s management. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An
audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the
financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and
significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement
presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material
respects, the consolidated financial position of Boston Scientific Corporation at December 31, 2009
and 2008, and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three
years in the period ended December 31, 2009, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting
principles. Also in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in
relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material
respects the information set forth therein.

We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight
Board (United States), Boston Scientific Corporation’s internal control over financial reporting as
of December 31, 2009, based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued
by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated
February 25, 2010, expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.

/s/ Ernst & Young LLP

Boston, Massachusetts

February 25, 2010



ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS

Year Ended December 31,

(in millions, except per share data)




Net sales

$

8,188

$

8,050

$

8,357

Cost of products sold

2,576

2,469

2,342

Gross profit

5,612

5,581

6,015

Operating expenses:

Selling, general and administrative expenses

2,635

2,589

2,909

Research and development expenses

1,035

1,006

1,091

Royalty expense




Loss on program termination


Amortization expense




Goodwill impairment charges

2,613

Other intangible asset impairment charges




Purchased research and development




Acquisition-related milestone

(250

)

Gain on divestitures

(250

)

Loss on assets held for sale


Restructuring charges




Litigation-related net charges

2,022



6,506

7,086

6,029

Operating loss

(894

)

(1,505

)

(14

)

Other income (expense):

Interest expense

(407

)

(468

)

(570

)

Other, net

(7

)

(58

)


Loss before income taxes

(1,308

)

(2,031

)

(569

)

Income tax (benefit) expense

(283

)


(74

)

Net loss

$

(1,025

)

$

(2,036

)

$

(495

)

Net loss per common share

Basic

$

(0.68

)

$

(1.36

)

$

(0.33

)

Assuming dilution

$

(0.68

)

$

(1.36

)

$

(0.33

)

Weighted-average shares outstanding:

Basic

1,507.9

1,498.5

1,486.9

Assuming dilution

1,507.9

1,498.5

1,486.9

(See notes to the consolidated financial statements)



CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS

As of December 31,

in millions, except share data



ASSETS

Current assets:

Cash and cash equivalents

$


$

1,641

Trade accounts receivable, net

1,375

1,402

Inventories



Deferred income taxes



Prepaid expenses and other current assets



Total current assets

4,061

5,452

Property, plant and equipment, net

1,728

1,728

Goodwill

12,404

12,421

Other intangible assets, net

6,731

7,244

Other long-term assets



TOTAL ASSETS

$

25,177

$

27,139

LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

Current liabilities:

Current debt obligations

$


$


Accounts payable



Accrued expenses

2,609

2,612

Other current liabilities



Total current liabilities

3,022

3,233

Long-term debt

5,915

6,743

Deferred income taxes

1,875

2,262

Other long-term liabilities

2,064

1,727

Commitments and contingencies

Stockholders’ equity:

Preferred stock, $ .01 par value — authorized 50,000,000
shares; none issued and outstanding

Common stock, $ .01 par value — authorized 2,000,000,000
shares; issued 1,510,753,934 shares as of December 31, 2009
and 1,501,635,679 shares as of December 31, 2008



Additional paid-in capital

16,086

15,944

Accumulated deficit

(3,757

)

(2,732

)

Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of tax:

Foreign currency translation adjustment


(13

)

Unrealized loss on derivative financial instruments

(37

)

(26

)

Unrealized costs associated with certain retirement plans

(14

)

(14

)

Total stockholders’ equity

12,301

13,174

TOTAL LIABILITIES AND STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

$

25,177

$

27,139

(See notes to the consolidated financial statements)



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS’ EQUITY

(in millions, except share data)

Accumulated

Other

Comprehensive

Common Stock

Additional

Deferred Cost, ESOP

Accumulated

Comprehensive

Income

Shares Issued

Par Value

Paid-In Capital

Shares

Amount

Treasury Stock

Deficit

Income (Loss)

(Loss)

Balance as of January 1, 2007

1,486,403,445

$


$

15,792

2,557,303

$

(58

)

$

(334

)

$

(174

)

$


Comprehensive income

Net loss

(495

)

$

(495

)

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax

Foreign currency translation adjustment



Net change in derivative financial instruments

(91

)

(91

)

Net change in certain retirement amounts



Cumulative effect adjustment for adoption of
Interpretation No. 48

(26

)

Common stock issued for acquisitions

(52

)


Impact of stock-based compensation plans, net of tax

4,831,466



401 (k) ESOP transactions

(13

)

(1,605,737

)


Other


Balance as of December 31, 2007

1,491,234,911

$


$

15,788

951,566

$

(22

)

$

—

$

(693

)

$


$

(543

)

Comprehensive income

Net loss

(2,036

)

(2,036

)

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax

Foreign currency translation adjustment

(67

)

(67

)

Net change in available-for-sale investments

(16

)

(16

)

Net change in derivative financial instruments



Net change in certain retirement amounts

(12

)

(12

)

Impact of stock-based compensation plans, net of tax

10,400,768


401 (k) ESOP transactions

(10

)

(951,566

)


Other

(3

)

Balance as of December 31, 2008

1,501,635,679

$


$

15,944

—

$

—

$

(2,732

)

$

(53

)

$

(2,098

)

Comprehensive income

Net loss

(1,025

)

(1,025

)

Other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax

Foreign currency translation adjustment



Net change in derivative financial instruments

(11

)

(11

)

Impact of stock-based compensation plans, net of tax

9,118,255


Balance as of December 31, 2009

1,510,753,934

$


$

16,086

$

(3,757

)

$

(43

)

$

(1,015

)

(See notes to the consolidated financial statements)



CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS

Year Ended December 31,

in millions




Operating Activities

Net loss

$

(1,025

)

$

(2,036

)

$

(495

)

Adjustments to reconcile net loss to cash provided by operating activities:

Depreciation and amortization




Deferred income taxes

(64

)

(334

)

(386

)

Stock-based compensation expense




Goodwill impairment charges

2,613

Other intangible asset impairment charges




Net (gains) losses on investments and notes recievable

(9

)



Purchased research and development




Other non-cash acquistion- and divestiture-related (credits) charges

(250

)


Increase (decrease) in cash flows from operating assets and liabilities, excluding the effect of
acquisitions and divestitures:

Accounts receivable, net



(72

)

Inventories

(92

)

(120

)

(30

)

Other assets


(21

)

(43

)

Accounts payable and accrued expenses




Other liabilities


(416

)


Other, net

(3

)

(8

)


Cash provided by operating activities


1,216


Investing Activities

Property, plant and equipment

Purchases

(312

)

(362

)

(363

)

Proceeds on disposals




Acquisitions

Payments for acquisitions of businesses, net of cash acquired

(4

)

(21

)

(13

)

Payments relating to prior period acquisitions

(523

)

(675

)

(248

)

Other investing activity

Proceeds from business divestitures

1,287

Payments for investments in and acquisitions of certain technologies

(50

)

(56

)

(123

)

Proceeds from sales of investments and collections of notes receivable




Cash (used for) provided by investing activities

(793

)


(474

)

Financing Activities

Debt

Payments on notes payable, capital leases and long-term borrowings

(2,825

)

(1,175

)

(1,000

)

Proceeds from long-term borrowings, net of debt issuance costs

1,972

Net (payments on) proceeds from borrowings on credit and security facilities

(250

)


Equity

Proceeds from issuances of shares of common stock




Payments related to issuance of shares of common stock to Abbott Laboratories

(60

)

Excess tax benefit relating to stock options



Cash used for financing activities

(820

)

(1,350

)

(680

)

Effect of foreign exchange rates on cash


(1

)


Net (decrease) increase in cash and cash equivalents

(777

)


(216

)

Cash and cash equivalents at beginning of year

1,641

1,452

1,668

Cash and cash equivalents at end of year

$


$

1,641

$

1,452

(See notes to the consolidated financial statements)



Year Ended December 31,




SUPPLEMENTAL INFORMATION:

Cash paid for income taxes, net of tax refunds

$


$


$


Cash paid for interest




Non-cash investing activities:

Stock and stock equivalents issued for acquisitions

$


Non-cash financing activities:

Capital lease arrangements

$


(See notes to the consolidated financial statements)



Note A—Significant Accounting Policies

Principles of Consolidation

Our consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Boston Scientific Corporation and our
wholly-owned subsidiaries. Through December 31, 2009, we assessed the terms of our investment
interests to determine if any of our investees met the definition of a variable interest entity
(VIE) in accordance with accounting standards effective through that date, and would have
consolidated any VIEs in which we were the primary beneficiary. Our evaluation considered both
qualitative and quantitative factors and various assumptions, including expected losses and
residual returns. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, based on these assessments, we did not
consolidate any VIEs. In December 2009, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued
Accounting Standards Codification

Ô

(ASC) Update No. 2009-17,

Consolidations (Topic 810) —
Improvements to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities

, which
formally codifies FASB Statement No. 167,

Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R).

Update No.
2009-17 and Statement No. 167 amend Interpretation No. 46(R),

Consolidation of Variable Interest
Entities

, to require that an enterprise perform an analysis to determine whether the enterprise’s
variable interests give it a controlling financial interest in a VIE. The analysis identifies the
primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise that has both 1) the power to direct activities of a
VIE that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and 2) the obligation to
absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity. Update No. 2009-17
eliminated the quantitative approach previously required for determining the primary beneficiary of
a VIE and requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the primary beneficiary. We
are required to adopt Update No. 2009-17 for our first quarter ending March 31, 2010. We do not
believe the adoption of Update No. 2009-17 will have a significant impact on our future results of
operations or financial position.

We account for investments in entities over which we have the ability to exercise significant
influence under the equity method if we hold 50 percent or less of the voting stock and the entity
is not a variable interest entity in which we are the primary beneficiary. We record these
investments initially at cost, and adjust the carrying amount to reflect our share of the earnings
or losses of the investee, including all adjustments similar to those made in preparing
consolidated financial statements. We account for investments in entities over which we do not have
the ability to exercise significant influence under the cost method of accounting.

In the first quarter of 2008, we completed the divestiture of certain non-strategic businesses. Our
operating results for the year ended December 31, 2008 include the results of these businesses
through the date of separation. Our operating results for the year ended December 31, 2007 include
a full year of results of these businesses. Refer to

Note F — Divestitures

for a description of
these business divestitures.

Basis of Presentation

The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Boston Scientific Corporation have been
prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States (U.S.
GAAP) and with the instructions to Form 10-K and Article 10 of Regulation S-X.

Subsequent Events

We
evaluate events occurring  after the date of our accompanying
consolidated balance sheets for potential recognition or disclosure
in our financial statements.

 On February
1, 2010, we announced the settlement of three patent litigation matters with Johnson & Johnson for
$1.725 billion, plus interest. This subsequent event provided additional evidence about conditions
that existed as of the date of the balance sheet in our accompanying consolidated financial
statements, including the estimates inherent in the process of preparing financial statements and
is, therefore, a ‘recognized subsequent event,’ as defined by FASB ASC Topic 855,

Subsequent
Events

. Accordingly, we have recorded



an additional litigation-related charge of $1.499 billion in
2009 in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations, and increased our associated
litigation-related reserves in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets as of December 31,
2009. We paid $1.000 billion, consisting of $800 million of cash on hand and $200 million borrowed
from our revolving credit facility, during the first quarter of 2010 and will satisfy the remaining
obligation on or before January 3, 2011. We posted a $745 million letter of credit under our
revolving credit facility as collateral for the remaining payment, which reduces availability under
the facility by the same amount. We intend to fund the remaining payment with cash generated from
operations. In addition, during the first half of 2011, $1.750
billion of our outstanding debt obligations, as well as
our revolving credit facility, will mature. We expect to refinance
the majority of our 2011 debt maturities and revolving credit
facility by mid-2010. Refer to

Note L — Commitments and
Contingencies and Note I-Borrowings and Credit Arrangements

for more information regarding this
settlement  and our debt obligations.

Those items requiring disclosure (unrecognized subsequent events) in the financial statements have
been disclosed accordingly. Refer to

Note H — Restructuring-related Activities, Note I —
Borrowings and Credit Arrangements, and Note L — Commitments and Contingencies

for more
information. We have reclassified certain prior year amounts to conform to the current year’s
presentation. See

Note P — Segment Reporting

for further details.

Accounting Estimates

To prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. GAAP, management makes
estimates and assumptions that may affect the reported amounts of our assets and liabilities, the
disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities as of the date of our financial statements and the
reported amounts of our revenues and expenses during the reporting period. Our actual results may
differ from these estimates.

Cash and Cash Equivalents

We record cash and cash equivalents in our consolidated balance sheets at cost, which approximates
fair value. We consider all highly liquid investments purchased with a remaining maturity of three
months or less at the time of acquisition to be cash equivalents.

We record available-for-sale investments at fair value and exclude unrealized gains and temporary
losses on available-for-sale securities from earnings, reporting such gains and losses, net of tax,
as a separate component of stockholders’ equity, until realized. We compute realized gains and
losses on sales of available-for-sale securities based on the average cost method, adjusted for any
other-than-temporary declines in fair value. We record held-to-maturity securities at amortized
cost and adjust for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity. We classify
investments in debt securities or equity securities that have a readily determinable fair value
that we purchase and hold principally for selling them in the near term as trading securities. All
of our cash investments as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 had maturity dates at date of purchase of
less than three months and, accordingly, we have classified them as cash and cash equivalents in
our accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Concentrations of Credit Risk

Financial instruments that potentially subject us to concentrations of credit risk consist
primarily of cash and cash equivalents, derivative financial instrument contracts and accounts and
notes receivable. Our investment policy limits exposure to concentrations of credit risk and
changes in market conditions. Counterparties to financial instruments expose us to credit-related
losses in the event of nonperformance. We transact our financial instruments with a diversified
group of major financial institutions and actively monitor outstanding positions to limit our
credit exposure.

We provide credit, in the normal course of business, to hospitals, healthcare agencies, clinics,
doctors’ offices and other private and governmental institutions and generally do not require
collateral. We



perform on-going credit evaluations of our customers and maintain allowances for
potential credit losses. We are not dependent on any single institution and no single customer
accounted for more than ten percent of our net sales in 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Revenue Recognition

We generate revenue primarily from the sale of single-use medical devices, and present revenue net
of sales taxes in our consolidated statements of operations. We consider revenue to be realized or
realizable and earned when all of the following criteria are met: persuasive evidence of a sales
arrangement exists; delivery has occurred or services have been rendered; the price is fixed or
determinable; and collectibility is reasonably assured. We generally meet these criteria at the
time of shipment, unless a consignment arrangement exists or we are required to provide additional
services. We recognize revenue from consignment arrangements based on product usage, or implant,
which indicates that the sale is complete. For our other transactions, we recognize revenue when
our products are delivered and risk of loss transfers to the customer, provided there are no
substantive remaining performance obligations required of us or any matters requiring customer
acceptance, and provided we can form an estimate for sales returns. For multiple-element
arrangements, where the sale of devices is combined with future service obligations, as with our
LATITUDE

®

Patient Management System, we defer revenue on the undelivered element based on verifiable objective
evidence of fair value and using the residual method of allocation, and recognize the associated
revenue over the related service period.

We generally allow our customers to return defective, damaged and, in certain cases, expired
products for credit. We base our estimate for sales returns upon historical trends and record the
amount as a reduction to revenue when we sell the initial product. In addition, we may allow
customers to return previously purchased products for next-generation product offerings; for these
transactions, we defer recognition of revenue based upon an estimate of the amount of product to be
returned when the next-generation products are shipped to the customer.

We offer sales rebates and discounts to certain customers. We treat sales rebates and discounts as
a reduction of revenue and classify the corresponding liability as current. We estimate rebates for
products where there is sufficient historical information available to predict the volume of
expected future rebates. If we are unable to estimate the expected rebates reasonably, we record a
liability for the maximum rebate percentage offered. We have entered certain agreements with group
purchasing organizations to sell our products to participating hospitals at negotiated prices. We
recognize revenue from these agreements following the same revenue recognition criteria discussed
above.

Warranty Obligations

We estimate the costs that we may incur under our warranty programs based on historical experience.
We record a liability equal to the costs to repair or otherwise satisfy the claim as cost of
products sold at the time the product sale occurs. Factors that affect our warranty liability
include the number of units sold, the historical and anticipated rates of warranty claims and the
cost per claim. We assess the adequacy of our recorded warranty liabilities on a quarterly basis
and adjust the amounts as necessary. Changes in our product warranty obligations during 2009 and
2008 consisted of the following (in millions):



Year Ended December 31,



Beginning balance

$


$


Provision



Settlements/ reversals

(36

)

(39

)

Ending balance

$


$


Inventories

We state inventories at the lower of first-in, first-out cost or market. We base our provisions for
excess and obsolete inventory primarily on our estimates of forecasted net sales. A significant
change in the timing or level of demand for our products as compared to forecasted amounts may
result in recording additional provisions for excess and obsolete inventory in the future. The
industry in which we participate is characterized by rapid product development and frequent new
product introductions. Uncertain timing of next-generation product approvals, variability in
product launch strategies, product recalls and variation in product utilization all affect our
estimates related to excess and obsolete inventory.

Property, Plant and Equipment

We state property, plant, equipment, and leasehold improvements at historical cost. We charge
expenditures for maintenance and repairs to expense and capitalize additions and improvements that
extend the life of the underlying asset. We generally provide for depreciation using the
straight-line method at rates that approximate the estimated useful lives of the assets. We
depreciate buildings and improvements over a 20 to 40 year life; equipment, furniture and fixtures
over a three to seven year life; and leasehold improvements over the shorter of the useful life of
the improvement or the term of the related lease. Depreciation expense was $323 million in 2009,
$321 million in 2008, and $298 million in 2007.

Valuation of Business Combinations

We record intangible assets acquired in business combinations under the purchase method of
accounting. We allocate the amounts we pay for each acquisition to the assets we acquire and
liabilities we assume based on their fair values at the dates of acquisition, including
identifiable intangible assets and purchased research and development which either arise from a
contractual or legal right or are separable from goodwill. We base the fair value of identifiable
intangible assets and purchased research and development on detailed valuations that use
information and assumptions provided by management, which consider management’s best estimates of
inputs and assumptions that a market participant would use. We allocate any excess purchase price
over the fair value of the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets acquired to goodwill.
The use of alternative valuation assumptions, including estimated cash flows and discount rates,
and alternative estimated useful life assumptions could result in different purchase price
allocations, amounts for purchased research and development, and intangible asset amortization
expense in current and future periods.

As of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

(codified within
ASC Topic 805,

Business Combinations

). Pursuant to the guidance in Statement No. 141(R) (Topic
805), in those circumstances where an acquisition involves contingent consideration, we would
recognize a liability equal to the fair value of the contingent payment at the acquisition date.
For acquisitions consummated prior to January 1, 2009, we will continue to record contingent
consideration as an additional element of cost of the acquired entity when the contingency is
resolved and consideration is issued or becomes issuable.



Purchased Research and Development

Our purchased research and development represents the value of acquired in-process projects that
have not yet reached technological feasibility and have no alternative future uses as of the date
of acquisition. The primary basis for determining the technological feasibility of these projects
is obtaining regulatory approval to market the underlying products in an applicable geographic
region. Through December 31, 2008 we expensed the value attributable to these in-process projects
at the time of the acquisition in accordance with accounting standards effective through that date.
As discussed above, as of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB Statement No. 141(R),

Business
Combinations

(codified within ASC Topic 805,

Business Combinations

), a replacement for Statement
No. 141. Statement No. 141(R) also superseded FASB Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability of FASB
Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase Method

, which required
research and development assets acquired in a business combination that had no alternative future
use to be measured at their fair values and expensed at the acquisition date. Statement No. 141(R)
(Topic 805) requires that purchased research and development acquired in a business combination be
recognized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the completion or abandonment of the
associated research and development efforts. During 2009, we did not consummate any material
business combinations. For any future business combinations that we enter, we will recognize
purchased research and development as an intangible asset.

In addition, we record certain costs associated with strategic alliances as purchased research and
development. Our adoption of Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) did not change this policy with
respect to asset purchases.

We use the income approach to determine the fair values of our purchased research and development.
This approach calculates fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows attributable to an
in-process project over its useful life and then discounting these after-tax cash flows back to a
present value. We base our revenue assumptions on estimates of relevant market sizes, expected
market growth rates, expected trends in technology and expected levels of market share. In arriving
at the value of the in-process projects, we consider, among other factors: the in-process projects’
stage of completion; the complexity of the work completed as of the acquisition date; the costs
already incurred; the projected costs to complete; the contribution of core technologies and other
acquired assets; the expected introduction date; and the estimated useful life of the technology.
We base the discount rate used to arrive at a present value as of the date of acquisition on the
time value of money and medical technology investment risk factors. For the in-process projects
acquired in connection with our recent acquisitions, we used risk-adjusted discount rates of 34
percent in 2008 and 19 percent in 2007 to discount our projected cash flows. We believe that the
estimated in-process research and development amounts so determined represent the fair value at the
date of acquisition and do not exceed the amount a third party would pay for the projects. However,
if the projects are not successful or completed in a timely manner, we may not realize the
financial benefits expected for these projects or for the acquisition as a whole.

Amortization and Impairment of Intangible Assets

We record intangible assets at historical cost and amortize them over their estimated useful lives.
We use a straight-line method of amortization, unless a method that better reflects the pattern in
which the economic benefits of the intangible asset are consumed or otherwise used up can be
reliably determined. The approximate useful lives for amortization of our intangible assets is as
follows: patents and licenses, two to 20 years; definite-lived core and developed technology, five
to 25 years; customer relationships, five to 25 years; other intangible assets, various.

We review intangible assets subject to amortization quarterly to determine if any adverse
conditions exist or a change in circumstances has occurred that would indicate impairment or a
change in the remaining useful life. In addition, we test our indefinite-lived intangible assets at
least annually for impairment and reassess their classification as indefinite-lived assets.
Conditions that may indicate impairment include,



but are not limited to, a significant adverse
change in legal factors or business climate that could affect the value of an asset, a product
recall, or an adverse action or assessment by a regulator. If an impairment indicator exists, we
test the intangible asset for recoverability. For purposes of the recoverability test, we group
our amortizable intangible assets with other assets and liabilities at the lowest level of
identifiable cash flows if the intangible asset does not generate cash flows independent of other
assets and liabilities. If the carrying value of the intangible asset (asset group) exceeds the
undiscounted cash flows expected to result from the use and eventual disposition of the intangible
asset (asset group), we will write the carrying value down to the fair value in the period
identified. To test our indefinite-lived intangible assets for impairment, we calculate the fair
value of these assets and compare the calculated fair values to the respective carrying values.
If the carrying value exceeds the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible asset, we write the
carrying value down to the fair value.

We generally calculate fair value of our intangible assets as the present value of estimated future
cash flows we expect to generate from the asset using a risk-adjusted discount rate. In determining
our estimated future cash flows associated with our intangible assets, we use estimates and
assumptions about future revenue contributions, cost structures and remaining useful lives of the
asset (asset group). The use of alternative assumptions, including estimated cash flows, discount
rates, and alternative estimated remaining useful lives could result in different calculations of
impairment. See

Note E — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

for more information related to
impairment of intangible assets during 2009, 2008 and 2007.

For patents developed internally, we capitalize costs incurred to obtain patents, including
attorney fees, registration fees, consulting fees, and other expenditures directly related to
securing the patent. Legal costs incurred in connection with the successful defense of both
internally developed patents and those obtained through our acquisitions are capitalized and
amortized over the remaining amortizable life of the related patent.

Goodwill Impairment

We test our April 1 goodwill balances during the second quarter of each year for impairment, or
more frequently if indicators are present or changes in circumstances suggest that impairment may
exist. In performing the assessment, we utilize the two-step approach prescribed under ASC Topic
350,

Intangibles-Goodwill and Other

(formerly FASB Statement No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets).

The first step requires a comparison of the carrying value of the reporting units, as
defined, to the fair value of these units. We assess goodwill for impairment at the reporting unit
level, which is defined as an operating segment or one level below an operating segment, referred
to as a component. We determine our reporting units by first identifying our operating segments,
and then assess whether any components of these segments constitute a business for which discrete
financial information is available and where segment management regularly reviews the operating
results of that component. We aggregate components within an operating segment that have similar
economic characteristics. For our April 1, 2009 annual impairment assessment, we identified our
reporting units to be our six U.S. operating segments, which in aggregate make up the U.S.
reportable segment, and our four international operating segments. When allocating goodwill from
business combinations to our reporting units, we assign goodwill to the reporting units that we
expect to benefit from the respective business combination at the time of acquisition. In addition,
for purposes of performing our annual goodwill impairment test, assets and liabilities, including
corporate assets, which relate to a reporting unit’s operations, and would be considered in
determining its fair value, are allocated to the individual reporting units. We allocate assets and
liabilities not directly related to a specific reporting unit, but from which the reporting unit
benefits, based primarily on the respective revenue contribution of each reporting unit.

During 2009, 2008 and 2007, we used only the income approach, specifically the discounted cash flow
(DCF) method, to derive the fair value of each of our reporting units in preparing our goodwill
impairment assessment. This approach calculates fair value by estimating the after-tax cash flows



attributable to a reporting unit and then discounting these
after-tax cash flows to a present value using a risk-adjusted discount rate. We selected this
method as being the most meaningful in preparing our goodwill assessments because we believe the
income approach most appropriately measures our income producing assets. We have considered using
the market approach and cost approach but concluded they are not appropriate in valuing our
reporting units given the lack of relevant market comparisons available for application of the
market approach and the inability to replicate the value of the specific technology-based assets
within our reporting units for application of the cost approach. Therefore, we believe that the
income approach represents the most appropriate valuation technique for which sufficient data is
available to determine the fair value of our reporting units.

In applying the income approach to our accounting for goodwill, we make assumptions about the
amount and timing of future expected cash flows, terminal value growth rates and appropriate
discount rates. The amount and timing of future cash flows within our DCF analysis is based on our
most recent operational budgets, long range strategic plans and other estimates. The terminal value
growth rate is used to calculate the value of cash flows beyond the last projected period in our
DCF analysis and reflects our best estimates for stable, perpetual growth of our reporting units.
We use estimates of market participant risk-adjusted weighted-average
costs of capital (WACC) as a basis for determining the
discount rates to apply to our reporting units’ future expected cash flows.

If the carrying value of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, we then perform the second step
of the goodwill impairment test to measure the amount of impairment loss, if any. The second step
of the goodwill impairment test compares the implied fair value of a reporting unit’s goodwill to
its carrying value. If we were unable to complete the second step of the test prior to the issuance
of our financial statements and an impairment loss was probable and could be reasonably estimated,
we would recognize our best estimate of the loss in our current period financial statements and
disclose that the amount is an estimate. We would then recognize any adjustment to that estimate
in subsequent reporting periods, once we have finalized the second step of the impairment test.

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the decline in our stock price and our market capitalization
created an indication of potential impairment of our goodwill balance. Therefore, we performed an
interim impairment test and recorded a $2.613 billion goodwill impairment charge associated with
our acquisition of Guidant Corporation. As a result of economic conditions and the related increase
in volatility in the equity and credit markets, which became more pronounced starting in the fourth
quarter of 2008, our estimated risk-adjusted WACC increased 150 basis points from 9.5 percent
during our 2008 second quarter annual goodwill impairment assessment to 11.0 percent during our
2008 fourth quarter interim impairment assessment. This change, along with reductions in market
demand for products in our U.S. Cardiac Rhythm Management (CRM) reporting unit relative to our
assumptions at the time of the Guidant acquisition, were the key factors contributing to the
impairment charge. Our estimated market participant WACC decreased 50 basis points from 11.0
percent during our 2008 fourth quarter interim impairment assessment to 10.5 percent during our
2009 second quarter annual goodwill impairment assessment, and our other significant assumptions
remained largely consistent. Our 2009 goodwill impairment test did not identify any reporting units
whose carrying values exceeded the calculated fair values.

Investments in Publicly Traded and Privately Held Entities

We account for our publicly traded investments as available-for-sale securities based on the quoted
market price at the end of the reporting period. We compute realized gains and losses on sales of
available-for-sale securities based on the average cost method, adjusted for any
other-than-temporary declines in fair value. We account for our investments in privately held
entities, for which fair value is not readily determinable, in accordance with ASC Topic 323,

Investments — Equity Methods and Joint Ventures

.



We account for investments in entities over which we have the ability to exercise significant
influence under the equity method if we hold 50 percent or less of the voting stock and the entity
is not a variable interest entity in which we are the primary beneficiary. We account for
investments in entities over which we do not have the ability to exercise significant influence
under the cost method. Our determination of whether we have the ability to exercise significant
influence over an entity requires judgment. For investments accounted for under the equity method,
we record the investment initially at cost, and adjust the carrying amount to reflect our share of
the earnings or losses of the investee, including all adjustments similar to those made in
preparing consolidated financial statements.

Each reporting period, we evaluate our investments to determine if there are any events or
circumstances that are likely to have a significant adverse effect on the fair value of the
investment. Examples of such impairment indicators include, but
are not limited to: a significant deterioration in earnings performance; recent financing rounds at
reduced valuations; a significant adverse change in the regulatory, economic or technological
environment of an investee; or a significant doubt about an investee’s ability to continue as a
going concern. If we identify an impairment indicator, we will estimate the fair value of the
investment and compare it to its carrying value. Our estimation of fair value considers all
available financial information related to the investee, including valuations based on recent
third-party equity investments in the investee. If the fair value of the investment is less than
its carrying value, the investment is impaired and we make a determination as to whether the
impairment is other-than-temporary. We deem impairment to be other-than-temporary unless we have
the ability and intent to hold an investment for a period sufficient for a market recovery up to
the carrying value of the investment. Further, evidence must indicate that the carrying value of
the investment is recoverable within a reasonable period. For other-than-temporary impairments, we
recognize an impairment loss equal to the difference between an investment’s carrying value and its
fair value. Impairment losses on our investments are included in other, net in our consolidated
statements of operations.

Income Taxes

We utilize the asset and liability method of accounting for income taxes. Under this method, we
determine deferred tax assets and liabilities based on differences between the financial reporting
and tax bases of our assets and liabilities. We measure deferred tax assets and liabilities using
the enacted tax rates and laws that will be in effect when we expect the differences to reverse.

We had net deferred tax liabilities of $1.281 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $1.351 billion as
of December 31, 2008. Gross deferred tax liabilities of $2.445 billion as of December 31, 2009 and
$2.696 billion as of December 31, 2008 relate primarily to intangible assets acquired in connection
with our prior acquisitions. Gross deferred tax assets of $1.164 billion as of December 31, 2009
and $1.345 billion as of December 31, 2008 relate primarily to the establishment of inventory and
product-related reserves, litigation and product liability reserves, purchased research and
development, investment write-downs, net operating loss carryforwards and tax credit carryforwards.
In light of our historical financial performance and the extent of our deferred tax liabilities, we
believe we will recover substantially all of these assets. As of January 1, 2009, we adopted FASB
Statement No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

, (codified within ASC Topic 805) which requires that we
recognize changes in acquired income tax uncertainties (applied to acquisitions before and after
the adoption date) as income tax expense or benefit. We reduce our deferred tax assets by a
valuation allowance if, based upon the weight of available evidence, it is more likely than not
that we will not realize some portion or all of the deferred tax assets. We consider relevant
evidence, both positive and negative, to determine the need for a valuation allowance. Information
evaluated includes our financial position and results of operations for the current and preceding
years, the availability of deferred tax liabilities and tax carrybacks, as well as an evaluation of
currently available information about future years.

We do not provide income taxes on unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries where we have
indefinitely reinvested such earnings in our foreign operations. It is not practical to estimate
the amount



of income taxes payable on the earnings that are indefinitely reinvested in foreign
operations. Unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries that we have indefinitely reinvested
offshore are $9.355 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $9.327 billion as of December 31, 2008.

We provide for potential amounts due in various tax jurisdictions. In the ordinary course of
conducting business in multiple countries and tax jurisdictions, there are many transactions and
calculations where the ultimate tax outcome is uncertain. Judgment is required in determining our
worldwide income tax provision. In our opinion, we have made adequate provisions for income taxes
for all years subject to audit. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, we can make no
assurance that the final outcome of these matters will not be different from that which we have
reflected in our historical income tax provisions and accruals. Such differences could have a
material impact on our income tax provision and operating results in the period in which we make
such determination.

Legal, Product Liability Costs and Securities Claims

We are involved in various legal and regulatory proceedings, including intellectual property,
breach of contract, securities litigation and product liability suits. In some cases, the claimants
seek damages, as well as other relief, which, if granted, could require significant expenditures or
impact our ability to sell our products. We are also the subject of certain governmental
investigations, which could result in substantial fines, penalties, and administrative remedies. We
are substantially self-insured with respect to product liability and intellectual property
infringement claims. We maintain
insurance policies providing limited coverage against securities claims. We generally record losses
for claims in excess of the limits of purchased insurance in earnings at the time and to the extent
they are probable and estimable. In accordance with ASC Topic 450,

Contingencies

(formerly FASB
Statement No. 5,

Accounting for Contingencies),

we accrue anticipated costs of settlement, damages,
losses for general product liability claims and, under certain conditions, costs of defense, based
on historical experience or to the extent specific losses are probable and estimable. Otherwise, we
expense these costs as incurred. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within
the range is more likely, we accrue the minimum amount of the range. We analyze litigation
settlements to identify each element of the arrangement. We allocate arrangement consideration to
patent licenses received based on estimates of fair value, and capitalize these amounts as assets
if the license will provide an on-going future benefit. See

Note L — Commitments and Contingencies

for discussion of our individual material legal proceedings.

Costs Associated with Exit Activities

We record employee termination costs in accordance with ASC Topic 712,

Compensation- Nonretirement
and Postemployment Benefits

(formerly FASB Statement No. 112,

Employer’s Accounting for
Postemployment Benefits

), if we pay the benefits as part of an on-going benefit arrangement, which
includes benefits provided as part of our domestic severance policy or that we provide in
accordance with international statutory requirements. We accrue employee termination costs
associated with an on-going benefit arrangement if the obligation is attributable to prior services
rendered, the rights to the benefits have vested and the payment is probable and we can reasonably
estimate the liability. We account for employee termination benefits that represent a one-time
benefit in accordance with ASC Topic 420,

Exit or Disposal Cost Obligations

(formerly FASB
Statement No. 146,

Accounting for Costs Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities).

We record
such costs into expense over the employee’s future service period, if any. In addition, in
conjunction with an exit activity, we may offer voluntary termination benefits to employees. These
benefits are recorded when the employee accepts the termination benefits and the amount can be
reasonably estimated. Other costs associated with exit activities may include contract termination
costs, including costs related to leased facilities to be abandoned or subleased, and impairments
of long-lived assets.



Translation of Foreign Currency

We translate all assets and liabilities of foreign subsidiaries from local currency into U.S.
dollars using the year-end exchange rate, and translate revenues and expenses at the average
exchange rates in effect during the year. We show the net effect of these translation adjustments
in our consolidated financial statements as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss.
For any significant foreign subsidiaries located in highly inflationary economies, we would
re-measure their financial statements as if the functional currency were the U.S. dollar. There
were no highly inflationary economy translation adjustments in 2009, 2008 or 2007.

Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in other, net in our consolidated
statements of operations net of losses and gains from any related derivative financial instruments.
We recognized net foreign currency transaction losses of $5 million in 2009, and gains of $5
million in 2008 and $17 million in 2007.

Financial Instruments

We recognize all derivative financial instruments in our consolidated financial statements at fair
value in accordance with ASC Topic 815,

Derivatives and Hedging

(formerly FASB Statement No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

). In accordance with Topic 815, for
those derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, the hedging
instrument must be designated, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash
flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. The accounting for changes in
the fair value (i.e. gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been
designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging
relationship. Our derivative instruments do not subject our earnings or cash flows to material
risk, as gains and losses on these derivatives generally offset losses and gains on the item being
hedged. We do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes and we do not have
any non-derivative instruments that are designated as hedging instruments pursuant to Topic 815.
Refer to

Note C — Fair Value Measurements

for more information on our derivative instruments.

Shipping and Handling Costs

We generally do not bill customers for shipping and handling of our products. Shipping and handling
costs of $82 million in 2009, $72 million in 2008, and $79 million in 2007 are included in selling,
general and administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

Research and Development

We expense research and development costs, including new product development programs, regulatory
compliance and clinical research as incurred. Refer to

Purchased Research and Development

for our
policy regarding in-process research and development acquired in connection with our business
combinations and strategic alliances.

Employee Retirement Plans

In connection with our 2006 acquisition of Guidant Corporation, we sponsor the Guidant
Retirement Plan, a frozen noncontributory defined benefit plan covering a select group of current
and former employees. The funding policy for the plan is consistent with U.S. employee benefit and
tax-funding regulations. Plan assets, which are maintained in a trust, consist primarily of equity
and fixed-income instruments.
We also maintain an Executive Retirement Plan, a defined contribution plan covering executive officers
and division presidents. Participants may retire with unreduced benefits once retirement conditions
have been satisfied. Further, we sponsor the Guidant Supplemental Retirement Plan, a frozen,
nonqualified



defined contribution plan for certain former officers and employees of Guidant. The
Guidant Supplemental Retirement Plan was funded through a Rabbi Trust that contains segregated
company assets used to pay the benefit obligations related to the plan. In addition, certain
current and former U.S. and Puerto Rico employees of Guidant are eligible to receive a portion of
their healthcare retirement benefits under a frozen defined benefit plan. We also maintain
retirement plans covering certain international employees.

We use a December 31 measurement date for these plans and record the underfunded portion as a
liability, recognizing changes in the funded status through other comprehensive income. The
outstanding obligation as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as follows:

As of December 31, 2009

As of December 31, 2008

Projected

Projected

Benefit

Underfunded

Benefit

Underfunded

Obligation

Fair value of

PBO

Obligation

Fair value of

PBO

(

in millions)

(PBO)

Plan Assets

Recognized

(PBO)

Plan Assets

Recognized

Executive
Retirement Plan

$


$


$


$


Guidant Retirement
Plan (frozen)


$




$



Guidant
Supplemental
Retirement Plan
(frozen)





Guidant Healthcare
Retirement Benefit
Plan (frozen)





International
Retirement Plans







$


$


$


$


$


$


The value of the Rabbi Trust assets used to pay the Guidant Supplemental Retirement Plan benefits
included in our accompanying consolidated financial statements was
approximately $30 million as of December 31,
2009 and 2008.

The weighted average assumptions used to determine benefit obligations as of December 31, 2009 are
as follows:

Long-Term

Healthcare

Rate of

Discount

Expected Return

Cost

Compensation

Rate

on Plan Assets

Trend Rate

Increase

Executive Retirement Plan

5.50

%

3.50

%

Guidant Retirement Plan (frozen)

6.00

%

7.75

%

Guidant Supplemental Retirement Plan (frozen)

5.75

%

Healthcare Retirement Benefit Plan (frozen)

4.75

%

5.00

%

International Retirement Plans

1.75% - 5.30

%

3.00% - 4.10

%

3.00% - 5.40

%

We base our discount rate on the rates of return available on high-quality bonds with maturities
approximating the expected period over which benefits will be paid. The rate of compensation
increase is based on historical and expected rate increases. We review external data and historical
trends in health care costs to determine health care cost trend rate assumptions. We base our rate
of expected return on plan assets on historical experience, our investment guidelines and
expectations for long-term rates of return. A rollforward of the changes in the fair value of plan
assets for our funded retirement plans during 2008 and 2009 is as follows:



Year Ended December 31,

(in millions)



Beginning fair value

$


$


Actual return on plan assets


(33

)

Employer contributions



Benefits paid

(6

)

(3

)

Net transfers in (out)


(3

)

Foreign currency exchange

(1

)


Ending fair value

$


$


Our investment policy with respect to these plans is to maximize the ability to meet plan
liabilities while minimizing the need to make future contributions to the plans. Plan assets are
invested primarily in domestic equity securities and debt securities.

We also sponsor a voluntary 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan for eligible employees. We match
employee contributions equal to 200 percent for employee contributions up to two percent of
employee compensation, and fifty percent for employee contributions greater than two percent, but
not exceeding six percent, of pre-tax employee compensation. Total expense for our matching
contributions to the plan was $71 million in 2009, $63 million in 2008, and $64 million in 2007.

In connection with our acquisition of Guidant, we previously sponsored the Guidant Employee Savings
and Stock Ownership Plan, which allowed for employee contributions of a percentage of pre-tax
earnings, up to established federal limits. Our matching contributions to the plan were in the form
of shares of stock, allocated from the Employee Stock Ownership Plan (ESOP). Refer to

Note N —
Stock Ownership Plans

for more information on the ESOP. Effective June 1, 2008, this plan was
merged into our 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan, described above. Prior to this merger, expense for
our matching contributions to the plan was $12 million in 2008 and $23 million in 2007.

Net Income (Loss) per Common Share

We base net income (loss) per common share upon the weighted-average number of common shares and
common stock equivalents outstanding during each year. Potential common stock equivalents are
determined using the treasury stock method. We exclude stock options whose effect would be
anti-dilutive from the calculation.

Note B—Supplemental Balance Sheet Information

Components of selected captions in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets are as follows:

As of December 31,

(in millions)



Trade accounts receivable, net

Accounts receivable

$

1,485

$

1,533

Less: allowances

(110

)

(131

)

$

1,375

$

1,402

Inventories

Finished goods

$


$


Work-in-process



Raw materials



$


$




Sales of the PROMUS

®

everolimus-eluting stent system represented approximately eight percent of our
total net sales in 2009. We are currently reliant on Abbott Laboratories for our supply of
everolimus-eluting stent systems in the U.S. and Japan. Our supply agreement with Abbott for
everolimus-eluting stent systems in these regions extends through the end of the second quarter of
2012. At present, we believe that our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott and
our current launch plans for our next-generation internally-manufactured everolimus-eluting stent
system in these regions is sufficient to meet customer demand. However, any production or capacity
issues that affect Abbott’s manufacturing capabilities or our process for forecasting, ordering and
receiving shipments may impact the ability to increase or decrease our level of supply in a timely
manner; therefore, our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems supplied to us by Abbott may not
align with customer demand, which could have an adverse effect on our operating results. In the
fourth quarter of 2009, we launched our internally developed and manufactured next-generation
everolimus-eluting stent system, our PROMUS

®

Element™ stent system, in our EMEA region and certain
Inter-Continental countries, and expect to launch this product in the U.S. and Japan in mid-2012.

Further, the price we pay for our supply of everolimus-eluting stent systems from Abbott is
determined by contracts with Abbott and is based, in part, on previously fixed estimates of
Abbott’s manufacturing costs for everolimus-eluting stent systems and third-party reports of our
average selling price of these stent systems. Amounts paid pursuant to this pricing arrangement are
subject to a retroactive adjustment approximately every two years based on Abbott’s actual costs to
manufacture these stent systems for us and our average selling price of everolimus-eluting stent
systems supplied to us by Abbott.

As of December 31,

(in millions)



Property, plant and equipment, net

Land

$


$


Buildings and improvements



Equipment, furniture and fixtures

1,941

1,824

Capital in progess



3,266

3,110

Less: accumulated depreciation

(1,538

)

(1,382

)

$

1,728

$

1,728

Accrued expenses

Legal reserves

$

1,453

$


Acquisition-related obligations



Payroll and related liabilities



Other



$

2,609

$

2,612

Other long-term liabilities

Legal reserves

$


$


Accrued income taxes


1,100

Other long-term liabilities



$

2,064

$

1,727

See

Note E — Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

for details on our intangible assets.



Note C — Fair Value Measurements

Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

We develop, manufacture and sell medical devices globally and our earnings and cash flows are
exposed to market risk from changes in currency exchange rates and interest rates. We address these
risks through a risk management program that includes the use of derivative financial instruments,
and operate the program pursuant to documented corporate risk management policies. We recognize all
derivative financial instruments in our consolidated financial statements at fair value in
accordance with ASC Topic 815,

Derivatives and Hedging

(formerly FASB Statement No. 133,

Accounting
for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

). In accordance with Topic 815, for those
derivative instruments that are designated and qualify as hedging instruments, the hedging
instrument must be designated, based upon the exposure being hedged, as a fair value hedge, cash
flow hedge, or a hedge of a net investment in a foreign operation. The accounting for changes in
the fair value (i.e. gains or losses) of a derivative instrument depends on whether it has been
designated and qualifies as part of a hedging relationship and, further, on the type of hedging
relationship. Our derivative instruments do not subject our earnings or cash flows to material
risk, as gains and losses on these derivatives generally offset losses and gains on the item being
hedged. We do not enter into derivative transactions for speculative purposes and we do not have
any non-derivative instruments that are designated as hedging instruments pursuant to Topic 815.

Currency Hedging

We are exposed to currency risk consisting primarily of foreign currency denominated monetary
assets and liabilities, forecasted foreign currency denominated intercompany and third party
transactions and net investments in certain subsidiaries. We manage our exposure to changes in
foreign currency on a consolidated basis to take advantage of offsetting transactions and balances.
We use both derivative instruments (currency forward and option contracts), and non-derivatives
(primarily European manufacturing operations) to reduce the risk that our earnings and cash flows
associated with these foreign currency denominated balances and transactions will be adversely
affected by currency exchange rate changes.

Designated Foreign Currency Hedges

All of our designated currency hedge contracts outstanding as of December 31, 2009 and December 31,
2008 were cash flow hedges under Topic 815 intended to protect the U.S. dollar value of our
forecasted foreign currency denominated transactions. We record the effective portion of any change
in the fair value of foreign currency cash flow hedges in other comprehensive income (OCI) until
the related third-party transaction occurs. Once the related third-party transaction occurs, we
reclassify the effective portion of any related gain or loss on the foreign currency cash flow
hedge to earnings. In the event the hedged forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes
probable that it will not occur, we would reclassify the amount of any gain or loss on the related
cash flow hedge to earnings at that time. We had currency derivative instruments designated as cash
flow hedges outstanding in the contract amount of $2.760 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $2.587
billion as of December 31, 2008.

We recognized net gains of $4 million in earnings on our cash flow hedges during 2009, as compared
to net losses of $67 million during 2008. All currency cash flow hedges outstanding as of December
31, 2009 mature within 36 months. As of December 31, 2009, $44 million of net losses, net of tax,
were recorded in accumulated other comprehensive income (AOCI) to recognize the effective portion
of the fair value of any currency derivative instruments that are, or previously were, designated
as foreign currency cash flow hedges, as compared to net losses of $6 million as of December 31,
2008. As of December 31, 2009, $36 million of net losses, net of tax, may be reclassified to
earnings within the next twelve months.

The success of our hedging program depends, in part, on forecasts of transaction activity in
various currencies (primarily Japanese yen, Euro, British pound sterling, Australian dollar and
Canadian dollar).



We may experience unanticipated currency exchange gains or losses to the extent
that there are differences between forecasted and actual activity during periods of currency
volatility. In addition, changes in currency exchange rates related to any unhedged transactions
may impact our earnings and cash flows.

During 2009, we directed our Europe/Middle East/Africa (EMEA) sales offices to converge differing
operating structures to a consistent limited risk distribution sales structure beginning in the
third quarter of 2010. This change is expected to impact our EMEA transaction flow and effectively
move our foreign exchange risk from third-party sales to intercompany sales. While the convergence
is not expected to have a significant impact on the magnitude of foreign currency exposure, we
de-designated certain cash flow hedges of third-party sales. We reclassified net losses of $5
million from AOCI to current earnings during 2009 related to these de-designated cash flow hedges.

Non-designated Foreign Currency Contracts

We use currency forward contracts as a part of our strategy to manage exposure related to foreign
currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities and certain short-term earnings and cash flow
exposures related to our Japanese operations that do not qualify for hedge accounting under Topic
815. These currency forward contracts are not designated as cash flow, fair value or net investment
hedges under Topic 815; are marked-to-market with changes in fair value recorded to earnings; and
are entered into for periods consistent with currency transaction exposures, generally one to six
months. We had currency derivative instruments not designated as hedges under Topic 815 outstanding
in the contract amount of $1.982 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $1.809 billion as of December
31, 2008.

Interest Rate Hedging

Our interest rate risk relates primarily to U.S. dollar borrowings, partially offset by U.S. dollar
cash investments. We use interest rate derivative instruments to manage our earnings and cash flow
exposure to changes in interest rates by converting floating-rate debt into fixed-rate debt or
fixed-rate debt into floating-rate debt.

We designate these derivative instruments either as fair value or cash flow hedges under Topic 815.
We record changes in the value of fair value hedges in interest expense, which is generally offset
by changes in the fair value of the hedged debt obligation. Interest payments made or received
related to our interest rate derivative instruments are included in interest expense. We record the
effective portion of any change in the fair value of derivative instruments designated as cash flow
hedges as unrealized gains or losses in OCI, net of tax, until the hedged cash flow occurs, at
which point the effective portion of any gain or loss is reclassified to earnings. We record the
ineffective portion of our cash flow hedges in interest expense. In the event the hedged cash flow
does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, we would reclassify the amount of
any gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge to interest expense at that time.

We had no interest rate derivative instruments outstanding as of December 31, 2009, as compared to
the notional amount of $4.900 billion outstanding as of December 31, 2008. These interest rate
derivative instruments fixed the interest rate on our expected LIBOR-indexed floating-rate loans
and were designated as cash flow hedges in accordance with ASC Topic 815. During 2009, these
interest rate derivative instruments either matured as scheduled or were terminated in connection
with the prepayment of our bank term loan, discussed further in

Note I — Borrowings and Credit
Arrangements

. We recognized $27 million of losses within interest expense due to the early
termination of these interest rate contracts.

In prior years we terminated certain interest rate derivative instruments, including
fixed-to-floating interest rate contracts, designated as fair value hedges, and floating-to-fixed
treasury locks, designated as



cash flow hedges. In accordance with
Topic 815, we are amortizing the gains and losses of these derivative instruments upon termination
into earnings over the term of the hedged debt. As of December 31, 2009, the carrying amount of
certain of our senior notes included $3 million of unamortized gains and $8 million of unamortized
losses related to the fixed-to-floating interest rate contracts. We recognized approximately $2
million of interest expense during 2009 related to these derivative instruments. In addition, as
of December 31, 2009, $11 million of net gains are recorded in AOCI related to terminated
floating-to-fixed treasury locks. We recognized approximately $2 million as a reduction in interest
expense related to these derivative instruments during 2009.

During 2009, we recognized in earnings $70 million of net losses, inclusive of the $27 million of
interest rate contract termination losses described above, related to our interest rate derivative
instruments, including previously terminated interest rate derivative contracts. During 2008, we
recognized in earnings $20 million of net losses related to our interest rate contracts. As of
December 31, 2009, $7 million of net gains, net of tax, are recorded in AOCI to recognize the
effective portion of our interest rate derivative instruments, as compared to $20 million of net
losses as of December 31, 2008. As of December 31, 2009, an immaterial amount of net gains, net of
tax, may be reclassified to earnings within the next twelve months from amortization of our
previously terminated interest rate derivative instruments.

Counterparty Credit Risk

We do not have significant concentrations of credit risk arising from our derivative financial
instruments, whether from an individual counterparty or group of counterparties. We reduce our
concentration of counterparty credit risk on our derivative instruments by limiting acceptable
counterparties to a diversified group of major financial institutions with investment grade credit
ratings, limiting the amount of credit exposure to each counterparty, and by actively monitoring
their credit ratings and outstanding positions on an on-going basis. Furthermore, none of our
derivative transactions are subject to collateral or other security arrangements and do not contain
provisions that are dependent on our credit ratings from any credit rating agency.

We also employ master netting arrangements that reduce our counterparty payment settlement risk on
any given maturity date to the net amount of any receipts or payments due between us and the
counterparty financial institution. Thus, the maximum loss due to credit risk by counterparty is
limited to the unrealized gains in such contracts net of any unrealized losses should any of these
counterparties fail to perform as contracted. Although these protections do not eliminate
concentrations of credit, as a result of the above considerations, we do not consider the risk of
counterparty default to be significant.

Fair Value of Derivative Instruments

The following presents the effect of our derivative instruments designated as cash flow hedges
under Topic 815 on our accompanying consolidated statements of operations during 2009 (in
millions).



Amount of Gain

Amount of Gain

(Loss)

(Loss)

Reclassified from

Amount of Gain (Loss)

Recognized in

AOCI into

Recognized in Earnings on

OCI

Earnings

Ineffective Portion and

(Effective

(Effective

Location in Statement

Amount Excluded from

Location in Statement of

Cash Flow Hedges

Portion)

Portion)

of Operations

Effectiveness Testing

(1)

Operations

Interest rate contracts

$

(24

)

$

(41

)

Interest expense (2)

$

(27

)

Interest expense (3)

Currency hedge contracts

(57

)


Cost of products sold

(5

)

Cost of products sold (4)

$

(81

)

$

(32

)

$

(32

)

(1)

Other than described in (3) and (4) the amount of gain (loss) recognized in earnings related to
the ineffective portion of hedging
relationships was de minimis in 2009.

(2)

We had $11 million of gains recorded in AOCI as of December 31, 2009 related to
floating-to-fixed treasury locks terminated during 2005 and
2006. We recognized approximately $2 million as a reduction in interest expense during 2009.

(3)

We prepaid $2.825 billion of term loan debt in 2009, and recognized ineffectiveness of $27
million on interest rate contracts for which there
is no longer an underlying exposure, in accordance with ASC Topic 815.

(4)

Represents amount reclassified from AOCI to earnings in 2009 related to dedesignated cash flow
hedges.

Losses and gains on currency hedge contracts not designated as hedged instruments were
substantially offset by gains and losses from foreign currency transaction exposures during 2009.
We recorded a net foreign currency loss of $5 million during 2009 within other, net in our
accompanying consolidated financial statements related to unhedged foreign currency transaction
exposures.

Topic 815 requires all derivative instruments to be recognized at their fair values as either
assets or liabilities on the balance sheet. We determine the fair value of our derivative
instruments using the framework prescribed by Topic 820,

Fair Value Measurements and Disclosures

(formerly FASB Statement No. 157, Fair Value Measurements), by considering the estimated amount we
would receive to sell or transfer these instruments at the reporting date and by taking into
account current interest rates, currency exchange rates, the creditworthiness of the counterparty
for assets, and our creditworthiness for liabilities. In certain instances, we may utilize
financial models to measure fair value. Generally, we use inputs that include quoted prices for
similar assets or liabilities in active markets; quoted prices for identical or similar assets or
liabilities in markets that are not active; other observable inputs for the asset or liability; and
inputs derived principally from, or corroborated by, observable market data by correlation or other
means. As of December 31, 2009, we have classified all of our derivative assets and liabilities
within Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy prescribed by Topic 820, as discussed below, because
these observable inputs are available for substantially the full term of our derivative
instruments.



Balance as of

(in millions)

Location in Balance Sheet (1)

December 31, 2009

Derivative Assets:

Designated Hedging Instruments

Currency hedge contracts

Prepaid and other current assets

$


Currency hedge contracts

Other long-term assets



Not-Designated Hedging Instruments

Currency hedge contracts

Prepaid and other current assets


Total Derivative Assets

$


Derivative Liabilities:

Designated Hedging Instruments

Currency hedge contracts

Other current liabilities

$


Currency hedge contracts

Other long-term liabilities



Not-Designated Hedging Instruments

Currency hedge contracts

Other current liabilities


Total Derivative Liabilities

$


(1)

We classify derivative assets and liabilities as current when the remaining term of
the derivative contract is one year or less.

Other Fair Value Measurements

On a recurring basis, we measure certain financial assets and financial liabilities at fair value
based upon quoted market prices, where available. Where quoted market prices or other observable
inputs are not available, we apply valuation techniques to estimate fair value. Topic 820
establishes a three-level valuation hierarchy for disclosure of fair value measurements. The
categorization of financial assets and financial liabilities within the valuation hierarchy is
based upon the lowest level of input that is significant to the measurement of fair value. The
three levels of the hierarchy are defined as follows:

•

Level 1 — Inputs to the valuation methodology are quoted market prices for identical assets or liabilities.

•

Level 2 — Inputs to the valuation methodology are other observable inputs, including quoted market prices
for similar assets or liabilities and market-corroborated inputs.

•

Level 3 — Inputs to the valuation methodology are unobservable inputs based on management’s best estimate of
inputs market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability at the measurement date, including
assumptions about risk.

Our investments in money market funds are generally classified within Level 1 of the fair value
hierarchy because they are valued using quoted market prices. Our money market funds are classified
as cash and cash equivalents within our accompanying consolidated balance sheets, in accordance
with our accounting policies.

Financial assets and financial liabilities measured at fair value on a recurring basis consist of
the following as of December 31, 2009:



(in millions)

Level 1

Level 2

Level 3

Total

Assets

Money market funds

$


$


Currency hedge contracts

$



$


$


$


Liabilities

Currency hedge contracts

$


$


$


$


In addition to $405 million invested in money market funds as of December 31, 2009, we had
$346 million of cash invested in short-term time deposits, and $113 million in interest bearing and
non-interest bearing bank accounts.

We hold certain assets and liabilities that are measured at fair value on a non-recurring basis in
periods subsequent to initial recognition. The fair value of a cost method investment is not
estimated if there are no identified events or changes in circumstances that may have a significant
adverse effect on the fair value of the investment. The aggregate carrying amount of our cost
method investments was $58 million as of December 31, 2009 and $68 million as of December 31, 2008.
As of December 31 2009, we had no material assets or liabilities measured at fair value on either a
recurring or non-recurring basis using significant unobservable inputs (Level 3).

During 2009, we recorded $26 million of losses to adjust certain cost method investments and
intangible assets to fair value because we deemed the decline in the values of the assets to be
other-than-temporary. Of these losses, $14 million is related to certain of our cost method
investments. These investments fall within Level 3 of the fair value hierarchy, due to the use of
significant unobservable inputs to determine fair value, as the investments are in privately held
entities without quoted market prices. To determine the fair value of these investments, we used
all financial information available to us related to the entities, including information based on
recent third-party equity investments in, and financial statements of, these entities. The
remaining $12 million of the loss is related to certain of our intangible assets, which we wrote
down to their estimated fair values in accordance with the provisions of ASC Topic 360,

Property, Plant
and Equipment

(formerly FASB Statement No. 144,

Accounting for the Impairment or Disposal of
Long-Lived Assets).

The fair value of our outstanding debt obligations was $6.111 billion as of December 31, 2009 and
$6.184 billion as of December 31, 2008. The change in fair value reflects debt prepayments of
$2.825 billion during 2009, partially offset by the issuance of $2.0 billion of senior notes and an
increase in the fair market value of our remaining debt obligations. Refer to

Note I — Borrowings
and Credit Arrangements

for a discussion of our debt obligations.

Note D—Acquisitions

We did not consummate any material acquisitions during 2009. During 2008, we paid approximately $40
million in cash to acquire CryoCor, Inc. and Labcoat, Ltd. During 2007, we paid approximately $100
million through a combination of cash and common stock to acquire EndoTex Interventional Systems,
Inc. and $70 million in cash to acquire Remon Medical Technologies, Inc.

Our consolidated financial statements include the operating results for each acquired entity from
its respective date of acquisition. We do not present pro forma information for these acquisitions
given the immateriality of their results to our consolidated financial statements.



2008 Acquisitions

In December 2008, we completed the acquisition of the assets of Labcoat, Ltd., for a purchase price
of $17 million, net of cash acquired. Labcoat is developing a novel technology for coating
drug-eluting stents.

In May 2008, we completed our acquisition of 100 percent of the fully diluted equity of CryoCor,
Inc., and paid a cash purchase price of $21 million, net of cash acquired. CryoCor is developing
products using cryogenic technology for use in treating atrial fibrillation. The acquisition was
intended to allow us to further pursue therapeutic solutions for atrial fibrillation in order to
advance our existing CRM and Electrophysiology product lines.

2007 Acquisitions

In January 2007, we completed our acquisition of 100 percent of the fully diluted equity of EndoTex
Interventional Systems, Inc., a developer of stents used in the treatment of stenotic lesions in
the carotid arteries. We issued approximately five million shares of our common stock valued at $90
million and paid approximately $10 million in cash, in addition to our previous investments of
approximately $40 million, to acquire the remaining interests of EndoTex. In addition, we may be
required to pay future consideration that is contingent upon the achievement of certain
performance-related milestones. The acquisition was intended to expand our carotid artery disease
technology portfolio.

In August 2007, we completed our acquisition of 100 percent of the fully diluted equity of Remon
Medical Technologies, Inc. Remon is a development-stage company focused on creating communication
technology for medical device applications. We paid approximately $70 million in cash, net of cash
acquired, in addition to our previous investments of $3 million, to acquire the remaining interests
of Remon. We may also be required to make future payments contingent upon the achievement of
certain performance-related milestones. The acquisition was intended to expand our sensor and
wireless communication technology portfolio and complement our existing CRM product line.

Payments Related to Prior Period Acquisitions

Certain of our acquisitions involve the payment of contingent consideration. Payment of the
additional consideration is generally contingent on the acquired company reaching certain
performance milestones, including attaining specified revenue levels, achieving product development
targets or obtaining regulatory approvals. In August 2007, we entered an agreement to amend our
2004 merger agreement with the principal former shareholders of Advanced Bionics Corporation.
Previously, we were obligated to pay future consideration contingent primarily on the achievement
of future performance milestones. The amended agreement provided a new schedule of consolidated,
fixed payments, consisting of $650 million that was paid in 2008, and a final $500 million payment,
paid in 2009. We received cash proceeds of $150 million in 2008 related to our sale of a
controlling interest in the Auditory business acquired with Advanced Bionics, and received
additional proceeds of $40 million in 2009 related to the sale of our remaining interest in
this business. Refer to

Note F — Divestitures

to our consolidated financial statements contained
in Item 8 of this Annual Report for a discussion of this transaction. During 2009, including the
$500 million payment to the former shareholders of Advanced Bionics, we made total payments of $523
million related to prior period acquisitions. During 2008, we paid $675 million related to prior
period acquisitions, consisting primarily of the $650 million fixed payment made to the principal
former shareholders of Advanced Bionics. During 2007, we paid $248 million for acquisition-related
payments associated primarily with Advanced Bionics.

As of December 31, 2009, the estimated maximum potential amount of future contingent consideration
(undiscounted) that we could be required to make associated with our prior acquisitions is
approximately $640 million. The estimated cumulative specified revenue level associated with these
maximum future contingent payments is approximately $800 million.

Acquisition-related Milestone

In connection with Abbott Laboratories’ 2006 acquisition of
Guidant Corporation’s vascular intervention and endovascular solutions businesses, Abbott agreed to pay us a milestone
payment of $250 million upon receipt of
approval from the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) to sell an

everolimus-eluting stent in the U.S. In July 2008,
Abbott received FDA approval and launched its

XIENCE V®

everolimus-eluting coronary stent system in the U.S., and paid us
$250 million, which we recorded as a gain in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. Under the
terms of the agreement, we were also entitled to receive a second milestone payment of $250 million from Abbott
upon receipt of an approval from the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare (MHLW)
to market the

XIENCE V®

stent system in Japan. The MHLW approved the XIENCE V® stent
system in the first quarter in 2010 and we subsequently received the milestone payment from Abbott,
which we will record as a gain in our financial statements for the
quarter ending March 31, 2010.



Purchased Research and Development

Our policy is to record certain costs associated with strategic alliances as purchased research and
development. Our adoption of Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805) did not change this policy with
respect to asset purchases. In accordance with this policy, we recorded purchased research and
development charges of $21 million in 2009, associated with entering certain licensing and
development arrangements. Since the technology purchases did not involve the transfer of processes
or outputs as defined by Statement No. 141(R) (Topic 805), the transactions did not qualify as
business combinations.

In 2008, we recorded $43 million of purchased research and development charges, including $17
million associated with our acquisition of Labcoat, Ltd., $8 million attributable to our
acquisition of CryoCor, Inc., and $18 million associated with entering certain licensing and
development arrangements. The $17 million of in-process research and development associated with
our acquisition of Labcoat, Ltd. relates to their in-process coating technology for drug-eluting
stents. The $8 million of purchased research and development associated with CryoCor relates to
their cryogenic technology for use in the treatment of atrial fibrillation.

In 2007, we recorded $85 million of purchased research and development, including $75 million
associated with our acquisition of Remon Medical Technologies, Inc., $13 million resulting from the
application of equity method accounting for one of our strategic investments, and $12 million
associated with payments made for certain early-stage CRM technologies. Additionally, in June 2007,
we terminated our product development agreement with Aspect Medical Systems relating to brain
monitoring technology that Aspect has been developing to aid the diagnosis and treatment of
depression, Alzheimer’s disease and other neurological conditions. As a result, we recognized a
credit to purchased research and development of approximately $15 million during 2007, representing
future payments that we would have been obligated to make prior to the termination of the
agreement. We do not expect the termination of the agreement to impact our future operations or
cash flows materially.

The $75 million of in-process research and development acquired with Remon relates to their
pressure-sensing system development project, which we intend to combine with our existing CRM
devices. As of December 31, 2009, we estimate that the total cost to complete the development
project is between $75 million and $80 million. We expect to launch devices using pressure-sensing
technology in 2013 in our EMEA region and certain Inter-Continental countries, in the U.S. in 2016,
and Japan in 2017, subject to regulatory approvals. We expect material net cash inflows from such
products to commence in 2016, following the launch of this technology in the U.S.

Note E
— Goodwill and Other Intangible Assets

The gross carrying amount of goodwill and other intangible assets and the related accumulated
amortization for intangible assets subject to amortization as of December 31, 2009 and 2008 is as
follows:



As of December 31, 2009

As of December 31, 2008

Gross Carrying

Accumulated

Gross Carrying

Accumulated

(in millions)

Amount

Amortization

Amount

Amortization

Amortizable intangible assets

Technology — core

$

6,563

$

(1,128

)

$

6,564

$

(854

)

Technology — developed

1,029

(808

)

1,026

(664

)

Patents


(305

)


(264

)

Other intangible assets


(266

)


(210

)

$

8,947

$

(2,507

)

$

8,945

$

(1,992

)

Unamortizable intangible assets

Goodwill

$

12,404

$

12,421

Technology — core



$

12,695

$

12,712

Goodwill Impairment Charges

During the fourth quarter of 2008, the decline in our stock price and our market capitalization
created an indication of potential impairment of our goodwill balance. Therefore, we performed an
interim impairment test and recorded a $2.613 billion goodwill impairment charge associated with
our acquisition of Guidant Corporation. As a result of economic conditions and the related increase
in volatility in the equity and credit markets, which became more pronounced starting in the fourth
quarter of 2008, our estimated risk-adjusted WACC increased 150 basis points from 9.5 percent
during our 2008 second quarter annual goodwill impairment assessment to 11.0 percent during our
2008 fourth quarter interim impairment assessment. This change, along with reductions in market
demand for products in our U.S. CRM reporting unit relative to our assumptions at the time of the
Guidant acquisition, were the key factors contributing to the impairment charge. At the time of the
Guidant acquisition in 2006, we expected average U.S. net sales growth rates in the mid-teens;
however, due to changes in end market demand, we reduced our estimates of average U.S. CRM sales
growth rates to the mid-to-high single digits. Our estimated market participant WACC decreased 50
basis points from 11.0 percent during our 2008 fourth quarter interim impairment assessment to 10.5
percent during our 2009 second quarter annual goodwill impairment assessment, and our other
significant assumptions remained largely consistent. Our 2009 goodwill impairment test did not
identify any reporting units whose carrying values exceeded implied fair values. See

Note A —
Significant Accounting Policies

for further discussion of our policies and methodologies related to
goodwill impairment testing.

Other Intangible Asset Impairment Charges

During 2009, we recorded other intangible asset impairment charges of $12 million, associated
primarily with lower than anticipated market penetration of one of our Urology technology
offerings.

During 2008, we reduced our future revenue and cash flow forecasts associated with certain of our
Peripheral Interventions-related intangible assets, primarily as a result of a recall of one of our
products. Therefore, we tested these intangible assets for impairment, in accordance with our
accounting policies, and determined that these assets were impaired, resulting in a $131 million
charge to write down these intangible assets to their fair value. Further, as a result of
significantly lower than forecasted sales of certain of our Urology products, due to lower than
anticipated market penetration, we determined that certain of our Urology-related intangible assets
were impaired, resulting in a $46 million charge to write down these intangible assets to their
fair value.



The intangible asset category and associated write down is as follows (in millions):

Technology — core

$


Other intangible assets


$


In 2007, we recorded intangible asset impairment charges of $21 million associated with our
acquisition of Advanced Stent Technologies (AST), due to our decision to suspend further
significant funding with respect to the Petal™ bifurcation stent.

Estimated amortization expense for each of the five succeeding fiscal years based upon our
intangible asset portfolio as of December 31, 2009 is as follows:

Estimated

Amortization

Expense

Fiscal Year

(in millions)


$










Our core technology that is not subject to amortization represents technical processes,
intellectual property and/or institutional understanding acquired through business combinations
that is fundamental to the on-going operations of our business and has no limit to its useful life.
Our core technology that is not subject to amortization is comprised primarily of certain purchased
stent and balloon technology, which is foundational to our continuing operations within the
Cardiovascular market and other markets within interventional medicine. We amortize all other core
technology over its estimated useful life.

Goodwill as of December 31 as allocated to our U.S., EMEA, Japan, and Inter-Continental segments
for purposes of our goodwill impairment testing is presented below. Our U.S. goodwill is further
allocated to our U.S. reporting units for our goodwill testing in accordance with ASC Topic 350,

Intangibles—Goodwill and Other

(formerly FASB Statement No. 142,

Goodwill and Other Intangible
Assets)

. During 2009, we reorganized our international structure, and therefore, revised our
reportable segments to reflect the way we currently manage and view our business. Refer to

Note P
— Segment Reporting

for more information on our reporting structure and segment results. We have
reclassified previously reported 2008 goodwill balances and activity by segment to be
consistent with the 2009 presentation.

Inter-

(in millions)

United States

EMEA

Japan

Continental

Total

Balance as of January 1, 2008

$

9,775

$

4,111

$


$


$

15,103

Purchase price adjustments

(7

)

(38

)

(15

)

(14

)

(74

)

Contingent consideration



Goodwill written off

(2,613

)

(2,613

)

Balance as of December 31, 2008

$

7,160

$

4,073

$


$


$

12,421

Purchase price adjustments

(21

)

(6

)

(27

)

Goodwill acquired





Contingent consideration



Balance as of December 31, 2009

$

7,147

$

4,068

$


$


$

12,404

The 2008 and 2009 purchase price adjustments related primarily to adjustments in taxes payable and
deferred income taxes, including changes in the liability for unrecognized tax benefits; as well as
reductions in our estimate for Guidant-related exit costs.



The following is a rollforward of accumulated goodwill write-offs by reportable segment:

Inter-

(in millions)

United States

EMEA

Japan

Continental

Total

Accumulated write-offs as of January 1, 2008

Goodwill written off

$

(2,613

)

$

(2,613

)

Accumulated write-offs as of December 31,

(2,613

)

(2,613

)

Goodwill written off

Accumulated write-offs as of December 31,

$

(2,613

)

$

(2,613

)

Note F
— Divestitures

During 2007, we determined that our Auditory, Cardiac Surgery, Vascular Surgery, Venous Access, and
Fluid Management businesses, as well as our TriVascular Endovascular Aortic Repair (EVAR) program,
were no longer strategic to our on-going operations. Therefore, we initiated the process of selling
these businesses in 2007, and completed their sale in the first quarter of 2008, as discussed
below. We received gross proceeds of approximately $1.3 billion from these divestitures. Management
committed to a plan to sell each of these businesses in 2007 and, pursuant to ASC Topic 360, we
adjusted the carrying value of the disposal groups to their fair value, less cost to sell (if lower
than the carrying value) during 2007, and recognized a related loss of $560 million in our
accompanying consolidated statements of operations. The combined 2007 revenues associated with the disposal groups were $553 million, or seven percent
of our net sales.

Auditory

In August 2007, we entered an agreement to amend our 2004 merger agreement with the principal
former shareholders of Advanced Bionics Corporation. The acquisition of Advanced Bionics included
potential earnout payments that were contingent primarily on the achievement of future performance
milestones, with certain milestones tied to profitability. The amended agreement provided for a new
schedule of consolidated, fixed payments to the former Advanced Bionics shareholders, consisting of
$650 million that was paid upon closing in January 2008, and $500 million paid in March 2009. These
payments represent the final payments made to Advanced Bionics. Following the approval by the
former shareholders in 2007, we accrued the fair value of these amounts, as the payment of this
consideration was determinable beyond a reasonable doubt. The fair value of these payments,
determined to be $1.115 billion, was recorded as an increase to goodwill.

In conjunction with the amended merger agreement, in January 2008, we completed the sale of a
controlling interest in our Auditory business and drug pump development program, acquired with
Advanced Bionics in 2004, to entities affiliated with the principal former shareholders of Advanced
Bionics for an aggregate purchase price of $150 million in cash. To adjust the carrying value of
the disposal group to its fair value, less costs to sell, we recorded a loss of approximately $367
million in 2007, representing primarily a write-down of goodwill. Under the terms of the agreement,
we retained an equity interest in the limited liability company formed for purposes of operating
the Auditory business and, in 2009, received proceeds of $40 million from the sale of this
investment.

Cardiac Surgery and Vascular Surgery

In January 2008, we completed the sale of our Cardiac Surgery and Vascular Surgery businesses to
the Getinge Group for net cash proceeds of approximately $700 million. To adjust the carrying value
of the Cardiac Surgery and Vascular Surgery disposal group to its fair value, less costs to sell,
we recorded a loss of $193 million in 2007, representing primarily the write-down of goodwill. We
acquired the Cardiac Surgery business in April 2006 with our acquisition of Guidant Corporation and
acquired the Vascular Surgery business in 1995.



Fluid Management and Venous Access

In February 2008, we completed the sale of our Fluid Management and Venous Access businesses to
Navylist Medical (affiliated with Avista Capital Partners) for net cash proceeds of approximately
$400 million. We did not adjust the carrying value of the Fluid Management and Venous Access
disposal group as of December 31, 2007, because the fair value of the disposal group, less costs to
sell, exceeded its carrying value. We recorded a gain of $234 million during 2008 associated with
this transaction. We acquired the Fluid Management business as part of our acquisition of Schneider
Worldwide in 1998. The Venous Access business was previously a component of our Oncology business.

TriVascular EVAR Program

In March 2008, we sold our EVAR program obtained in connection with our 2005 acquisition of
TriVascular, Inc. for $30 million in cash. In connection with the sale, we recorded a gain of $16
million during 2008.

Note G — Investments and Notes Receivable

We had investments of $66 million as of December 31, 2009 and $113 million as of December 31, 2008.
We have historically entered a significant number of alliances with publicly traded and privately
held entities in order to broaden our product technology portfolio and to strengthen and expand our
reach into existing and new markets. During 2007, in connection with our strategic initiatives, we
announced our intent to sell the majority of our investment portfolio in order to monetize those
investments determined to be non-strategic.

In June 2008, we signed definitive agreements with Saints Capital and Paul Capital Partners to sell
the majority of our investments in, and notes receivable from, certain publicly traded and
privately held entities for gross proceeds of approximately $140 million. In connection with these
agreements, we received proceeds of $95 million in 2008, and an additional $45 million in 2009. In
addition, we received proceeds of $46 million in 2009 and $54 million in 2008 from other
transactions to monetize certain other non-strategic investments.

In 2009, we recorded gains of $23 million and other-than-temporary impairments of $14 million
associated with our investment portfolio. Gains and losses associated with our investments and
notes receivable are recorded in other, net within our consolidated statements of operations. In
addition, we recorded losses of $6 million associated with our equity method investments. As of
December 31, 2009, we held investments with a book value of $8 million that we accounted for under
the equity method of accounting.

In 2008, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $130 million associated with our
investment portfolio, and gains of $52 million related to the sale of non-strategic investments.
The other-than-temporary impairments included $127 million related to non-strategic investments and
notes receivable which we had sold or intended to sell, and $3 million related to our strategic
equity investments. We also recognized other costs of $5 million associated with the Saints and
Paul agreements. We recorded losses of $10 million, reported in other, net, in our accompanying
consolidated statements of operations associated with our equity method investments. As of December
31, 2008, we held investments with a book value of $45 million that we accounted for under the
equity method of accounting.



In 2007, we recorded other-than-temporary impairments of $119 million related to our investments
and notes receivable, and recorded gains of $65 million associated with the sale of equity
investments and collection of notes receivable. We recorded $13 million of purchased research and
development associated with the initial application of the equity method of accounting to certain
investments in 2007. Other income (expense) associated with equity method adjustments in 2007 was
less than $1 million in the aggregate.

We had notes receivable from certain portfolio companies of approximately $40 million as of
December 31, 2009 and $46 million as of December 31, 2008. In addition, as of December 31, 2008, we
had approximately $20 million of cost method investments recorded in other current assets in our
consolidated balance sheets related to investments that were monetized in 2009 pursuant to our
definitive agreement with Saints.

Note H — Restructuring-related Activities

On an on-going basis, we monitor the dynamics of the economy, the healthcare industry, and the
markets in which we compete; and we continue to assess opportunities for improved operational
effectiveness and efficiency, and better alignment of expenses with revenues, while preserving our
ability to make the investments in quality, research and development projects, capital and our
people that are essential to our long-term success. As a result of these assessments, we have
undertaken various restructuring initiatives to focus our business, diversify and reprioritize our
product portfolio and redirect research and development and other spending toward higher payoff
products in order to enhance our growth potential. These initiatives are described below.

In October 2007, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, an expense and head count
reduction plan (the 2007 Restructuring plan), which resulted in the elimination of approximately
2,300 positions worldwide. We are providing affected employees with severance packages,
outplacement services and other appropriate assistance and support. The plan is intended to bring
expenses in line with revenues as part of our initiatives to enhance short- and long-term
shareholder value. Key activities under the plan include the restructuring of several businesses,
corporate functions and product franchises in order to better utilize resources, strengthen
competitive positions, and create a more simplified and efficient business model; the elimination,
suspension or reduction of spending on certain R&D projects; and the transfer of certain production
lines among facilities. We initiated these activities in the fourth quarter of 2007. The transfer
of production lines contemplated under the 2007 Restructuring plan will continue throughout 2010;
all other major activities under the plan were completed as of December 31, 2009.

We expect that the execution of this plan will result in total pre-tax expenses of approximately
$425 million to $435 million. We have recorded related costs of
$407 million since the inception of the plan, and are recording a portion of these expenses as restructuring charges
and the remaining portion through other lines within our consolidated statements of operations. We
expect the plan to result in cash payments of approximately $375 million to $385 million, of which we have made payments of $330 million to date. The
following provides a summary of our expected total costs associated with the plan by major type of
cost:



Total estimated amount expected to

Type of cost

be incurred

Restructuring charges:

Termination benefits

$205 million to $210 million

Fixed asset write-offs

$31 million

Other (1)

$65 million

Restructuring-related expenses:

Retention incentives

$66 million

Accelerated depreciation

$18 million

Transfer costs (2)

$40 million to $45 million

$4.25

million to $435 million

(1)

Consists primarily of consulting fees, contractual cancellations,
relocation costs and other costs.

(2)

Consists primarily of costs to transfer product lines among
facilities, including costs of transfer teams, freight and product
line validations.

In addition, in January 2009, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a Plant
Network Optimization program, which is intended to simplify our manufacturing plant structure by
transferring certain production lines among facilities and by closing certain other facilities. The
program is a complement to our 2007 Restructuring plan, and is intended to improve overall gross
profit margins. Activities under the Plant Network Optimization program were initiated in the first
quarter of 2009 and are expected to be substantially complete by the end of 2011.

We expect that the execution of the Plant Network Optimization program will result in total pre-tax
charges of approximately $135 million to $150 million, and that approximately $115 million to
$125 million of these charges will result in future cash outlays. The following provides a summary
of our estimates of costs associated with the Plant Network Optimization program by major type of
cost:

Total estimated amount expected to

Type of cost

be incurred

Restructuring charges:

Termination benefits

$40 million to $45 million

Restructuring-related expenses:

Accelerated depreciation

$20 million to $25 million

Transfer costs (1)

$75 million to $80 million

$135 million to $150 million

(1)

Consists primarily of costs to transfer product lines among
facilities, including costs of transfer teams, freight, idle
facility and product line validations.

We recorded restructuring charges of $63 million in 2009, $78 million in 2008 and $176 million
in 2007. In addition, we recorded expenses within other lines of our accompanying consolidated
statements of operations related to our restructuring initiatives of $67 million in 2009, $55
million in 2008, and $8 million in 2007. The following presents these costs by major type and line
item within our accompanying consolidated statements of operations:



Year Ended December 31, 2009

Termination

Retention

Accelerated

Transfer

Fixed Asset

(in millions)

Benefits

Incentives

Depreciation

Costs

Write-offs

Other

Total

Restructuring charges

$


$


$


$


Restructuring-related expenses:

Cost of products sold

$


$


$



Selling, general and
administrative expenses





Research and development expenses








$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Year Ended December 31, 2008

Termination

Retention

Accelerated

Transfer

Fixed Asset

(in millions)

Benefits

Incentives

Depreciation

Costs

Write-offs

Other

Total

Restructuring charges

$


$


$


$


Restructuring-related expenses:

Cost of products sold

$


$


$


$


Selling, general and
administrative expenses




Research and development expenses



$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Year Ended December 31, 2007

Termination

Retention

Accelerated

Transfer

Fixed Asset

(in millions)

Benefits

Incentives

Depreciation

Costs

Write-offs

Other

Total

Restructuring charges

$


$


$


$


Restructuring-related expenses:

Cost of products sold

$


$


$


Selling, general and
administrative expenses




Research and development expenses



$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Restructuring and restructuring-related costs recorded in 2008 and 2007 relate entirely to our 2007
Restructuring plan. Costs recorded in 2009 by plan were as follows:

Termination

Retention

Accelerated

Transfer

Fixed Asset

(in millions)

Benefits

Incentives

Depreciation

Costs

Write-offs

Other

Total

2007 Restructuring plan

$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Plant Network Optimization program





$


$


$


$


$


$


$


Termination benefits represent amounts incurred pursuant to our on-going benefit arrangements and
amounts for “one-time” involuntary termination benefits, and have been recorded in accordance with
ASC Topic 712,

Compensation — Non-retirement Postemployment Benefits

(formerly FASB Statement
No. 112,

Employer’s Accounting for Postemployment Benefits)

and ASC Topic 420,

Exit or Disposal
Cost Obligations

(formerly FASB Statement 146,

Associated with Exit or Disposal Activities).

We
expect to record the additional termination benefits in 2010 when we identify with more specificity
the job classifications, functions and locations of the remaining head count to be eliminated.
Retention incentives represent cash incentives, which are being recorded over the service period
during which eligible employees must remain employed with us in order to retain the payment. Other
restructuring costs, which represent primarily consulting fees, are being recognized and measured
at their fair value in the period in which the liability is incurred in accordance with Topic 420.
Accelerated depreciation is being recorded over the



adjusted remaining useful life of the related
assets, and production line transfer costs are being recorded as incurred.

We have incurred cumulative restructuring charges of $317 million and restructuring-related costs
of $130 million since we committed to each plan. The following presents these costs by major type
and by plan:


Plant

Restructuring

Network

(in millions)

Plan

Optimization

Total

Termination benefits

$


$


$


Fixed asset write-offs



Other



Total restructuring charges



$


Retention incentives



Accelerated depreciation




Transfer costs




Other



Restructuring-related
expenses




$


$


$


In 2009, we made cash payments of approximately $100 million associated with restructuring
initiatives pursuant to our 2007 Restructuring plan, which related to termination benefits,
production line transfer costs and other restructuring costs. We have made cumulative cash payments
of approximately $330 million since we committed to the 2007 Restructuring plan. These payments
were made using cash generated from our operations. We expect to record the remaining costs
associated with the 2007 Restructuring plan through 2010, and make future cash payments throughout
2010 using cash generated from operations. In 2009, since the inception of our Plant Network
Optimization program, we have made associated cash payments of $12 million. These payments were
made using cash generated from our operations. We expect to record the remaining costs associated
with the Plant Network Optimization
program through 2011, and make future cash payments through 2012 using cash generated from
operations.

The following is a rollforward of the liability associated with our restructuring initiatives,
since the inception of the respective plan, which is reported as a component of accrued expenses
included in our accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Plant

Network

2007 Restructuring Plan

Optimization

Termination

Termination

(in millions)

Benefits

Other

Subtotal

Benefits

Total

Charges

$


$


$


$


Cash payments

(23

)

(8

)

(31

)

(31

)

Accrued as of
December 31, 2007





Charges





Cash payments

(128

)

(35

)

(163

)

(163

)

Accrued as of
December 31, 2008





Charges




$



Cash payments

(28

)

(18

)

(46

)

(46

)

Accrued as of
December 31, 2009

$


$

—

$


$


$




In addition to the amounts in the rollforward above, we have incurred cumulative charges of $142
million associated with retention incentives, asset write-offs, accelerated depreciation and
transfer costs pursuant to our 2007 Restructuring plan, and made cumulative cash payments of
approximately $64 million associated with retention incentives and $29 million associated with
transfer costs. We have also incurred cumulative charges of $18 million associated with accelerated
depreciation and transfer costs pursuant to our Plant Network Optimization program and made
cumulative cash payments of $12 million.

Further, on February 6, 2010, our Board of Directors approved, and we committed to, a series of
management changes and restructuring initiatives (the 2010 Restructuring plan) designed to
strengthen and position us for long-term success. Key activities under the plan include the
integration of our Cardiovascular and CRM businesses, as well as the restructuring of certain other
businesses and corporate functions; the centralization of our R&D organization; the re-alignment of
our international structure, and the reprioritization and diversification of our product portfolio,
in order to drive innovation, accelerate profitable growth and increase both accountability and
shareholder value. Activities under the 2010 Restructuring plan will be initiated in early 2010 and
are expected to be substantially completed by the end of 2011. We estimate that the 2010
Restructuring plan will result in total pre-tax charges of approximately $180 million to $200
million, and that approximately $170 million to $190 million of these charges will result in future
cash outlays. We expect the execution of the plan will result in the elimination of approximately
1,000 to 1,300 positions by the end of 2011. The following provides a summary of our expected total
costs associated with the plan by major type of cost:

Type of Cost

Total Expected Amounts

Restructuring charges:

Termination benefits

$115 million to $125 million

Asset write-offs

$5 million

Other (1)

$35 million to $40 million

Restructuring-related expenses:

Other (2)

$25 million to $30 million

$180 million to $200 million

(1)

Includes primarily consulting fees and costs associated with contractual
cancellations

(2)

Comprised of other costs directly related to restructuring plan, including accelerated
depreciation and infrastructure-related costs

Note I
— Borrowings and Credit Arrangements

The following are the components of our debt obligations as of December 31, 2009 and 2008:



As of December 31,

(in millions)



Current debt obligations

$


$


Term loan

2,825

Abbott loan



Senior notes

5,050

3,050

Fair value adjustment (1)

(5

)

(8

)

Discounts

(32

)

(30

)

Other



Long-term debt obligations

5,915

6,743

$

5,918

$

6,745

(1)

Represents net unamortized losses related to interest rate
contracts to hedge the fair value of certain of our senior notes.
See

Note C — Fair Value Measurements

for further discussion
regarding the accounting treatment for these contracts.

As of December 31, 2009, the debt maturity schedule for the significant components of our debt
obligations, is as follows:

(in millions)






Thereafter

Total

Abbott Laboratories loan

$


$


Senior notes


$


$

3,600

5,050

$

1,750

$


$

3,600

$

5,950

Note:

The table above does not include discounts associated with our
Abbott loan and senior notes, or amounts related to interest
rate contracts used to hedge the fair value of certain of our
senior notes.

Term Loan and Revolving Credit Facility

In April 2006, to finance the cash portion of our acquisition of Guidant Corporation, we borrowed a
$5.0 billion five-year term loan and established a $2.0 billion, five-year revolving credit
facility. Use of borrowings under the revolving credit facility is unrestricted and the borrowings
are unsecured. There were no amounts borrowed under this facility as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.
We prepaid $1.0 billion of the term loan during 2007, $1.175 billion in 2008, and, in 2009, prepaid
$2.825 billion, satisfying all remaining maturities under the term loan. There were no penalties or
premiums associated with these prepayments.

Our revolving credit facility agreement requires that we maintain certain financial covenants, as
follows:

Actual as of

Covenant

December 31,

Requirement


Maximum leverage ratio (1)

3.5 times

2.7 times

Minimum interest coverage ratio (2)

3.0 times

5.3 times

(1)

Ratio of total debt to consolidated EBITDA, as
defined by the agreement, as amended, for the
preceding four consecutive fiscal quarters.

(2)

Ratio of consolidated EBITDA, as defined by the
agreement, as amended, to interest expense for the
preceding four consecutive fiscal quarters.



In February 2009, we amended this agreement to increase flexibility under our financial covenants.
The amendment provided for an exclusion from the calculation of consolidated EBITDA, as defined by
the amended agreement, through the credit agreement maturity in April 2011, of up to $346 million
in restructuring charges to support our expense reduction initiatives; an exclusion for any
litigation-related charges and credits until such items are paid or received; and an exclusion of
up to $1.137 billion of any cash payments for litigation settlements or damage awards (net of any
litigation payments received), and all litigation-related cash payments (net of cash receipts)
related to amounts that were recorded in the financial statements before January 1, 2009. In
addition, the agreement provided for an increase in interest rates on our term loan borrowings from
LIBOR plus 1.00 percent to LIBOR plus 1.75 percent, and increased the interest rate on unused
facilities from 0.175 percent to 0.500 percent.

As of and through December 31, 2009, we were in compliance with the required covenants. Our
inability to maintain these covenants could require us to seek to renegotiate the terms of our
credit facilities or seek waivers from compliance with these covenants, both of which could result
in additional borrowing costs. Further, there can be no assurance that our lenders would grant such
waivers.

In connection with the amendment of the revolving credit facility agreement in 2009, we reduced
availability under our credit facility by $250 million to $1.750 billion. In 2008, we issued a
$717 million surety bond backed by a $702 million letter of credit under the revolving credit
facility, and $15 million of cash to secure a damage award related to a patent infringement case
with Johnson & Johnson described in

Note L — Commitments and Contingencies.

In October 2009, we
satisfied the related obligation of $716 million using cash generated from operations. During the
first quarter of 2010, we reached an agreement to settle three patent disputes with Johnson &
Johnson for $1.725 billion, plus interest. We
paid $1.000 billion, consisting of $800 million of cash on hand and $200 million borrowed from our
revolving credit facility, during the first quarter of 2010 and will satisfy the remaining
obligation on or before January 3, 2011. We posted a $745 million letter of credit under our
revolving credit facility as collateral for the remaining payment, reducing the availability under
our revolving credit facility by the same amount. As of December 31, 2009, we had outstanding
letters of credit of $123 million, as compared to $819 million as of December 31,
2008, which consisted primarily of bank guarantees and collateral for workers’
compensation programs. The decrease is due primarily to the satisfaction of the Johnson & Johnson
obligation discussed above, and subsequent termination of the associated $702 million letter of
credit. As of December 31, 2009, none of the beneficiaries had drawn upon the letters of credit or
guarantees, and, as of December 31, 2008, we had accrued the Johnson & Johnson obligation.
Accordingly, we have not recognized a related liability for our outstanding letters of credit in
our consolidated balance sheets as of December 31, 2009 or 2008 for the letters of credit. We
believe we will generate sufficient cash from operations to fund these payments without drawing on the
letters of credit.

Abbott Loan

In April 2006, we also borrowed $900 million from Abbott Laboratories. The loan from Abbott bears
interest at a fixed 4.0 percent rate, payable semi-annually. The loan is subordinated to our
senior, unsecured, subsidiary indebtedness. We are permitted to prepay the Abbott loan prior to
maturity with no penalty or premium. We determined that an appropriate fair market interest rate on
the loan from Abbott was 5.25 percent per annum. We recorded the loan at a discount of
approximately $50 million at the inception of the loan and are recording interest at an imputed
rate of 5.25 percent over the term of the loan. The remaining unamortized discount as of December
31, 2009 is $14 million.

Senior Notes

We had senior notes outstanding of $5.050 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $3.050 billion as of
December 31, 2008. These notes are publicly registered securities, are redeemable prior to maturity
and are not subject to any sinking fund requirements. Our senior notes are unsecured,
unsubordinated



obligations and rank on a parity with each other. These notes are effectively junior
to borrowings under our credit and security facility and liabilities of our subsidiaries, including
the Abbott loan. In 2009, as part of our plan to refinance the majority of our 2011 debt
maturities, we issued $2.0 billion of senior notes. Our senior notes consist of the following as of
December 31, 2009:

Amount

Issuance

Semi-annual

(in millions)

Date

Maturity Date

Coupon Rate

January 2011 Notes

$


November 2004

January 2011

4.250

%

June 2011 Notes


June 2006

June 2011

6.000

%

June 2014 Notes


June 2004

June 2014

5.450

%

January 2015 Notes


December 2009

January 2015

4.500

%

November 2015 Notes


November 2005

November 2015

5.500

%

June 2016 Notes


June 2006

June 2016

6.400

%

January 2017 Notes


November 2004

January 2017

5.125

%

January 2020 Notes


December 2009

January 2020

6.000

%

November 2035 Notes


November 2005

November 2035

6.250

%

January 2040 Notes


December 2009

January 2040

7.375

%

$

5,050

In April 2006, we increased the interest rate payable on our November 2015 Notes and November 2035
Notes by 0.75 percent to 6.25 percent and 7.0 percent, respectively, in connection with credit
ratings changes as a result of our acquisition of Guidant. Rating changes throughout 2007, 2008 and
2009 had no additional impact on the interest rates associated with our senior notes. Our $2.0
billion of senior notes issued in 2009 contain a change-in-control provision, which provides that
each holder of the senior notes may require us to repurchase all or a portion of the notes at a
price equal to 101 percent of the aggregate repurchased principal, plus accrued and unpaid
interest, if a rating event, as defined in the indenture, occurs as a result of a
change-in-control, as defined in the indenture. Any other credit rating changes may impact our
borrowing cost, but do not require us to repay any borrowings. Subsequent rating improvements may
result in a decrease in the adjusted interest rate to the extent that our lowest credit rating is
above BBB- or Baa3. The interest rates on our November 2015 and November 2035 Notes will be
permanently reinstated to the issuance rate if the lowest credit ratings assigned to these senior
notes is either A- or A3 or higher.

Other Credit Facilities

We maintain a $350 million credit and security facility secured by our U.S. trade receivables. Use
of the borrowings is unrestricted. Borrowing availability under this facility changes based upon
the amount of eligible receivables, concentration of eligible receivables and other factors.
Certain significant changes in the quality of our receivables may require us to repay borrowings
immediately under the facility. The credit agreement required us to create a wholly owned entity,
which we consolidate. This entity purchases our U.S. trade accounts receivable and then borrows
from two third-party financial institutions using these receivables as collateral. The receivables
and related borrowings remain on our consolidated balance sheets because we have the right to
prepay any borrowings and effectively retain control over the receivables. Accordingly, pledged
receivables are included as trade accounts receivable, net, while the corresponding borrowings are
included as debt on our consolidated balance sheets. There were no amounts outstanding under this
facility as of December 31, 2009 and 2008.

Further, we have uncommitted credit facilities with two commercial Japanese banks that provide for
borrowings and promissory notes discounting of up to 18.5 billion Japanese yen (translated to
approximately $200 million as of December 31, 2009). We discounted $194 million of notes receivable
as of December 31, 2009 at an average interest rate of 1.49 percent, and $190 million of notes
receivable as of



December 31, 2008 at an average interest rate of 1.13 percent. Discounted notes
receivable are excluded from accounts receivable in the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

Note J
— Leases

Rent expense amounted to $102 million in 2009, $92 million in 2008, and $72 million in 2007.

Our obligations under noncancelable capital leases were not material as of December 31, 2009 and
2008. Future minimum rental commitments as of December 31, 2009 under other noncancelable lease
agreements are as follows (in millions):


$










Thereafter


$


Note K — Income Taxes

Our loss (income) before income taxes consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,

(in millions)




Domestic

$

(1,102

)

$

(3,018

)

$

(1,294

)

Foreign

(206

)



$

(1,308

)

$

(2,031

)

$

(569

)

The related (benefit) provision for income taxes consisted of the following:

Year Ended December 31,

(in millions)




Current

Federal

$

(173

)

$


$


State

(18

)



Foreign

(2

)



(193

)



Deferred

Federal

(115

)

(279

)

(345

)

State

(15

)

(20

)

(20

)

Foreign


(22

)

(21

)

(90

)

(321

)

(386

)

$

(283

)

$


$

(74

)

The reconciliation of income taxes at the federal statutory rate to the actual (benefit) provision
for income taxes is as follows:






U.S. federal statutory income tax rate

(35.0

)%

(35.0

)%

(35.0

)%

State income taxes, net of federal benefit

0.0

%

0.4

%

4.0

%

State law changes on deferred tax

(2.4

)%

Effect of foreign taxes

(20.0

)%

(5.9

)%

(41.9

)%

Non-deductible acquisition expenses

0.5

%

0.5

%

5.4

%

Research credit

(1.3

)%

(0.5

)%

(2.4

)%

Valuation allowance

5.1

%

2.9

%

19.6

%

Divestitures

(4.8

)%

(9.9

)%

33.2

%

Intangible asset impairments

46.5

%

Legal settlement

33.3

%

Section 199

(2.2

)%

Other, net

3.0

%

1.2

%

6.3

%

(21.6

)%

0.2

%

(13.0

)%

Significant components of our deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:

As of December 31

(in millions)



Deferred Tax Assets:

Inventory costs, intercompany profit and related reserves

$


$


Tax benefit of net operating loss and credits



Reserves and accruals



Restructuring-related charges and purchased research and development



Litigation and product liability reserves



Unrealized gains and losses on financial instruments



Investment writedown



Stock-based compensation



Federal benefit of uncertain tax positions



Other



1,493

1,597

Less valuation allowance

(329

)

(252

)

1,164

1,345

Deferred Tax Liabilities:

Property, plant and equipment



Intangible assets

2,357

2,617

Litigation settlement



Other



2,445

2,696

Net Deferred Tax Liabilities

$

(1,281

)

$

(1,351

)

As of December 31, 2009, we generated U.S. tax net operating loss, capital loss and tax credits,
the tax effect of which was $261 million, as compared to $45 million as of December 31, 2008. In
addition, we had foreign tax net operating loss carryforwards, the tax effect of which was
$312 million as of December 31, 2009, as compared to $249 million as of December 31, 2008. We plan
to carryback $210 million of the tax attributes generated in the U.S. to prior years and
carryforward the remaining tax attributes which expect to expire periodically beginning in 2010.
After consideration of all positive and negative evidence, we believe that it is more likely than
not that a portion of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. As a result, we established a
valuation allowance of $329 million as of December 31, 2009 and $252 million as of December 31,
2008. The increase in the valuation allowance as of December 31, 2009, as compared to December 31,
2008, is attributable primarily to foreign net operating losses generated during the year. The



income tax impact of the unrealized gain or loss component of other comprehensive income was a
benefit of $4 million in 2009, a provision of $1 million in 2008, and a benefit of $53 million in
2007.

We do not provide income taxes on unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries where we have
indefinitely reinvested such earnings in our foreign operations. We do not believe it is practical
to estimate the amount of income taxes payable on the earnings that are indefinitely reinvested in
foreign operations. Unremitted earnings of our foreign subsidiaries that we have indefinitely
reinvested offshore are $9.355 billion as of December 31, 2009 and $9.327 billion as of
December 31, 2008.

A
reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows (in
millions):

Year Ended December 31,



Beginning Balance

$

1,107

$

1,180

Additions based on positions related to
the current year



Additions based on positions related to
the prior year



Reductions for tax positions of prior years

(32

)

(161

)

Settlements with taxing authorities

(65

)

(82

)

Statute of limitation expirations

(20

)

(6

)

Ending Balance

$

1,038

$

1,107

As of
December 31, 2009, we had $1.038 billion of gross
unrecognized tax benefits, of which a net  $885 million, if recognized, would affect our effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2008, we had $1.107
billion of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of
which a net $945 million, if recognized, would affect our
effective tax rate.

We are subject to U.S. federal income tax as well as income tax of multiple state and foreign
jurisdictions. We have concluded all U.S. federal income tax matters through 2000 and substantially
all material state, local, and foreign income tax matters through 2001.

During 2009, we received the Revenue Agent’s Report for our federal tax examination covering years
2004 and 2005, which contained proposed adjustments, related primarily to transfer pricing and
transaction-related issues. We agreed on certain adjustments and made associated payments of $64
million, inclusive of interest. We disagree with certain positions contained in the Report and
intend to contest these positions through applicable IRS and judicial procedures, as appropriate.
We also continue to disagree with and contest the significant proposed adjustment, related
primarily to the allocation of income between our US and foreign affiliates, contained in the
Revenue Agent’s Report received in 2008 for Guidant’s federal tax examination covering years 2001
through 2003. Although the final resolution associated with these matters is uncertain, we believe
that our income tax reserves are adequate and that the resolution will not have a material impact
on our financial condition or results of operations.

During 2009, we received favorable foreign court decisions and resolved certain foreign matters.
As a result of these activities, we decreased our reserve for uncertain tax positions by $20
million, inclusive of $7 million of interest and penalties. In addition, statutes of limitations
expired in various foreign and state jurisdictions, as a result, decreased our reserve for
uncertain tax positions by $29 million, inclusive of interest and penalties.

During 2009, we resolved certain litigation-related matters, as described in

Note L — Commitments
and Contingencies

. Based on the outcome of the settlements, we have reassessed the reserve for
uncertain tax positions previously recorded on certain positions and, as a result, have decreased
our reserve by $22 million, inclusive of $1 million of interest.



It is reasonably possible that within the next 12 months we will resolve multiple issues including
transfer pricing, research and development credit and transactional related issues, with foreign,
federal and state taxing authorities, in which case we could record a reduction in our balance of
unrecognized tax benefits of up to approximately $125 million.

We recognize interest and penalties related to income taxes as a component of income tax expense.
We had $299 million accrued for gross interest and penalties as of December 31, 2009 and $268
million as of December 31, 2008. The increase in gross interest and penalties was a result of $63
million recognized in our consolidated statements of operations, offset by $32 million reduction,
due primarily to payments
related to audit settlements and statute expirations. We recognized total interest and penalties
related to income taxes of $4 million in 2008 and $76 million in 2007.

Note L
— Commitments and Contingencies

The medical device market in which we primarily participate is largely technology driven. Physician
customers, particularly in interventional cardiology, have historically moved quickly to new
products and new technologies. As a result, intellectual property rights, particularly patents and
trade secrets, play a significant role in product development and differentiation. However,
intellectual property litigation is inherently complex and unpredictable. Furthermore, appellate
courts can overturn lower court patent decisions.

In addition, competing parties frequently file multiple suits to leverage patent portfolios across
product lines, technologies and geographies and to balance risk and exposure between the parties.
In some cases, several competitors are parties in the same proceeding, or in a series of related
proceedings, or litigate multiple features of a single class of devices. These forces frequently
drive settlement not only of individual cases, but also of a series of pending and potentially
related and unrelated cases. In addition, although monetary and injunctive relief is typically
sought, remedies and restitution are generally not determined until the conclusion of the trial
court proceedings and can be modified on appeal. Accordingly, the outcomes of individual cases are
difficult to time, predict or quantify and are often dependent upon the outcomes of other cases in
other geographies. Several third parties have asserted that our current and former stent systems
infringe patents owned or licensed by them. We have similarly asserted that stent systems or other
products sold by our competitors infringe patents owned or licensed by us. Adverse outcomes in one
or more of the proceedings against us could limit our ability to sell certain stent products in
certain jurisdictions, or reduce our operating margin on the sale of these products and could have
a material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations or liquidity.

In particular, although our recent settlements with Johnson & Johnson resolved 17 litigation
matters, as discussed below, we continue to be involved in patent litigation with Johnson & Johnson
relating to drug eluting stent delivery systems. We have each asserted that products of the other
infringe patents owned or exclusively licensed by each of us. Adverse outcomes in one or more of
these matters could have a material adverse effect on our ability to sell certain products and on
our operating margins, financial position, results of operation or liquidity.

In the normal course of business, product liability, securities and commercial claims are asserted
against us. Similar claims may be asserted against us in the future related to events not known to
management at the present time. We are substantially self-insured with respect to product liability
claims, and maintain an insurance policy providing limited coverage against securities claims. The
absence of significant third-party insurance coverage increases our potential exposure to
unanticipated claims or adverse decisions. Product liability claims, product recalls, securities
litigation, and other legal proceedings in the future, regardless of their outcome, could have a
material adverse effect on our financial position, results of operations and liquidity. In
addition, the medical device industry is the subject of numerous governmental investigations often
involving marketing and other business practices. These investigations



could result in the
commencement of civil and criminal proceedings, substantial fines, penalties and administrative
remedies, divert the attention of our management and have an adverse effect on our financial
position, results of operations and liquidity.

We generally record losses for claims in excess of the limits of purchased insurance in earnings at
the time and to the extent they are probable and estimable. In accordance with ASC Topic 450,

Contingencies

(formerly FASB Statement No. 5,

Accounting for Contingencies),

we accrue
anticipated costs of settlement, damages losses for general product liability claims and, under
certain conditions, costs of defense, based on historical experience or to the extent specific
losses are probable and estimable. Otherwise, we expense
these costs as incurred. If the estimate of a probable loss is a range and no amount within the
range is more likely, we accrue the minimum amount of the range.

Our accrual for legal matters that are probable and estimable was $2.316 billion as of December 31,
2009 and $1.089 billion as of December 31, 2008, and includes estimated costs of settlement,
damages and defense. The increase in our accrual is due primarily to 2009 charges of $1.736 billion
associated with various litigation-related matters with Johnson & Johnson, and $296 million
associated with an agreement in principle reached with the U.S. Department of Justice, both matters
described below, partially offset by the payment of a $716 million settlement related to a Johnson
& Johnson matter, and $45 million associated with the settlement of all outstanding litigation with
Bruce Saffran, both described below and accrued as of December 31, 2008. In addition, during 2009,
we reduced previously recorded reserves associated with certain litigation-related matters
following certain favorable court rulings, resulting in a credit of $60 million. We continue to
assess certain litigation and claims to determine the amounts that management believes will be paid
as a result of such claims and litigation and, therefore, additional losses may be accrued in the
future, which could materially adversely impact our operating results, cash flows and our ability
to comply with our debt covenants

In management’s opinion, we are not currently involved in any legal proceedings other than those
specifically identified below, which, individually or in the aggregate, could have a material
effect on our financial condition, operations and/or cash flows. Unless included in our legal
accrual or otherwise indicated below, a range of loss associated with any individual material legal
proceeding cannot be estimated.

Litigation with Johnson & Johnson

On April 13, 1998, Cordis filed suit against Boston Scientific Scimed and us in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Delaware, alleging that our NIR® stent infringes three claims of two
patents (the Fischell patents) owned by Cordis and seeking damages and injunctive relief. On May 2,
2005, the District Court entered judgment that none of the three asserted claims was infringed,
although two of the claims were not invalid. The District Court also found the two patents
unenforceable for inequitable conduct. Cordis appealed the non-infringement finding of one claim in
one patent and the unenforceability of that patent. We cross appealed the finding that one of the
two claims was not invalid. Cordis did not appeal as to the second patent. On June 29, 2006, the
Court of Appeals upheld the finding that the claim was not invalid, remanded the case to the
District Court for additional factual findings related to inequitable conduct, and did not address
the finding that the claim was not infringed. On August 10, 2009, the District Court reversed its
finding that the two patents were unenforceable for inequitable conduct. On August 24, 2009, we
asked the District Court to reconsider.

On January 13, 2003, Cordis filed suit for patent infringement against Boston Scientific Scimed and
us alleging that our Express 2® coronary stent infringes a U.S. patent (the Palmaz patent) owned by
Cordis. The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware seeking monetary
and injunctive relief. We filed a counterclaim alleging that certain Cordis products infringe a
patent owned by us (the Jang patent). On August 4, 2004, the Court granted a Cordis motion to add
our Liberté® coronary stent and two additional patents to the complaint (the Gray patents). On
June 21, 2005, a jury found that our



TAXUS® Express 2®, Express 2®, Express® Biliary, and Liberté®
stents infringe the Palmaz patent and that the Liberté® stent infringes a Gray patent. With respect
to our counterclaim, a jury found on July 1, 2005, that Johnson & Johnson’s Cypher®, Bx Velocity®,
Bx Sonic® and Genesis™ stents infringe our Jang patent. On March 31, 2009, the Court of Appeals
upheld the District Court’s decision that Johnson & Johnson’s Cypher®, Bx Velocity®, Bx Sonic® and
Genesis™ stent systems infringe our Jang patent and that the patent is valid. The Court of Appeals
also instructed the District Court to dismiss with prejudice any infringement claims against our
TAXUS Liberté® stent. The Court of Appeals affirmed the District Court’s ruling that our TAXUS®
Express 2®, Express 2®, Express® Biliary, and Liberté® stents infringe the Palmaz patent and that
the patent is valid. The Court of Appeals also affirmed that our Liberté® stent
infringes a Gray patent and that the patent is valid. Both parties filed a request for a rehearing
and a rehearing en banc with the Court of Appeals, and on June 26, 2009, the Court of Appeals
denied both petitions. On September 24, 2009, both parties filed Petitions for Writ of Certiorari
before the U.S. Supreme Court which were denied on November 30, 2009. On January 29, 2010, the
parties entered into a settlement agreement which resolved these matters. As a result of the
settlement, we agreed to pay Johnson & Johnson $1.725 billion, plus interest. We paid $1.000
billion of this obligation during the first quarter of 2010 using $800 million of cash on hand and
$200 million of borrowings under our revolving credit facility, and will satisfy the remaining
obligation on or before January 3, 2011. In connection with the settlement, we posted a $745
million letter of credit, reducing our borrowing availability under our credit facility by the same
amount.

On October 17, 2008, Cordis Corporation filed a complaint for patent infringement against us
alleging that our TAXUS® Liberté® stent product, when launched in the United States, will infringe
a U.S. patent (the Gray patent) owned by them. The suit was filed in the United States District
Court for the District of Delaware seeking monetary and injunctive relief. On November 10, 2008,
Cordis filed a motion for summary judgment and on May 1, 2009, we filed a motion to dismiss the
case. On May 26, 2009, Cordis dismissed its request for injunctive relief. On July 21, 2009, the
District Court denied both parties’ motions. This matter was resolved as part of the January 29,
2010 settlement agreement described in the prior paragraph.

On September 25, 2006, Johnson & Johnson filed a lawsuit against us, Guidant and Abbott in the U.S.
District Court for the Southern District of New York. The complaint alleges that Guidant breached
certain provisions of the amended merger agreement between Johnson & Johnson and Guidant (Merger
Agreement) as well as the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing. The complaint further
alleges that Abbott and we tortiously interfered with the Merger Agreement by inducing Guidant’s
breach. The complaint seeks certain factual findings, damages in an amount no less than $5.5
billion and attorneys’ fees and costs. On August 29, 2007, the judge dismissed the tortious
interference claims against us and Abbott and the implied duty of good faith and fair dealing claim
against Guidant. On February 20, 2009, Johnson & Johnson filed a motion to amend its complaint to
reinstate its tortious interference claims against us and Abbott and to add additional breach
allegations against Guidant. On February 17, 2010, Johnson & Johnson’s motion to amend the
complaint was denied. A trial date has not yet been scheduled.

On each of May 25, June 1, June 22 and November 27, 2007, Boston Scientific Scimed and we filed
suit against Johnson & Johnson and Cordis in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware
seeking a declaratory judgment of invalidity of four U.S. patents (the Wright and Falotico patents)
owned by them and of non-infringement of the patents by the PROMUS® coronary stent system, supplied
to us by Abbott Laboratories. On February 21, 2008, Cordis filed counterclaims for infringement
seeking an injunction and a declaratory judgment of validity. On June 25, 2009, we amended our
complaints to allege that the four patents owned by Johnson & Johnson and Cordis are unenforceable.
On January 20, 2010, the District Court found the four patents owned by Johnson & Johnson invalid.
On February 17, 2010, Johnson & Johnson appealed the District Court’s decision.

On February 1, 2008, Wyeth and Cordis Corporation filed an amended complaint against Abbott
Laboratories, adding us and Boston Scientific Scimed as additional defendants to the complaint. The
suit



alleges that the PROMUS® coronary stent system, supplied to us by Abbott, infringes three U.S.
patents (the Morris patents) owned by Wyeth and licensed to Cordis. The suit was filed in the U.S.
District Court for the District of New Jersey seeking monetary and injunctive relief. A trial has
not yet been scheduled.

On September 22, 2009, Cordis Corporation, Cordis LLC and Wyeth Corporation filed a complaint for
patent infringement against Abbott Laboratories, Abbott Cardiovascular Systems, Inc., Boston
Scientific Scimed and us alleging that the PROMUS® coronary stent system, supplied to us by Abbott,
infringes a patent (the Llanos patent) owned by Cordis and Wyeth that issued on September 22, 2009.
The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of New Jersey seeking
monetary and injunctive
relief. On September 22, 2009, we filed a declaratory judgment action in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Minnesota against Cordis and Wyeth seeking a declaration that the patent is
invalid and not infringed by the PROMUS® coronary stent system, supplied to us by Abbott. On
January 19, 2010, the District Court for the District of Minnesota transferred our suit to the U.S.
District Court for the District of New Jersey.

On December 4, 2009, Boston Scientific Corporation and Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc filed a
complaint for patent infringement against Cordis Corporation alleging that their Cypher Mini™ stent
product infringes a U.S. patent (the Jang patent) owned by us. The suit was filed in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Minnesota seeking monetary and injunctive relief. On January 19,
2010, Cordis filed their answer as well as a Motion to Transfer the suit to Delaware. A hearing on
the Motion to Transfer is scheduled for April 12, 2010.

On January 15, 2010, Cordis Corporation filed a complaint against Boston Scientific Corporation and
Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc. alleging that the PROMUS® coronary stent system, supplied to us by
Abbott, infringes three patents (the Fischell patents) owned by Cordis. The suit was filed in the
U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware and seeks monetary and injunctive relief.

Litigation with Medtronic, Inc.

On December 17, 2007, Medtronic, Inc. filed a declaratory judgment action in the U.S.
District Court for the District of Delaware against us, Guidant Corporation (Guidant), and Mirowski
Family Ventures L.L.C. (Mirowski), challenging its obligation to pay royalties to Mirowski on
certain cardiac resynchronization therapy devices by alleging non-infringement and invalidity of
certain claims of two patents owned by Mirowski and exclusively licensed to Guidant and sublicensed
to Medtronic. On November 21, 2008, Medtronic filed an amended complaint adding unenforceability of
the patents. A trial was held in January 2010 and a decision has not yet been rendered.

Litigation with St. Jude Medical, Inc.

Guidant Sales Corp., Cardiac Pacemakers, Inc. and Mirowski Family Ventures L.L.C. are plaintiffs in
a suit originally filed against St. Jude Medical, Inc. and its affiliates in November 1996 in the
U.S. District Court for the Southern District of Indiana alleging infringement of certain ICDs
marketed by St. Jude infringe a patent (the Mirowski patent) licensed to us. On March 1, 2006, the
District Court issued a ruling related to damages which granted St. Jude’s motion to limit damages
to a subset of the accused products but which denied their motion to limit damages to only U.S.
sales. On March 26, 2007, the District Court issued a ruling which found the patent infringed but
invalid. On December 18, 2008, the Court of Appeals upheld the District Court’s ruling of
infringement and overturned the invalidity ruling. On January 21, 2009, St. Jude and we filed
requests for rehearing and rehearing en banc with the Court of Appeals. On March 6, 2009 the Court
of Appeals granted St. Jude’s request for a rehearing en banc on a damages issue and denied our
requests. On August 19, 2009, the en banc Court of Appeals held that damages are limited to U.S.
sales only. On November 16, 2009, Mirowski and we filed a Petition for Writ of Certiorari and on
January 11, 2010 the Supreme Court denied the petition. The case has been remanded back to the
District Court for a trial on damages.



Litigation with Medinol Ltd.

On December 12, 2008, we submitted a request for arbitration against Medinol with the American
Arbitration Association in New York. We are asking the Arbitration panel to enforce a contract
between Medinol and us to have Medinol contribute to any final damage award owed to Johnson &
Johnson for damages related to the sales of the NIR® stent supplied to us by Medinol. A panel of
three arbitrators has been constituted to hear the Arbitration. On February 9, 2010, the
arbitration panel found the contract
enforceable against Medinol. Further proceedings to determine the amount of Medinol’s contribution
have not yet been scheduled.

Other Stent System Patent Litigation

On May 19, 2005, G. David Jang, M.D. filed suit against us alleging breach of contract relating to
certain patent rights covering stent technology. The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for
the Central District of California seeking monetary damages and rescission of the contract. After a
Markman ruling relating to the Jang patent rights, Dr. Jang stipulated to the dismissal of certain
claims alleged in the complaint with a right to appeal. In February 2007, the parties agreed to
settle the other claims of the case. On May 23, 2007, Jang filed an appeal with respect to the
remaining patent claims. On July 11, 2008, the Court of Appeals vacated the District Court’s
consent judgment and remanded the case back to the District Court for further clarification. On
June 11, 2009, the District Court ordered a stay of the action pursuant to the parties’ joint
stipulation. On October 5, 2009, Dr. Jang served a lien notice on us seeking a portion of any
recovery from Johnson & Johnson for infringement of the Jang patent.

On December 11, 2007, Wall Cardiovascular Technologies LLC filed suit against us alleging that our
TAXUS® Express® coronary stent system infringes a patent owned by them (the Wall patent). The
complaint also alleges that Cordis Corporation’s drug-eluting stent system infringes the patent.
The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas and seeks monetary
and injunctive relief. Wall Cardiovascular Technologies later amended its complaint to add
Medtronic, Inc. and Abbott Laboratories to the suit with respect to their drug-eluting stent
systems. A Markman hearing has been scheduled for November 3, 2010. Trial is scheduled to begin on
April 4, 2011.

On March 16, 2009, OrbusNeich Medical, Inc. filed suit against us in the U.S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Virginia alleging that our Liberté® coronary stent system infringes two
U.S. patents (the Addonizio and Pazienza patents) owned by them. The complaint also alleges breach
of contract and misappropriation of trade secrets and seeks monetary and injunctive relief. On
April 13, 2009, we answered denying the allegations and filed a motion to transfer the case to
Minnesota as well as a motion to dismiss the state law claims. On June 8, 2009, the case was
transferred to the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts. On September 11, 2009,
OrbusNeich filed an amended complaint against us. On October 2, 2009, we filed a motion to dismiss
the non-patent claims and on October 20, 2009, we filed an answer to the amended complaint.

On November 17, 2009, Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc filed suit against OrbusNeich Medical, Inc. and
certain of its subsidiaries in the Netherlands alleging that their sale of the Genous stents
infringe a patent owned by us (the Keith patent). A hearing has been set for June 18, 2010.

Cardiac Rhythm Management Litigation

Approximately 12 product liability class action lawsuits and more than 162 individual lawsuits
involving approximately 178 individual plaintiffs remain pending in various state and federal
jurisdictions against Guidant alleging personal injuries associated with defibrillators or
pacemakers involved in certain 2005 and 2006 product communications. The majority of the cases in
the United States are pending in federal court but approximately 17 cases are currently pending in
state courts. On November 7, 2005, the Judicial



Panel on Multi-District Litigation established
MDL-1708 (MDL) in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota and appointed a single
judge to preside over all the cases in the MDL. In April 2006, the personal injury plaintiffs and
certain third-party payors served a Master Complaint in the MDL asserting claims for class action
certification, alleging claims of strict liability, negligence, fraud, breach of warranty and other
common law and/or statutory claims and seeking punitive damages. The majority of claimants allege
no physical injury, but sue for medical monitoring and anxiety. On July 12, 2007, we reached an
agreement to settle certain claims, including those associated with the 2005 and 2006 product
communications, which was amended on November 19, 2007. Under the terms of the amended
agreement, subject to certain conditions, we would pay a total of up to $240 million covering up to
8,550 patient claims, including almost all of the claims that have been consolidated in the MDL as
well as other filed and unfiled claims throughout the United States. On June 13, 2006, the
Minnesota Supreme Court appointed a single judge to preside over all Minnesota state court lawsuits
involving cases arising from the product communications. The plaintiffs in those cases are eligible
to participate in the settlement, and activities in all Minnesota State court cases are currently
stayed pending individual plaintiff’s decisions whether to participate in the settlement. Through
the end of the fourth quarter of 2009, more than 8,150 claims had been approved for participation
in the MDL settlement. As a result, we have made payments of approximately $232 million related to
the MDL settlement and may pay up to $2 million more during the first quarter of 2010. Because
fewer than 8,400 eligible claimants participated in the MDL settlement no other payments may be due
under the settlement agreement. On April 6, 2009 and September 24, 2009, the MDL Court dismissed
with prejudice most of the plaintiffs’ claims which have been resolved through the settlement
agreement. Further dismissal orders are expected as additional claimants are approved for
participation in the settlement.

We are aware of more than 16 Guidant product liability lawsuits pending internationally associated
with defibrillators or pacemakers, including devices involved in the 2005 and 2006 product
communications. Six of those suits pending in Canada are putative class actions, four of which are
stayed pending the outcome of two lead class actions. On April 10, 2008, the Court certified a
class of persons in whom defibrillators were implanted in Canada and a class of family members with
derivative claims. On May 8, 2009, the Court certified a class of persons in whom pacemakers were
implanted in Canada and a class of family members with derivative claims.

Guidant or its affiliates are defendants in four separate actions brought by private third-party
providers of health benefits or health insurance (TPPs). In these cases, plaintiffs allege various
theories of recovery, including derivative tort claims, subrogation, violation of consumer
protection statutes and unjust enrichment, for the cost of healthcare benefits they allegedly paid
for in connection with the devices that have been the subject of Guidant’s product
communications. Two TPP actions which were previously dismissed without prejudice, but have now
been revived as a result of the Court’s January 15, 2010 order, are pending in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Minnesota, although they are proceeding separately from the MDL. On
February 16, 2010, Guidant filed motions to dismiss both cases. The other two TPP actions are
pending in state court in Minnesota, and are part of the coordinated state court proceeding ordered
by the Minnesota Supreme Court. The plaintiffs in one of these cases are a number of Blue Cross &
Blue Shield plans, while the plaintiffs in the other case are United Healthcare and its affiliates.
A hearing was held on Guidant’s motion to dismiss on June 18, 2007, and a decision has not yet been
rendered.

Securities Related Litigation

On September 23, 2005, Srinivasan Shankar, on behalf of himself and all others similarly situated,
filed a purported securities class action suit in the U.S. District Court for the District of
Massachusetts on behalf of those who purchased or otherwise acquired our securities during the
period March 31, 2003 through August 23, 2005, alleging that we and certain of our officers
violated certain sections of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Four other plaintiffs, on behalf
of themselves and all others similarly situated, each filed additional purported securities class
action suits in the same Court on behalf of the same purported



class. On February 15, 2006, the
Court ordered that the five class actions be consolidated and appointed the Mississippi Public
Employee Retirement System Group as lead plaintiff. A consolidated amended complaint was filed on
April 17, 2006. The consolidated amended complaint alleges that we made material misstatements and
omissions by failing to disclose the supposed merit of the Medinol
litigation and U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) investigation
relating to the 1998 NIR ON® Ranger with Sox stent recall, problems with the TAXUS® drug-eluting
coronary stent systems that led to product recalls, and our ability to satisfy FDA regulations
concerning medical device quality. The consolidated amended complaint seeks unspecified damages,
interest, and attorneys’ fees. The defendants filed a motion to dismiss the consolidated
amended complaint on June 8, 2006, which was granted by the Court on March 30, 2007. On April 16,
2008, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed the dismissal of only plaintiff’s
TAXUS® stent recall related claims and remanded the matter for further proceedings. On February 25,
2009, the Court certified a class of investors who acquired our securities during the period
November 30, 2003 through July 15, 2004. A trial has not yet been scheduled.

On January 19, 2006, George Larson filed a purported class action complaint in the U.S. District
Court for the District of Massachusetts on behalf of participants and beneficiaries of our 401(k)
Retirement Savings Plan and Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan (GESOP) alleging that we and
certain of our officers and employees violated certain provisions under the Employee Retirement
Income Security Act of 1974, as amended (ERISA), and Department of Labor Regulations. Other similar
actions were filed in early 2006. On April 3, 2006, the Court issued an order consolidating the
actions. On August 23, 2006, plaintiffs filed a consolidated purported class action complaint on
behalf of all participants and beneficiaries of our 401(k) Plan during the period May 7, 2004
through January 26, 2006 alleging that we, our 401(k) Administrative and Investment Committee (the
Committee), members of the Committee, and certain directors violated certain provisions of ERISA
(the Consolidated ERISA Complaint). The Consolidated ERISA Complaint alleges, among other things,
that the defendants breached their fiduciary duties to the 401(k) Plan’s participants because they
knew or should have known that the value of the Company’s stock was artificially inflated and was
not a prudent investment for the 401(k) Plan (the First ERISA Action). The Consolidated ERISA
Complaint seeks equitable and monetary relief. On June 30, 2008, Robert Hochstadt (who previously
had withdrawn as an interim lead plaintiff) filed a motion to intervene to serve as a proposed
class representative. On November 3, 2008, the Court denied Plaintiffs’ motion to certify a class,
denied Hochstadt’s motion to intervene, and dismissed the action. On December 2, 2008, plaintiffs
filed a notice of appeal.

On December 24, 2008, Robert Hochstadt and Edward Hazelrig, Jr. filed a purported class action
complaint in the U.S. District Court for the District of Massachusetts on behalf of all
participants and beneficiaries of our 401(k) Plan during the period May 7, 2004 through January 26,
2006 (the Second ERISA Action). This new complaint repeats the allegations of the August 23, 2006,
Consolidated ERISA Complaint. On September 30, 2009, we and certain of the proposed class
representatives in the First and Second ERISA Actions entered into a memorandum of understanding
reflecting an agreement-in-principle to settle the First and Second ERISA Actions in their
entirety. The proposed settlement has been submitted to the District Court for approval.

In July 2005, a purported class action complaint was filed on behalf of participants in Guidant’s
employee pension benefit plans. This action was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Southern
District of Indiana against Guidant and its directors. The complaint alleges breaches of fiduciary
duty under ERISA. Specifically, the complaint alleges that Guidant fiduciaries concealed adverse
information about Guidant’s defibrillators and imprudently made contributions to Guidant’s 401(k)
plan and employee stock ownership plan in the form of Guidant stock. The complaint seeks class
certification, declaratory and injunctive relief, monetary damages, the imposition of a
constructive trust, and costs and attorneys’ fees. In September 2007, we filed a motion to dismiss
the complaint for failure to state a claim. In June 2008, the District Court dismissed the
complaint in part, but ruled that certain of the plaintiffs’ claims may go forward to discovery. On
October 29, 2008, the Magistrate Judge ruled that discovery should be limited, in the first
instance, to alleged damages-related issues. On October 8, 2009, we reached



a resolution with the
plaintiffs in this matter. The proposed settlement has not yet been finalized or submitted to the
District Court for approval.

On November 3, 2005, a securities class action complaint was filed on behalf of purchasers of
Guidant stock between December 1, 2004 and October 18, 2005, in the U.S. District Court for the
Southern District of Indiana, against Guidant and several of its officers and directors. The
complaint alleges that the defendants concealed adverse information about Guidant’s defibrillators
and pacemakers and sold stock in violation of federal securities laws. The complaint seeks a
declaration that the lawsuit can be
maintained as a class action, monetary damages, and injunctive relief. Several additional, related
securities class actions were filed in November 2005 and January 2006. The Court issued an order
consolidating the complaints and appointed the Iron Workers of Western Pennsylvania Pension Plan
and David Fannon as lead plaintiffs. In August 2006, the defendants moved to dismiss the complaint.
On February 27, 2008, the District Court granted the motion to dismiss and entered final judgment
in favor of all defendants. On March 13, 2008, the plaintiffs filed a motion seeking to amend the
final judgment to permit the filing of a further amended complaint. On May 21, 2008, the District
Court denied plaintiffs motion to amend the judgment. On June 6, 2008, plaintiffs appealed the
judgment to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit. On October 21, 2009, the Court of
Appeals affirmed the decision of the District Court granting our motion to dismiss the case with
prejudice. Plaintiffs filed a motion to reconsider, and on November 20, 2009, the Court of Appeals
denied the motion. The plaintiffs may seek review by the U.S. Supreme Court.

Governmental Proceedings — BSC

In
December 2007, we were informed by the DOJ that it was conducting an
investigation of allegations that we and other suppliers improperly promoted biliary stents for
off-label uses. The allegations were brought as part of a

qui tam

complaint that remained under
confidential seal. On December 11, 2009, the Federal government filed a notice of non-intervention
with the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Texas and, subsequently, on January 11,
2010, the

qui tam

complaint was unsealed by the Court. On June 26, 2008, the Department of Justice
issued a subpoena to us under the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability Act of 1996
requiring the production of documents to the U.S. Attorney’s Office in the District of
Massachusetts. We are cooperating with the investigation.

On June 27, 2008, the Republic of Iraq filed a complaint against our wholly-owned subsidiary, BSSA
France, and ninety-two other defendants in the U.S. District Court of the Southern District of New
York. The complaint alleges that the defendants acted improperly in connection with the sale of
products under the United Nations Oil for Food Program. The complaint alleges Racketeer Influenced
and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) violations, conspiracy to commit fraud and the making of false
statements and improper payments, and seeks monetary and punitive damages. We intend to vigorously
defend against its allegations. On May 6, 2009, BSSA France was served the complaint. On July 31,
2009, the plaintiff filed an amended complaint. On January 15, 2010, defendant’s filed a motion to
dismiss the amended complaint.

On July 14, 2008, we received a subpoena from the State of New Hampshire, Office of the Attorney
General requesting information in connection with our refusal to sell medical devices or equipment
intended to be used in the administration of spinal cord stimulation trials to practitioners other
than practicing medical doctors. We have responded to the Attorney General’s request.

Governmental Proceedings — Guidant

On November 2, 2005, the Attorney General of the State of New York filed a civil complaint against
Guidant pursuant to the New York’s Consumer Protection Law. In the complaint, the Attorney General
alleges that Guidant concealed from physicians and patients a design flaw in its VENTAK PRIZM® 2
1861 defibrillator from approximately February of 2002 until May 23, 2005. The complaint further
alleges



that due to Guidant’s concealment of this information, Guidant has engaged in repeated and
persistent fraudulent conduct in violation of the law. The Attorney General is seeking permanent
injunctive relief, restitution for patients in whom a VENTAK PRIZM® 2 1861 defibrillator
manufactured before April 2002 was implanted, disgorgement of profits, and all other proper relief.
This case is currently pending in the MDL in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota.

In
October 2005, Guidant received an administrative subpoena from
the DOJ U.S. Attorney’s office in Boston, issued under the Health Insurance Portability & Accountability
Act of 1996.
 The subpoena requests documents concerning certain marketing practices for pacemakers, implantable
cardioverter defibrillators, leads and related products arising prior to our acquisition of Guidant
in 2006. In December 2009, Guidant settled this matter for $22 million and agreed to enter into a
Corporate Integrity Agreement.

In
October 2005, Guidant received an administrative subpoena from the DOJ U.S. Attorney’s office in Minneapolis, issued under the Health Insurance Portability &
Accountability Act of 1996. The subpoena requests documents relating to alleged violations of the
Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act occurring prior to our acquisition of Guidant involving Guidant’s
VENTAK PRIZM® 2 and CONTAK RENEWAL® and CONTAK RENEWAL 2 devices. Guidant is cooperating with the
request, including producing a significant volume of documents and providing witnesses for grand
jury proceedings. On November 3, 2009, Guidant and the DOJ reached an agreement in principle to
resolve the matters raised in the Minneapolis subpoena. Under the terms of the agreement, Guidant
will plead to two misdemeanor charges related to failure to include information in reports to the
FDA and Boston Scientific will pay approximately $296 million in fines and forfeitures on behalf of
Guidant. We recorded a charge of $294 million in the third quarter of 2009 as a result of the
agreement in principle, which represents the $296 million charge associated with the agreement, net
of a $2 million reversal of a related accrual. On February 24, 2010, Guidant entered into a plea
agreement and sentencing stipulations with the U.S. Attorney for the District of Minnesota and the
Office of Consumer Litigation of the DOJ documenting the agreement in principle. We expect to
satisfy the obligation during the second quarter of 2010. The DOJ is also investigating whether
there were civil violations under the False Claims Act related to these products.

In January 2006, Guidant was served with a civil False Claims Act qui tam lawsuit filed in the
U.S. District Court for the Middle District of Tennessee in September 2003 by Robert Fry, a former
employee alleged to have worked for Guidant from 1981 to 1997. The lawsuit claims that Guidant
violated federal law and the laws of the States of Tennessee, Florida and California, by allegedly
concealing limited warranty and other credits for upgraded or replacement medical devices, thereby
allegedly causing hospitals to file reimbursement claims with federal and state healthcare programs
for amounts that did not reflect the providers’ true costs for the devices. On October 16, 2006,
the United States filed a motion to intervene in this action, which was approved by the Court on
November 2, 2006. Fact discovery has been ongoing and mediation is scheduled for late Q1 2010.

On July 1, 2008, Guidant Sales Corporation received a subpoena from the Maryland office of the U.S.
Department of Health and Human Services, Office of Inspector General. This subpoena seeks
information concerning payments to physicians, primarily related to the training of sales
representatives. We are cooperating with this request.

On October 17, 2008, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services,
Office of the Inspector General, requesting information related to the alleged use of a skin
adhesive in certain of our CRM products. We are cooperating with the request.

On October 24, 2008, we received a letter from the DOJ informing us of an investigation
relating to alleged off-label promotion of surgical cardiac ablation system devices to treat atrial
fibrillation. We have divested the surgical cardiac ablation business and the devices at issue are
no longer sold by us. We are



cooperating with the government’s investigation. On July 13, 2009, we
became aware that a judge in Texas partially unsealed a

qui tam

whistleblower complaint which is
the basis for the DOJ investigation. In August 2009, the government, which has the right to
intervene and take over the conduct of the

qui tam

case, filed a notice indicating that it has
elected not to intervene in this matter at this time.

Following the unsealing of the whistleblower complaint, we received in August 2009 shareholder
letters demanding that our Board of Directors take action against certain directors and executive
officers as a result of the alleged off-label promotion of surgical cardiac ablation system devices
to treat atrial
fibrillation. The matter was referred to a special committee of the Board to investigate and then
to make a recommendation to the full Board.

On
November 7, 2008, Guidant/Boston Scientific received a request
from the U.S. Department of Defense
(DOD), Defense Criminal Investigative Service and the Department of the Army, Criminal
Investigation Command seeking information concerning sales and marketing interactions with
physicians at Madigan Army Medical Center in Tacoma, Washington. Since that date, we have been
cooperating with the DOD and the DOJ to review CRM’s financial interactions with
military personnel.

On September 25, 2009, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Department of Health and Human
Services, Office of Inspector General, requesting certain information relating to contributions
made by us to charities with ties to physicians or their families. We are currently working with
the government to understand the scope of the subpoena.

Other Proceedings

On July 28, 2000, Dr. Tassilo Bonzel filed a complaint naming certain of our Schneider Worldwide
subsidiaries and Pfizer Inc. and certain of its affiliates as defendants, alleging that Pfizer
failed to pay Dr. Bonzel amounts owed under a license agreement involving Dr. Bonzel’s patented
Monorail® balloon catheter technology. This and similar suits were dismissed in state and federal
courts in Minnesota. On April 24, 2007, we received a letter from Dr. Bonzel’s counsel alleging
that the 1995 license agreement with Dr. Bonzel may have been invalid under German law. On October
5, 2007, Dr. Bonzel filed a complaint against us and Pfizer in Kassel, Germany, alleging the 1995
license agreement is invalid under German law and seeking monetary damages. On June 12, 2009, the
Court dismissed all but one of Dr. Bonzel’s claims. On October 16, 2009, Dr. Bonzel made an
additional filing in support of his remaining claim and added new claims. On December 23, 2009, we
filed our response opposing the addition of the new claims.

As of June 2003, Guidant had outstanding fourteen suits alleging product liability related causes
of action relating to the ANCURE Endograft System for the treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms.
Subsequently, Guidant was notified of additional claims and served with additional complaints
relating to the ANCURE System. From time to time, Guidant has settled certain of the individual
claims and suits for amounts that were not material to Guidant. Presently, Guidant has one ANCURE
lawsuit pending in the U.S. District Court for the District of Minnesota. Guidant had four cases
pending in State Court in California. These cases had been dismissed on summary judgment. On
February 9, 2010, the California Court of Appeals upheld the dismissal of two of the cases and the
appeal is pending on the remaining cases. Additionally, Guidant has been notified of over 130
potential unfiled claims alleging product liability relating to the ANCURE System. The claimants
generally allege that they or their relatives suffered injuries, and in certain cases died, as a
result of purported defects in the device or the accompanying warnings and labeling. It is
uncertain how many of these claims will ultimately be pursued against Guidant.

In March of 2005, Boston Scientific acquired Advanced Stent Technologies, Inc. (AST), a stent
development company. On November 25, 2008, representatives of the former stockholders of AST filed
two arbitration demands against us with the American Arbitration Association. AST claimed that we
failed to exercise commercially reasonable efforts to develop products using AST’s technology in
violation of the acquisition agreement. The demands seek monetary and equitable relief. We answered
denying any liability. The parties are in the process of identifying qualified arbitrators. No arbitration
date is scheduled.



FDA Warning Letters

In January 2006, legacy Boston Scientific received a corporate warning letter from the FDA
notifying us of serious regulatory problems at three of our facilities and advising us that our
corporate-wide corrective action plan relating to three site-specific warning letters issued to us
in 2005 was inadequate. We have identified solutions to the quality system issues cited by the FDA
and have made significant progress in transitioning our organization to implement those solutions.
During 2008, the FDA reinspected a number of our facilities and, in October 2008, informed us that
our quality system is now in substantial compliance with its Quality System Regulations. The FDA
has approved all of our requests for final approval of Class III product submissions previously on
hold due to the corporate warning letter and is processing all requests for Certificates to Foreign
Governments. In November of 2009 and January of
2010, the FDA reinspected two Boston Scientific sites to follow-up on observations from the 2008
FDA inspections. Both of these FDA inspections confirmed that all issues at the sites have been and
all restrictions related to the corporate warning letter have been removed. The corporate warning
letter remains in place pending FDA internal administrative procedures.

During the first quarter of 2009, we acquired a third-party sterilization facility which was
subject to a warning letter from the FDA. The FDA requested documentation and explanations
regarding various corrective actions related to the facility. This information was provided to the
FDA and the FDA has since re-inspected the facility, issuing no observations, and subsequently
removed all restrictions related to the warning letter.

Matters Concluded Since January 1, 2009

On April 2, 1997, Ethicon and other Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries filed a cross-border proceeding
in The Netherlands alleging that the NIR® stent infringes a European patent licensed to Ethicon. In
January 1999, Johnson & Johnson amended the claims of the patent and changed the action from a
cross-border case to a Dutch national action. The Dutch Court asked the Dutch Patent Office for
technical advice on the validity of the amended patent. On August 31, 2005, the Dutch Patent Office
issued its technical advice that the amended patent was valid and on October 8, 2008, the Dutch
Court found the patent valid. In light of a prior finding of noninfringement, we have determined
not to appeal the finding.
 On March 1, 2006, Medtronic Vascular, Inc. filed suit against Boston Scientific Scimed and us,
alleging that our balloon products infringe four U.S. patents owned by Medtronic Vascular. The suit
was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas seeking monetary and
injunctive relief. On January 23, 2009, the parties executed a settlement and stand-still agreement
settling the action.

On April 4, 2005, Angiotech and we filed suit against Sahajanand Medical Technologies Pvt. Ltd. in
The Hague, The Netherlands seeking a declaration that Sahajanand’s drug-eluting stent products
infringe patents owned by Angiotech and licensed to us. On May 3, 2006, the Court found that the
asserted patents were infringed and valid, and provided for injunctive and monetary relief. On
January 27, 2009, the Court of Appeals affirmed that the patent was valid and infringed by
Sahajanand. On October 23, 2009, the parties agreed to settle this suit.

On August 12, 2008, we filed suit for patent infringement against Medtronic, Inc. and certain of
its subsidiaries alleging that the sale of certain balloon catheters and stent delivery systems
infringe four U.S. patents owned by us. The complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Northern District of California seeking monetary and injunctive relief. On January 23, 2009, the
parties executed a settlement and stand-still agreement and the case was dismissed on January 29,
2009.

On July 25, 2007, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California granted our
motion to intervene in an action filed February 15, 2006 by Medtronic Vascular and certain of its
affiliates against Advanced Cardiovascular Systems, Inc. and Abbott Laboratories. As a counterclaim
plaintiff in this litigation, we were seeking a declaratory judgment of patent invalidity and of
non-infringement by the PROMUS® coronary stent system, supplied to us by Abbott, relating to two
U.S. patents owned by



Medtronic. On January 23, 2009, the parties executed a settlement and
stand-still agreement and the case was dismissed with respect to Boston Scientific on January 30,
2009.

On August 12, 2008, we and Endovascular Technologies, Inc. filed suit for patent infringement
against Medtronic, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries alleging that the sale of Medtronic’s AAA
products infringe ten U.S. patents owned by us. The complaint was filed in the U.S. District Court
for the Eastern District of Texas, Tyler Division, seeking monetary and injunctive relief. On
January 23, 2009, the parties executed a settlement and stand-still agreement and the case was
dismissed with respect to the Boston Scientific entities on February 2, 2009.

On August 13, 2008, Medtronic, Inc. and certain of its subsidiaries filed suit for patent
infringement against us, Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc., Abbott and certain of Abbott’s
subsidiaries alleging infringement of one U.S. patent owned by them. The complaint was filed in the
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas, Marshall Division, seeking monetary and
injunctive relief. On January 23, 2009, the parties executed a settlement and stand-still agreement
and the case was dismissed on February 2, 2009.

On March 26, 2002, we and our wholly owned subsidiary, Target Therapeutics, Inc., filed suit for
patent infringement against Cordis alleging that certain detachable coil delivery systems infringe
three U.S. patents, owned by or exclusively licensed to Target. The complaint was filed in the U.S.
District Court for the Northern District of California seeking monetary and injunctive relief. On
February 27, 2009, the parties executed a definitive settlement agreement and on March 11, 2009,
the case was formally dismissed.

On December 16, 2005, Bruce N. Saffran, M.D., Ph.D. filed suit against us alleging that our TAXUS®
Express® coronary stent system infringes a patent owned by Dr. Saffran. The suit was filed in the
U.S. District Court for the Eastern District of Texas and seeks monetary and injunctive relief. On
February 11, 2008, the jury found that our TAXUS® Express® and TAXUS® Liberté® stent products
infringe Dr. Saffran’s patent and that the patent is valid. No injunction was requested, but the
jury awarded damages of $431 million. The District Court awarded Dr. Saffran $69 million in
pre-judgment interest and entered judgment in his favor. On March 16, 2009, Bruce N. Saffran, M.D.,
PhD. and we agreed to settle all outstanding litigation between us. As a result of this agreement,
we recorded a litigation-related charge of $50 million during the first quarter of 2009, and have
made related payments of $45 million. A joint motion to dismiss the appeal with prejudice was
granted on March 20, 2009. On April 3, 2009, a related complaint was also dismissed.

On April 19, 2007, SciCo Tec GmbH, filed suit against us and our subsidiary, Boston Scientific
Medizintechnik GmbH, alleging certain of our balloon catheters infringe a German patent owned by
SciCo Tec GmbH. The suit was filed in Mannheim, Germany. On February 7, 2009, the parties settled
this suit and on April 21, 2009, the parties executed a definitive settlement agreement. We made
the associated payment during the second quarter of 2009.

On January 16, 2007, the French Competition Council (Conseil de la Concurrence, which is one of the
bodies responsible for the enforcement of antitrust/competition law in France) issued a Statement
of Objections alleging that Guidant France SAS had agreed with the four other main suppliers of
implantable cardioverter defibrillators (ICDs) in France to collectively refrain from responding to
a 2001 tender for ICDs conducted by a group of 17 University Hospital Centers in France. This
alleged collusion is alleged to be contrary to the French Commercial Code and Article 81 of the
European Community Treaty. On December 19, 2007, the Council found that the suppliers had violated
competition law and assessed monetary fines, however, each of the suppliers were fined amounts
considerably less than originally recommended. The French Ministry of the Economy and Finance filed
an incidental recourse seeking aggravated sanctions against all defendants. On April 8, 2009, the
Paris Court of Appeals



dismissed the Minister’s request for increased sanctions and confirmed the
monetary fines previously assessed.

With respect to ANCURE System claims, Guidant litigated coverage claims with its insurers in the
Circuit Court of DuPage County, Illinois and the Superior Court of Marion County, Indiana. Three of
the insurers settled in 2008 and Guidant settled with the other insurers in March 2009. In April
2009, both the Illinois and the Indiana lawsuits were dismissed.

On April 4, 2007, SciCo Tec GmbH filed suit against us alleging certain of our balloon catheters
infringe a U.S. patent owned by SciCo Tec GmbH. The suit was filed in the U. S. District Court for
the Eastern District of Texas seeking monetary and injunctive relief. On May 10, 2007, SciCo Tec
filed an amended
complaint alleging certain additional balloon catheters and stent delivery systems infringe the
same patent. On February 7, 2009, the parties settled this suit and on April 20, 2009, the parties
executed a definitive settlement agreement. On May 6, 2009, the District Court dismissed the case
with prejudice.

On August 3, 2007, Medinol submitted a request for arbitration against us, and our wholly owned
subsidiaries Boston Scientific Ltd. and Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc., under the Arbitration Rules
of the World Intellectual Property Organization pursuant to a settlement agreement between Medinol
and us dated September 21, 2005. The request for arbitration alleges that the PROMUS® coronary
stent system, supplied to us by Abbott, infringes five U.S. patents, three European patents and two
German patents owned by Medinol. Medinol was seeking to have the patents declared valid and
enforceable and a reasonable royalty. The September 2005 settlement agreement provided, among other
things, that Medinol may only seek reasonable royalties and is specifically precluded from seeking
injunctive relief. On June 29, 2008, the parties agreed that we can sell PROMUS® stent systems in
the United States supplied to us by Abbott. A hearing on the European and German patents was
scheduled to begin May 11, 2009. On May 21, 2009, the parties reached a confidential settlement
agreement and on June 15, 2009, a Stipulation and Order was filed terminating the proceedings.

On August 6, 2008, Boston Scientific Scimed and we filed suit against Wall Cardiovascular
Technologies, in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware seeking a declaratory
judgment of invalidity and unenforceability due to inequitable conduct and prosecution history
laches of a U.S. patent owned by them (the Wall patent), and of non-infringement of the patent by
the PROMUS® coronary stent system, supplied to us by Abbott. On January 2, 2009, we filed an
amended complaint to include noninfringement of the patent by our TAXUS® Liberté® stent delivery
system and to add Cardio Holdings LLC as a defendant. On February 27, 2009, Wall and Cardio
Holdings filed a motion to dismiss. On August 24, 2009, the District Court dismissed the case.

On October 22, 1997, Cordis Corporation, a subsidiary of Johnson & Johnson, filed a suit for patent
infringement against us and Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc. (f/k/a SCIMED Life Systems, Inc.), our
wholly owned subsidiary, alleging that the importation and use of the NIR® stent infringes two
patents owned by Cordis. A jury trial found that the NIR® stent infringed one claim of one Cordis
patent and awarded damages of approximately $324 million to Cordis. On May 16, 2002, the Court set
aside the verdict of infringement, requiring a new trial. On March 24, 2005, in a second trial, a
jury found that a single claim of a Cordis patent was valid and infringed. Our appeals of the
infringement decision were denied. On September 30, 2008, the District Court entered final judgment
against us and awarded Cordis $702 million in damages and interest. As a result of the Court’s
ruling, we increased our previously established accruals related to this matter by $334 million.
of. On October 10, 2008, we appealed the damage award and the oral argument was held on June 5,
2009. On September 29, 2009, the parties executed a settlement of this suit and 13 other
intellectual property lawsuits. In connection with the settlement, we made a payment of $716
million to Johnson & Johnson, inclusive of interest on October 1, 2009. The settlement payment was
within our reserve for the NIR® suit.



On August 22, 1997, Johnson & Johnson filed a suit for patent infringement against us alleging that
the sale of the NIR® stent infringes certain Canadian patents owned by Johnson & Johnson. Suit was
filed in the federal court of Canada seeking a declaration of infringement, monetary damages and
injunctive relief. On April 30, 2008, the Court found that the NIR® stent did not infringe one
patent of Johnson & Johnson and that the other Johnson & Johnson patent was invalid. On May 30,
2008, Cordis filed an appeal. On September 29, 2009, the parties executed a settlement of this suit
and 13 other intellectual property lawsuits.

On February 14, 2002, we, and certain of our subsidiaries, filed suit for patent infringement
against Johnson & Johnson and Cordis alleging that certain balloon catheters and stent delivery
systems sold by Johnson & Johnson and Cordis infringe five U.S. patents owned by us. The complaint
was filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California seeking monetary and
injunctive relief. On
October 15, 2002, Cordis filed a counterclaim alleging that certain balloon catheters and stent
delivery systems sold by us infringe three U.S. patents owned by Cordis and seeking monetary and
injunctive relief. On December 6, 2002, we filed an amended complaint alleging that two additional
patents owned by us are infringed by the Cordis’ products. On October 31, 2007, a jury found that
we infringe a patent of Cordis. The jury also found four of our patents invalid and infringed by
Cordis. No damages were determined because the judge found that Cordis failed to submit evidence
sufficient to enable a jury to make a damage assessment. On April 9, 2009, the District Court
awarded Cordis a post judgment royalty on certain sales after November 2007. On July 24, 2009, we
appealed the decisions of the District Court and, on July 30, 2009, Cordis cross appealed. On
September 29, 2009, the parties executed a settlement of this suit and 13 other intellectual
property lawsuits.

On March 13, 2003, Boston Scientific Scimed and we filed suit for patent infringement against
Johnson & Johnson and Cordis, alleging that its Cypher® drug-eluting stent infringes one of our
patents. The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the District of Delaware seeking
monetary and injunctive relief. Cordis filed a counterclaim against us alleging that the patent is
not valid and is unenforceable. On July 1, 2005, a jury found that Johnson & Johnson’s Cypher®
drug-eluting stent infringes the patent and upheld the validity of the patent. On January 15, 2009,
the U.S. Court of Appeals reversed the lower Court’s decision and found the patent invalid. On
February 12, 2009, we filed a request for a rehearing and a rehearing en banc with the U.S. Court
of Appeals and on March 24, 2009, our request was denied. On July 22, 2009, we filed a Petition of
Writ of Certiorari before the Supreme Court. On September 29, 2009, the parties executed a
settlement of this suit and 13 other intellectual property lawsuits.

On May 12, 2004, we filed suit against two of Johnson & Johnson’s Dutch subsidiaries, alleging that
Cordis’ Bx Velocity® stent, Bx Sonic® stent, Cypher® stent, Cypher® Select stent, and Aqua T3
balloon delivery systems for those stents, and U-Pass angioplasty balloon catheters infringe one of
our European patents. The suit was filed in the District Court of The Hague in The Netherlands
seeking injunctive and monetary relief. On June 8, 2005, the Court found the Johnson & Johnson
products infringe our patent and enjoined the sale of certain products. An appeal decision was
received on March 15, 2007, finding the patent valid but not infringed. We appealed the finding and
on March 6, 2009, the Dutch Supreme Court dismissed our appeal. On August 3, 2009, Johnson &
Johnson filed a motion seeking damages for the wrongful enforcement of the injunction. On September
29, 2009, the parties executed a settlement of this suit and 13 other intellectual property
lawsuits.

On August 5, 2004, we (through our subsidiary Schneider Europe GmbH) filed suit in the District
Court of Brussels, Belgium against the Belgian subsidiaries of Johnson & Johnson, Cordis and
Janssen Pharmaceutica alleging that Cordis’ Bx Velocity® stent, Bx Sonic® stent, Cypher® stent,
Cypher® Select stent, Aqua T3™ balloon and U-Pass balloon infringe one of our European patents and
seeking injunctive and monetary relief. On September 12, 2008, the District Court issued a decision
and ruled that a technical expert be appointed. On December 1, 2008, we filed a partial appeal of
the decision in the Brussels Court of Appeals. In December 2005, the Johnson & Johnson subsidiaries
filed a nullity action in France. On January 25, 2008, we filed a counterclaim infringement action
in France, and a hearing is scheduled for



December 1, 2009. In January 2006, the same Johnson &
Johnson subsidiaries filed nullity actions in Italy and Germany. On October 23, 2007, the German
Federal Patent Court found the patent valid. We then filed a counterclaim infringement action in
Italy and an infringement action in Germany. On February 10, 2009, the District Court of Dusseldorf
issued a decision dismissing the German infringement action. On March 24, 2009, we filed an appeal
with the Court of Appeals in Dusseldorf, Germany. A hearing was held in Italy on July 8, 2009. On
September 29, 2009, the parties executed a settlement of these suits and 10 other intellectual
property lawsuits.

On September 27, 2004, Boston Scientific Scimed filed suit against a German subsidiary of Johnson &
Johnson alleging the Cypher® drug-eluting stent infringes one of our European patents. The suit was
filed in Mannheim, Germany seeking monetary and injunctive relief. A hearing was held on September
21, 2007, in Mannheim, Germany, and a further hearing was held on August 7, 2009. On September 29,
2009, the parties executed a settlement of this suit and 13 other intellectual property lawsuits.

On November 29, 2007, Boston Scientific Scimed filed suit against a German subsidiary of Johnson &
Johnson alleging the Cypher® and Cypher® Select drug-eluting stents infringe one of our European
patents. The suit was filed in Mannheim, Germany seeking monetary and injunctive relief. On October
17, 2008, the Court ruled that a technical expert be appointed to evaluate infringement. A hearing
was held on August 7, 2009. On September 29, 2009, the parties executed a settlement of this suit
and 13 other intellectual property lawsuits.

On January 15, 2008, Johnson & Johnson Inc. filed a suit for patent infringement against us
alleging that the sale of the Express®, Express 2 ® and TAXUS® Express 2 ® stent delivery systems
infringe two Canadian patents owned by Johnson & Johnson. Suit was filed in The Federal Court of
Canada seeking a declaration of infringement, monetary damages and injunctive relief. On September
29, 2009, the parties executed a settlement of this suit and 13 other intellectual property
lawsuits.

On October 16, 2008, we received a letter from Senator Charles E. Grassley, ranking member of the
United States Senate Committee on Finance and Senator Herb Kohl, Chairman, United States Senate
Special Committee on Aging, requesting information regarding payments made to the Cardiovascular
Research Foundation, Columbia University and certain affiliated individuals. Additionally, the
letter requests information regarding the COURAGE trial. We responded to the Senators’ requests in
late 2008 and early 2009.

On November 13, 2008, we received a subpoena from the Attorney General of the State of New York
requesting documents and information related to hedges and forward contracts primarily concerning
our executive officers and directors. We have responded to  the Attorney
General’s request.

Guidant is a defendant in a complaint in which the plaintiff alleges a right of recovery under the
Medicare secondary payer (or MSP) private right of action, as well as related claims. Plaintiff
claims as damages double the amount paid by Medicare in connection with devices that were the
subject of the product communications. The case was pending in the MDL in the U.S. District Court
for the District of Minnesota, subject to the general stay order imposed by the MDL presiding
judge. On September 24, 2009, the final individual plaintiff in this case settled and the complaint
was dismissed.

On August 7, 2008, Thermal Scalpel LLC filed suit against us and numerous other medical device
companies alleging infringement of a patent related to an electrically heated surgical cutting
instrument exclusively licensed to them. The suit was filed in the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Texas seeking monetary and other further relief. In December 2009, the case was
settled and dismissed with prejudice.

On November 26, 2005, Angiotech and we filed suit against Occam International, BV in The Hague, The
Netherlands seeking a preliminary injunction against Occam’s drug-eluting stent products based on



infringement of patents owned by Angiotech and licensed to us. On January 27, 2006, the Court
denied our request for a preliminary injunction. Angiotech and we have appealed the Court’s
decision. This case is currently dormant.

On February 26, 2008, fifteen pharmaceutical and medical device manufacturers, including Boston
Scientific, received a letter from Senator Charles E. Grassley, ranking member of the United States
Senate Committee on Finance regarding their plans to enhance the transparency of financial
relationships with physicians and medical organizations. On March 7, 2008, we responded to the
Senator.

On September 25, 2002, we filed suit against Medinol alleging Medinol’s NIRFlex™ and NIRFlex™ Royal
products infringe a patent owned by us (the Keith patent). The suit was filed in the District Court
of The
Hague, The Netherlands seeking cross-border, monetary and injunctive relief. On September 10, 2003,
the Dutch Court ruled that the patent was invalid. On December 14, 2006, an appellate decision was
rendered upholding the trial court ruling. On March 6, 2009, the Dutch Supreme Court reversed the
appellate court decision and sent the case back to the appellate court for further proceedings. The
case has been dismissed pursuant to a settlement agreement with Medinol. In accordance with our
2006 settlement agreement with Medinol, the case is no longer being pursued.

Litigation-related Charges

We record certain significant litigation-related activity as a separate line item in our
consolidated statements of operations. In 2009, we recorded litigation-related charges of $2.002
billion, associated primarily with an agreement to settle three patent disputes with Johnson &
Johnson for $1.725 billion, plus interest. In addition, in November 2009, we reached an agreement
in principle with the U.S. Department of Justice to pay $296 million in order resolve the U.S.
Government investigation of Guidant Corporation related to product advisories issued in 2005.
Further, during 2009, we recorded charges of $50 million associated with the settlement of all
outstanding litigation with Bruce Saffran, and reduced previously recorded reserves associated with
certain litigation-related matters following certain favorable court rulings, resulting in a credit
of $60 million. In 2008, we recorded litigation-related charges of $334 million as a result of a
ruling by a federal judge in a patent infringement case brought against us by Johnson & Johnson,
and, in 2007, recorded litigation-related charges of $365 million, associated with this case. Each
of these matters is discussed above.

Note M
— Stockholders’ Equity

Preferred Stock

We are authorized to issue 50 million shares of preferred stock in one or more series and to fix
the powers, designations, preferences and relative participating, option or other rights thereof,
including dividend rights, conversion rights, voting rights, redemption terms, liquidation
preferences and the number of shares constituting any series, without any further vote or action by
our stockholders. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, we had no shares of preferred stock issued or
outstanding.

Common Stock

We are authorized to issue 2.0 billion shares of common stock, $.01 par value per share. Holders of
common stock are entitled to one vote per share. Holders of common stock are entitled to receive
dividends, if and when declared by the Board of Directors, and to share ratably in our assets
legally available for distribution to our stockholders in the event of liquidation. Holders of
common stock have no preemptive, subscription, redemption, or conversion rights. The holders of
common stock do not have cumulative voting rights. The holders of a majority of the shares of
common stock can elect all of the directors and can control our management and affairs.



We did not repurchase any shares of our common stock during 2009, 2008 or 2007. Approximately
37 million shares remain under previous share repurchase authorizations. Repurchased shares are
available for reissuance under our equity incentive plans and for general corporate purposes,
including acquisitions and alliances. There were no shares in treasury as of December 31, 2009 or
2008.

Note N
— Stock Ownership Plans

Employee and Director Stock Incentive Plans

On May 6, 2008, our shareholders approved an amendment and restatement of our 2003 Long-Term
Incentive Plan (LTIP), increasing the number of shares of our common stock available for issuance
under
the plan by 70 million shares. Together with our 2000 LTIP, the plans provide for the issuance of
up to 160 million shares of common stock. Shares reserved for future equity awards under our stock
incentive plans totaled approximately 109 million as of December 31, 2009. Together, the Plans cover
officers, directors, employees and consultants and provide for the grant of various incentives,
including qualified and nonqualified options, deferred stock units, stock grants, share
appreciation rights, performance-based awards and market-based awards. The Executive Compensation
and Human Resources Committee of the Board of Directors, consisting of independent, non-employee
directors, may authorize the issuance of common stock and authorize cash awards under the plans in
recognition of the achievement of long-term performance objectives established by the Committee.

Nonqualified options issued to employees are generally granted with an exercise price equal to the
market price of our stock on the grant date, vest over a four-year service period, and have a
ten-year contractual life. In the case of qualified options, if the recipient owns more than
ten percent of the voting power of all classes of stock, the option granted will be at an exercise
price of 110 percent of the fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant and will
expire over a period not to exceed five years. Non-vested stock awards (awards other than options)
issued to employees are generally granted with an exercise price of zero and typically vest in four
to five equal installments over a five-year service period. These awards represent our commitment
to issue shares to recipients after a vesting period. Upon each vesting date, such awards are no
longer subject to risk of forfeiture and we issue shares of our common stock to the recipient. We
generally issue shares for option exercises and non-vested stock from our treasury, if available.

The following presents the impact of stock-based compensation on our consolidated statements of
operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007:

Year Ended December 31,

(in millions)




Cost of products sold

$


$


$


Selling, general and administrative expenses




Research and development expenses







Less: income tax benefit

(45

)

(41

)

(35

)

$


$


$


Net loss per common share — basic

$

0.07

$

0.06

$

0.06

Net loss per common share — assuming dilution

$

0.07

$

0.06

$

0.06

Stock Options

We generally use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to calculate the grant-date fair value of
our stock options granted to employees under our stock incentive plans. We calculated the fair
value for



options granted during 2009, 2008 and 2007 using the following estimated weighted-average
assumptions:

Year Ended December 31,




Options granted (in thousands)

14,153

4,905

1,969

Weighted-average exercise price

$

8.61

$

12.53

$

15.55

Weighted-average grant-date fair
value

$

3.92

$

4.44

$

6.83

Black-Scholes Assumptions

Expected volatility


%


%


%

Expected term (in years, weighted)

6.0

5.0

6.3

Risk-free interest rate

1.80% – 3.04

%

2.77% – 3.77

%

4.05% – 4.96

%

Expected Volatility

We use our historical volatility and implied volatility as a basis to estimate expected volatility
in our valuation of stock options.

Expected Term

We estimate the expected term of our options using historical exercise and forfeiture data. We
believe that this historical data is the best estimate of the expected term of our new option
grants. Approximately 75 percent of stock options granted in 2007 related to a single grant to one
member of our executive management team. We performed a specific analysis for this grant and
determined that the grant had an expected term of 6.7 years. We determined that the other grants
during 2007 had an expected term of 5.0 years based on historical data.

Risk-Free Interest Rate

We use yield rates on U.S. Treasury securities for a period approximating the expected term of the
award to estimate the risk-free interest rate in our grant-date fair value assessment.

Expected Dividend Yield

We have not historically paid dividends to our shareholders. We currently do not intend to pay
dividends, and intend to retain all of our earnings to repay indebtedness and invest in the
continued growth of our business. Therefore, we have assumed an expected dividend yield of zero in
our grant-date fair value assessment.

Information related to stock options for 2009, 2008 and 2007 under stock incentive plans is as
follows:



Weighted

Weighted

Average

Aggregate

Average

Remaining

Intrinsic

Stock Options

Exercise

Contractual

Value

(in thousands)

Price

Life

(in years)

(in millions)

Outstanding as of January 1, 2007

83,031

$


Granted

1,969


Exercised

(7,190

)


Exchanged for DSUs

(6,599

)


Cancelled/forfeited

(2,470

)


Outstanding as of December 31, 2007

68,741

$


Granted

4,905


Exercised

(4,546

)


Cancelled/forfeited

(8,034

)


Outstanding as of December 31, 2008

61,066

$


Granted

14,153


Exercised

(411

)


Cancelled/forfeited

(10,096

)


Outstanding as of December 31, 2009

64,712

$


4.6

$


Exercisable as of December 31, 2009

47,747

$


3.2

$


Expected to vest as of December 31, 2009

15,283


8.6


Total vested and expected to vest as of
December 31, 2009

63,030

$


4.5

$


On May 22, 2007, we extended an offer to our non-director and non-executive employees to exchange
certain outstanding stock options for deferred stock units (DSUs). Stock options previously granted
under our stock plans with an exercise price of $25 or more per share were exchangeable for a
smaller number of DSUs, based on exchange ratios derived from the exercise prices of the
surrendered options. On June 20, 2007, following the expiration of the offer, our employees
exchanged approximately 6.6 million options for approximately 1.1 million DSUs, which were subject
to additional vesting restrictions. We did not record incremental stock compensation expense as a
result of these exchanges because the fair values of the options exchanged equaled the fair values
of the DSUs issued.

The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised in 2009 was $1 million, $19 million in 2008
and $28 million in 2007.

Non-Vested Stock

We value restricted stock awards and DSUs based on the closing trading value of our shares on the
date of grant. Information related to non-vested stock awards during 2009, 2008, and 2007,
including those issued in connection with our stock option exchange program discussed above, is as
follows:



Weighted

Non-Vested

Average

Stock Award

Grant-

Units

Date Fair

(in thousands)

Value

Balance as of January 1, 2007

9,875

$


Option exchange grants

1,115


Other grants

9,545


Vested (1)

(778

)


Forfeited

(1,621

)


Balance as of December 31, 2007

18,136

$


Granted

13,557


Vested (1)

(3,856

)


Forfeited

(3,183

)


Balance as of December 31, 2008

24,654

$


Granted

12,703


Vested (1)

(5,895

)


Forfeited

(3,572

)


Balance as of December 31, 2009

27,890

$


(1)

The number of restricted stock units vested includes shares withheld
on behalf of employees to satisfy statutory tax withholding
requirements.

The total vesting date fair value of stock award units that vested was approximately $51 million in
2009, $47 million in 2008 and $15 million in 2007.

2009 CEO Award

During the second quarter of 2009, we granted a market-based award of up to 1.25 million deferred
stock units to our newly appointed chief executive officer. The attainment of this award is based
on the individual’s continued employment and our stock reaching certain specified prices prior to
December 31, 2012. We determined the fair value of the award to be approximately $5 million, based
on a Monte Carlo simulation using the following assumptions:

Stock price on date of grant

$

9.51

Expected volatility


%

Contractual term (in years)

3.5

Risk-free rate

1.99

%

We will recognize the expense in our consolidated statements of operations using an accelerated
attribution method.

Expense Attribution

We generally recognize compensation expense for our stock awards issued subsequent to the adoption
of Statement No. 123(R) using a straight-line method over the substantive vesting period. Prior to
the adoption of Statement No. 123(R), we allocated the pro forma compensation expense for stock
option awards over the vesting period using an accelerated attribution method. We continue to
amortize compensation expense related to stock option awards granted prior to the adoption of
Statement No. 123(R) using an accelerated attribution method. Prior to the adoption of Statement
No. 123(R), we recognized compensation expense for non-vested stock awards over the vesting period
using a straight-line method. We continue to amortize compensation expense related to non-vested
stock awards granted



prior to the adoption of Statement No. 123(R) using a straight-line method.
Most of our stock awards provide for immediate vesting upon retirement, death or disability of the
participant. We expense stock-based awards over the period between grant date and retirement
eligibility or immediately if the employee is retirement eligible at the date of grant.

We recognize stock-based compensation expense for the value of the portion of awards that are
ultimately expected to vest. Statement No. 123(R) requires forfeitures to be estimated at the time
of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those
estimates. The term “forfeitures” is distinct from “cancellations” or “expirations” and represents
only the unvested portion of the surrendered option. We have applied, based on an analysis of our
historical forfeitures, a weighted-average annual forfeiture rate of eight percent to all unvested
stock awards as of December 31, 2009, which represents the portion that we expect will be forfeited
each year over the vesting period. We will re-evaluate this analysis periodically and adjust the
forfeiture rate as necessary. Ultimately, we will only recognize expense for those shares that
vest.

Unrecognized Compensation Cost

We expect to recognize the following future expense for awards outstanding as of December 31, 2009:

Weighted

Average

Unrecognized

Remaining

Compensation

Vesting

Cost

Period

(in millions)(1)

(in years)

Stock options

$


Non-vested stock awards


$


2.0

(1)

Amounts presented represent compensation cost, net of estimated forfeitures.

Employee Stock Purchase Plans

In 2006, our stockholders approved and adopted a new global employee stock purchase plan, which
provides for the granting of options to purchase up to 20 million shares of our common stock to all
eligible employees. Under the employee stock purchase plan, we grant each eligible employee, at the
beginning of each six-month offering period, an option to purchase shares of our common stock equal
to not more than ten percent of the employee’s eligible compensation or the statutory limit under
the U.S. Internal Revenue Code. Such options may be exercised generally only to the extent of
accumulated payroll deductions at the end of the offering period, at a purchase price equal to
90 percent of the fair market value of our common stock at the beginning or end of each offering
period, whichever is less. This discount was reduced from 15 percent to ten percent effective for
the offering period beginning July 1, 2007. As of December 31, 2009, there were approximately nine
million shares available for future issuance under the employee stock purchase plan.

Information related to shares issued or to be issued in connection with the employee stock purchase
plan based on employee contributions and the range of purchase prices is as follows:

(shares in thousands)




Shares issued or to be
issued

4,056

3,505

3,418

Range of purchase prices

$

7.09 – $8.10

$

6.97 – $10.37

$

10.47 – $13.04



We use the Black-Scholes option-pricing model to calculate the grant-date fair value of shares
issued under the employee stock purchase plan. We recognize expense related to shares purchased
through the employee stock purchase plan ratably over the offering period. We recognized $9 million
in expense associated with our employee stock purchase plan in 2009, $7 million in 2008 and $13
million in 2007.

In connection with our acquisition of Guidant, we assumed Guidant’s employee stock ownership plan
(ESOP), which matched employee 401(k) contributions in the form of stock. As part of the Guidant
purchase accounting, we recognized deferred costs of $86 million for the fair value of the shares
that were unallocated on the date of acquisition. Common stock held by the ESOP was allocated among
participants’ accounts on a periodic basis until these shares were exhausted and were treated as
outstanding in the computation of earnings per share. As of December 31, 2009 and 2008, all of the
common stock held by the ESOP had been allocated to employee accounts. Allocated shares of the ESOP
were charged to expense based on the fair value of the common stock on the date of transfer. We
recognized compensation expense of $12 million in 2008 and $23 million in 2007 related to the plan.
Effective June 1, 2008, this plan was merged into our 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan.

Note O
— Earnings per Share

We generated net losses in 2009, 2008 and 2007. Our weighted-average shares outstanding for
earnings per share calculations excludes common stock equivalents of 8.0 million for 2009, 5.8
million for 2008, and 13.1 million for 2007 due to our net loss position in these years.

Weighted-average shares outstanding, assuming dilution, also excludes the impact of 48 million
stock options for 2009, 51 million stock options for 2008, and 43 million for 2007, due to the
exercise prices of these stock options being greater than the average fair market value of our
common stock during the year.

Note P
— Segment Reporting

During 2009, we reorganized our international structure to provide more direct sales focus in the
marketplace. Accordingly, we have revised our reportable segments to reflect the way we currently
manage and view our business and have reclassified below previously reported segment results to be
consistent with the 2009 presentation. Each of our reportable segments generates revenues from the
sale of medical devices. As of December 31, 2009, we had four reportable segments based on
geographic regions: the United States; EMEA, consisting of Europe, the Middle East and Africa;
Japan; and Inter-Continental, consisting of Asia Pacific and the Americas. The reportable segments
represent an aggregate of all operating divisions within each segment. We measure and evaluate our
reportable segments based on segment net sales and operating income. We exclude from segment
operating income certain corporate and manufacturing-related expenses, as our corporate and
manufacturing functions do not meet the definition of a segment, as defined by ASC Topic 280,

Segment Reporting

(formerly FASB Statement No. 131,

Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and
Related Information).

In addition, certain transactions or adjustments that our Chief Operating
Decision Maker considers to be non-recurring and/or non-operational, such as amounts related to
goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and
restructuring-related activities; as well as amortization expense, are excluded from segment
operating income. Although we exclude these amounts from segment operating income, they are
included in reported consolidated operating income and are included in the reconciliation below.

We manage our international operating segments on a constant currency basis. Sales generated from
reportable segments and divested businesses, as well as operating results of reportable segments
and expenses from manufacturing operations, are based on internally derived standard currency
exchange rates, which may differ from year to year, and do not include intersegment profits.
Because of the



interdependence of the reportable segments, the operating profit as presented may
not be representative of the geographic distribution that would occur if the segments were not
interdependent. A reconciliation of the totals reported for the reportable segments to the
applicable line items in our accompanying consolidated statements of operations is as follows:



Year Ended December 31,

(in millions)




(restated)

(restated)

Net sales

United States

$

4,675

$

4,487

$

4,522

EMEA

1,827

1,816

1,783

Japan




Inter-Continental




Net sales allocated to reportable segments

8,065

7,777

7,808

Sales generated from divested businesses




Impact of foreign currency fluctuations



(6

)

$

8,188

$

8,050

$

8,357

Depreciation expense

United States

$


$


$


EMEA




Japan




Inter-Continental




Depreciation expense allocated to reportable
segments




Manufacturing operations




Corporate expenses and foreign exchange




$


$


$


Loss before income taxes

United States

$

1,019

$

1,000

$

1,214

EMEA




Japan




Inter-Continental




Operating income allocated to reportable segments

2,666

2,639

2,933

Manufacturing operations

(381

)

(407

)

(621

)

Corporate expenses and currency exchange

(483

)

(394

)

(462

)

Goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges
and
acquisition-, divestiture-,

litigation-,
 and
restructuring-related net charges

(2,185

)

(2,800

)

(1,244

)

Amortization expense

(511

)

(543

)

(620

)

Operating loss

(894

)

(1,505

)

(14

)

Other expense, net

(414

)

(526

)

(555

)

$

(1,308

)

$

(2,031

)

$

(569

)

As of December 31,

Total assets



United States

$

2,050

$

2,455

EMEA

1,301

1,643

Japan



Inter-Continental



Total assets allocated to reportable segments

4,033

4,721

Goodwill

12,404

12,421

Other intangible assets

6,731

7,244

All other corporate and manufacturing
operations assets

2,009

2,753

$

25,177

$

27,139



Enterprise-Wide Information (based on actual currency exchange rates)

Net sales

Year Ended December 31,

(in millions)




Cardiac Rhythm Management

$

2,413

$

2,286

$

2,124

Electrophysiology




Cardiac Rhythm Management Group

2,562

2,439

2,271

Interventional Cardiology

2,859

2,879

3,016

Peripheral Interventions




Cardiovascular Group

3,520

3,563

3,708

Neurovascular




Endoscopy

1,006



Urology/Gynecology




Endosurgery Group

1,462

1,374

1,269

Neuromodulation




Subtotal

8,177

7,981

7,804

Divested businesses




$

8,188

$

8,050

$

8,357

United States

$

4,675

$

4,487

$

4,522

Japan




Other foreign countries

2,514

2,633

2,485

8,177

7,981

7,804

Divested businesses




$

8,188

$

8,050

$

8,357

Long-lived assets

As of December 31,

(

in millions)




United States

$

1,210

$

1,159

1,342

Ireland




Other foreign countries




Property, plant and equipment, net

1,728

1,728

1,715

Goodwill

12,404

12,421

15,103

Other intangible assets

6,731

7,244

7,964

$

20,863

$

21,393

$

24,782

Note Q — New Accounting Standards

Standards Implemented

In June 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 168,

The FASB Accounting Standards Codification

Ô

and the Hierarchy of Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

(codified within ASC Topic 105,

Generally Accepted Accounting Principles

)

,

which establishes the FASB Accounting Standards
Codification

Ô

(ASC) as the



single source of authoritative U.S. GAAP. The Codification

Ô

supersedes all previous non-SEC accounting and reporting standards. We adopted Statement No. 168
for our third quarter ended September 30, 2009 and have conformed all references to accounting
literature in this Annual Report to the appropriate reference within the Codification

Ô

. All
new authoritative guidance is issued in the form of ASC Updates. We have provided dual-referencing
for those standards that we adopted prior to the issuance of the Codification

Ô

. The adoption
of this standard did not have any impact on our financial position or results of operations.

Statement No. 165

(codified within ASC Topic 855)

In May 2009, the FASB issued Statement No. 165,

Subsequent Events

(codified within ASC Topic 855,

Subsequent Events

)

,

which establishes general standards of accounting for and disclosure of events
occurring after the balance sheet date, but before the financial statements are issued or available
to be issued. We adopted Statement No. 165 for our
second quarter ended June 30, 2009. Its adoption did not impact our results of operations or
financial condition. Refer to

Note A — Significant Accounting Policies

for more information
regarding our evaluation of subsequent events.

Statement No. 161

(codified within ASC Topic 815)

In March 2008, the FASB issued Statement No. 161,

Disclosures about Derivative Instruments and
Hedging Activities

, (codified within ASC Topic 815,

Derivatives and Hedging

), which amends
Statement No. 133,

Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities

, by requiring
expanded disclosures about an entity’s derivative instruments and hedging activities. Statement
No. 161 requires increased qualitative, quantitative, and credit-risk disclosures, including
(a) how and why an entity uses derivative instruments, (b) how derivative instruments and related
hedged items are accounted for under Statement No. 133 and its related interpretations, and (c) how
derivative instruments and related hedged items affect an entity’s financial position and financial
performance. We adopted Statement No. 161 as of our first quarter ended March 31, 2009. Refer to

Note C — Fair Value Measurements

for more information.

Statement No. 141(R)

(codified within ASC Topic 805)

In December 2007, the FASB issued Statement No. 141(R),

Business Combinations

(codified within ASC
Topic 805,

Business Combinations

), a replacement for Statement No. 141. Statement No. 141(R)
retains the fundamental requirements of Statement No. 141, but requires the recognition of all
assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination at their fair values as of the
acquisition date. It also requires, for acquisitions involving contingent consideration, the
recognition of a liability equal to the expected fair value of future contingent payments at the
acquisition date. Additionally, Statement No. 141(R) supersedes FASB Interpretation No. 4,

Applicability of FASB Statement No. 2 to Business Combinations Accounted for by the Purchase
Method

, which required research and development assets acquired in a business combination that had
no alternative future use to be measured at their fair values and expensed at the acquisition date.
Statement No. 141(R) now requires that purchased research and development acquired in a business
combination be recognized as an indefinite-lived intangible asset until the completion or
abandonment of the associated research and development efforts. Further, Statement No.
141(R) requires that we recognize changes in acquired income tax uncertainties (applied to
acquisitions before and after the adoption date) as income tax expense or benefit. We were required
all other provisions of Statement No. 141(R) prospectively for any acquisitions on or after
January 1, 2009. We did not consummate any material business combinations during 2009.

New Standards to be Implemented

ASC Update No. 2009-13



In October 2009, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2009-13,

Revenue Recognition (Topic 605):
Multiple-Deliverable Revenue Arrangements.

The consensus in Update No. 2009-13 supersedes certain
guidance in Topic 605 (formerly EITF Issue No. 00-21,

Multiple-Element Arrangements

). Update No.
2009-13 provides principles and application guidance to determine whether multiple deliverables
exist, how the individual deliverables should be separated and how to allocate the revenue in the
arrangement among those separate deliverables. Update No. 2009-13 also expands the disclosure
requirements for multiple deliverable revenue arrangements. We are required to adopt Update
No. 2009-13 as of January 1, 2011 and are in the process of determining the impact that the
adoption of Update No. 2009-13 will have on our future results of operations or financial position.

ASC Update No. 2009-17

In December 2009, the FASB issued ASC Update No. 2009-17,

Consolidations (Topic 810) — Improvements
to Financial Reporting by Enterprises Involved with Variable Interest Entities,

which formally
codifies FASB Statement No. 167,

Amendments to FASB Interpretation No. 46(R).

Update No. 2009-17
and Statement No. 167 amend Interpretation No. 46(R),

Consolidation of Variable Interest Entities,

to require that an enterprise perform an analysis to determine whether the enterprise’s variable
interests give it a controlling financial interest in a variable interest entity (VIE). The
analysis identifies the primary beneficiary of a VIE as the enterprise that has both 1) the power
to direct activities of a VIE that most significantly impact the entity’s economic performance and
2) the obligation to absorb losses of the entity or the right to receive benefits from the entity.
Update No. 2009-17 eliminated the quantitative approach previously required for determining the
primary beneficiary of a VIE and requires ongoing reassessments of whether an enterprise is the
primary beneficiary. We are required to adopt Update No. 2009-17 for our first quarter ending
March 31, 2010. We do not believe the adoption of Update No. 2009-17 will have a significant impact
on our future results of operations or financial position.



QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

(in millions, except per share data)

(unaudited)

Three Months Ended

March 31,

June 30,

Sept 30,

Dec 31,


Net sales

$

2,010

$

2,074

$

2,025

$

2,079

Gross profit

1,403

1,444

1,396

1,369

Operating income (loss)




(1,231

)

Net (loss) income

(13

)


(94

)

(1,075

)

Net (loss) income per common share — basic

$

(0.01

)

$

0.10

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)

Net (loss) income per common share — assuming dilution

$

(0.01

)

$

0.10

$

(0.06

)

$

(0.71

)


Net sales

$

2,046

$

2,024

$

1,978

$

2,002

Gross profit

1,466

1,420

1,323

1,372

Operating income (loss)




(2,416

)

Net income (loss)



(62

)

(2,394

)

Net income (loss) per common share — basic

$

0.22

$

0.07

$

(0.04

)

$

(1.59

)

Net income (loss) per
common share — assuming dilution

$

0.21

$

0.07

$

(0.04

)

$

(1.59

)

Our reported results for 2009 included intangible asset impairment charges; acquisition-,
divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related net charges and discrete tax items (after tax)
of: $201 million in the first quarter, $36 million in the second quarter, $278 million in the third
quarter and $1.270 billion in the fourth quarter. These charges consisted primarily of: asset
impairment charges associated primarily with certain Urology-related intangible assets; purchased
research and development charges related to the acquisition of certain technology rights; gains on
the sale of non-strategic investments and other credits related to prior period business
divestitures; litigation-related net charges associated primarily with the settlement of patent
litigation matters with Johnson & Johnson and an agreement in principle with the U.S. Department of
Justice related to a U.S. Government investigation of Guidant Corporation; restructuring and
restructuring-related costs attributable to our Plant Network Optimization program and 2007
Restructuring plan; and discrete tax benefits related to certain tax positions taken in a prior
period.

Our reported results for 2008 included goodwill and intangible asset impairment charges;
acquisition-, divestiture-, litigation- and restructuring-related net charges and discrete tax
items (after tax) of: $74 million of net credits in the first quarter, $98 million of net charges
in the second quarter, $202 million of net charges in the third quarter and $2.570 billion of net
charges in the fourth quarter. These charges consisted of: goodwill and intangible asset impairment
charges; a gain related to the receipt of an acquisition-related milestone from Abbott
Laboratories; purchased research and development charges, attributable primarily to the
acquisitions of Labcoat, Ltd. and CryoCor, Inc.; restructuring charges associated with our Plant
Network Optimization program and 2007 Restructuring plan; gains and losses associated with the sale
of certain non-strategic businesses and investments; litigation-related charges resulting primarily
from a ruling by a federal judge in a patent infringement case brought against us by Johnson &
Johnson; and discrete tax benefits related to certain tax positions taken in a prior period.



ITEM
9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.

ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES

Disclosure Controls and Procedures

Our management, with the participation of our President and Chief Executive Officer and Executive
Vice President — Finance & Information Systems and Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of
our disclosure controls and procedures as of December 31, 2009 pursuant to Rule 13a-15(b) of the
Securities Exchange Act. Disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that material
information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the
Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods
specified in the SEC’s rules and forms and ensure that such material information is accumulated and
communicated to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer,
as appropriate, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on their evaluation,
our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that as of December 31, 2009, our disclosure controls and procedures
were effective.

Management’s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

Management’s report on our internal control over financial reporting is contained in Item 7.

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control over Financial Reporting

The report of Ernst & Young LLP on our internal control over financial reporting is contained in
Item 7.

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting

During the quarter ended December 31, 2009, there were no changes in our internal control over
financial reporting that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect,
our internal control over financial reporting.

ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION.

None.



PART III

ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE

Our directors and executive officers as of February 10, 2010, were as follows:

DIRECTORS

John E. Abele


Director; Founder

Katharine T. Bartlett


Director; A. Kenneth Pye Professor of Law, Duke University
School of Law

Bruce L. Byrnes


Director; Retired Vice Chairman of the Board, The Procter
& Gamble Company

Nelda J. Connors


Director; President of the Electrical and Metal Products
division of Tyco International

J. Raymond Elliott


President and Chief Executive Officer and Director

Marye Anne Fox, Ph.D.


Director; Chancellor, University of California, San Diego

Ray J. Groves


Director; Ombudsman for Standard & Poor’s; Retired Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer, Ernst & Young LLP

Ernest Mario, Ph.D.


Director; Chairman and Chief Executive Officer, Capnia, Inc.

N.J. Nicholas, Jr.


Director; Private Investor

Pete M. Nicholas


Director; Founder, Chairman of the Board

John E. Pepper


Director; Chairman of the Board of Directors of The Walt
Disney Company; Co-Chair, National Underground Railroad
Freedom Center

Uwe E. Reinhardt, Ph.D.


Director; Professor of Political Economy and Economics and
Public Affairs, Princeton University

Senator Warren B. Rudman


Director; Former U.S. Senator; Co-Chairman, Albright
Stonebridge Group; Of Counsel, Paul, Weiss, Rifkind,
Wharton, & Garrison LLP

John E. Sununu


Director; Former U.S. Senator

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS

Brian R. Burns


Senior Vice President, Global Quality

Jeffrey D. Capello


Executive Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and
Corporate Controller (Executive Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer, effective March 1, 2010)

Fredericus A. Colen


Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer

Joseph M. Fitzgerald


Senior Vice President and President, Endovascular

James Gilbert


Executive Vice President, Strategy and Business Development

William H. Kucheman


Executive Vice President and President, Cardiology, Rhythm
and Vascular Group

Jean
Fitterer Lance


Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer

Sam R. Leno


Executive Vice President, Finance and Information Systems
and Chief Financial Officer (Executive Vice President and
Chief Operations Officer, effective March 1, 2010)

Andrew N. Milani


Senior Vice President, Human Resources

Stephen F. Moreci


Senior Vice President, Global Sales Operations

J. Michael Onuscheck


Senior Vice President and President, Neuromodulation



John
B.  Pedersen


Senior Vice President and President, Urology and Women’s
Health

Michael P. Phalen


Senior Vice President and President, Endoscopy

Timothy A. Pratt


Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief
Administrative Officer

Kenneth J. Pucel


Executive Vice President, Global Operations

Pete M. Nicholas, our co-founder, has been Chairman of the Board since 1995. He has been a Director
since 1979 and served as our Chief Executive Officer from 1979 to March 1999 and Co-Chairman of the
Board from 1979 to 1995. Prior to joining Boston Scientific, he was corporate director of marketing
and general manager of the Medical Products Division at Millipore Corporation, a medical device
company, and served in various sales, marketing and general management positions at Eli Lilly and
Company. He is currently Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Trustees of Duke University. Mr.
Nicholas is also a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and Vice Chairman of the
Trust for that organization. He also serves on several for profit and not for profit boards
including CEOs for Fundamental Change in Education and the Boys and Girls Club of Boston. After
college, Mr. Nicholas served as an officer in the U.S. Navy, resigning his commission as lieutenant
in 1966. Mr. Nicholas received a B.A. degree from Duke University, and an M.B.A. degree from The
Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. He is the brother of N.J. Nicholas, Jr., one of
our directors.

John E. Abele, our co-founder, has been a Director of Boston Scientific since 1979. Mr. Abele was
our Treasurer from 1979 to 1992, our Co-Chairman from 1979 to 1995 and our Vice Chairman and
Founder, Office of the Chairman from February 1995 to March 1996. Mr. Abele is also the owner of
The Kingbridge Centre and Institute, a 120-room conference center in Ontario that provides special
services and research to businesses, academia and government. He was President of Medi-tech, Inc.
from 1970 to 1983, and prior to that served in sales, technical and general management positions
for Advanced Instruments, Inc. Mr. Abele is the Chairman of the Board of the F.I.R.S.T. (For
Inspiration and Recognition of Science and Technology) Foundation and is also a member of several
not-for-profit boards. He is a member of the President’s Council of Olin College. Mr. Abele
received a B.A. degree from Amherst College.

Katharine T. Bartlett became a Director of Boston Scientific in August 2009. Ms. Bartlett has been
a full-time member of the Duke University School of Law faculty since 1983 and is the A. Kenneth
Pye Professor of Law at the Duke University School of Law, where she served as Dean from 2000 until
2007. She is a member of the executive committee of the Association of American Law Schools. Ms.
Bartlett earned a B.A. degree from Wheaton College, magna cum laude, Phi Beta Kappa; an M.A. degree
from Harvard University; and a J.D. degree from the Boalt Hall School of Law at the University of
California, Berkeley, where she served as an editor of the Law Review.

Bruce L. Byrnes became a Director of Boston Scientific in August 2009. Mr. Byrnes is a retired Vice
Chairman of the Board for The Procter & Gamble Company. During his 38-year career with Procter
& Gamble, Mr. Byrnes served as Vice Chairman of the Board and as President for several global
divisions, including health care. Mr. Byrnes is a Director of Cincinnati Bell Inc., and he served
as a trustee of the Cincinnati Art Museum. He holds a B.A. degree from Princeton University.

Nelda J. Connors became a Director of Boston Scientific in December 2009. Ms. Connors is the
President of the Electrical and Metal Products division of Tyco International. Prior to joining
Tyco in 2008, she held several positions in operations and general management at Eaton Corporation,
including Vice President, Global Clutch Division and Operational Excellence from 2007 until 2008,
Vice President and General Manager, Asia Pacific, Fluid Power Group from 2004 to 2007 and Vice
President, Manufacturing Operational Excellence, Power Group from 2002 to 2004. From 1997 to 2002,
Ms. Connors was employed in a number of executive and management capacities with Ford Motor Company
and Ford of Europe. Prior to working with Ford, Ms. Connors was employed by Chrysler and Mogami
Denki, a Toyota



supplier. She began her career as an engineer with Monsanto Corporation. She is a founders’ board
member of Governors State University. Ms. Connors holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in mechanical
engineering from the University of Dayton.

J. Raymond Elliott became our President, Chief Executive Officer and a Director in July 2009. He
had previously been a Director of Boston Scientific from September 2007 to May 2009. Mr. Elliott
was the Chairman of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. until November 2007 and was Chairman, President and Chief
Executive Officer of Zimmer Holdings, Inc. from March 2001 to May 2007. Mr. Elliott was appointed
President of Zimmer, Inc. in November 1997. Mr. Elliott has more than 35 years of experience in
orthopedics, medical devices and consumer products. He has served as a director on more than 20
business-related boards in the U.S., Canada, Japan and Europe and has served on six occasions as
Chairman. He has served as a member of the board of directors and chair of the orthopedic sector of
the Advanced Medical Technology Association (AdvaMed) and was a director of the Indiana Chamber of
Commerce, the American Swiss Foundation and Bausch & Lomb Corporation. Mr. Elliott has served as
the Indiana representative on the President’s State Scholars Program and as a trustee of the
Orthopaedic Research and Education Foundation (OREF). He holds a bachelor’s degree from the
University of Western Ontario, Canada.

Marye Anne Fox has been a Director of Boston Scientific since 2001. Dr. Fox has been Chancellor of
the University of California, San Diego and Distinguished Professor of Chemistry since August 2004.
Prior to that, she served as Chancellor of North Carolina State University and Distinguished
University Professor of Chemistry from 1998 to 2004. From 1976 to 1998, she was a member of the
faculty at the University of Texas, where she taught chemistry and held the Waggoner Regents Chair
in Chemistry from 1991 to 1998. She served as the University’s Vice President for Research from
1994 to 1998. Dr. Fox has served as the Co-Chair of the National Academy of Sciences’
Government-University-Industry Research Roundtable and served on President Bush’s Council of
Advisors on Science and Technology. She has served as the Vice Chair of the National Science Board.
She also serves on the boards of a number of other scientific, technological and civic
organizations, and is a member of the boards of directors of Red Hat Corp., W.R. Grace Co. and the
Camille and Henry Dreyfus Foundation. She has been honored by a wide range of educational and
professional organizations, and she has authored more than 350 publications, including five books.
Dr. Fox holds a B.S. in Chemistry from Notre Dame College, an M.S. in Organic Chemistry from
Cleveland State University, and a Ph.D. in Organic Chemistry from Dartmouth College.

Ray J. Groves has been a Director of Boston Scientific since 1999. Mr. Groves has been the
Ombudsman for Standard & Poor’s since 2009. From 2001 to 2005, Mr. Groves served in various roles
at Marsh Inc., including President, Chairman and Senior Advisor, and is a former member of the
board of directors of its parent company, Marsh & McLennan Companies, Inc. He served as Chairman of
Legg Mason Merchant Banking, Inc. from 1995 to 2001. Mr. Groves served as Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of Ernst & Young  LLP for 17 years until his retirement in 1994. Mr. Groves currently
serves as a member of the boards of directors of the Colorado Physicians Insurance Company and
Group Ark Insurance Holdings, Ltd. Mr. Groves is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He
is a former member of the Board of Governors of the American Stock Exchange and the National
Association of Securities Dealers. Mr. Groves is former Chairman of the board of directors of the
American Institute of Certified Public Accountants. He is a director and co-Treasurer of Nursing
and Home Care, Inc., a member and former Chair of the board of directors of The Ohio State
University Foundation, a member of the Dean’s Advisory Council of the Fisher College of Business
and a member of the Board of Directors of the New York Chapter of the National Association of
Corporate Directors. He is a former member of the Board of Overseers of The Wharton School of the
University of Pennsylvania and served as the Chairman of its Center for the Study of the Service
Sector. Mr. Groves is an advisory director of the Metropolitan Opera Association. Mr. Groves
received a B.S. degree from The Ohio State University.

Ernest
Mario has been a Director of Boston Scientific since 2001. He  has been the Chairman and
Chief Executive Officer of Capnia, Inc. since August 2007. From 2003 to July 2007, Dr. Mario was Chairman of Reliant



Pharmaceuticals. From 2003 to 2006, he was also the chief executive officer of Reliant
Pharmaceuticals. Prior to joining Reliant Pharmaceuticals in April 2003, he was the Chairman of
IntraBiotics Pharmaceuticals, Inc. from April 2002 to April 2003. Dr. Mario also served as Chairman
and Chief Executive Officer of Apothogen, Inc., a pharmaceutical company, from January 2002 to
April 2002 when Apothogen was acquired by IntraBiotics. Dr. Mario served as the Chief Executive of
Glaxo Holdings plc from 1989 until March 1993 and as Deputy Chairman and Chief Executive from
January 1992 until March 1993. From 1993 to 1997, Dr. Mario served as Co-Chairman and Chief
Executive Officer of ALZA Corporation, a research based pharmaceutical company with leading drug
delivery technologies, and Chairman and Chief Executive Officer from 1997 to 2001. Dr. Mario
presently serves on the boards of directors of Maxygen, Inc., Pharmaceutical Product Development,
Inc., Avid Radiopharmaceuticals, Inc. and Celgene Corporation. He was a Trustee of Duke University
from 1988 to June 2007 and in July 2007 he retired as Chairman of the Board of the Duke University
Health System which he chaired from its inception in 1996. He is a past Chairman of the American
Foundation for Pharmaceutical Education and serves as an advisor to the pharmacy schools at the
University of Maryland, the University of Rhode Island and The Ernest Mario School of Pharmacy at
Rutgers University. Dr. Mario holds a B.S. in Pharmacy from Rutgers, and an M.S. and a Ph.D. in
Physical Sciences from the University of Rhode Island.

N.J. Nicholas, Jr. has been a Director of Boston Scientific since 1994 and is a private investor.
Previously, he served as President of Time, Inc. from September 1986 to May 1990 and Co-Chief
Executive Officer of Time Warner, Inc. from May 1990 until February 1992. Mr. Nicholas is a
director of Xerox Corporation and Time Warner Cable, Inc. He has served as a member of the
President’s Advisory Committee for Trade Policy and Negotiations and the President’s Commission on
Environmental Quality. Mr. Nicholas is a Trustee of the Environmental Defense Fund and a member of
the Council of Foreign Relations. Mr. Nicholas received an A.B. degree from Princeton University
and an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School. He is the brother of Pete M. Nicholas, Chairman
of the Board.

John E. Pepper has been a Director of Boston Scientific since 2003 and he previously served as a
director of Boston Scientific from November 1999 to May 2001. Mr. Pepper has been Chairman of the
Board of Directors of The Walt Disney Company since January 2007. He is also Co-Chair of the board
of directors of the National Underground Railroad Freedom Center and served as its Chief Executive
Officer until May 2007. Previously he served as Vice President for Finance and Administration of
Yale University from January 2004 to December 2005. He served as Chairman of the executive
committee of the board of directors of The Procter & Gamble Company until December 2003. Since
1963, he has served in various positions at Procter & Gamble, including Chairman of the Board from
2000 to 2002, Chief Executive Officer and Chairman from 1995 to 1999, President from 1986 to 1995
and director since 1984. He is a member of the executive committee of the Cincinnati Youth
Collaborative. Mr. Pepper graduated from Yale University in 1960 and holds honorary doctoral
degrees from Yale University, The Ohio State University, Xavier University, University of
Cincinnati, Mount St. Joseph College and St. Petersburg University (Russia).

Uwe E. Reinhardt has been a Director of Boston Scientific since 2002. Dr. Reinhardt is the James
Madison Professor of Political Economy and Professor of Economics and Public Affairs at Princeton
University, where he has taught since 1968. Dr. Reinhardt is a senior associate of the University
of Cambridge, England and serves as a Trustee of the Duke University Health System, H&Q Healthcare
Investors, H&Q Life Sciences Investors and Hambrecht & Quist Capital Management LLC. He is also the
Commissioner of the Kaiser Family Foundation Commission on Medicaid and the Uninsured and a member
of the boards of directors of Amerigroup Corporation and Legacy Hospital Partners, Inc. During 2007
through 2009, he served as President of the International Health Economics Association. In
October, 2009, Dr. Reinhardt was awarded by Germany’s President the Bundesverdienstkreuz (German
Federal Merit Medal) for his work in international health economics and policy. Dr. Reinhardt
received a Bachelor of Commerce degree from the University of Saskatchewan, Canada and a Ph.D. in
Economics from Yale University.



Senator Warren B. Rudman has been a Director of Boston Scientific since 1999. Senator Rudman is
Co-Chairman of Albright Stonebridge Group and has been Of Counsel to the international law firm
Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton & Garrison LLP since January 2003. Previously, he was a partner of
the firm since 1992. Prior to joining the firm, he served two terms as a U.S. Senator from New
Hampshire from 1980 to 1992. He serves on the boards of directors of several funds managed by the
Dreyfus Corporation, is a Senior Advisor to Promontory Financial Group LLC, and a consultant to
Raytheon Company. He is the founding co-chairman of the Concord Coalition. Senator Rudman received
a B.S. from Syracuse University and an LL.B. from Boston College Law School and served in the U.S.
Army during the Korean War.

John E. Sununu became a Director in April 2009. For the past six years Mr. Sununu served as a U.S.
Senator from New Hampshire. He was a member of the Committees on Banking, Commerce, Finance and
Foreign Relations, and he was appointed the Congressional Representative to the United Nations
General Assembly. Before his election to the Senate, Mr. Sununu served three terms as a Member of
the U.S. House of Representatives from New Hampshire’s 1st District. He was Vice Chairman of the
Budget Committee and a member of the Appropriations Committee. During his 12 years in Congress, he
drafted and helped pass several important pieces of legislation, including the Internet Tax Freedom
Act, the Survivors Benefit Act and the New England Wilderness Act. Prior to serving in Congress,
Mr. Sununu served as Chief Financial Officer for Teletrol Systems, a manufacturer of building
control systems. He serves on the Board of Managers for ConvergEx Holdings LLC and the Board of
Directors of Time Warner Cable, Inc. He holds B.S. and M.S. degrees in Mechanical Engineering from
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.

Brian R. Burns is our Senior Vice President, Global Quality, a position that
he has held since December 2004. Mr. Burns was our Vice President of Cardiology Quality Assurance from
January 2002 to January 2003 and our Director of Quality Assurance from April 2000 to January 2002.
Prior to joining Boston Scientific, Mr. Burns held various positions with Cardinal Healthcare,
Allegiance Healthcare and Baxter Healthcare. Mr. Burns received his B.S. degree in chemical
engineering from the University of Arkansas.

Jeffrey D. Capello will become our Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer effective
March 1, 2010. He has been our Senior Vice President, Chief Accounting Officer and Corporate
Controller since June 2008, and was elected a member of our Executive Committee on January 1, 2009.
Prior to joining us, he was the Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer with
responsibilities for Business Development at PerkinElmer, Inc. from January 2006 to June 2008.
Prior to that, he was the Vice President of Finance, Corporate Controller and Treasurer of
PerkinElmer, Inc. from

January 2006 to June 2008. Prior to that, he was the Vice President of Finance, Corporate Controller,
Chief Accounting Officer and Treasurer of PerkinElmer, Inc. from June 2001 to December 2005.






From 1991 to June 2001, he held various positions including that of partner
from 1997 to 2001 at PriceWaterhouseCoopers LLP, a public accounting firm initially in the United
States and later in the Netherlands. During 2008, Mr. Capello served on the Board of Directors of
Sirtris Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and served both as a member  and the chair of its Audit Committee. He received his B.S.
in business administration from the University of Vermont and an
M.B.A. degree   from the Harvard
Business School and is also a certified public accountant.

Fredericus A. Colen became our Executive Vice President and Chief Technology Officer in February
2010 after serving as our Executive Vice President and Group President, Cardiac Rhythm Management
(CRM) since May 2009. Previously, he was our Executive Vice President, Operations and Technology for
CRM from March 2006 to April 2009. Mr. Colen joined Boston Scientific in 1999 as Vice President of
Research and Development of Scimed and, in February 2001, he was promoted to Senior Vice President,
Cardiovascular Technology of Scimed. At the same time, he was
appointed Chief Technology Officer (CTO) and Senior Vice President of Boston Scientific. In 2004,
Mr. Colen was promoted to Executive Vice
President while continuing his role as CTO with responsibility for the company’s Clinical Sciences,
Regulatory Affairs, Corporate R&D, and strategic technology direction. Before joining Boston
Scientific, he worked for



several medical device companies, including Guidant Corporation, where he launched the Delta TDDD
Pacemaker platform, and St. Jude Medical, where he served as Managing Director for the European
subsidiary of the Cardiac Rhythm Management Division and as Executive Vice President, responsible
for worldwide R&D for implantable pacemaker systems. He was the Vice President of the International
Association of Prosthesis Manufacturers (IAPM) in Brussels from 1995 to 1997. Mr. Colen was
educated in The Netherlands and Germany and holds the U.S. equivalent of a Master’s Degree in
Electrical Engineering with a focus on medical technology from the Technical University in Aachen,
Germany.

Joseph M. Fitzgerald is our Senior Vice President and President, Endovascular. Mr. Fitzgerald was
appointed to this position and elected an executive officer in February 2010. He was President of
our Peripheral Interventions business from June 2008 to February 2010 and President and General
Manager of our Electrophysiology business from July 2005 to June 2008. Previously, Mr. Fitzgerald
held a variety of management positions in Boston Scientific’s Neurovascular and Peripheral
Interventions businesses. This included numerous regional and divisional sales management
assignments up to and including his roles as Vice President, Global Marketing for the Neurovascular
business from January 2001 to July 2005 and Vice President of U.S. Sales for the Neurovascular
business from November 1997 to January 2001. Mr. Fitzgerald joined Boston Scientific in 1990 as a
sales representative. Prior to joining Boston Scientific, Mr. Fitzgerald was with Anheuser Busch,
Inc., where he held a variety of sales, marketing, and training assignments. Mr. Fitzgerald earned
a B.S. in Business from Indiana University and an M.B.A. from Southern Illinois University with a
concentration in marketing and finance.

James Gilbert is our Executive Vice President, Strategy and Business Development, a position he has
held since May 2007. Mr. Gilbert oversees Business Development, Marketing Strategy and Analysis,
E-Marketing, and Health Economics and Reimbursement functions. He is also responsible for directing
and supporting our corporate strategy process. Formerly, he was our Group President, Cardiovascular
and was responsible for our Cardiovascular Group, which included the Peripheral Interventions,
Vascular Surgery, Neurovascular, Electrophysiology and Cardiac Surgery businesses from June 2006 to
May 2007. Prior to this role, Jim served as a Senior Vice President and led our E-Marketing, Marketing
Science, Corporate Sales and National Accounts, and Health Economics and Reimbursement functions.
Prior to joining Boston Scientific in 2004, Mr. Gilbert spent 23 years with Bain & Company, where
he served as a partner and director and was the managing partner of Bain’s Global Healthcare
Practice. Mr. Gilbert received his B.S. degree in industrial engineering and operations research
from Cornell University and his M.B.A. from Harvard Business School.

William H. Kucheman became our Executive Vice President and President, Cardiology, Rhythm and
Vascular Group in February 2010 after serving as our Senior Vice President and Group President of
the Cardiovascular Group since November 2006. Prior to this, he was our Senior Vice President of Marketing
from June 2001 to November 2006. In this role, he was responsible for the global marketing functions of our
Cardiovascular group and all Corporate Marketing functions. He oversaw the commercialization
strategy for our TAXUS

®

paclitaxel-eluting coronary stent system, defined and developed our
Reimbursement and Outcomes Planning functions, and initiated Marketing Science and e-Marketing
programs. Prior to that, Mr. Kucheman was our Vice President, Corporate Marketing and our Vice
President, Strategic Marketing from February 1995 to June 2001. Mr. Kucheman joined the Company in 1995 as a
result of our acquisition of SCIMED Life Systems, Inc. Prior to joining Boston Scientific, Mr.
Kucheman held a variety of management positions in sales and marketing for SCIMED, Charter Medical
Corporation, and Control Data Corporation. He began his career at the United States Air Force
Academy Hospital and later was Healthcare Planner, Office of the Surgeon General, for the United
States Air Force Medical Service. Mr. Kucheman has served on several industry boards including the
board of directors of the Global Health Exchange, the Committee on Payment and Policy and AdvaMed.
Mr. Kucheman earned a B.S. and a M.B.A. from Virginia Polytechnic Institute.



Jean
Fitterer Lance is our Senior Vice President and Chief Compliance Officer. Ms. Lance was appointed to
this position and elected an executive officer in February 2010. Formerly, she was Vice President
and General Counsel — Cardiovascular. She previously led the Cardiovascular Corporate Legal
Department in providing legal support on a wide variety of divisional and compliance related
matters. Jean is a member of AdvaMed’s Code of Ethics Working Group and has been actively engaged
in the development of the 2005 AdvaMed Code of Ethics on Interactions with HCPs and the 2008
revisions to the AdvaMed Code of Ethics. Prior to joining the Company in 1996, Ms. Lance was the
General Counsel and Vice President of Human Resources of Red Line HealthCare Corporation, formerly
a subsidiary of Novartis, A.G. She previously practiced with the national law firm of Sonnenschein
Nath & Rosenthal in Chicago, Illinois, where she specialized in corporate law with an emphasis in
health law. Ms. Lance earned a B.S. degree with honors in Accounting with French and business
administration minors Minnesota State University – Mankato and her Juris Doctorate degree, with
honors, from the University of Minnesota Law School, where she was a member of

The University of
Minnesota Law Review

.

Sam R. Leno will become our Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer effective as of
March 1, 2010. He is currently our Chief Financial Officer and Executive Vice President of Finance
and Information Systems. Mr. Leno joined us in June 2007 from Zimmer Holdings, Inc. where he served
as its Executive Vice President, Finance and Corporate Services and Chief Financial Officer, a
position to which he was appointed in December 2005. From October 2003 to December 2005, Mr. Leno
served as Executive Vice President, Corporate Finance and Operations, and Chief Financial Officer
of Zimmer. From July 2001 to October 2003, Mr. Leno served as Senior Vice President and Chief
Financial Officer of Zimmer. Prior to joining Zimmer, Mr. Leno served as Senior Vice President and
Chief Financial Officer of Arrow Electronics, Inc. from March 1999 until he joined Zimmer. Between
1971 and March 1999, Mr. Leno held various chief financial officer and other financial positions
with several U.S. based companies, and he previously served as a U.S. Naval Officer. Mr. Leno is a
member of the Board of Directors of TomoTherapy Incorporated and is a member of its Audit
Committee. Mr. Leno earned a B.S. degree in Accounting from Northern Illinois University and an
M.B.A. from Roosevelt University.

Andrew N. Milani has been our Senior Vice President of Human Resources since December 2009 and is
responsible for Company-wide Human Resources efforts, including HR services to all Boston
Scientific businesses and functions, as well as corporate recruiting, compensation, benefits,
policies, training, and leader development. From June 2009 through
December 2009, Mr. Milani was Vice President of
Government and Special Operations  Programs, within the Government and Defense Programs
Group at AAR Corp., a leading provider of products and services for the Aerospace and Defense
sectors. Prior to joining AAR Corp., Mr. Milani was Chief of Staff for the United States Army
Special Operations Command (USASOC), the Army’s largest Service Component Command, and the Army
Component of the U.S. Special Operations Command. He was responsible for recruiting, organizing,
training, equipping, deploying, and sustaining Special Forces, Rangers, Special Operations
Aviation, Civil Affairs, and Psychological Operations Forces — a 28,000 person-force. He serves on
the Board of Directors for the Special Operations Fund and the National Executive Board of the Army
Aviation Association of America. He is also the President of the USASOC Soldier, Family and Command
Support Association, Inc.. Mr. Milani earned a B.S. Degree in Accounting from Loyola University of
Chicago, an M.A. in Business Administration from Webster University, an M.S. Degree in Strategic
Arts from the U.S. Army War College, and he is a graduate of the British High Command and Staff
College.

Stephen F. Moreci became our Senior Vice President, Global Sales Operations in February 2010 after
serving as our Senior Vice President and Group President, Endosurgery since December 2000. Mr.
Moreci joined Boston Scientific in 1989 as Vice President and General Manager for our Cardiac
Assist business. In 1991, he was appointed Vice President and General Manager for our Endoscopy
business. In 1994, Mr. Moreci was promoted to Group Vice President for our Urology and Women’s
Health businesses. In 1997, he assumed the role of President of our Endoscopy business. In 1999, he
was named President of our Vascular business, which included peripheral interventions, vascular
surgery and oncology. In 2001, he assumed the role of Group President, Endosurgery, responsible for
our urology/women’s health,



oncology, endoscopy and Endovations businesses. Prior to joining Boston Scientific, Mr. Moreci had
a 13-year career in medical devices, including nine years with Johnson & Johnson and four years
with DermaCare. Mr. Moreci received a B.S. degree from Pennsylvania State University.

J. Michael Onuscheck is our Senior Vice President and President of the Neuromodulation
business, a position he has held since 2008. Mr. Onuscheck joined Boston Scientific in
2004 with our acquisition of Advanced Bionics as the Vice President of Sales and Clinical Services
in our Auditory business. He served as our Vice President of Sales and Marketing for the Boston
Scientific’s Pain Management business from September 2004 until
February 2010. Previously, Mr. Onuscheck
held a variety of management positions at Medtronic in spinal reconstructive surgery and
stereotactic image guided surgery. Prior to Medtronic, he worked for Pfizer Inc., where he held a
variety of sales and marketing assignments. He is currently a director of the California Health
Institute and is also a director and Vice President of the Michael Hoefflin Foundation, a pediatric
cancer foundation. Mr. Onuscheck earned a B.A. in Business Administration and Psychology from
Washington and Jefferson College.

John B.  Pedersen is our Senior Vice President and President, Urology and Women’s Health. Mr. Pedersen
was appointed to this position and elected an executive officer in February 2010. Previously, he
was President of our Urology and Women’s Health business from 2008 to 2010, President of our
Peripheral Interventions (PI) business from 2007 to 2008, President of our Urology and Women’s
Health business from 2001 to 2006, and President of our Neurovascular business from 1998 to 2001.
He joined the Company in 1996 as Director of New Business Development. Before joining Boston
Scientific, Mr. Pedersen was a Senior Engagement Manager for McKinsey & Company. Mr. Pedersen
earned a B.A. from Princeton University, completed coursework with Thomas Jefferson Medical
College, and earned an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School. He is a member of the New England
Chapter of the Young President’s Organization.

Michael P. Phalen is our Senior Vice President and President, Endoscopy. Mr. Phalen was appointed
to this position and elected an executive officer in February 2010. From January 2001 to February
2010, he was our Vice President and President, Endoscopy. He joined the Company in 1988 and has
held a variety of management positions. Prior to becoming President of the Endoscopy business, Mr.
Phalen was Vice President, Business Unit Manager for Endoscopic Surgery and Vice President of
Global Marketing for Endoscopy. Prior to these appointments, he held positions as Director of
Marketing, Group Product Manager, Regional Sales Manager, Product Manager and Territory Manager.
Before joining the Company, Mr. Phalen held management positions with MD Technology, Kendall
Healthcare and Pennwalt Pharmaceuticals. He earned his B.S. in General Science from Villanova
University and an M.B.A. from Fairleigh Dickinson University.

Timothy A. Pratt became our Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Chief Administrative
Officer in February 2010. Mr. Pratt also serves as our
Secretary  and is responsible for worldwide management of our legal functions, Global
Regulatory Affairs, Human Resources and Corporate Communications. Mr. Pratt joined the Company in
May 2008 as Executive Vice President, Secretary and General Counsel. Previously, Mr. Pratt worked
for the law firm of Shook, Hardy & Bacon. He joined the firm in 1977 and became partner in 1981. He
concentrated his practice in the defense of pharmaceutical and medical device litigation and toxic
tort cases. Mr. Pratt is a member of the board of directors for the Advanced Medical Technology
Association (AdvaMed) which advocates for a legal, regulatory, and economic environment that
advances global health care. He is also a director on the board for the New England Legal
Foundation, a not-for-profit public interest organization whose mission is promoting public
discourse on the proper role of free enterprise in our society and in the courtroom. Mr. Pratt is
a member of the Association of Corporate Counsel and the General Counsel Roundtable. He is also
active in the Federation of Defense and Corporate Counsel, where he serves as a director on their
board. Mr. Pratt received his Bachelor of Arts degree at Tarkio College and graduated Order of the
Coif from Drake University Law School, where he served one year as editor-in-chief of the

Drake Law
Review

. After graduating, Mr. Pratt was law clerk to Judge Floyd R. Gibson of the U.S. Court of
Appeals for Eighth Circuit.



Kenneth J. Pucel is our Executive Vice President, Global Operations, a position he has held
since November 2006 having responsibility for our manufacturing plants and Distribution
Centers in the U.S., Ireland, Costa Rica, Puerto Rico and The Netherlands. Previously, he was our
Senior Vice President, Operations from December 2004 to November 2006. Prior to that Mr. Pucel was
our Vice President and General Manager, Operations from September 2002 to December 2004 and our
Vice President of Operations from June 2001 to September 2002 and before that he held various
positions in the Company’s Cardiovascular Group, including Manufacturing Engineer, Process
Development Engineer, Operations Manager, Production Manager and Director of Operations. Mr. Pucel
received a Bachelor of Science degree in Mechanical Engineering with a focus on Biomedical
Engineering from the University of Minnesota.

The remaining information required by this Item is set forth in our Proxy Statement to be filed
with the SEC on or about March 29, 2010 and is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on
Form 10-K.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by this Item and set forth in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC
on or about March 29, 2010, is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The information required by this Item and set forth in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC
on or about March 29, 2010, is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE

The information required by this Item and set forth in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC
on or about March 29, 2010, is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.

ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES

The information required by this Item and set forth in our Proxy Statement to be filed with the SEC
on or about March 29, 2010, is incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K.



PART IV

ITEM 15. EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES

(a)(1) Financial Statements.

The response to this portion of Item 15 is set forth under Item 8.

(a)(2) Financial Schedules.

The response to this portion of Item 15 (Schedule II) follows the signature page to this report.
All other financial statement schedules are not required under the related instructions or are
inapplicable and therefore have been omitted.

(a)(3) Exhibits (* documents filed with this report, # compensatory plans or arrangements)

EXHIBIT

NO.

TITLE

1.1

Underwriting Agreement, dated December 10, 2009, as
supplemented by the Terms Agreement, dated December 10, 2009,
among Boston Scientific Corporation, Banc of America
Securities LLC, Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and J.P. Morgan
Securities Inc. (Exhibit 1.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 10, 2009, File No. 1-11083).

3.1

Restated By-laws of the Company (Exhibit 3.1(ii), Current
Report on Form 8-K dated May 11, 2007, File No. 1-11083).

3.2

Third Restated Certificate of Incorporation (Exhibit 3.2,
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2007, File No. 1-11083).

4.1

Specimen Certificate for shares of the Company’s Common Stock
(Exhibit 4.1, Registration No. 33-46980).

4.2

Description of Capital Stock contained in Exhibits 3.1 and 3.2.

4.3

Indenture dated as of June 25, 2004 between the Company and
JPMorgan Chase Bank (formerly The Chase Manhattan Bank)
(Exhibit 4.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 25, 2004,
File No. 1-11083).

4.4

Indenture dated as of November 18, 2004 between the Company
and J.P. Morgan Trust Company, National Association, as
Trustee (Exhibit 4.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
November 18, 2004, File No. 1-11083).

4.5

Form of First Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 21,
2006 (Exhibit 99.4, Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 21,
2006, File No. 1-11083).

4.6

Form of Second Supplemental Indenture dated as of April 21,
2006 (Exhibit 99.6, Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 21,
2006, File No. 1-11083).

4.7

5.45% Note due June 15, 2014 in the aggregate principal amount
of $500,000,000 (Exhibit 4.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
June 25, 2004, File No. 1-11083).



EXHIBIT

NO.

TITLE

4.8

5.45% Note due June 15, 2014 in the aggregate principal amount
of $100,000,000 (Exhibit 4.3, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
June 25, 2004, File No. 1-11083).

4.9

Form of Global Security for the 5.125% Notes due 2017 in the
aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000 (Exhibit 4.3,
Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 18, 2004, File No.
1-11083).

4.10

Form of Global Security for the 4.250% Notes due 2011 in the aggregate principal amount of $250,000,000 (Exhibit 4.2, Current Report on Form
8-K dated November 18, 2004, File No. 1-11083).

4.11

Form of Global Security for the 5.50% Notes due 2015 in the aggregate principal amount of $400,000,000, and form of Notice to the holders
thereof (Exhibit 4.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 2005 and Exhibit 99.5, Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 21, 2006,
File No. 1-11083).

4.12

Form of Global Security for the 6.25% Notes due 2035 in the aggregate principal amount of $350,000,000, and form of Notice to holders
thereof (Exhibit 4.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 17, 2005 and Exhibit 99.7, Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 21, 2006,
File No. 1-11083).

4.13

Indenture dated as of June 1, 2006 between the Company and JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Trustee (Exhibit 4.1, Current Report on Form 8-K
dated June 9, 2006, File No. 1-11083).

4.14

Form of Global Security for the 6.00% Notes due 2011 in the aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000 (Exhibit 4.2, Current Report on Form
8-K dated June 9, 2006, File No. 1-11083).

4.15

Form of Global Security for the 6.40% Notes due 2016 in the aggregate principal amount of $600,000,000 (Exhibit 4.3, Current Report on Form
8-K dated June 9, 2006, File No. 1-11083).

4.16

4.500% Senior Note due January 15, 2015 in the aggregate principal amount of $850,000,000 (Exhibit 4.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 10, 2009, File No. 1-11083).

4.17

6.000% Senior Note due January 15, 2020 in the aggregate principal amount of $850,000,000 (Exhibit 4.3, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 10, 2009, File No. 1-11083).

4.18

7.375% Senior Note due January 15, 2040 in the aggregate principal amount of $300,000,000 (Exhibit 4.4, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 10, 2009, File No. 1-11083).

10.1

Form of Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement dated as of November 7, 2007 by and among Boston Scientific Funding Corporation,
the Company, Old Line Funding, LLC, Victory Receivables Corporation, The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi Ltd., New York Branch and Royal Bank of
Canada (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 7, 2007, File No. 1-11083).

10.2

Form of Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement and Restatement of Amended Fee Letters dated as of August 6,
2008 by and among Boston Scientific Funding LLC, the Company, Old Line Funding, LLC, Victory Receivables Corporation, The Bank of
Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch and Royal Bank of Canada (Exhibit 10.1, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June
30, 2008, File No. 1-11083).

10.3

Form of Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Credit and Security Agreement and Restatement of Amended Fee Letters dated as of August 5,
2009 by and among Boston Scientific Corporation, Boston Scientific Funding LLC, Old Line Funding, LLC, Victory Receivables Corporation, The
Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch and Royal Bank of Canada (Exhibit 10.2, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter
ended June 30, 2009, File No. 1-11083).



EXHIBIT

NO.

TITLE

10.4

Form of Omnibus Amendment dated as of December 21, 2006 among the Company, Boston Scientific Funding Corporation, Variable Funding Capital
Company LLC, Victory Receivables Corporation and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., New York Branch (Amendment No. 1 to Receivables
Sale Agreement and Amendment No. 9 to Credit and Security Agreement) (Exhibit 10.2, Annual Report on 10-K for the year ended December 31,
2006, File No. 1-11083).

10.5

Form of Amended and Restated Receivables Sale Agreement dated as of November 7, 2007 between the Company and each of its Direct or Indirect
Wholly-Owned Subsidiaries that Hereafter Becomes a Seller Hereunder,
as the Sellers, and Boston Scientific Funding LLC, as the Buyer
(Exhibit 10.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 7, 2007, File No.

1-11083).

10.6

Form of Credit Agreement dated as of April 21, 2006 among the Company, BSC International Holding Limited, Merrill Lynch Capital Corporation,
Bear Stearns Corporate Lending Inc., Deutsche Bank Securities Inc., Wachovia Bank, National Association, Bank of America, N.A., Banc of
America Securities LLC, Merrill Lynch & Co. and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith Incorporated, as amended (Exhibit 99.1, Current Report
on Form 8-K dated April 21, 2006, Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated August 17, 2007, and Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form
8-K dated February 20, 2009, File No. 1-11083).

10.7

License Agreement among Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cook Incorporated and the Company dated July 9, 1997, and related Agreement dated
December 13, 1999 (Exhibit 10.6, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2002, File No. 1-11083).

10.8

Amendment between Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and the Company dated November 23, 2004 modifying July 9, 1997 License Agreement among
Angiotech Pharmaceuticals, Inc., Cook Incorporated and the Company (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated November 23, 2004, File
No. 1-11083).

10.9

Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Company and certain Directors and Officers (Exhibit
10.16, Registration No. 33-46980).



EXHIBIT

NO.

TITLE

10.10

Form of Retention Agreement between Boston Scientific Corporation and certain Executive Officers, as
amended (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated February 20, 2007 and Exhibit 10.6, Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 16, 2008, File
No. 1-11083).#

10.11

Form of Change in Control Agreement between Boston Scientific Corporation and certain Executive
Officers (Exhibit 10.3, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 15, 2009, File No. 1-11083).#

10.12

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (vesting over three years) (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report
on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004, File
No. 1-11083).#

10.13

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (vesting over four years) (Exhibit 10.2, Current Report
on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004, File
No. 1-11083).#

10.14

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (vesting over two years) (Exhibit 10.20, Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, File No. 1-11083).#

10.15

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (Exhibit 10.3, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 10,
2004, File No.

1-11083).#

10.16

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Award Agreement (Exhibit 10.4, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December
10, 2004, File No. 1-11083).#

10.17

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Award Agreement (vesting over four years) (Exhibit 10.16, Annual Report
on 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, File
No. 1-11083).#

10.18

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Award Agreement (vesting over two years) (Exhibit 10.24, Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2007, File
No. 1-11083).#

10.19

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (Non-employee Directors) (Exhibit 10.5, Current Report
on Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004, File
No. 1-11083).#

10.20

Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement (Non-Employee Directors) (Exhibit 10.6, Current Report on
Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004, File No. 1-11083).#

10.21

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Award Agreement (Non-Employee Directors) (Exhibit 10.7, Current Report on
Form 8-K dated December 10, 2004, File No. 1-11083).#

10.22

Boston Scientific Corporation 401(k) Retirement Savings Plan, as Amended and Restated, Effective
January 1, 2001, and amended (Exhibit 10.12, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December
31, 2002, Exhibit 10.12, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2003, Exhibit
10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 24, 2004, Exhibit 10.52, Annual Report on Form 10-K
for year ended December 31, 2005, Exhibit 10.21, Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December
31, 2007, Exhibit 10.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 16, 2008, and Exhibit 10.4, Current
Report on Form 8-K dated December 15, 2009, File
No. 1-11083).#

10.23

Boston Scientific Corporation 2006 Global Employee Stock Ownership Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.23,
Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, Exhibit 10.24, Annual Report on Form
10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006 and Exhibit 10.6, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December
15, 2009, File No. 1-11083).#

10.24

Boston Scientific Corporation Non–Employee Director Deferred Compensation Plan, as amended and
restated, effective January 1, 2009 (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 28, 2008,
File No. 1-11083).#



EXHIBIT

NO.

TITLE

10.25

Boston Scientific Corporation 1992 Non-Employee Directors’ Stock Option Plan, as amended (Exhibit
10.2, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, Exhibit 10.3, Annual Report on
Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2000 and Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 31, 2004, File No. 1-11083).#

10.26

Boston Scientific Corporation 2003 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as Amended and Restated, Effective June 1, 2008 (Exhibit 10.1, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2008, File No. 1-11083).#

10.27

Boston Scientific Corporation 2000 Long Term Incentive Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.20, Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1999, Exhibit 10.18, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2001, Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 22, 2004 and
Exhibit 10.3, Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 9, 2005, and Exhibit 10.3, Current Report on Form
8-K dated December 16, 2008, File No. 1-11083).#

10.28

Boston Scientific Corporation 1995 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.1, Annual Report
on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996, Exhibit 10.5, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the
year ended December 31, 2001, Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 22, 2004 and
Exhibit 10.3, Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 9,
2005, File No. 1-11083).#

10.29

Boston Scientific Corporation 1992 Long-Term Incentive Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.1, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended
December 31, 1996, Exhibit 10.2, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2001, Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K
dated December 22, 2004 and Exhibit 10.3, Current Report on
Form 8-K dated May 9, 2005, File No. 1-11083).#

10.30

Form of Boston Scientific Corporation Excess Benefit Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 29, 2005 and
Exhibit 10.4, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 16, 2008, File No. 1-11083).#

10.31

Form of Trust Under the Boston Scientific Corporation Excess Benefit Plan (Exhibit 10.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 29, 2005,
File No. 1-11083).

10.32

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated July 1, 2005 (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 1, 2005, File No. 1-11083).#

10.33

Form of Deferred Stock Unit
Award Agreement dated July 1, 2005 (Exhibit 10.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated July 1, 2005, File No. 1-11083).#

10.34

Form of 2009 Performance
Incentive Plan (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 16, 2008, File No. 1-11083).#

10.35

Form of 2010 Performance
Incentive Plan (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 15, 2009, File No. 1-11083).#

10.36

Form of 2010 Performance Share
Program (Exhibit 10.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated December 15, 2009, File No. 1-11083).#

10.37

Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement (Executive) (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on
Form 8-K dated May 12, 2006, File No. 1-11083).#



EXHIBIT

NO.

TITLE

10.38

Form of Deferred Stock Unit
Award Agreement (Executive) (Exhibit 10.2, Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 12, 2006, File No. 1-11083).#

10.39

Form of Non-Qualified Stock
Option Agreement (Special) (Exhibit 10.3, Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 12, 2006, File No. 1-11083).#

10.40

Form of Deferred Stock Unit
Award Agreement (Special) (Exhibit 10.4, Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 12, 2006, File No. 1-11083).#

10.41*

Form of Performance Share Unit
Award Agreement.#

10.42

Embolic Protection Incorporated 1999 Stock Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.1, Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-61060
and Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 31, 2004, File No. 1-11083).#

10.43

Quanam Medical Corporation 1996 Stock Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.3, Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No. 333-61060 and
Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 31, 2004, File No. 1-11083).#

10.44

RadioTherapeutics Corporation 1994 Stock Incentive Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.1, Registration Statement on Form S-8, Registration No.
333-76380 and Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K
dated December 31, 2004, File No. 1-11083).#

10.45

Guidant Corporation 1994 Stock
Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.46, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, File No. 1-11083).#

10.46

Guidant Corporation 1996
Nonemployee Director Stock Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.47, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, File No. 1-11083).#

10.47

Guidant Corporation 1998 Stock
Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.48, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, File No. 1-11083).#

10.48

Form of Guidant Corporation
Option Grant (Exhibit 10.49, Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2006, File No. 1-11083).#

10.49

Transaction Agreement, dated as of January 8, 2006, as amended, between Boston Scientific Corporation and Abbott Laboratories (Exhibit
10.47, Exhibit 10.48, Exhibit 10.49 and Exhibit 10.50, Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2005, Exhibit 10.1, Current
Report on Form 8-K dated April 7, 2006, File
No. 1-11083).

10.50

Promissory Note between BSC International Holding Limited (“Borrower”) and Abbott Laboratories (“Lender”) dated April 21, 2006 in the
aggregate principal amount of $900,000,000 (Exhibit 10.4, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2006, File No.
1-11083).



EXHIBIT

NO.

TITLE

10.51

Decision and Order of the
Federal Trade Commission in the matter of Boston Scientific Corporation and Guidant Corporation finalized August 3, 2006 (Exhibit 10.5, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2006, File No. 1-11083).

10.52

Boston Scientific Executive Allowance Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.53, Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2005, Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 30, 2007, and Exhibit 10.2, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30,
2008, File No. 1-11083).#

10.53

Boston Scientific Executive Retirement Plan, as amended (Exhibit 10.54, Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2005 and
Exhibit 10.5, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 16, 2008, File No. 1-11083).#

10.54

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Agreement between James R. Tobin and the Company dated February 28, 2006, as amended (2000 Long-Term Incentive
Plan) (Exhibit 10.56, Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2005 and Exhibit 10.7, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 16, 2008, File No. 1-11083).#

10.55

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Agreement between James R. Tobin and the Company dated February 28, 2006, as amended (2003 Long-Term Incentive
Plan) (Exhibit 10.57, Annual Report on Form 10-K for year ended December 31, 2005 and Exhibit 10.8, Current Report on Form 8-K dated
December 16, 2008, File No. 1-11083).#

10.56

Form of Severance Pay and Layoff Notification Plan as Amended and Restated effective as of November 1, 2007 (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on
Form 8-K dated November 1, 2007, File No. 1-11083).#

10.57

Form of Offer Letter between Boston Scientific and Sam R. Leno dated April 11, 2007 (Exhibit 10.1, Current Report on Form 8-K dated May 7,
2007, File No. 1-11083).#

10.58

Form of Deferred Stock Unit Award dated June 5, 2007 between Boston Scientific and Sam R. Leno (Exhibit 10.1, Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q
for quarter ended June 30, 2007, File No. 1-11083).#

10.59

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated June 5, 2007 between Boston Scientific and Sam R. Leno (Exhibit 10.2, Quarterly Report on
Form 10-Q dated June 30, 2007, File-No. 1-11083).#

10.60

Form of Offer Letter between
Boston Scientific and Jeffrey D. Capello dated May 16, 2008.#

10.61

Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement dated February 24, 2009 between Boston Scientific and James R. Tobin (Exhibit 10.2, Current
Report on Form 8-K dated February 20, 2009, File
No. 1-1183).#

10.62

Form of Transition and Retirement Agreement dated June 25, 2009 between Boston Scientific Corporation and James R. Tobin (Exhibit 10.1,
Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 22, 2009, File
No. 1-11083).#

10.63

Form of Offer Letter between Boston Scientific Corporation and J. Raymond Elliott dated June 22, 2009 (Exhibit 10.2, Current Report on Form
8-K dated June 22, 2009, File No. 1-11083).#



EXHIBIT

NO.

TITLE

10.64

Form of Retention Agreement between Boston Scientific Corporation and J. Raymond Elliott, effective as of July 13, 2009 (Exhibit 10.1,
Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2009, File No. 1-11083). #

10.65

Form of Settlement Agreement and Non-Exclusive Patent Cross-License dated January 29, 2010
by and between Boston Scientific Corporation and Boston Scientific Scimed, Inc., and Johnson & Johnson
(Exhibit 10.1, Current Report of Form 8-K dated January 29, 2010, File No.1-11083).

10.66*

Form of Plea Agreement and Sentencing Stipulations executed as of February 24, 2010.

10.67*

Form of Corporate Integrity Agreement between the Office of Inspector
General of the Department of Health and Human Services and Boston Scientific Corporation.

10.68*

Form of Performance Deferred Stock Unit Award Agreement between
Boston Scientific Corporation and J. Raymond Elliott dated June 23, 2009. #

10.69*

Form of Restricted Deferred Stock Unit Award Agreement between
Boston Scientific Corporation and J. Raymond Elliott dated June 23, 2009. #

11*

Statement regarding computation of per share earnings (included in Note O to the Company’s 2009 consolidated financial statements for the
year ended December 31, 2009 included in Item 8).

12*

Statement regarding computation of ratios of earnings to fixed charges.

21*

List of the Company’s subsidiaries as of February 19, 2010.

23*

Consent of Independent
Registered Public Accounting Firm, Ernst & Young LLP.

31.1*

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

31.2*

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.1*

Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

32.2*

Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002.

101*

Interactive Data Files Pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T: (i) the Consolidated
Statements of Operations for the years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007; (ii) the Consolidated Statements of
Financial Position as of December 31, 2009 and 2008; (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders’ Equity for the
years ended December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007; (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended
December 31, 2009, 2008 and 2007; (v) the notes to the
Consolidated Financial Statements, tagged as blocks of text; and (vi) Schedule
II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts, tagged in block text format.



SIGNATURES

Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, Boston
Scientific Corporation duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned,
thereunto duly authorized.

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed
below by the following persons on behalf of Boston Scientific Corporation and in the capacities and
on the dates indicated.





X. Schedule Of Valuation And Qualifying Accounts Disclosure

Schedule II

VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS (in millions)

Deductions to

Balance at

Charges to

Allowances for

Charges to

Beginning of

Costs and

Uncollectible

(Deductions from)

Balance at

Description

Year

Expenses

Accounts (a)

Other Accounts (b)

End of Year

Year Ended December 31, 2009:

Allowances for uncollectible
accounts and sales returns and
allowances

$



(14

)

(34

)

$


Year Ended December 31, 2008:

Allowances for uncollectible
accounts and sales returns and
allowances

$



(11

)

(3

)

$


Year Ended December 31, 2007:

Allowances for uncollectible
accounts and sales returns and
allowances

$



(13

)

$


(a)

Uncollectible amounts written off.

(b)

Represents charges for sales returns and allowances, net of actual sales returns.

171