
10-K405
FORM 10-K405 FOR PERIOD ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998



 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
 
                                 UNITED STATES
                      SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C. 20549
 
                               ----------------
 
                                   FORM 10-K
 
[X]ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE
   ACT OF 1934
 
  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1998
                                       or
 
[_]TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES
   EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
 
                        Commission File Number: 1-13106
 
                               ----------------
 
                          ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC.
            (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)
 

 
              925 East Meadow Drive, Palo Alto, California 94303
              (Address of principal executive offices) (Zip code)
 
                                (650) 494-3700
             (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)
 
                               ----------------
 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
 

 
          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:
 
                                     None
 
                               ----------------
 
   Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports
required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of
1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the
registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to
such filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [X] No [_]
 
   Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item
405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information
statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any
amendment to the Form 10-K. [X]
 
   As of March 25, 1999, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held
by non-affiliates of the registrant was $284,155,992. For purposes of
calculating the preceeding amount only, all directors, executive offiers, and
shareholders holding 5% or more of the registrant's common stock are assumed
to be affilates. The aggregate market value was computed with reference to the
closing price on the New York Stock Exchange on such date. This calculation
does not reflect a determination that persons are affiliates for any other
purpose.
 
   As of March 25, 1999, 16,742,616 shares of Common Stock ($.0001 par value)
were outstanding.
 
                          LOCATION OF EXHIBIT INDEX:
 
   The index exhibit is contained in Part IV, Item 14, on page number 40.
 
                     DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
 
   The following document is incorporated by reference in Part III of the
Annual Report on Form 10K: Proxy statement for the annual meeting of
stockholders of Essex Property Trust, Inc. to be held April 27, 1999.
 
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------
- -------------------------------------------------------------------------------

 
                                
                                   FORM 10-K
 

 

 
                                    PART I
 
Forward Looking Statements
 
   Certain statements in this Report on Form 10-K which are not historical
facts may be considered forward looking statements within the meaning of
Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the
Securities and Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, including statements
regarding the Company's expectations, hopes, intentions, beliefs and
strategies regarding the future. Forward looking statements include statements
regarding the Company's expectation as to the timing of completion of current
development projects, beliefs as to the adequacy of future cash flows to meet
operating requirements and to provide for dividend payments in accordance with
REIT requirements, and expectations as to the amount of future revenues,
expenses, and uses of cash resulting from future activities including non-
revenue generating capital expenditures and capital improvement projects,
acquisitions and developments, the performance of existing properties and the
Company's financing activities. Such forward-looking statements involve known
and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors including, but not limited
to, that the actual completion of development projects will be subject to
delays, that such development projects will not be completed, that future cash
flows will be inadequate to meet operating requirements and/or will be
sufficient to provide for dividend payments in accordance with REIT
requirements, the actual cost of non-revenue generating capital expenditures
and capital improvement programs will exceed the Company's current
expectations, as well as those risks, special considerations, and other
factors discussed under the caption "Other Matters/Risk Factors" in Item 1 in
this Report on Form 10-K, and those other risk factors and special
considerations set forth in the Company's other filings with the Securities
and Exchange Commission which may cause the actual results, performance or
achievements of the Company to be materially different from any future
results, performance or achievements expressed or implied by such forward-
looking statements.
 
Item 1. Business
 
Description of Business
 
   Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("the Company" or "Essex") is a self-
administered and self-managed equity real estate investment trust ("REIT")
engaged in the ownership, acquisition, development and management of
multifamily apartment communities. The Company's multifamily portfolio
consists of ownership interests in 58 properties (comprising 12,267 apartment
units), 22 of which are located in Southern California (Los Angeles, Ventura,
Orange and San Diego counties), 15 of which are located in Northern California
(the San Francisco Bay Area) and 21 of which are located in the Pacific
Northwest (17 in the Seattle metropolitan area and 4 in the Portland, Oregon
metropolitan area). The Company also has ownership interests in two office
buildings located in Northern California (Palo Alto), one of which houses the
Company's headquarters, and three retail shopping centers located in the
Pacific Northwest (the "Commercial Properties," and together with the
Company's 58 multifamily residential properties, the "Properties"). The
Company also has entered into commitments for the development of 1,578 units
in eight multifamily communities: four in Northern California, two in Southern
California and two in the Pacific Northwest.
 
   The Company was incorporated in the state of Maryland in March 1994. On
June 13, 1994, the Company commenced operations with the completion of an
initial public offering ("the Offering") in which it issued 6,275,000 shares
of common stock at $19.50 per share. The net proceeds of the Offering of
$112.1 million were used to acquire an approximate 77.2% general partnership
interest in Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating Partnership").
 
   The Company conducts substantially all of its activities through the
Operating Partnership. The Company currently owns an approximate 89.9% general
partnership interest and senior members of the Company's management and
certain outside investors own approximately 10.1% limited partnership
interests in the Operating Partnership. As the sole general partner of the
Operating Partnership, the Company has control over the management of the
Operating Partnership and over each of the Properties.
 

 
Business Objectives
 
   The Company's primary business objective is to maximize Funds from
Operations and total returns to stockholders through active property and
portfolio management including redevelopment of properties. The Company's
strategies include:
 
  .  Active Property Marketing and Management. Maximize, on a per share
     basis, cash available for distribution and the capital appreciation of
     its property portfolio through active property marketing and management
     and, if applicable, redevelopment.
 
  .  Selected Expansion of Property Portfolio. Increase, on a per share
     basis, cash available for distribution through the acquisition and
     development of multifamily residential properties in selected major
     metropolitan areas located in the west coast region of the United
     States.
 
  .  Optimal Portfolio Asset Allocations. Produce predictable financial
     performance through a portfolio asset allocation program that seeks to
     increase or decrease the investments in each market based on changes in
     regional economic and local market conditions.
 
  .  Management of Capital and Financial Risk. Optimize the Company's capital
     and financial risk positions by maintaining a conservative leverage
     ratio, evaluating financing alternatives on an on-going basis and
     minimizing the Company's cost of capital.
 
Business Principles
 
   The Company was founded on, has followed, and intends to continue to follow
the business principles set forth below:
 
   Property Management. Through its long-standing philosophy of active
property management and a customer satisfaction approach, coupled with a
discipline of internal cost control, the Company seeks to retain tenants,
maximize cash flow, enhance property values and compete effectively for new
tenants in the marketplace. The Company's regional portfolio managers are
accountable for overall property operations and performance. They supervise
on-site managers, provide training for the on site staff, monitor fiscal
performance against budgeted expectations, monitor property performance
against the performance of competing properties in the area, prepare operating
and capital budgets for executive approval, and implement new strategies
focused on enhancing tenant satisfaction, increasing revenue, controlling
expenses, and creating a more efficient operating environment.
 
   Business Planning and Control. Real estate investment decisions are
accompanied by a multiple year plan, to which executives and other managers
responsible for obtaining future financial performance must agree in writing.
Performance versus plan serves as a significant factor in determining
compensation.
 
   Property Type Focus. The Company focuses on acquisition and development of
multifamily residential communities, containing between 75 and 600 units.
These types of properties offer attractive opportunities because such
properties (i) are often mispriced by real estate sellers and buyers who lack
the Company's ability to obtain and use real-time market information, (ii)
provide opportunities for value enhancement since many of these properties
have been owned by parties that are either inadequately capitalized or lack
the professional property management expertise of the Company.
 
   Geographic Focus. The Company focuses its property investments in markets
that meet the following criteria:
 
  .  Major Metropolitan Areas. The Company focuses on metropolitan areas
     having a regional population in excess of one million people. Real
     estate markets in these areas are typically characterized by a
     relatively greater number of buyers and sellers and are, therefore, more
     liquid. Liquidity is an important element for implementing the Company's
     strategy of varying its portfolio in response to changing market
     conditions.
 

 
  .  Supply Constraints. The Company believes that properties located in real
     estate markets with limited development or redevelopment opportunities
     are well-suited to produce increased rental income. When evaluating
     supply constraints, The Company reviews: (i) availability of developable
     land sites on which competing properties could be readily constructed;
     (ii) political barriers to growth resulting from a restrictive local
     political environment regarding development and redevelopment (such an
     environment, in addition to the restrictions on development itself, is
     often associated with a lengthy development process and expensive
     development fees); and (iii) physical barriers to growth, resulting from
     natural limitations to development, such as mountains or waterways.
 
  .  Rental Demand Created by High Cost of Housing. The Company concentrates
     on markets in which the cost of renting is significantly lower than the
     cost of owning a home. In such markets, rent levels are higher and
     operating expenses and capital expenditures, as a percentage of rent,
     are lower in comparison with markets that have a lower cost of owning a
     home.
 
  .  Job Proximity. the Company believes that most renters select housing
     based on its proximity to their jobs and on related commuting factors.
     The Company obtains local area information relating to its residential
     properties and uses this information when making multifamily residential
     property acquisition decisions. The Company also reviews the location of
     major employers relative to its portfolio and potential acquisition
     properties.
 
   Following the above criteria, the Company is currently pursuing investment
opportunities in selected markets of Northern and Southern California and the
Pacific Northwest.
 
   Active Portfolio Management Through Regional Economic Research and Local
Market Knowledge. The Company was founded on the belief that the key elements
of successful real estate investment and portfolio growth include extensive
regional economic research and local market knowledge. The Company utilizes
its economic research and local market knowledge to make appropriate portfolio
allocation decisions that it believes result in better overall operating
performance and lower portfolio risk. The Company maintains and evaluates:
 
  .  Regional Economic Data. The Company evaluates and reviews regional
     economic factors for the markets in which it owns properties and where
     it considers expanding its operations. The Company's research focuses on
     regional and sub-market supply and demand, economic diversity, job
     growth, market depth and the comparison of rental price to single-family
     housing prices.
 
  .  Local Market Conditions. Local market knowledge includes (i) local
     factors that influence whether a sub-market is desirable to tenants;
     (ii) the extent to which the area surrounding a property is improving or
     deteriorating; and (iii) local investment market dynamics, including the
     relationship between the value of a property and its yield, the
     prospects for capital appreciation and market depth.
 
   Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, the Company
regularly evaluates the results of regional economic and local market research
and adjusts portfolio allocations accordingly. The Company actively manages
the allocation of assets within its portfolio. The Company seeks to increase
its portfolio allocation in markets projected to have economic growth and to
decrease such allocations in markets projected to have declining economic
conditions. Likewise, the Company also seeks to increase its portfolio
allocation in markets that have attractive property valuations and to decrease
such allocations in markets that have inflated valuations and low relative
yields. Although the Company is generally a long-term investor, it does not
establish defined or preferred holding periods for its Properties.
 
Current Business Activities
 
   The Company conducts substantially all of its activities through the
Operating Partnership, of which it owns an approximate 89.9% general
partnership interest. The approximate 10.1% limited partnership interests in
the Operating Partnership are owned by directors, officers and employees of
the Company and certain third-party investors. As the sole general partner of
the Operating Partnership, the Company has operating control over the
management of the Operating Partnership and each of the Properties. From time
to time, the Company may invest
 

 
in properties through the acquisition of an interest in another entity, based
upon the criteria described above. The Company does not plan to invest in any
securities of other entities not engaged in real estate activities.
 
   The Company has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust
("REIT") for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended
December 31, 1994. In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, the
Company provides some of its fee-based asset management and disposition
services as well as third-party property management and leasing services
through Essex Management Corporation ("EMC"). The Company owns 100% of EMC's
19,000 shares of nonvoting preferred stock. Executives of the Company own 100%
of EMC's 1,000 shares of common stock.
 
   The Company owns a 1% limited partnership interest in two partnerships that
acquired three retail properties from the Company. These investments were made
under arrangements whereby EMC became the general partner and the other
limited partners were granted the right to require the applicable partnership
to redeem their interests for cash. Subject to certain conditions, the Company
may, however, elect to deliver an equivalent number of shares of the Company's
common stock in satisfaction of the applicable partnership's cash redemption
obligation.
 
   In February and April 1998, the Operating Partnership sold 1,200,000 and
400,000 units, respectively of its 7.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Units to an institutional investor in a private placement, at a
price of $50.00 per unit. The net proceeds from these offerings were
$58,275,000 and $19,500,000 respectively. In November 1998, the Operating
Partnership sold 500,000 units of its 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Units to an institutional investor in a private placement, at a
price of $50.00 per unit. The net proceeds from this offering were
$24,375,000.
 
Acquisitions
 
   During 1998, the Company acquired ownership interests in five multifamily
properties consisting of 1,798 units with a total capitalized acquisition cost
(including expected renovation costs and adjusted for closing costs) of
approximately $166,995,000. These investments were primarily funded by sales
of preferred units by the Operating Partnership, cash generated from
operations, dispositions of properties and working capital. Of the five
properties purchased in 1998, three properties (1,122 units) are located in
Southern California and two (676 units) are located in Northern California.
 
   Multifamily property ownership interests acquired in 1998 are as follows:
 

 
Dispositions
 
   In 1998, Essex sold one Pacific Northwest multifamily property and disposed
of the three Pacific Northwest retail properties for a net sales price of
$26,354,000. The proceeds were used to fund acquisitions of multifamily
properties.
 
 

 
Development
 
   The Company is currently developing eight development projects that are
expected to have an aggregate of 1,578 multifamily units and an aggregate
estimated development cost, including capitalized interest and overhead costs,
of $204,700,000. Such projects are anticipated to be substantially completed
during 1999.
 
   Park @ Issaquah This development is a 245 unit multifamily community
located in Issaquah, Washington. This Project will feature spacious units,
direct access garages and specialized interior features. The community will
include a pool, spa, exercise room and video theater. As of December 31, 1998,
approximately 40% of the units were completed. Of the units completed,
approximately 50% have been leased through December 31, 1998. The Company
expects to achieve stabilized occupancy (defined as the month in which the
multifamily community has a physical occupancy of 95%) in July 1999. The
project is being developed by Park Hill LLC (the "LLC"). The Company has a 45%
ownership interest in the LLC. According to the terms of the partnership
agreement, the Company is responsible for the leasing and management of the
operations of the property. The Company has the option to purchase the
remaining 55% interest after August 31, 2003. The purchase price will be
calculated based on operating results, as defined in the LLC agreement.
 
   Fountain Court This development is a 320 unit multifamily community located
in Seattle, Washington. This project offers views of downtown Seattle and
Puget Sound. Unit amenities include microwaves, washer/dryers, European style
cabinetry and ceramic tile entryways. This community will also offer a health
club, spa, indoor lap pool, exercise room and entertainment center. The
project is a six-story building and occupancy is expected to commence in April
1999. The project is being developed by Fountain Court Apartment Associates,
L.P. The Company has a 51% limited partnership interest in this entity. In
accordance with the terms of the agreement, in the year 2000, the Company has
the option to purchase the remaining 49% interest for a fixed purchase price.
 
   Hillsborough Park This development is a 235 unit multifamily community
located in La Habra, California. This community will offer a pool, spa, tennis
courts and an exercise room. Individual units will have patios or balconies,
vaulted ceilings, washer/dryers, microwave ovens and individual garages. The
project consists of 15 buildings and is expected to be completed in phases
starting in March 1999 through June 1999. The project is being developed
solely by the Company.
 
   Waterford Place This development is a 238 unit multifamily community
located in San Jose, California. This community will feature a fitness center,
pool, spa, business center and gated security access. Each unit will feature
fireplaces, washer/dryers, and computer workstations with dedicated, high-
speed data transmission lines. In 1997, the Company entered into a contract
with an unrelated third party to purchase the development 18 months after
completion, as defined in the contract. Completion is estimated to be November
1999. The unrelated third party is responsible for the development, leasing
and management of the project until the Company purchases the development.
 
   Bel Air This development is a 114 unit multifamily community located in San
Ramon, California. This project is adjacent to The Shores property that was
acquired by the Company in 1995. The units offers direct access garages, nine-
foot ceilings, individual entry and the majority of units have golf course
views. The project consists of 24 buildings and is expected to be completed in
phases starting in March 1999 through May 1999. Occupancy is scheduled to
begin in April 1999. The project is being developed solely by the Company.
 
   The Carlyle This development is a 132 unit multifamily community located in
San Jose, California. The community features a pool, spa, exercise facility,
clubhouse, business center, as well as gated access and available garages.
Each unit is equipped with state of the art wiring systems for today's high-
tech renter, a washer/dryer and ceiling fans. In May 1998, the Company entered
into a contract with an unrelated third party to purchase the development 18
months after completion, as defined in the contract. Completion is estimated
to be August 1999. The unrelated third party is responsible for the
development, leasing and management of the project until the Company purchases
the development.
 
 

 
   Marina View This development is a 188 unit multifamily community located in
Marina del Rey, California. This project will feature controlled access
underground parking, a pool, spa, fitness center, entertainment center and
business center. Units will have tiled fireplaces, microwaves, washer/dryer
hook-ups, ceiling fans and harbor views. The project is a single building and
is expected to be completed with occupancy beginning in August 1999. This
project is being developed solely by the Company.
 
   Station Park This development is a 106 unit multifamily community in Walnut
Creek, California. This project will offer amenities including high-speed data
transmission lines and internet access, attached garages and washer/dryers.
The community will also offer a pool, spa, exercise facility, business center
and community room. The project is four buildings and is expected to be
completed in phases from June 1999 through August 1999. This project is being
developed solely by the Company.
 
   The Company intends to continue to pursue the development of multifamily
communities to the extent that the market conditions and the specific project
terms are considered favorable.
 
Offices and Employees
 
   The Company is headquartered in Palo Alto, California, and has regional
offices in Seattle, Washington, Portland, Oregon, West Lake Village,
California and Tustin, California. As of December 31, 1998, the Company had
approximately 470 employees.
 
   In February 1999, the Company entered into an agreement with Mr. Marcus,
its Chairman, which replaces and terminates a non-competition agreement that
Mr. Marcus entered into in 1994 in connection with the Company's initial
public offering. Under the February 1999 agreement, Mr. Marcus must generally
give the Company notice of any contract, which he or his affiliates enter
into, for the purchase of a multifamily property in excess of 100 units. If
the Company has submitted a written offer for the same property, then the
Company at its option may require Mr. Marcus to assign his or his affiliate's
contracts to the Company.
 
Environmental Matters
 
   Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances and regulations, an
owner or operator of real estate is liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on, or in such property.
Such laws often impose such liability without regard as to whether the owner
or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of such hazardous or
toxic substances. The presence of such substances, or the failure to properly
remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's or operator's
ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such property as
collateral. Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or
toxic substances or wastes also may be liable for the costs of removal or
remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment facility to which
such substances or wastes were sent, whether or not such facility is owned or
operated by such person. In addition, certain environmental laws impose
liability for release of asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs"), into the air,
and third parties may seek recovery from owners or operators of real
properties for personal injury associated with ACMs. In connection with the
ownership (direct or indirect), operation, management and development of real
properties, the Company could be considered an owner or operator of such
properties or as having arranged for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or
toxic substances and, therefore, may be potentially liable for removal or
remediation costs, as well as certain other costs, including governmental
fines and costs related to injuries of persons and property.
 
   All of the Properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental
assessments, including a review of historical and public data ("Phase I
assessments"), by independent environmental consultants. Phase I assessments
generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the
Property, including a preliminary investigation of the site, an identification
of publicly known conditions occurring at properties in the vicinity of the
site, an investigation as to the presence of polychlorinated biphenyl's
("PCBs"), ACMs and above-ground and underground storage tanks presently or
formerly at the sites, and preparation and issuance of written reports. As a
result of information collected in the Phase I assessments, certain of the
Properties were
 

 
subjected to additional environmental investigations, including, in a few
cases, soil sampling or ground water analysis to further evaluate the
environmental conditions of those Properties.
 
   The environmental studies revealed the presence of groundwater
contamination on certain of the Properties. Certain of these Properties had
contamination which was reported to have migrated on-site from adjacent
industrial manufacturing operations, and one Property was previously occupied
by an industrial user that was identified as the source of contamination. The
environmental studies noted that certain of the Properties are located
adjacent to and possibly down gradient from sites with known groundwater
contamination, the lateral limits of which may extend onto such Properties.
The environmental studies also noted that contamination existed at certain
Properties because of the former presence of underground fuel storage tanks
that have been removed. There are asbestos-containing material in a number of
the properties, primarily in the form of ceiling texture, floor tiles and
adhesives, which are generally in good condition. At properties where radon
has been identified as a potential concern, the Company has implemented
remediating measures and additional testing. Based on its current knowledge,
the Company does not believe that future liabilities associated with asbestos
and radon will be material. Based on the information contained in the
environmental studies, the Company believes that the costs, if any, it might
bear as a result of environmental contamination or other conditions at these
Properties would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's financial
condition, result of operations, or liquidity.
 
   Certain Properties that have been sold by the Company were identified as
having potential groundwater contamination. While the Company does not
anticipate any losses or costs related to groundwater contamination on
Properties that have been sold, it is possible that such losses or costs may
materialize in the future.
 
   Except with respect to one Property, the Company has no indemnification
agreements from third parties for potential environmental clean-up costs at
its Properties. The Company has no way of determining at this time the
magnitude of any potential liability to which it may be subject arising out of
unknown environmental conditions or violations with respect to the properties
formerly owned by the Company. No assurance can be given that existing
environmental studies with respect to any of the Properties reveal all
environmental liabilities, that any prior owner or operator of a Property did
not create any material environmental condition not known to the Company, or
that a material environmental condition does not otherwise exist as to any one
or more of the Properties. The Company has no insurance coverage for the types
of environmental liabilities described above.
 
Insurance
 
   The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and
rental loss insurance for each of the Properties. There are, however, certain
types of extraordinary losses for which the Company does not have insurance.
All of the Properties are located in areas that are subject to earthquake
activity. the Company has obtained earthquake insurance for all the
Properties. This earthquake insurance is subject to an aggregate limit of
$40.0 million payable upon a covered loss in excess of a $7.5 million self-
insured retention amount and a 5% deductible. The Company may selectively
exclude properties from being covered by earthquake insurance based on
management's evaluation of the following factors: (i) the availability of
coverage on terms acceptable to the Company, (ii) the location of the property
and the amount of seismic activity affecting that region, and, (iii) the age
of the property and building codes in effect at the time of construction.
Despite earthquake coverage on all of its Properties placed in service, should
a property sustain damage as a result of an earthquake, the Company may incur
losses due to deductibles, co-payments or losses in excess of applicable
insurance, if any.
 
   Although the Company carries certain insurance for non-earthquake damages
to its properties and liability insurance, the Company may still incur losses
due to uninsured risks, deductibles, co-payments or losses in excess of
applicable insurance coverage.
 
Competition
 
   The Company's Properties compete for tenants with similar properties
primarily on the basis of location, rent charged, services provided, and the
design and condition of the improvements. Competition for tenants from
 

 
competing properties affects the amount of rent charged as well as rental
growth rates, vacancy rates, deposit amounts, and the services and features
provided at each property. While economic conditions are generally stable in
the Company's target markets, a prolonged economic downturn could have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of
operations or liquidity.
 
   The Company also experiences competition when attempting to acquire
properties that meet its investment criteria. Such competing buyers include
domestic and foreign financial institutions, other REIT's, life insurance
companies, pension funds, trust funds, partnerships and individual investors.
 
Working Capital
 
   The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements by using
working capital, amounts available on lines of credit, and any portion of net
cash flow from operations not required for distribution. The Company believes
that its future net cash flows will be adequate to meet operating requirements
and to provide for payment of distributions by the Company in accordance with
REIT requirements. The Company has credit facilities in the committed amount
of approximately $110,000,000. At December 31, 1998 the Company had an
outstanding balance of $35,693,000 under these facilities.
 
Other Matters/Risk Factors
 
 Debt Financing
 
   At December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately $361,515,000 of
indebtedness (including $94,513,000 of variable rate indebtedness), of which
$325,822,000 was secured by certain properties.
 
   The Company is subject to the risks normally associated with debt
financing, including the following:
 
  .  cash flow may not be sufficient to meet required payments of principal
     and interest;
 
  .  inability to refinance existing indebtedness on encumbered Properties;
     and
 
  .  the terms of any refinancing may not be as favorable as the terms of
     existing indebtedness.
 
 Uncertainty of Ability to Refinance Balloon Payments
 
   At December 31, 1998, the Company had an aggregate of approximately
$361,515,000 of mortgage debt and lines of credit, some of which are subject
to balloon payments of principal. The Company does not expect to have
sufficient cash flows from operations to make all of such balloon payments
when due under these mortgages and lines of credit. At December 31, 1998,
these mortgages and lines of credit had the following scheduled maturity
dates: 1999--$2.4 million; 2000--$56.0 million; 2001--$2.4 million; 2002--
$24.5 million; 2003--$30.1 million, 2004 and thereafter--$246.1 million. As a
result, the Company may not be able to refinance such mortgage indebtedness.
The Properties subject to these mortgages could be foreclosed upon or
otherwise transferred to the mortgagee. This could mean a loss to the Company
of income and asset value. Alternatively, the Company may be required to re-
finance the debt at higher interest rates. If the Company is unable to make
such payments when due, a mortgage lender could foreclose on the property
securing the mortgage, which could have a material adverse effect on the
financial condition and results of operations of the Company.
 
 Risk Of Rising Interest Payments
 
   At December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately $58,820,000 of long-
term variable rate indebtedness bearing interest at a floating rate tied to
the rate of short-term tax exempt securities (which matures at various dates
from 2014 through 2026) and $35,693,000 of variable rate indebtedness under
its line of credit bearing interest at 1.15% over LIBOR (which matures in
2000). Although approximately $29,220,000 of the $58,820,000 long-term
variable rate indebtedness is subject to an interest rate protection
agreement, which may reduce the risks associated with fluctuations in interest
rates, an increase in interest rates may have an adverse effect on net income
and results of operations of the Company.
 

 
 Risk That Interest Rate Hedging Arrangements Cannot Be Refinanced Or Replaced
 
   The Company has, from time to time, entered into agreements to reduce the
risks associated with increases in interest rates, and may continue to do so.
Although these agreements may partially protect against rising interest rates,
these agreements also may reduce the benefits to the Company when interest
rates decline. There can be no assurance that any such hedging arrangements
can be refinanced or that the Company will be able to enter into other hedging
arrangements to replace existing ones if interest rates decline. Furthermore,
interest rate movements during the term of interest rate hedging arrangements
may result in a gain or loss on our investment in the hedging arrangement. In
addition, if a hedging arrangement is not indexed to the same rate as the
indebtedness that is hedged, the Company may be exposed to losses to the
extent that the rate governing the indebtedness and the rate governing the
hedging arrangement change independently of each other. Finally,
nonperformance by the other party to the hedging arrangement may subject the
Company to increased credit risks. In order to minimize counterparty credit
risk, the Company policy is to enter into hedging arrangements only with large
financial institutions that maintain an investment grade credit rating.
 
 Acquisition Activities: Risks That Acquisitions Will Fail To Meet
 Expectations
 
   The Company intends to continue to acquire multifamily residential
properties. There are risks that acquired properties will fail to perform as
expected. Estimates of the costs of improvements necessary to allow the
Company to market an acquired property as originally intended may prove to be
inaccurate. In addition, the Company expects to finance future acquisitions,
in whole or in part, under various forms of secured or unsecured financing or
through the issuance of partnership units by the Operating Partnership or
additional equity by the Company. The use of equity financing, rather than
debt, for future developments or acquisitions could dilute the interest of the
Company's existing stockholders. If new acquisitions are financed under
existing lines of credit, there is a risk that, unless substitute financing is
obtained, further availability under the lines of credit for new development
may not be available or may be available only on disadvantageous terms. Also,
the Company may not be able to refinance our existing lines of credit upon
maturity, or the terms of such refinancing may not be as favorable as the
terms of the existing indebtedness. Further, acquisitions of properties are
subject to the general risks associated with real estate investments. See
"Adverse Effect to Property Income and Value Due to General Real Estate
Investment Risks."
 
 Risks That Development Activities Will Be Delayed Or Not Completed
 
   The Company pursues multifamily residential property development projects
from time to time. Development projects generally require various governmental
and other approvals, the receipt of which cannot be assured. The Company's
development activities generally entail certain risks, including the
following:
 
  .  funds may be expended and management's time devoted to projects that may
     not be completed;
 
  .  construction costs of a project may exceed original estimates possibly
     making the project economically unfeasible;
 
  .  development projects may be delayed due to, among other things, adverse
     weather conditions;
 
  .  occupancy rates and rents at a completed project may be less than
     anticipated; and
 
  .  expenses at a completed development may be higher than anticipated.
 
   These risks may reduce the funds available for distribution to the
Company's stockholders. Further, the development of properties is also subject
to the general risks associated with real estate investments. See "--Adverse
Effect to Property Income and Value Due to General Real Estate Investment
Risks."
 
 The Geographic Concentration Of The Properties And Fluctuations In Local
  Market May Adversely Impact Income
 
   Significant amounts of rental revenues for the year ended December 31,
1998, were derived from Properties concentrated in the San Francisco Bay Area,
the Seattle metropolitan area, Southern California and the Portland
 

 
metropolitan area. As a result of this geographic concentration, if a local
property market performs poorly, the income from the Properties in that market
could decrease. As a result of such a decrease in income, the Company may be
unable to pay expected dividends to the Company's stockholders. The
performance of the economy in each of these areas affects occupancy, market
rental rates and expenses and, consequently impacts the income generated from
the Properties and their underlying values. The financial results of major
local employers may also impact the cash flow and value of certain of the
Properties. Economic downturns in the local markets in which the Company owns
properties could have a negative impact on the financial condition and results
from operations of the Company.
 
 Competition In The Multifamily Residential Market May Adversely Affect
  Operations And The Rental Demand For the Company's Properties
 
   There are numerous housing alternatives that compete with the multifamily
Properties in attracting residents. These include other multifamily rental
apartments and single family homes that are available for rent in the markets
in which the Properties are located. The Properties also compete for residents
with new and existing homes and condominiums that are for sale. In addition,
other competitors for development and acquisitions of properties may have
greater resources than the Company. If the demand for the Company's Properties
is reduced or if competitors develop and/or acquire competing properties on a
more cost-effective basis, rental rates may drop, which may have a material
adverse affect on the financial condition and results of operations of the
Company.
 
   The Company also faces competition from other real estate investment
trusts, businesses and other entities in the acquisition, development and
operation of properties. Some of the competitors are larger and have greater
financial resources than the Company. This competition may result in increased
costs of properties the Company acquires and/or develops.
 
 Debt Financing On Properties May Result In Insufficient Cash Flow
 
   Where possible, the Company intends to continue to use leverage to increase
the rate of return on its investments and to provide for additional
investments that the Company could not otherwise make. There is a risk that
the cash flow from the Properties will be insufficient to meet both debt
payment obligations and the distribution requirements of the real estate
investment trust provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.
The Company may obtain additional debt financing in the future, through
mortgages on some or all of the Properties. These mortgages may be recourse,
non-recourse, or cross-collateralized. As of December 31, 1998, the Company
had 33 properties encumbered by debt. Of the 33 properties, 18 are secured by
deeds of trust relating solely to those properties, with respect to the
remaining 15 properties, three cross-collateralized mortgages are secured by
eight properties, three properties, and three properties, respectively, and
the Company's $10 million line of credit is secured by one property. The
holders of this indebtedness will have a claim against these Properties and to
the extent indebtedness is cross-collateralized, lenders may seek to foreclose
upon properties which are not the primary collateral for their loan. This may,
in turn, accelerate other indebtedness secured by Properties. Foreclosure of
Properties would cause a loss to the Company of income and asset value.
 
 Increase In Dividend Requirements As A Result Of The Convertible Preferred
  Stock, Series B Preferred Stock, And Series C Preferred Stock May Lead to a
  Possible Inability To Sustain Dividends
 
   In 1996, the Company sold $40.0 million of its 8.75% convertible preferred
stock, Series 1996A (the "Convertible Preferred Stock") at $25.00 per share to
Westbrook Real Estate Fund I, L.P. (formerly known as Tiger/Westbrook Real
Estate Fund, L.P.), and Westbrook Real Estate Co-Investment Partnership I,
L.P. (formerly known as Tiger/Westbrook Real Estate Co-Investment Partnership,
L.P.). Westbrook Real Estate Fund, L.P. and Westbrook Real Estate Co-
Investment Partnership I, L.P. are collectively referred to herein as
"Westbrook. On January 6, 1999, these entities converted 87,500 shares of the
Convertible Preferred Stock into 100,000 shares of Common Stock and they
presently own 1,512,500 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock. The Company has
filed a registration statement covering Tiger/Westbrook's resale of all shares
of common stock
 

 
issuable upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock and the
registration statement was declared effective by the Securities and Exchange
Commission in December 1998.
 
   On February 6 and April 20, 1998, the Operating Partnership completed the
private placement of a total of 1,600,000 units of 7.875% Series B Cumulative
Redeemable Preferred Units (the "Series B Preferred Units"), representing a
limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, to an institutional
investor. The Series B Preferred Units will become exchangeable, on a one for
one basis, in whole or in part at any time on or after February 6, 2008 (or
earlier under certain circumstances) for shares of the Company's 7.875% Series
B Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $.0001 per share (the
"Series B Preferred Stock"). The Operating Partnership may redeem the Series B
Preferred Units on or after February 6, 2003. Also, on November 24, 1998, the
Operating Partnership completed the private placement of 500,000 units of
9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units (the "Series C Preferred
Units"), representing a limited partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership, to an institutional investor. The Series C Preferred Units will
become exchangeable, on a one for one basis, in whole or in part at any time
on or after November 24, 2008 (or earlier under certain circumstances) for
shares of the Company's 9 1/8% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock,
par value $.0001 per share (the "Series C Preferred Stock"). The Operating
Partnership may redeem the Series C Preferred Units on or after November 24,
2003.
 
   The cash dividends payable on the Convertible Preferred Stock substantially
increase the cash that must be paid out before dividends may be paid on the
Common Stock. Dividends may be paid on shares of Common Stock in any fiscal
quarter only if full, cumulative cash dividends have been paid on all shares
of Convertible Preferred Stock in the annual amount equal to the greater of
(i) $2.1875 per share (8.75% of the $25.00 per share price), or (ii) the
dividends (on an as-converted basis) paid with respect to the Common Stock
plus, in both cases, any accumulated but unpaid dividends on the Convertible
Preferred Stock.
 
   Further, if any of the Series B Preferred Units are exchanged for shares of
Series B Preferred Stock, the holders of Series B Preferred Stock will be
entitled to receive cumulative preferential cash distributions equal to
$3.9375 (7.875% of the $50.00 liquidation preference) per share of Series B
Preferred Stock. For any period of time that any Series B Preferred Stock is
outstanding, no distribution may be authorized, declared or paid on the Common
Stock or any class or series of other stock of the Corporation ranking junior
to the Series B Preferred Stock unless all distributions accumulated on all
Series B Preferred Stock have been paid in full. Also, if any of the Series C
Preferred Units are exchanged for shares of Series C Preferred Stock, the
holders of Series C Preferred Stock will be entitled to receive cumulative
preferential cash distributions equal to $4.5625 (9.125% of the $50.00
liquidation preference) per share of Series C Preferred Stock. For any period
of time that any Series C Preferred Stock is outstanding, no distribution may
be authorized, declared or paid on the Common Stock or any class or series of
other stock of the Corporation ranking junior to the Series C Preferred Stock
unless all distributions accumulated on all Series C Preferred Stock have been
paid in full. The dividends payable on the Series B Preferred Stock and Series
C Preferred Stock would further increase the cash that must be paid out before
dividends may be paid on the Common Stock.
 
   The 1,512,500 outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock Series
1996A are convertible at the option of the holder into shares of Common Stock.
If, after June 20, 2001, the Company requires a mandatory conversion of all of
the Convertible Preferred Stock, each of the holders of the Convertible
Preferred Stock may cause the Company to redeem any or all of their shares of
Convertible Preferred Stock. Such a redemption would decrease the amount of
cash available to pay cash dividends on the Common Stock. When there ceases to
be in excess of 40,000 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock outstanding, we
may purchase all of the outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock from
the holders.
 
   If the Company wishes to issue any Common Stock in the future (including,
upon exercise of stock options), the funds required to continue to pay cash
dividends at current levels will be increased. The Company's ability to pay
dividends will depend largely upon the performance of the Properties and other
properties that may be acquired in the future.
 
 

 
   The Company's ability to pay dividends on the Company's stock is further
limited by the Maryland General Corporation Law. Under the Maryland General
Corporation Law, the Company may not make a distribution on stock if, after
giving effect to such distribution, either
 
  .  the Company would not be able to pay its indebtedness as it becomes due
     in the usual course of business; or
 
  .  the Company's total assets would be less than its total liabilities.
 
   If the Company cannot pay dividends on its stock, it's status as a real
estate investment trust may be jeopardized.
 
 Existing Registration Rights And Preemptive Rights May Have An Adverse Effect
  On The Market Price Of The Shares
 
   Registration rights are held by the senior members of the Company's
management and certain outside investors (collectively, the "Founders") who as
of December 31, 1998 owned approximately 10.1% limited partnership interests
in the Operating Partnership. These rights include certain "demand" and
"piggyback" registration rights with respect to shares of Common Stock
issuable in connection with the exchange of their limited partnership
interests in the Operating Partnership. The aggregate 10.1% limited
partnership interests held by the Founders in the Operating Partnership is
exchangeable for an aggregate of 1,873,473 shares of Common Stock. In
addition, the Operating Partnership has invested in certain real estate
partnerships. Certain partners in such limited partnerships have the right to
have their limited partnership interests in such partnerships redeemed for
cash or, at our option, for 779,400 shares of Common Stock. These partners
also have certain "demand" and "piggyback" registration rights with respect to
the shares of Common Stock that may be issued in exchange for such limited
partnership interests. All of the registration rights discussed above could
materially adversely affect the market price for the shares of Common Stock.
In addition, the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock have preemptive
rights to purchase a pro rata share of shares of Common Stock that may be
offered in the future. These preemptive rights could have a material adverse
effect on the market price for the shares of Common Stock.
 
 Conversion Of The Convertible Preferred Stock May Lead to Substantial
  Dilution To The Holders Of Common Stock
 
   The shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible, at the option of
the holders, into the number of shares of Common Stock that is determined
based on the number and price of common shares issued. As of December 31,
1998, the then conversion price was $21.875 per share and, therefore, each
share of Convertible Preferred Stock was convertible into approximately 1.14
shares of Common Stock. All the shares issuable upon conversion of all of the
Convertible Preferred Stock are covered by an existing shelf registration
statement, which would allow such shares to be resold into the public market.
In order to protect the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock against
dilution, the conversion price may be reduced in certain circumstances,
including if Common Stock is issued at a price below the conversion price.
Such reduction in the conversion price could increase the dilution to holders
of shares of Common Stock if and when the Convertible Preferred Stock is
converted into shares of Common Stock. The proportionate ownership, voting
power and earnings per share of the holders of Common Stock could be
substantially diluted in the event that a substantial number of additional
shares of Common Stock and/or Preferred Stock are issued, either upon
conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock, in connection with future
acquisitions or otherwise.
 
 Concentration Of Voting Power And Consent Requirements Of The Holders Of the
  Convertible Preferred Stock May Be Detrimental To Holders of Common Stock
 
   As of December 31, 1998, George M. Marcus, the Chairman of the Company's
Board of Directors, beneficially owned 1,953,187 shares of Common Stock
(including shares issuable upon exchange of limited partnership interests in
the Operating Partnership and assuming exercise of all vested options). This
represents
 

 
approximately 10.5% of the outstanding shares of Common Stock. Mr. Marcus
currently does not have majority control over the Company. However, he
currently has, and likely will continue to have, significant influence with
respect to the election of directors and approval or disapproval of
significant corporate actions.
 
   The holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock have certain consent rights
to actions the Company may take. The Company may not, among other things, make
certain revisions to its corporate structure and operations, without the
approval of holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Convertible
Preferred Stock, voting as a separate class. This includes (i) revisions that
would affect the rights, priority and preferences of the Convertible Preferred
Stock, (ii) the merger or consolidation of the Company or the Operating
Partnership with another entity, (iii) the sale of all or substantially all of
the Company's assets, (iv) changing the geographic concentration of the
portfolio of Properties, and (v) undergoing a change in control of either the
Company or the Operating Partnership.
 
   The Company's Charter provides that the holders of the Convertible
Preferred Stock, voting as a class, have the right to elect one member of the
Board of Directors. The holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock elected
Gregory J. Hartman to the Board of Directors. Mr. Hartman is a managing
principal of Westbrook Real Estate Partners, L.L.C., the managing member of
the sole general partner of Westbrook.
 
   Under certain circumstances, the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock
will be entitled to elect up to four additional directors. Such circumstances
include the Company's failure to pay quarterly dividends on the Convertible
Preferred Stock for four quarters and the breach of certain provisions of the
Charter and bylaws affecting the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock.
Moreover, the Company may not authorize or create any class or series of stock
that ranks equal or senior to the Convertible Preferred Stock with respect to
(i) the payment of dividends or (ii) amounts upon liquidation, dissolution or
winding up without the consent of the holders of two-thirds of the outstanding
shares of Convertible Preferred Stock, voting separately as a single class.
The interests of the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock, and
indirectly the director or directors elected by the holders of the Convertible
Preferred Stock, may differ from or conflict with the interests of the holders
of Common Stock.
 
   In addition, upon conversion of the Convertible Preferred Stock into shares
of Common Stock, the holders of Convertible Preferred Stock would hold
approximately 8.9% of all outstanding shares of Common Stock (assuming
exchange of all partnership interests in the Operating Partnership into shares
of Common Stock), assuming that such conversion took place on December 31,
1998. Consequently, upon such conversion, the holders of Convertible Preferred
Stock would, as a class, be the second largest stockholder in the Company and
could have considerable influence with respect to the election of directors
and the approval or disapproval of significant corporate actions.
 
   In view of the substantial influence of the holders of the Convertible
Preferred Stock over the Company's affairs, it should be noted that interests
of the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock do not necessarily coincide
with those of the holders of the Common Stock. Therefore, actions by the
holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock will not necessarily be in the best
interests of the holders of Common Stock.
 
 Certain Voting Rights Of The Series B Preferred Stock And Series C Preferred
  Stock
 
   In general, the holders of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series C
Preferred Stock do not have any voting rights. However, if full distributions
are not made on any Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred Stock for
six quarterly distribution periods, the holders of Series B Preferred Stock or
Series C Preferred Stock (as applicable) who have not received distributions,
voting together as a single class, will have the right to elect two additional
directors to serve on the Company's Board of Directors. These voting rights
continue until all distributions in arrears and distributions for the current
quarterly period on the Series B Preferred Stock and/or Series C Preferred
Stock have been paid in full. At that time, the holders of the Series B
Preferred Stock and/or Series C Preferred Stock are divested of these voting
rights, and the term and office of the directors so elected immediately
terminates.
 

 
   In addition, the Company may not authorize or create any class or series of
stock that ranks senior to the Series B Preferred Stock or Series C Preferred
Stock with respect to (1) the payment of dividends, (2) rights upon
liquidation, dissolution or winding-up of the Company, or amend, alter or
repeal the provisions of the Company's Charter or Bylaws, that would
materially and adversely affect these rights without the consent of the
holders of two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Series B Preferred Stock or
Series C Preferred Stock (as applicable) each voting separately as a single
class. Also, while any shares of the Series B Preferred Stock or Series C
Preferred Stock are outstanding, the Company may not (1) merge or consolidate
with another entity, or (2) a transfer substantially all of its assets to any
corporation or other entity, without the affirmative vote of the holders of at
least two-thirds of the Series B Preferred Stock and Series C Preferred Stock,
each voting separately as a class, unless the transaction meets certain
criteria.
 
 Exemption Of Westbrook and George Marcus From The Maryland Business
  Combination Law May Allow Certain Transactions Between The Company And
  Westbrook And/Or George Marcus To Proceed Without Compliance With Such Law
 
   The Maryland General Corporation Law establishes special requirements for
"business combinations" between a Maryland corporation and "interested
stockholders" unless exemptions are applicable. An interested stockholder is
any person who beneficially owns ten percent or more of the voting power of
the then-outstanding voting stock. Among other things, the law prohibits for a
period of five years a merger and other similar transactions between the
Company and an interested stockholder unless the Board of Directors approved
the transaction prior to the party becoming an interested stockholder. The
five year period runs from the most recent date on which the interested
stockholder became an interested stockholder. The law also requires a
supermajority stockholder vote for such transactions after the end of the five
year period. This means that the transaction must be approved by at least:
 
  .  80% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting
     shares; and
 
  .  66% of the votes entitled to be cast by holders of outstanding voting
     shares other than shares held by the interested stockholder with whom
     the business combination is to be effected.
 
   However, as permitted by the statute, the Board of Directors irrevocably
has elected to exempt any business combination by the Company with Westbrook
and its affiliates from the "business combination" provision of the Maryland
General Corporation Law. In addition, the Board of Directors similarly
exempted George M. Marcus, William A. Millichap, who are the chairman and a
director of the Company, respectively, and The Marcus & Millichap Company
("M&M") or any entity owned or controlled by Messrs Marcus and Millichap and
M&M. Consequently, the five-year prohibition and the super-majority vote
requirement described above will not apply to any business combination between
the Company and either Westbrook (or its affiliates), Mr. Marcus, Mr.
Millichap, or M&M. As a result, the Company may in the future enter into
business combinations with Westbrook (or its affiliates) or Messrs Marcus and
Millichap and M&M, without compliance with the super-majority vote
requirements and other provisions of the Maryland General Corporation Law.
 
 Influence of Executive Officers, Directors And Significant Stockholders
 
   Under the partnership agreement of the Operating Partnership, the consent
of the holders of limited partnership interests is generally required for any
amendment of the agreement and for certain extraordinary actions. Through
their ownership of limited partnership interests and their positions in the
Company, the Company's directors and executive officers, including Messrs.
Marcus and Millichap, have substantial influence on the Company. Consequently,
their influence could result in decisions that do not reflect the interests of
all stockholders of the Company.
 

 
 Anti-Takeover Provisions Contained In The Operating Partnership Agreement,
  Charter, Bylaws, The Convertible Preferred Stock And Certain Provisions Of
  Maryland Law Could Delay, Defer Or Prevent A Change In Control Of the
  Company
 
   While the Company is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership,
and generally has full and exclusive responsibility and discretion in the
management and control of the Operating Partnership, certain provisions of the
Operating Partnership's Partnership Agreement place limitations on the
Company's ability to act with respect to the Operating Partnership. Such
limitations could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a change in control
of the Company that might involve a premium price for the stock or otherwise
be in the best interest of the stockholders or that could otherwise adversely
affect the interest of the stockholders. The Partnership Agreement provides
that if the limited partners own at least 5% of the outstanding units of
limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership, the Company cannot,
without first obtaining the consent of a majority-in-interest of the limited
partners in the Operating Partnership, transfer all or any portion of the
Company's general partner interest in the Operating Partnership to another
entity. Such limitations on the Company's ability to act may result in the
Company being precluded from taking action that the Board of Directors
believes is in the best interests of the Company's stockholders. In addition,
as of December 31, 1998, two individuals together held more than 50% of the
outstanding units of limited partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership, allowing such actions to be blocked by a small number of limited
partners.
 
   The Company's charter authorizes the issuance of additional shares of
Common Stock or preferred stock and to set the preferences, rights and other
terms of such preferred stock without the approval of the holders of the
Common Stock. The Company must obtain the approval of the holders of two-
thirds of the outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock in order to
authorize, create or issue any class or series of stock that ranks equal or
senior to the Convertible Preferred Stock. Although the Company has no
intention to issue any additional shares of Convertible Preferred Stock or
other preferred stock at the present time, the Company may, subject to the
consent of the holders of Convertible Preferred Stock, establish one or more
series of preferred stock that could delay, defer or prevent a transaction or
a change in control of the Company. Such a transaction might involve a premium
price for the Company's stock or otherwise be in the best interests of the
holders of Common Stock. Also, such a class of preferred stock could have
dividend, voting or other rights that could adversely affect the interest of
holders of Common Stock.
 
   The Company's charter, as well as its stockholder rights plan, also
contains other provisions that may delay, defer or prevent a transaction or a
change in control of the Company that might be in the best interest of the
Company's stockholders. The Company's stockholder rights plan is designed,
among other things, to prevent a person or group from gaining control of the
Company without offering a fair price to all of the Company's stockholders.
Also, the Bylaws may be amended by the Board of Directors (subject to the
consent of the holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock in certain
circumstances) to include provisions that would have a similar effect,
although the Company presently has no such intention. The Charter provides
that the Company must obtain the approval of the holders of the Convertible
Preferred Stock holding two-thirds of the outstanding shares of Convertible
Preferred Stock before the Company or the Operating Partnership may merge or
consolidate with any other entity or sell all or substantially all of the
assets. Also, the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock require that the
Company must obtain the approval of the holders of more than 50% of the
outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock before undergoing a change
in control (as defined in the Charter). Additionally, the Charter contains
ownership provisions limiting the transferability and ownership of shares of
capital stock, which may have the effect of delaying, deferring or preventing
a transaction or a change in control of the Company. For example, subject to
receiving an exemption from the Board of Directors, potential acquirers may
not purchase more than 6% percent in value of the stock (other than qualified
pension trusts which can acquire 9.9%). This may discourage tender offers that
may be attractive to the holders of Common Stock and limit the opportunity for
stockholders to receive a premium for their shares of Common Stock.
 
   In addition, the Maryland General Corporations Law restricts the voting
rights of shares deemed to be "control shares." Under the Maryland General
Corporations Law, "control shares" are those which, when aggregated with any
other shares held by the acquirer, entitle the acquirer to exercise voting
power within
 

 
specified ranges. Although the Bylaws exempt the Company from the control
share provisions of the Maryland General Corporations Law, the provisions of
the Bylaws may be amended or eliminated by the Board of Directors at any time
in the future, provided that it obtains the approval of the holders of two-
thirds of the outstanding shares of the Convertible Preferred Stock. Moreover,
any such amendment or elimination of such provision of the Bylaws may result
in the application of the control share provisions of the Maryland General
Corporations Law not only to control shares which may be acquired in the
future, but also to control shares previously acquired. If the provisions of
the Bylaws are amended or eliminated, the control share provisions of the
Maryland General Corporations Law could delay, defer or prevent a transaction
or change in control of the Company that might involve a premium price for the
stock or otherwise be in the best interests of its stockholders.
 
 Bond Compliance Requirements May Limit Income From Certain Properties
 
   At December 31, 1998, the Company had approximately $58.8 million of tax-
exempt financing relating to the Inglenook Court Apartments, Wandering Creek
Apartments, Treetops Apartments, Meadowood Apartments and Camarillo Oaks
Apartments. The tax-exempt financing subjects these Properties to certain deed
restrictions and restrictive covenants. The Company expects to engage in tax-
exempt financings in the future. In addition, the Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, and its related regulations impose various restrictions,
conditions and requirements excluding interest on qualified bond obligations
from gross income for federal income tax purposes. The Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended, also requires that at least 20% of apartment units be
made available to residents with gross incomes that do not exceed 50% of the
median income for the applicable family size as determined by the Housing and
Urban Development Department of the federal government. In addition to federal
requirements, certain state and local authorities may impose additional rental
restrictions. These restrictions may limit income from the tax-exempt financed
properties if the Company is required to lower rental rates to attract
residents who satisfy the median income test. If the Company does not reserve
the required number of apartment homes for residents satisfying these income
requirements, the tax-exempt status of the bonds may be terminated, the
obligations under the bond documents may be accelerated and the Company may be
subject to additional contractual liability.
 
 Adverse Effect To Property Income And Value Due To General Real Estate
  Investment Risks
 
   Real property investments are subject to a variety of risks. The yields
available from equity investments in real estate depend on the amount of
income generated and expenses incurred. If the Properties do not generate
sufficient income to meet operating expenses, including debt service and
capital expenditures, cash flow and ability to make distributions to
stockholders will be adversely affected. The performance of the economy in
each of the areas in which the Properties are located affects occupancy,
market rental rates and expenses. Consequently, the income from the Properties
and their underlying values may be impacted. The financial results of major
local employers may have an impact on the cash flow and value of certain of
the Properties as well.
 
   Income from the Properties may be further adversely affected by, among
other things, the following factors:
 
  .  the general economic climate;
 
  .  local economic conditions in which the Properties are located, such as
     oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for rental space;
 
  .  the attractiveness of the Properties to tenants;
 
  .  competition from other available space;
 
  .  the Company's ability to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance;
 
  .  increased operating expenses.
 
   Also, as leases on the Properties expire, tenants may enter into new leases
on terms that are less favorable to the Company. Income and real estate values
may also be adversely affected by such factors as applicable laws
 

 
(e.g., the Americans With Disabilities Act of 1990 and tax laws), interest
rate levels and the availability and terms of financing. In addition, real
estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, the Company's
ability to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in economic or
other conditions may be adversely affected.
 
 Joint Ventures And Joint Ownership Of Properties And Partial Interests In
  Corporations And Limited Partnerships Could Limit the Company's Ability To
  Control Such Properties And Partial Interests
 
   Instead of purchasing properties directly, the Company has invested and may
continue to invest as a co-venturer. Joint venturers often have shared control
over the operation of the joint venture assets. Therefore, it is possible that
the co-venturer in an investment might become bankrupt, or have economic or
business interests or goals that are inconsistent with the Company's business
interests or goals, or be in a position to take action contrary to the
Company's instructions or requests, or to Company policies or objectives.
Consequently, a co-venturer's actions might subject property owned by the
joint venture to additional risk. Although the Company seeks to maintain
sufficient control of any joint venture to achieve its objectives, the Company
may be unable to take action without the Company's joint venture partners'
approval, or joint venture partners could take actions binding on the joint
venture without consent. Additionally, should a joint venture partner become
bankrupt, the Company could become liable for such partner's share of joint
venture liabilities.
 
   From time to time, the Company, through the Operating Partnership, invests
in corporations, limited partnerships or other entities that have been formed
for the purpose of acquiring, developing or managing real property. In certain
circumstances, the Operating Partnership's interest in a particular entity may
be less than a majority of the outstanding voting interests of that entity.
Therefore, the Operating Partnership's ability to control the daily operations
of such an entity may be limited. Furthermore, the Operating Partnership may
not have the power to remove a majority of the board of directors (in the case
of a corporation) or the general partner or partners (in the case of a limited
partnership) of such an entity in the event that its operations conflict with
the Operating Partnership's objectives. In addition, the Operating Partnership
may not be able to dispose of its interests in such an entity. In the event
that such an entity becomes insolvent, the Operating Partnership may lose up
to its entire investment in and any advances to the entity.
 
 Investments In Mortgages
 
   The Company may invest in mortgages, in part as a strategy for ultimately
acquiring the underlying property. These mortgages may be first, second or
third mortgages that may or may not be insured or otherwise guaranteed. The
Company anticipates that such investment in mortgage receivables will not in
the aggregate be significant. In general, investments in mortgages include the
following risks:
 
  .  that the value of mortgaged property may be less than the amounts owed;
 
  .  that interest rates payable on the mortgages may be lower than the
     Company's cost of funds; and
 
  .  in the case of junior mortgages, that foreclosure of a senior mortgage
     would eliminate the junior mortgage.
 
   If any of the above were to occur, cash flows from operations and the
Company's ability to make expected dividends to stockholders could be
adversely affected.
 
 Possible Environmental Liabilities
 
   Under various federal, state and local laws, an owner or operator of real
estate is liable for the costs of removal or remediation of certain hazardous
or toxic substances on or in such property. These laws often impose liability
whether or not the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the
presence of the hazardous or toxic substances. The presence of these
substances, or the failure to properly clean them up, may adversely affect the
owner's or operator's ability to sell or rent the property. It may also limit
the ability to borrow money using such property as collateral. Persons who
arrange for the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances
 

 
may also be liable for the costs of removal or clean-up of such substances at
a disposal or treatment facility, whether or not such facility is owned or
operated by such person. Certain environmental laws impose liability for
release of asbestos-containing materials into the air, and third parties may
seek recovery from owners or operators of real properties for personal
injuries associated with asbestos-containing materials. Therefore, in
connection with the ownership, operation, financing, management and
development of real properties, the Company may be potentially liable for
removal or clean-up costs, as well as certain other costs. The Company may
also be subject to governmental fines and costs related to injuries to persons
and property.
 
 General Uninsured Losses
 
   The Company carries comprehensive liability, fire, extended coverage and
rental loss insurance for each of the Properties. There are, however, certain
types of extraordinary losses for which the Company does not have insurance.
Further, certain of the Properties are located in areas that are subject to
earthquake activity. Although the Company has obtained certain limited
earthquake insurance coverage, should a Property sustain damage as a result of
an earthquake, the Company may sustain losses due to insurance deductibles,
co-payments on insured losses or uninsured losses.
 
 Changes In Real Estate Tax And Other Laws
 
   Generally the Company does not directly pass through costs resulting from
changes in real estate tax laws to residential property tenants. The Company
also does not generally pass through increases in income, service or other
taxes, to tenants under leases. These costs may adversely affect funds from
operations and the ability to make distributions to stockholders. Similarly,
compliance with changes in (i) laws increasing the potential liability for
environmental conditions existing on properties or the restrictions on
discharges or other conditions or (ii) rent control or rent stabilization laws
or other laws regulating housing may result in significant unanticipated
expenditures, which would adversely affect the funds from operations and the
ability to make distributions to stockholders.
 
 Changes In Financing Policy; No Limitation On Debt
 
   The Company has adopted a policy of maintaining a debt-to-total-market-
capitalization ratio of less than 50%. The calculation of debt- to-total-
market-capitalization is as follows:
 
       total property indebtedness
   ____________________________________ = debt-to-total-market-capitalization
  total property indebtedness + total equity market capitalization
 
   As used in the above formula, total market capitalization is equal to the
aggregate market value of the outstanding shares of Common Stock (based on the
greater of current market price or the gross proceeds per share from public
offerings of the outstanding shares plus any undistributed net cash flow),
assuming the conversion of all limited partnership interests in the Operating
Partnership into shares of Common Stock and the conversion of all shares of
Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of Common Stock and the gross proceeds
of the preferred units of the Operating Partnership. Based on this calculation
(including the current market price and excluding undistributed net cash
flow), the Company's debt-to-total-market-capitalization ratio was
approximately 33.7% as of December 31, 1998.
 
   The Company's organizational documents and the organizational documents of
the Operating Partnership do not limit the amount or percentage of
indebtedness that may be incurred. Accordingly, the Board of Directors could
change current policies and the policies of the Operating Partnership
regarding indebtedness. If these policies were changed, the Company and the
Operating Partnership could incur more debt, resulting in an increased risk of
default on the Company obligations and the obligations of the Operating
Partnership, and an increase in debt service requirements that could adversely
affect the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. Such
increased debt could exceed the underlying value of the Properties.
 
 

 
 Failure To Qualify As A Real Estate Investment Trust
 
   The Company has operated as a qualified real estate investment trust under
the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, commencing with the taxable
year ended December 31, 1994. Although the Company believes that it has
operated in a manner which satisfies the real estate investment trust
qualification requirements, no assurance can be given that the Company will
continue to do so. A real estate investment trust is generally not taxed on
its net income distributed to its stockholders. It is required to distribute
at least 95% of its taxable income to maintain qualification as a real estate
investment trust. Qualification as a real estate investment trust involves the
satisfaction of numerous requirements (some on an annual or quarterly basis)
established under the highly technical and complex Internal Revenue Code of
1986, as amended, provisions for which there are only limited judicial or
administrative interpretations and involves the determination of various
factual matters and circumstances not entirely within the Company's control.
 
   If the Company fails to qualify as a real estate investment trust in any
taxable year, it would generally be subject to federal and state income tax
(including any applicable alternative minimum tax) at corporate rates on its
taxable income for such year. Moreover, unless entitled to relief under
certain statutory provisions, the Company would also be disqualified from
treatment as a real estate investment trust for the four taxable years
following the year of disqualification. This treatment would reduce net
earnings available for investment or distribution to stockholders because of
the additional tax liability for the years involved. In addition,
distributions would no longer be required to be made.
 
Other Matters
 
 Certain Policies of the Company
 
   The Company intends to continue to operate in a manner that will not
subject it to regulation under the Investment Company Act of 1940. The Company
has in the past four years and may in the future (i) issue securities senior
to its Common Stock, (ii) fund acquisition activities with borrowings under
its line of credit and (iii) offer shares of Common Stock and/or units of
limited partnership interest in the Operating Partnership as partial
consideration for property acquisitions. The Company from time to time
acquires partnership interests in partnerships, either directly or indirectly
through subsidiaries of the Company, when such partnership's underlying assets
are real estate. In general, the Company does not (i) underwrite securities of
other issuers or (ii) actively trade in loans or other investments.
 
   The Company primarily invests in multifamily properties in the Southern
California area, San Francisco Bay Area, Seattle metropolitan area and the
Portland, Oregon metropolitan area. The Company currently intends to continue
to invest in multifamily properties in such regions, but may change such
policy without a vote of the stockholders.
 
   The policies discussed above may be reviewed and modified from time to time
by the Board of Directors without the vote of the stockholders.
 

 
Item 2. Properties
 
Portfolio Overview
 
   The Company's property portfolio (including partial ownership interests)
consists of the following 63 Properties: 58 multifamily residential Properties
containing 12,267 apartment units, two office buildings, one of which houses
the Company's headquarters, with approximately 62,000 square feet and three
retail properties with approximately 236,000 square feet. The Properties are
located in Northern California (the San Francisco bay area), Southern
California and the Pacific Northwest (the Seattle, Washington and Portland,
Oregon metropolitan areas). The Company's multifamily Properties accounted for
approximately 97% of the Company's revenues for the year ended December 31,
1998. The 58 multifamily residential Properties had an average occupancy rate
(based on "Financial Occupancy", which refers to the percentage resulting from
dividing actual rents by total possible rents as determined by valuing
occupied units at contractual rates and vacant units at market rents) during
the year ended December 31, 1998 of approximately 96%. As of December 31,
1998, the two office buildings had an occupancy rate (based on leased and
occupied square footage) of 100% and the three retail centers had an occupancy
rate of 98%. With respect to stabilized multifamily properties with sufficient
operating history, occupancy figures are based on Financial Occupancy. With
respect to commercial properties or properties which have not yet stabilized
or have insufficient operating history, occupancy figures are based on
"Physical Occupancy" which refers to the percentage resulting from dividing
leased and occupied square footage by rentable square footage.
 
   For the year ended December 31, 1998, none of the Company's Properties had
book values equal to 10% or more of total assets of the Company or gross
revenues equal to 10% or more of aggregate gross revenues of the Company.
 
Multifamily Residential Properties
 
   These Properties are generally suburban garden apartments and townhomes
comprising multiple clusters of two- and three-story buildings situated on
three to fifteen acres of land. The multifamily properties have on average 211
units, with a mix of studio, one-, two- and some three-bedroom units. A wide
variety of amenities are available at each apartment community, including
swimming pools, clubhouses, covered parking, and cable television. Many
Properties offer additional amenities, such as fitness centers, volleyball and
playground areas, tennis courts and wood-burning fireplaces.
 
   Most of the multifamily Properties are designed for and marketed to people
in white-collar or technical professions. The Company selects, trains and
supervises a full team of on-site service and maintenance personnel. The
Company believes that its customer-service approach enhances its ability to
retain tenants and that its multifamily Properties were built well and have
been maintained well since acquisition.
 
Office Buildings
 
   The Company's corporate headquarters are located in a two-story office
building with approximately 17,400 square feet located at 925 East Meadow
Drive, Palo Alto, California. The Company acquired this property in 1997 and
relocated its corporate headquarters to approximately 15,400 square feet of
this building in March 1998. The remaining 2,000 square feet is leased to an
unrelated third party tenant.
 
   The Company also owns a prepaid ground leasehold interest in its office
building at 777 California Avenue in the Stanford Research Park in Palo Alto,
California. This building has approximately 45,000 rentable square feet of
space and is a multi-tenant, one-story office building. The Marcus & Millichap
Company (an affiliate of Mr. Marcus, the Company's chairman) occupies
approximately 23,000 square feet and the remaining two tenants occupy
approximately 22,000 square feet. The ground lease for this building is
prepaid until its expiration in 2054, and, unless the lease is extended, the
land, together with all improvements thereon, will revert to the owner in
2054.
 

 
   The following tables describe the Company's Properties as of December 31,
1998. The first table describes the Company's multifamily residential
Properties and the second table describes the Company's Commercial Properties.
 

 
 

 

- --------
 (1) Unless otherwise specified, the Company has a 100% ownership interest in
     each Property.
 
 (2) For multifamily residential Properties, occupancy rates are based on
     Financial Occupancy for the year ended December 31, 1998; for the
     Commercial Properties, occupancy rates are based on Physical Occupancy as
     of December 31, 1998.
 
 (3) This Property is owned by a single asset limited partnership in which the
     Company has a minimum 99.0% limited partnership interest.
 
 (4) A portion of this Property on which 84 units are presently located is
     subject to a ground lease, which, unless extended, will expire in 2028.
 
 (5) The Company has a 1.0% limited partnership interest in this property.
 
 (6) The Company has an 84.0% limited partnership interest in this property.
 
 (7) The Company has a 69.3% ownership interest in this property
 
 (8) The Company has a 49.9% ownership interest in this property.
 
 (9) The Company owns a ground leasehold interest in the building and the land
     on which the building is located. The ground lease is prepaid until its
     expiration in 2054, and, unless the lease is extended, the land, together
     with all improvements thereon, will revert to the owner in 2054.
 
(10) Represents a major renovation completion date.
 
(11) This property was in lease-up during the first three quarters of 1998.
     Occupancy rate represents Financial Occupancy for the property for the
     fourth quarter of 1998.
 
Item 3. Legal Proceedings
 
   Neither the Company nor any of the Properties is presently subject to any
material litigation nor, to the Company's knowledge, is there any material
litigation threatened against the Company or the Properties. The Properties
are subject to certain routine litigation and administrative proceedings
arising in the ordinary course of business, which, taken together, are not
expected to have a material adverse impact on the Company's financial position
results of operations or liquidity.
 
Item 4. Submission of Matters to a Vote of Security Holders
 
   During the fourth quarter of 1998, no matters were submitted to a vote of
security holders.
 

 
                                    PART II
 
Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity and Related Stockholder Matters
 
   The shares of the Company's common stock are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol ESS.
 
Market Information
 
   The Company's common stock has been traded on the NYSE since June 13, 1994.
The high, low and closing price per share of common stock reported on the NYSE
for the quarters indicated are as follows:
 

 
   The closing price as of March 25, 1999 was $27.00.
 
Holders
 
   The approximate number of holders of record of the shares of the Company's
common stock was 16,742,616 as of March 25, 1999. This number does not include
stockholders whose shares are held in trust by other entities. The actual
number of stockholders is greater than this number of holders of record.
 
Return of Capital
 
   Under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the
portion of cash dividend that exceeds earnings and profits is a return of
capital. The return of capital is generated due to the deduction of non-cash
expenses, primarily depreciation, in the determination of earnings and
profits. The status of the cash dividends distributed for the years ended
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 for tax purposes is as follows:
 

 
   The most significant factor that caused the reduction of the 1997 return of
capital percentage over 1996 was that in 1997 the Company's earnings grew at a
greater rate than the growth rate of its dividend payments. The most
significant factor that caused an increase in the 1998 return of capital
percentage over 1997 was that in 1998 the Company incurred a loss on the early
extinguishment of debt of $4,718,000 compared to $361,000 in 1997.
 

 
Dividends and Distributions
 
   Since its initial public offering, the Company has paid regular quarterly
dividends to its stockholders. From inception, the Company paid the following
dividends per share of common stock:
 

 
   Future distributions by the Company will be at the discretion of the Board
of Directors and will depend on the actual funds from operations of the
Company, its financial condition, capital requirements, the annual
distribution requirements under the REIT provisions of the Internal Revenue
Code, applicable legal restrictions and such other factors as the Board of
Directors deems relevant. There are currently no contractual restrictions on
the Company's present or future ability to pay dividends.
 
Dividend Reinvestment and Share Purchase Plan
 
   The Company has adopted a dividend reinvestment and share purchase plan
designed to provide holders of Common Stock with a convenient and economical
means to reinvest all or a portion of their cash dividends in shares of Common
Stock and to acquire additional shares of Common Stock through voluntary
purchases. Boston EquiServe, which serves as the Company's transfer agent,
administers the dividend reinvestment and share purchase plan. For a copy of
the plan, contact Boston EquiServe at (800) 945-8245.
 
Stockholder Rights Plan
 
   The Company's Board recently authorized the adoption of a stockholder
rights plan designed to enhance the ability of all of the Company's
Stockholders to realize the long-term value of their investment. The rights
plan is designed, among other things, to prevent a person or group from
gaining control of the Company without offering a fair price to all of the
Company's stockholders.
 
   On October 13, 1998, the Board declared a dividend of one preferred share
purchase right (a "Right") for each outstanding share of Common Stock. Each
Right entitles the registered holder to purchase from the Company one one-
hundredth of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock, par
value $.0001 per share, of the Company, at a price of $99.13 per one-hundredth
of a share, subject to adjustment. The description and terms of the Rights are
set forth in a Rights Agreement dated as of November 11, 1998, between the
Company and BankBoston, N.A. as Rights Agent.
 
Recent Sales of Unregistered Securities
 
   In January 1998, Essex Management Corporation, a California corporation
("EMC") and an affiliate of the Company, as general partner, and Essex
Portfolio, L.P., a California limited partnership (the "Operating
Partnership", as to which the Company is the general partner), as special
limited partner, entered into (a) a First Amended and Restated Agreement of
Limited Partnership of Western-Las Hadas Investors, and (b) a Second Amended
and Restated Agreement of Limited Partnership of Western-Seven Trees Investors
(collectively, the "Las Hadas Partnerships") pursuant to which the existing
Las Hadas Partnerships were reorganized for the purpose of acquiring the
properties owned by the Las Hadas Partnerships. In connection with the
reorganization, 268,631 units of limited partnership interest ("Units") in the
Las Hadas Partnerships were issued to the existing partners of the Las Hadas
Partnerships, all of whom the Company believes qualify as accredited
investors, pursuant to an exemption from registration provided in Regulation D
under the Securities Act. Under the terms of the agreements of limited
partnership of these Partnerships, holders of Units have the right to require
the applicable partnership to redeem their Units for cash, subject to certain
conditions. Subject to certain conditions,
 

 
the Company may, however, elect to deliver an equivalent number of
unregistered shares of the Company's Common Stock to the holders of the Units
in satisfaction of the applicable Partnership's obligation to redeem the units
for cash, upon which delivery, the holders will have certain rights to require
the Company to register the shares of Common Stock pursuant to the Securities
Act.
 
   In February and April 1998, the Operating Partnership sold 1,200,000 and
400,000, respectively, of its 7.875% Series B Preferred Limited Partnership
Units (the "Series B Preferred Units"), to an institutional investor in return
for a total contribution to the Operating Partnership of $80 million. The
Series B Preferred Units will become exchangeable, on a one for one basis, in
whole or in part at any time for shares of the Company's 7.875% Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Stock, par value $.0001 per share (the
"Series B Preferred Stock"). Pursuant to the terms of a registration rights
agreement, entered into in connection with this private placement, the holders
of Series B Preferred Stock will have certain rights to cause the Company to
register such shares of Series B Preferred Stock. The Series B Preferred Units
were issued by the Operating Partnership in a privately negotiated transaction
to an accredited, institutional investor in reliance on the exemption provided
by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act. In November 1998, the Operating
Partnership sold 500,000 units of its 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Units to an institutional investor in a private placement, at a
price of $50.00 per unit for a contribution of $25 million. The Operating
Partnership utilized the net proceeds from these sales to reduce the Company's
outstanding lines of credit balances.
 
Item 6. Summary Financial and Operating Data
 
   The following tables set forth summary financial and operating information
(i) for the Company from June 13, 1994 (completion of the Company's IPO)
through December 31, 1998, and (ii) on a pro forma basis for the Company for
the year ended December 31, 1994. The unaudited pro forma financial and
operating information for the year ended December 31, 1994 is based on the
ownership and operation of the 23 properties owned at the time of the
Company's initial public offering (the "IPO") (including the properties
acquired as of the IPO) combined with the financial and operating information
of EPC and is presented as if the following had occurred on January 1, 1994:
(i) the IPO was completed, (ii) the Company qualified as a REIT, (iii) the
Company used the net proceeds from the IPO and the debt incurred in connection
with the IPO to fund a series of asset acquisitions and mortgage repayments in
connection with the IPO, and (iv) Essex Management Corporation ("EMC") was
formed and certain property and asset management contracts were assigned to
EMC (such pro forma adjustments, the "IPO Pro Forma Adjustments").
 

 
   The pro forma financial and operating information should not be considered
indicative of actual results that would have been achieved had the
transactions occurred on the dates or for the periods indicated and do not
purport to indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any
future period. The following table should be read in conjunction with
Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of
Operations and with all of the financial statements and notes thereto.
 

 

 

 

 
- --------
(1) The unaudited pro forma financial and operating information for the year
    ended December 31, 1994 is based on the ownership and operations of the 23
    properties owned at the time of the Company's initial public offering (the
    "IPO") (including the properties acquired as of the IPO) combined with the
    financial and operating information of EPC and is presented as if the
    following had occurred on January 1, 1994; (i) the IPO was completed (ii)
    Essex qualified as a REIT (iii) Essex used the net proceeds from the IPO
    and debt incurred in connection with the IPO to fund a series of asset
    acquisitions and mortgage repayments in connection with the IPO and (iv)
    EMC was formed and certain property and asset management contracts were
    assigned to it.
 
(2) Per share amounts are presented only for the periods subsequent to June
    13, 1994 and the pro forma 1994 period and are based upon respective
    amounts divided by the weighted average outstanding shares on the
    applicable dates.
 
(3) Debt service coverage ratio represents earnings before interest expense,
    taxes, depreciation and amortization ("EBITDA") divided by interest
    expense.
 
(4) Gross operating margin represents rental revenues less property operating
    expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization divided by rental
    revenues.
 
(5) Same-property apartment units are those units that the Company has owned
    for the entire two years ended as of the end of the period set forth.
 
(6) Average same-property monthly rental rate per apartment unit represents
    total scheduled rent for the same-property apartment units for the period
    (actual rental rates on occupied apartment units plus market rental rates
    on vacant apartment units) divided by the number of such apartment units
    and further divided by the number of months in the period.
 
(7) Average same-property monthly expenses per apartment unit represents total
    monthly operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization,
    for the same-property apartment units for the period divided by the total
    number of such apartment units and further divided by the number of months
    in the period.
 
(8) Occupancy rates are based on Financial Occupancy, (which refers to the
    percentage resulting from dividing actual rents by total possible rents as
    determined by valuing occupied units at contractual rates and vacant units
    at market rates for the period in question), during the period presented.
 
ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
   The following discussion is based on the consolidated financial statements
of Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex" or the "Company") as of and for the
years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996. This information should be read
in conjunction with the accompanying consolidated financial statements and
notes thereto.
 
   Substantially all the assets of the Company are held by, and substantially
all operations are conducted through, Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating
Partnership"). Essex is the sole general partner of the Operating Partnership
and as of December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996 owned an approximate 89.9%, 89.9%
and 86.2% general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership,
respectively. The Company has elected to be treated as a real estate
investment trust (a "REIT") for federal income tax purposes.
 

 
General Background
 
   The Company's revenues are generated primarily from multifamily property
operations, which accounted for 97%, 96%, and 96% of the Company's revenues
for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, respectively. The
Company's properties ("the Properties") are located in Northern California
(the San Francisco Bay Area), Southern California (Los Angeles, Ventura,
Orange and San Diego counties) and the Pacific Northwest (the Seattle,
Washington and Portland, Oregon metropolitan areas). Occupancy levels of the
multifamily properties in these markets have averaged over 95% for the last
five years.
 
   Essex has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT")
for federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ended December 31,
1994. In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, Essex conducts some
of its fee based asset management and disposition services as well as third-
party property management and leasing services through Essex Management
Corporation ("EMC"). Essex owns 100% of EMC's 19,000 shares of nonvoting
preferred stock. Executives of Essex own 100% of EMC's 1,000 shares of common
stock.
 
   Since the Company's initial public offering (the "IPO") in June 1994, the
Company has acquired ownership interests in 48 multifamily residential
properties and its headquarters building, of which 11 are located in Northern
California, 21 are located in Southern California, 16 are located in the
Seattle Metropolitan Area and one is located in the Portland Metropolitan
Area. In total, these acquisitions consist of 9,498 units with total
capitalized acquisition costs of approximately $716.7 million. As part of its
active portfolio management strategy, the Company has sold, since its IPO, six
multifamily residential properties (five in Northern California and one in the
Pacific Northwest) consisting of a total of 819 units and six retail shopping
centers in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area at an aggregate gross sales
price of approximately $71.1 million resulting in a net realized gain of
approximately $13.6 million and a deferred gain of $5.0 million.
 
   The Company has committed approximately $204,700,000 relating to eight
development projects which are expected to contain an aggregate of 1,578
multifamily units and to be completed during 1999.
 
   Financial occupancy is defined as the percentage resulting from dividing
actual rental income by total possible rental income. Total possible rental
income is determined by valuing occupied units at contractual rates and vacant
units at market rents. Average financial occupancy rates of the Company's
multifamily properties on a same-property basis decreased to 96.2% for the
year ended December 31, 1998 from 96.6% for the year ended December 31, 1997.
The regional breakdown of financial occupancy on a same-property basis for the
years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997 are as follows:
 

 
   The commercial properties were 100% occupied (based on square footage) as
of December 31, 1998 and 1997.
 

 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS
 
 Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 1998 to Year Ended December 31, 1997.
 
   Total Revenues increased by $40,690,000 or 48.1% to $125,259,000 in 1998
from $84,569,000 in 1997. The following table sets forth a breakdown of these
revenue amounts, including the revenues attributable to properties owned by
Essex for both 1998 and 1997 ("the Same Store Properties").
 

 
   As set forth in the above table, $35,549,000 of the $40,690,000 increase in
total revenues is attributable to properties acquired or disposed of subsequent
to January 1, 1997. During this period, Essex acquired interests in 35
properties, (the "Acquisition Properties"), and disposed of two multifamily
properties and six retail shopping centers, (the "Disposition Properties").
 
   Of the increase in total revenues, $5,093,000 is attributable to increases
in property revenues from the Same Store Properties. Property revenues from the
Same Store Properties increased by approximately 8.5% to $64,981,000 in 1998
from $59,888,000 in 1997. The majority of this increase was attributable to the
11 multifamily Same Store Properties located in Northern California, the
property revenues of which increased by $2,770,000 or 9.0% to $33,397,000 in
1998 from $30,627,000 in 1997. This $2,770,000 increase is primarily
attributable to rental rate increases which were offset in part by a decrease
in average financial occupancy to 96.9% in 1998 from 97.1% in 1997. The 11
multifamily Same Store Properties located in the Pacific Northwest accounted
for the next largest contribution to this Same Store Properties revenues
increase. The property revenues of these properties increased by $1,525,000 or
7.8% to $21,035,000 in 1998 from $19,510,000 in 1997. This $1,525,000 increase
is primarily attributable to rental rate increases, which were offset in part
by a decrease in average financial occupancy to 95.2% in 1998 from 96.4% in
1997. The three multifamily Same Store Properties located in Southern
California accounted for the next largest contribution to this Same Store
Properties revenues increase. The property revenues of these properties
increased by $424,000 or 5.2% to $8,509,000 in 1998 from $8,085,000 in 1997.
This $424,000 increase is attributable to rental rate increases, and an
increase in financial occupancy to 95.8% in 1998 from 95.2% in 1997.
 
   The increase in total revenue also included an increase of $48,000
attributable to interest and other income.
 
   Total Expenses increased by $29,131,000 or approximately 52.5% to
$84,668,000 in 1998 from $55,537,000 in 1997. The most significant factor
contributing to this increase was the growth in the Company's multifamily
portfolio from 29 properties (6,624 units) at January 1, 1997 to 58 properties
(12,267 units) at December 31, 1998. Interest expense increased by $6,715,000
or 53.0% to $19,374,000 in 1998 from $12,659,000 in 1997.
 

 
Such interest expense increase was primarily due to the net addition of
mortgage debt in connection with property and investment acquisitions. Property
operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased by
$12,107,000 or 46.9% to $37,933,000 in 1998 from $25,826,000 in 1997. Of such
increase, $12,356,000 is attributable to properties acquired or disposed of
subsequent to January 1, 1997 which was offset by a decrease in operating
expenses for the Same Store Properties. Property operating expenses, exclusive
of depreciation and amortization, as a percentage of property revenues was
31.1% for 1998 and 31.7% for 1997. General and administrative expenses
represent the costs of the Company's various acquisition and administrative
departments as well as corporate and partnership administration and non-
operating expenses. Such expenses increased by $1,352,000 in 1998 from the 1997
amount. This increase is largely due to additional staffing requirements
resulting from the growth of the Company. General and administrative expenses
as a percentage of total revenues was 3.0% for 1998 and 2.9% for 1997.
 
   Net income decreased by $2,988,000 to $26,328,000 in 1998 from $29,316,000
in 1997. Net income included an extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of
debt of $4,718,000 in 1998 compared to $361,000 in 1997. Net income for 1998
also included a gain on sales of real estate of $9,000 compared with $5,114,000
in 1997. The net effect of these items were offset by the net contribution of
the Acquisition Properties and an increase in net operating income from the
Same Store Properties, as offset by a decrease in net operating income
attributable to the Disposition Properties.
 
 Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 1997 to Year Ended December 31, 1996.
 
   Total Revenues increased by $33,876,000 or 66.8% to $84,569,000 in 1997 from
$50,693,000 in 1996. The following table sets forth a breakdown of these
revenue amounts, including the revenues attributable to properties that Essex
owned for both 1997 and 1996 ("the 1997/1996 Same Store Properties").
 

 
   As set forth in the above table, $29,401,000 of the $33,876,000 increase in
total revenues is attributable to properties acquired or disposed of subsequent
to January 1, 1996. During this period, Essex acquired interests in 37
properties, and disposed of three multifamily properties and three retail
shopping centers.
 
   Of the increase in total revenues, $3,463,000 is attributable to the
1997/1996 Same Store Properties. Property revenues from the 1997/1996 Same
Store Properties increased by approximately 8.5% to $44,165,000 in 1997 from
$40,702,000 in 1996. The majority of this increase was attributable to the
seven multifamily 1997/1996 Same Store Properties located in Northern
California, the property revenues of which increased by $2,359,000 or 13.8% to
$19,451,000 in 1997 from $17,092,000 in 1996. This $2,359,000 increase is
primarily
 

 
attributable to rental rate increases which were offset by a decrease in
average financial occupancy to 97.3% in 1997 from 98.2% in 1996. The nine
multifamily 1997/1996 Same Store Properties located in the Pacific Northwest
accounted for the next largest contribution to this 1997/1996 Same Store
Properties revenues increase. The property revenues of these properties
increased by $1,017,000 or 6.9% to $15,737,000 in 1997 from $14,720,000 in
1996. This $1,017,000 increase is attributable to rental rate increases as
well as an increase in average financial occupancy to 96.6% for 1997 from
95.6% in 1996.
 
   The increase in total revenue also included an increase of $1,012,000
attributable to interest and other income. The most significant component of
this $1,012,000 increase was an increase in interest income earned on notes
receivable balances.
 
   Total Expenses increased by $17,337,000 or approximately 45.4% to
$55,537,000 in 1997 from $38,200,000 in 1996. The most significant factor
contributing to this increase was the growth in Essex's multifamily portfolio
from 23 properties, (4,868 units) at January 1, 1996 to 54 properties, (10,700
units) at December 31, 1997. Interest expense increased by $1,217,000 or 10.6%
to $12,659,000 in 1997 from $11,442,000 in 1996. Such interest expense
increase was primarily due to the net addition of outstanding mortgage debt in
connection with property and investment acquisitions. Property operating
expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization, increased by $10,321,000
or 66.6% to $25,826,000 in 1997 from $15,505,000 in 1996. Of such increase,
$10,046,000 is attributable to properties acquired or disposed of subsequent
to January 1, 1996. Property operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and
amortization as a percentage of property revenues was 31.7% for 1997 and 31.9%
for 1996. General and administrative expenses represent the costs of the
Company's various acquisition and administrative departments as well as
corporate and partnership administration and non-operating expenses. Such
expenses increased by $696,000 in 1997 from the 1996 amount. This increase is
largely due to additional staffing requirements resulting from the growth of
the Company. General and administrative expenses as a percentage of total
revenues was 2.9% for 1997 and 3.4% for 1996.
 
   Net income increased by $20,435,000 to $29,316,000 in 1997 from $8,881,000
in 1996. The increase in net income was primarily a result of the net
contribution of acquisitions and dispositions, the increase in property
revenues from the 1997/1996 Same Store Properties, the increase in the gain on
sales of real estate of $2,637,000 to $5,114,000 in 1997 from $2,477,000 in
1996 and a reduction in extraordinary loss on early extinguishment of debt of
$3,080,000 to $361,000 in 1997 from $3,441,000 in 1996.
 
Liquidity and Capital Resources
 
   At December 31, 1998, the Company had $2,548,000 of unrestricted cash and
cash equivalents. The Company expects to meet its short-term liquidity
requirements by using its working capital, cash generated from operations, and
amounts available under lines of credit. The Company believes that its future
net cash flows will be adequate to meet operating requirements and to provide
for payment of dividends by the Company in accordance with REIT requirements.
Essex has credit facilities in the committed amount of approximately
$110,000,000 of which $10,000,000 will expire in March 1999 if not renewed. At
December 31, 1998 the Company had $35,693,000 outstanding on its lines of
credit, with interest rates ranging from 6.4% to 8.5% throughout the year. The
Company expects to meet its long-term liquidity requirements relating to
property acquisitions and development (beyond the next 12 months) by using
working capital, amounts available on lines of credit, net proceeds from
public and private debt and equity issuances, and proceeds from the
disposition of properties that may be sold from time to time. There can,
however, be no assurance that the Company will have access to the debt and
equity markets in a timely fashion to meet long-term liquidity requirements or
that future working capital and borrowings under the lines of credit will be
available, or if available, will be sufficient to meet the Company's
requirements or that the Company will be able to dispose of properties in a
timely manner and under terms and conditions that the Company deems
acceptable.
 
   The Company's total cash balances decreased $1,734,000 from $4,282,000 as
of December 31, 1997 to $2,548,000 as of December 31, 1998. The Company
generated $59,034,000 in cash from operations, used $179,901,000 of cash in
investing activities and obtained $119,133,000 of cash from financing
activities. Of the
 

 
$179,901,000 net cash used in investing activities, $163,019,000 was used to
purchase and upgrade rental properties, $33,256,000 was used to fund real
estate under development and $9,439,000 was used to fund the Company's
restricted cash; these expenditures were offset by $26,354,000 of proceeds
received from the disposition of one multifamily and three retail properties.
The $119,133,000 net cash provided by financing activities was primarily a
result of $349,540,000 of proceeds from mortgages and other notes payable and
lines of credit, $102,150,000 net proceeds from preferred units sales, as
offset by $283,065,000 of repayments of mortgages and other notes payable and
lines of credit, and $43,212,000 of dividends/distributions paid.
 
   As of December 31, 1998, Essex's outstanding debt was $361,515,000. Such
indebtedness consisted of $267,002,000 in fixed rate debt, $35,693,000 of
variable rate debt and $58,820,000 of debt represented by tax exempt variable
rate demand bonds, of which $29,220,000 is capped at a maximum interest rate
of 7.2%.
 
   As of December 31, 1998, 33 of the Company's 58 majority-owned properties
were encumbered by debt. The agreements underlying these encumbrances contain
customary restrictive covenants which the Company believes do not have a
material adverse effect on its operations. As of December 31, 1998, the
Company is in compliance with such covenants. Also, of the Company's 33
properties encumbered by debt, 18 are secured by deeds of trust relating
solely to those properties. With respect to the remaining 15 properties, three
cross-collateralized mortgages are secured by eight properties, three
properties, and three properties, respectively. The Company's $10 million line
of credit is secured by one property.
 
   Non-revenue generating capital expenditures are improvements and upgrades
that extend the useful life of the asset and are not related to preparing a
multifamily property unit to be rented to a tenant. For the year ended
December 31, 1998, non-revenue generating capital expenditures totaled
approximately $3,498,000 or an annualized $311 per weighted average occupancy
unit. The Company expects to incur approximately $315 per weighted average
occupancy unit in non-revenue generating capital expenditures for the year
ended December 31, 1999. These expenditures do not include the improvements
required in connection with the origination of mortgage loans, expenditures
for acquisition properties renovations and improvements which are expected to
generate additional revenues, and renovation expenditures required pursuant to
tax-exempt bond financings. The Company expects that cash from operations
and/or its lines of credit will fund such expenditures. However, there can be
no assurance that the actual expenditures incurred during 1999 and/or the
funding thereof will not be significantly different than the Company's current
expectations.
 
   The Company is developing eight multifamily residential projects, which are
anticipated to combine an aggregate of 1,578 multifamily units. The Company
expects that such projects will be substantially completed during 1999. Such
projects involve certain risks inherent in real estate development. As of
December 31, 1998, the Company's remaining commitment is approximately
$95,130,000 relating to these projects. The Company expects to fund such
commitments with a combination of its working capital, amounts available on
its lines of credit, net proceeds from public and private equity and debt
issuances, and proceeds from the disposition of properties, which may be sold
from time to time.
 
   The Company pays quarterly dividends from cash available for distribution.
Until it is distributed, cash available for distribution is invested by the
Company primarily in short-term investment grade securities or is used by the
Company to reduce balances outstanding under its lines of credit.
 
   In February 1998 and April 1998, Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating
Partnership") sold 1,200,000 and 400,000 units of its 7.875% Series B
Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units ("Perpetual Preferred Units"),
respectively, to an institutional investor in a private placement at a price
of $50.00 per unit. The net proceeds from this offering were $58,275,000 and
$19,500,000, respectively. Such units are convertible into non-voting
preferred stock of the Company after ten years from the completion of the sale
or earlier under certain circumstances. The Operating Partnership utilized the
proceeds of this transaction to fund the Company's acquisition of multifamily
properties, to reduce outstanding indebtedness and for general corporate
purposes.
 
 

 
   In the second quarter of 1998, the Company and the Operating Partnership
filed a registration statement (the "1998 Shelf Registration Statement") with
the Securities and Exchange Commission (the "SEC") to register $300,000,000 of
equity securities of the Company and $250,000,000 of debt securities of the
Operating Partnership. The 1998 Shelf Registration Statement was declared
effective by the SEC in July 1998. Prior to the filing of the 1998 Shelf
Registration Statement, Essex had approximately $42,000,000 of capacity
remaining on a previously filed registration statement that registered equity
securities of the Company. Thus, combined with the prior Shelf Registration
Statement and the 1998 Shelf Registration Statement, the Company has the
capacity to issue up to $342,000,000 of equity securities and the Operating
Partnership has the capacity to issue up to $250,000,000 of debt securities.
 
   In November 1998, the Operating Partnership sold 500,000 units of its
9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units to an institutional
investor in a private placement, at a price of $50.00 per unit. The net
proceeds from this placement were $24,375,000. The Operating Partnership
utilized the net proceeds from this placement to reduce balances on the
Company's outstanding lines of credit.
 
   At December 31, 1998 the Company has outstanding 1,600,000 shares of 8.75%
Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1996A (the "Convertible Preferred Stock")
which was sold to Tiger/Westbrook Real Estate Fund, L.P. and Tiger/Westbrook
Real Estate Co-Investment Partnership, L.P. (collectively "Tiger/Westbrook").
In January 1999, Tiger/Westbrook exercised its option to convert 87,500 shares
of the Convertible Preferred Stock into 100,000 shares of common stock. The
Company has filed a registration statement covering Tiger/Westbrook's resale
of such 100,000 shares of common stock and the registration statement was
declared effective by the Securities and Exchange Commission in December 1998.
 
Year 2000 Compliance
 
   The Company's State of Readiness. The Company utilizes a number of computer
software programs and operating systems across its entire organization,
including applications used in financial business systems and various
administrative functions. To the extent that the Company's software
applications contains source code that are unable to appropriately interpret
the upcoming calendar year "2000" and beyond, some level of modification or
replacement of such applications will be necessary. The Company currently
believes that its "Year 2000" issues are limited to information technology
("IT") systems (i.e., software programs and computer operating systems). There
are no significant non-IT systems (i.e., devices used to control, monitor or
assist the operation of equipment and machinery), the failure of which would
have a material effect on the Company's operations. The Company has also
completed its assessment of the Year 2000 compliance issues presented by its
IT systems.
 
   Employing a team made up of internal personnel, the Company has completed
its identification of IT systems that are not yet Year 2000 compliant and has
commenced modification or replacement of such systems as necessary, which is
expected to be completed by the fourth quarter of 1999. The Company has
communicated with third parties with whom it does significant business, such
as financial institutions and vendors to determine their readiness for Year
2000 compliance. Based on position statements received by the Company, it
appears that the Year 2000 compliance effort being made by third parties with
which the Company does significant business is sufficient to avoid a material
adverse impact on the Company's liquidity or ongoing results of operations.
However, no assurance can be given regarding the cost of their failure to
comply. The Company is in the process of developing contingency plans should
third parties with which the Company does significant business fail to be Year
2000 compliant.
 
   Costs of Addressing the Company's Year 2000 issues. Given the information
known at this time about the Company's systems that are non-compliant, coupled
with the Company's ongoing, normal course-of-business efforts to upgrade or
replace critical systems, as necessary, management does not expect Year 2000
compliance costs to have any material adverse impact on the Company's
liquidity or ongoing results of operations. As of December 31, 1998, no
compliance costs have been incurred by the Company. The costs of any future
assessment and remediation will be paid out of the Company's general and
administrative expenses.
 

 
   Risks of the Company's Year 2000 issues. In light of the Company's
assessment and remediation efforts to date, and the planned, normal course-of-
business upgrades planned by the Company and its vendors, management believes
that any residual Year 2000 risk is limited to non-critical business
applications and support hardware. No assurance can be given, however, that
all of the Company's systems will be year 2000 compliant or that compliance
will not have a material adverse effect on the Company's future liquidity or
results of operations or ability to service debt.
 
FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS
 
   Industry analysts generally consider Funds from Operations ("Funds from
Operations") an appropriate measure of performance of an equity REIT.
Generally, Funds from Operations adjusts the net income of equity REITS for
non-cash charges such as depreciation and amortization of rental properties
and non-recurring gains or losses. Management generally considers Funds from
Operations to be a useful financial performance measurement of an equity REIT
because, together with net income and cash flows, Funds from Operations
provides investors with an additional basis to evaluate the performance of a
REIT to incur and service debt and to fund acquisitions and other capital
expenditures. Funds from Operations does not represent net income or cash
flows from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting principles
(GAAP) and is not intended to indicate whether cash flows will be sufficient
to fund cash needs. It should not be considered as an alternative to net
income as an indicator of the REIT's operating performance or to cash flows as
a measure of liquidity. Funds from Operations does not measure whether cash
flow is sufficient to fund all cash needs including principal amortization,
capital improvements and distributions to shareholders. Funds from Operations
also does not represent cash flows generated from operating, investing or
financing activities as defined under GAAP. Further, Funds from Operations as
disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to the Company's calculation of
Funds from Operations. The following table sets forth Essex's calculation of
Funds from Operations for 1998, 1997 and 1996.
 

 

 

- --------
(1) Assumes conversion of all outstanding operating partnership interests in
    the Operating Partnership into shares of Essex's common stock. Minority
    interests have been adjusted to reflect such conversion. Also assumes
    conversion of shares of convertible preferred stock into shares of Essex's
    common stock.
 

 
ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK
 
   The Company is exposed to interest rate changes primarily as a result of
its line of credit and long-term debt used to maintain liquidity and fund
capital expenditures and expansion of the Company's real estate investment
portfolio and operations. The Company's interest rate risk management
objective is to limit the impact of interest rate changes on earnings and cash
flows and to lower its overall borrowing costs. To achieve its objectives the
Company borrows primarily at fixed rates and may enter into derivative
financial instruments such as interest rate swaps, caps and treasury locks in
order to mitigate its interest rate risk on a related financial instrument.
The Company does not enter into derivative or interest rate transactions for
speculative purposes.
 
   The Company's interest rate risk is monitored using a variety of
techniques. The table below presents the principal amounts and weighted
average interest rates by year of expected maturity to evaluate the expected
cash flows and sensitivity to interest rate changes. Management of the Company
believes that principal amounts of the Company's mortgage notes payable and
line of credit approximate fair value as of December 31, 1998 as interest
rates are consistent with yields currently available to the Company for
similar instruments.
 

- --------
(1) $29,220,000 is capped at 7.2%
 
   The Company has a LIBOR based swap contract for a notional amount of
$12,298,000 fixing the one month LIBOR at 6.14% which limits interest rate
exposure on borrowings under the LIBOR based line of credits and matures in
2002. The fair value of this contract as of December 31, 1998 is approximately
$392,000. The Company also has four forward treasury contracts for an
aggregate notional amount of $60,000,000, locking the 10 year treasury rate at
between 6.14%-6.26% which limit interest rate exposure on certain future debt
financing and will be settled in 2000. The fair value of these contracts as of
December 31, 1998 is approximately $6,016,000. The fair value represents the
estimated payments that would be made to terminate the agreement at December
31, 1998.
 
   As the table incorporates only those exposures that exist as of December
31, 1998, it does not consider those exposures or positions that could arise
after that date. Moreover, because firm commitments are not presented in the
table above, the information presented therein has limited predictive value.
As a result, the Company's ultimate realized gain or loss with respect to
interest rate fluctuations will depend on the exposures that arise during the
period, the Company's hedging strategies at that time, and interest rates.
 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA
 
   The response to this item is submitted as a separate section of this Form
10-K. See Item 14.
 
ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE
 
   None.
 

 
                                    PART III
 
Item 10. Directors and Executive Officers of the Registrant
 
   The information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on April 27, 1999.
 
Item 11. Executive Compensation
 
   The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on April 27, 1999.
 
Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management
 
   The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on April 27, 1999.
 
Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions
 
   The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on April 27, 1999.
 

 
                                    PART IV
 
Item 14. Exhibits, Financial Statements, Schedules and Reports on Form 8-K
 
     (A) Financial Statements and Report of KPMG LLP, independent auditors
 

 
     (B) Reports on Form 8-K
 
      On November 11, 1998, the Company filed a Current Report on Form 8-K
      regarding the adoption of its Shareholder Rights Plan.
 
     (C) Exhibits
 
      The Exhibit Index attached hereto is incorporated into this Item
      14(c) by reference.
 

 
                                   SIGNATURE
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities
Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.
 
                                          ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC.
                                          (Registrant)
 
                                                 /s/ Michael J. Schall
Dated: March 31, 1999                     By: _________________________________
                                                     Michael J. Schall
                                                Executive Vice President and
                                                Chief Financial Officer and
                                                          Director
                                               (Principal Financial Officer)
 
                                  SIGNATURES
 
   Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this
report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the
Registrant and in the capacity and on the date indicated.
 

 
 

 

 

 
                         Independent Auditors' Report
 
The Board of Directors
Essex Property Trust, Inc.:
 
   We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Essex
Property Trust, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the related consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and
cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,
1998. In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements,
we have also audited the related financial statement schedule of Real Estate
and Accumulated Depreciation as of December 31, 1998. These consolidated
financial statements and the financial statement schedule are the
responsibility of the management of Essex Property Trust, Inc. Our
responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial
statements and the financial statement schedule based on our audits.
 
   We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to
obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence
supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit
also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant
estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial
statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis
for our opinion.
 
   In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above
present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Essex
Property Trust, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, and
the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in
the three-year period ended December 31, 1998, in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial
statement schedule when considered in relation to the consolidated financial
statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the
information set forth therein.
 
                                          /s/ KPMG LLP
 
San Francisco, California
January 30, 1999
 
                                      F-1

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                          CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS
 
                           December 31, 1998 and 1997
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-2

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS
 
                  Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-3

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY
 
                  Years Ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                       (Dollars and shares in thousands)
 

 
          See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-4

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                     CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS
 
                  YEARS ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
                             (Dollars in thousands)
 

           See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.
 
                                      F-5

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
(1) Organization and Basis of Presentation
 
   The accompanying consolidated financial statements present the accounts of
Essex Property Trust, Inc. (the Company) which include the accounts of the
Company and Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the Operating Partnership, which holds the
operating assets of the Company). The Company was incorporated in the state of
Maryland in March 1994. On June 13, 1994, the Company commenced operations
with the completion of an initial public offering (the Offering) in which it
issued 6,275,000 shares of common stock at $19.50 per share. The net proceeds
of the Offering of $112,070 were used to acquire a 77.2% general partnership
interest in the Operating Partnership.
 
   The Company has a 89.9% general partner interest and the limited partners
own a 10.1% interest in the Operating Partnership at December 31, 1998. The
limited partners may convert their 1,873,473 interests into shares of common
stock or cash (based upon the trading price of the common stock at the
conversion date). The Company has reserved shares of common stock for such
conversions. These conversion rights may be exercised by the limited partners
at any time through 2024.
 
   The Company operates and has ownership interests in 58 multifamily
properties (containing 12,267 units) and five commercial properties (with
approximately 290,000 square feet) (collectively, "the Properties"). The
Properties are located in Northern California (San Francisco Bay Area),
Southern California (Los Angeles, Ventura, Orange and San Diego counties), and
the Pacific Northwest (Seattle, Washington and Portland, Oregon metropolitan
areas).
 
   All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated
in the consolidated financial statements.
 
(2) Summary of Significant Accounting Policies
 
 (a) Real Estate Rental Properties
 
   Rental properties are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
Depreciation on rental properties has been provided over estimated useful
lives ranging from 3 to 40 years using the straight-line method.
 
   Maintenance and repair expenses are charged to operations as incurred.
Asset replacements and improvements are capitalized and depreciated over their
estimated useful lives.
 
   Certain rental properties are pledged as collateral for the related
mortgage notes payable.
 
   When the Company determines that a property is held for sale, it
discontinues the periodic depreciation of that property in accordance with the
provisions of SFAS 121. Assets held for sale are reported at the lower of the
carrying amount or fair value less costs to sell. In addition, whenever events
or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a property
held for investment may not be fully recoverable, the carrying amount will be
evaluated. If the sum of the property's expected future cash flows
(undiscounted and without interest charges) is less than the carrying amount
of the property, then the Company will recognize an impairment loss equal to
the excess of the carrying amount over the fair value of the property. No
impairment has been recorded through December 31, 1998. No properties are
classified as held for sale as of December 31, 1998.
 
 (b) Real Estate Investments
 
   The Company consolidates or accounts for its investments in joint ventures
and corporations under the equity method of accounting based on its ownership
interests in those entities.
 
                                      F-6

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
 (c) Revenues
 
   For multifamily properties, rental revenue is reported on the accrual basis
of accounting. For commercial properties, rental income is recognized on the
straight-line basis over the terms of the leases. Accrued rent receivable
relating to such leases has been included in other assets in the accompanying
consolidated balance sheets.
 
 (d) Income Taxes
 
   Generally in any year in which the Company qualifies as a real estate
investment trust (REIT) under Sections 856 to 860 of the Internal Revenue Code
of 1986, as amended (the Code), it is not subject to federal income tax on
that portion of its income that it distributes to stockholders. No provision
for federal income taxes has been made in the accompanying consolidated
financial statements for each of the three years in the period ended December
31, 1998, as the Company believes it qualifies under the code as a REIT and
has made distributions during the periods in excess of taxable income.
 
   Federal taxable income of the Company prior to the dividend paid deductions
for the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, was: $26,625, $23,493
and $7,141, respectively. The difference between net income for financial
reporting purposes and taxable income results primarily from different methods
of depreciation and gains on property dispositions.
 
   The status of the cash dividends distributed for the years ended December
31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 for tax purposes is as follows:
 

 
   The most significant component causing the reduction of the return of
capital percentage for 1997 was earnings growing at a faster rate than
dividends paid.
 
 (e) Interest Rate Protection, Swap, and Forward Contracts
 
   The Company will from time to time use interest rate protection, swap and
forward contracts to reduce its interest rate exposure on current or
identified future debt transactions. Amounts paid in connection with such
contracts are capitalized and amortized over the term of the contract or
related debt. If the original contract is terminated, the gain or loss on
termination is deferred and amortized over the remaining term of the contract.
If the related debt is repaid, the unamortized portion of the deferred amount
is charged to income or the contract is marked to market, as appropriate. The
Company's policy is to manage interest rate risk for existing or anticipated
borrowings.
 
 (f) Deferred Charges
 
   Deferred charges are principally comprised of mortgage loan fees and costs
which are amortized over the terms of the related mortgage notes in a manner
which approximates the effective interest method.
 
                                      F-7

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
 (g) Interest
 
   The Company capitalized $3,494, $1,276 and $281 of interest related to the
development of real estate during 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
 (h) Use of Estimates
 
   The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements
and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.
 
 (i) Stock Based Compensation
 
   The Company applies APB Opinion 25 and related Interpretations in
accounting for its stock based compensation plans.
 
 (j) Cash Equivalents and Restricted Cash
 
   Highly liquid investments with maturities of three months or less when
purchased are classified as cash equivalents. Restricted cash relates to
reserve requirements in connection with the Company's tax exempt variable rate
bond financings and a guarantee the Company has made on a first mortgage loan
held by one of its joint venture partnerships.
 
 (k) Reclassifications
 
   Certain reclassifications have been made to the 1997 and 1996 balances to
conform with the 1998 presentation.
 
 (l) New Accounting Pronouncements
 
   In June 1998, the FASB issued Financial Accounting Statement No. 133 (SFAS
133), Accounting for Derivative Instruments and Hedging Activities. The
Company will adopt SFAS 133 for interim periods beginning in 2000, the
effective date of SFAS 133. Management believes that the adoption of these
statements will not have a material impact on the Company's financial position
or results of operations.
 
(3) Equity Transactions
 
   In February and April 1998, the Operating Partnership sold 1,200,000 and
400,000 units, respectively, of its 7.875% Series B Cumulative Redeemable
Preferred Units to an institutional investor in a private placement, at a
price of $50.00 per unit. The net proceeds from these offerings were $58,275
and $19,500, respectively. In November 1998, the Operating Partnership sold
500,000 units of its 9.125% Series C Cumulative Redeemable Preferred Units to
an institutional investor in a private placement, at a price of $50.00 per
unit. The net proceeds from this offering were $24,375. Preferred units issued
in connection with the above transactions are included in minority interests
in the Company's consolidated balance sheet as of December 31, 1998.
 
   During 1997, the Company sold additional shares of Common Stock on March
31, 1997, September 10, 1997 and December 8, 1997. In connection with these
offerings, the Company sold 2,000,000, 1,495,000 and 1,500,000 shares at
$29.13, $31.00 and $35.50 per share, respectively. The net proceeds received
from these transactions were $58,119, $46,080 and $49,814, respectively.
 
                                      F-8

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
   On June 20, 1996, the Company entered into an agreement to sell up to
$40,000 of the 8.75% Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1996A (the
Convertible Preferred Stock) at $25.00 per share to Tiger/Westbrook Real
Estate Fund, L.P. and Tiger/Westbrook Real Estate Co-Investment Partnership,
L.P. (collectively, Tiger/Westbrook). In accordance with the agreement, on
July 1, 1996 and September 27, 1996, Tiger/Westbrook purchased 340,000 and
460,000 shares, respectively, of Convertible Preferred Stock for an aggregate
purchase price of $8,500 and $11,500, respectively. Tiger/Westbrook purchased
an additional $20,000 of Convertible Preferred Stock, in accordance with the
agreement on June 20, 1997. The outstanding Convertible Preferred Stock is
entitled to receive annual cumulative cash dividends paid quarterly in an
amount equal to the greater of (i) 8.75% of the per share price or (ii) the
dividends (on an as-converted basis) paid with respect to the Common Stock
plus, in both cases, any accumulated but unpaid dividends on the Convertible
Preferred Stock. As of December 31, 1998, all of the 1.6 million authorized
shares of Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible into Common Stock at the
option of the holder. The conversion price per share is $21.875, subject to
certain adjustments as defined in the agreement. Under certain circumstances,
if, after June 20, 2001, the Company requires a mandatory conversion of all of
the Convertible Preferred Stock, but under no other circumstances, each of the
holders of the Convertible Preferred Stock may cause the Company to redeem any
or all of such holder's shares of Convertible Preferred Stock.
 
 
(4) Per Share Data
 
   Basic income per share before extraordinary item and diluted income per
share before extraordinary item were calculated as follows for the years ended
December 31:
 

- --------
(1) Conversion not considered as effect would be anti-dilutive.
 
                                      F-9

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
(5) Real Estate
 
 (a) Rental Properties
 
   Rental properties consists of the following at December 31, 1998 and 1997:
 

 
   The properties are located in California, Washington and Oregon. The
operations of the Properties could be adversely affected by a recession,
general economic downturn or a natural disaster in the areas where the
properties are located.
 
   During the year ended December 31, 1998, the Company sold four properties
to third parties for $26,354 resulting in a gain of $9 and a deferred gain of
$5,002. During the year ended December 31, 1997, the Company sold four
properties to third parties for $15,470 resulting in a gain of $5,114. During
the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company sold two properties to third
parties for $13,350, resulting in a gain of $2,477. The Company utilized
Internal Revenue Code Section 1031 to defer the majority of the taxable gains
resulting from these sales.
 
   For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, depreciation expense
on real estate was $21,890, $13,913 and $8,820, respectively.
 
 (b) Investments
 
   The Operating Partnership owns all of the 19,000 shares of the non-voting
preferred stock of Essex Management Corporation (EMC). Management of the
Company owns 100 percent of the common stock of EMC. EMC was formed to provide
property and asset management services to various partnerships not controlled
by the Company.
 
   The Operating Partnership owns 31,800 shares of the non-voting preferred
stock of Essex Fidelity I Corporation (Fidelity I). Currently, Fidelity I
holds interests in various real estate investments.
 
   The shares of non-voting preferred stock in EMC and Fidelity I are entitled
to a preferential dividend of $0.80 per share per annum. Through these
preferred stock investments, the Operating Partnership will be eligible to
receive a preferential liquidation value of $10.00 per share plus all
cumulative and unpaid dividends.
 
   The Operating Partnership holds a 49.9% limited partnership interest in
Jackson School Village, L.P. (JSV) which operates a 200-unit garden style
apartment community in Hillsboro, Oregon.
 
   The Company holds limited partnership interests in seven partnerships which
collectively own two multifamily properties: Anchor Village Apartments
("Anchor Village"), a 301-unit apartment community
 
                                     F-10

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
located in Mukilteo, Washington and Highridge Apartments ("Highridge"), a 255-
unit apartment community located in Ranchos Palos Verdes, California. In
February 1998 the Company purchased a limited partnership interest in two
partnerships which acquired three retail properties from the Company
("Portland Shopping Centers"), which have approximately 236,000 square feet of
leasable space located in the Portland, Oregon metropolitan area. These
investments were made under arrangements whereby EMC became the general
partner and the other limited partners were granted rights of redemption for
their interests. Such partners can request to be redeemed and the Company can
elect to redeem their rights for cash or by issuing shares of its common
stock. Conversion values will be based on 98 percent of the market value of
the Company's common stock at the time of redemption multiplied by the number
of shares stipulated under the above arrangements.
 
   In September 1997 the Company acquired a 49% limited partnership interest
in Fountain Court Apartment Associates, L.P. which is developing a 320-unit
multifamily community, Fountain Court, located in Seattle, Washington. In
October 1998, the Company purchased an additional 2% limited partnership
interest. Additionally, the Company paid $2,000 for the option to purchase the
remaining 49% interest 18 months subsequent to the occupancy date, as defined
in the agreement.
 
   In August 1997 the Company acquired a 45% Class A Member interest in Park
Hill LLC, whose purpose is the development and operations of a 245-unit
multifamily community, Park Hill Apartments, located in Issaquah, Washington.
Generally, all capital contributions earn a cumulative preferred return of
12%. Profit and loss are allocated to the Members in accordance with their
ownership interests. According to the terms of the Agreement, the Company has
the option to purchase the remaining 55% interest after August 31, 2003. The
purchase price will be calculated based on operating results, as defined in
the Agreement.
 
   The Company accounts for its investments in the above entities under the
equity method of accounting.
 
Investments consist of the following as of December 31, 1998 and 1997:
 

- --------
(1) Balance represents the excess of distributions and allocations over cost
    basis.
 
                                     F-11

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
(6) Notes and Other Related Party Receivables
 
   Notes receivable from joint venture investees and other related party
receivables consist of the following at December 31, 1998 and 1997:
 

 
   Other related party receivables consist primarily of accrued interest
income on related party notes receivable and loans to officers, advances and
accrued management fees from joint venture partnerships, and unreimbursed
expenses due from EMC.
 
   The Company's officers and directors do not have a substantial economic
interest in these related party entities.
 
(7) Notes and Other Receivables
 
   Notes and other receivables consist of the following at December 31, 1998
and 1997:
 

 
                                     F-12

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
(8) Related Party Transactions
 
   All general and administrative expenses of the Company and EMC are
initially borne by the Company, with a portion subsequently allocated to EMC
based on a business unit allocation methodology, formalized and approved by
management and the board of directors. Expenses allocated to EMC for the years
ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 totaled $545, $987 and $1,752,
respectively, and are reflected as a reduction in general and administrative
expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
   Included in rental revenue in the accompanying consolidated statements of
operations are rents earned from space leased to Marcus & Millichap (M&M)
including operating expense reimbursements of $833, $709 and $681 for the
years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively.
 
   During the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company paid
brokerage commissions totaling $0, $590 and $312 to M&M on the purchase and
sales of real estate. The commissions are either capitalized as a cost of
acquisition or are reflected as a reduction of the gain on sales of real
estate in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations. EMC is
entitled to receive a percentage of M&M brokerage commissions on certain
transactions in which the Company is a party.
 
   Other income includes $623, $139 and $820 for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, representing dividends from EMC and
management fees and equity income (loss) from Jackson School Village,
Highridge Apartments, Anchor Village Apartments, and the Portland Shopping
Centers. Also included in 1996 are management fees and equity income (loss)
from Essex Bristol Partners (Bristol) and Essex San Ramon Partners (San
Ramon). In January 1997, Essex acquired the joint venture partners' ownership
interest in Bristol and San Ramon.
 
   Interest income includes $1,027, $1,286 and $214 for the years ended
December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, respectively, which was earned principally
on the notes receivable from Essex Fidelity I, the partnerships which
collectively own Highridge, the partnerships which collectively own Anchor
Village and the partnerships which collectively own a 30.7% minority interest
in Pathways Apartments.
 
                                     F-13

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                        December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
              (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
(9) Mortgage Notes Payable
 
   Mortgage notes payable consist of the following at December 31, 1998 and
1997:
 

 
 
                                      F-14

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
   The aggregate scheduled maturities of mortgage notes payable are as
follows:
 

 
   In October 1997, the Company entered into four forward treasury contracts
for an aggregate notional amount of $60,000, locking the 10 year treasury rate
at between 6.14%-6.26%. These contracts are to limit the interest rate
exposure on identified future debt financing requirements relating to real
estate under development and the refinancing of a $18,327 fixed rate loan.
These contracts will be settled no later than June 2000. If these contracts
were settled as of December 31, 1998, the Company would be obligated to pay
approximately $6,016. Any costs that are incurred when these contracts are
settled are expected to be deferred and recognized over the life of the
related financing.
 
   These forward treasury contracts are not currently required to be reflected
in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. Under FAS 133, which
becomes effective in 2000, the Company expects to recognize the fair value of
these contracts as either assets or liabilities in the financial statements
with another comprehensive income charge directly to stockholders' equity.
 
   In addition, the Company has entered into various other contracts to limit
its interest rate exposure on debt related transactions. During 1998, 1997 and
1996, the Company charged $0, $0 and $42 to income representing amortization
of deferred costs. During 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company charged $0, $138
and $0 of costs relating to the termination of unmatched positions taken.
 
   During the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996, the Company
refinanced various mortgages and incurred a loss on the early extinguishment
of debt of $4,718, $361 and $3,441 related to the write off of the unamortized
mortgage loan fees and prepayment penalties.
 
(10) Lines of Credit
 
   As of December 31, 1998 and 1997, the Company had the following balances
outstanding under lines of credit with commercial banks:
 

 
                                     F-15

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
   The Company has a LIBOR based swap contract for a notional amount of
$12,298, fixing the one month LIBOR rate at 6.14%. This contract limits the
Company's interest rate exposure on borrowings under its LIBOR based lines of
credit. This contract expires in June 2002. If this contract were settled as
of December 31, 1998, the Company would be obligated to pay approximately
$392.
 
   As of December 31, 1998, the thirty-day LIBOR rate was approximately 5.06%,
and the prime rate was 7.75%.
 
(11) Leasing Activity
 
   The rental operations of the Company include apartment properties, which
are rented under short term leases (generally, lease terms of three to twelve
months), and commercial properties, which are rented under cancelable and
noncancelable operating leases, certain of which contain renewal options.
Future minimum rental activity for the apartment properties is not included in
the following schedule due to the short-term nature of the leases.
 
   Future minimum rentals due under noncancelable operating leases with
tenants of the commercial properties are as follows:
 

 
   Included in this schedule is $347 due from M&M through May 1999. The
Company expects M&M to exercise their option to renew their lease agreement
upon expiration in May 1999.
 
   In addition to minimum rental payments, retail (prior to the disposition of
these properties in February 1998) and commercial property tenants pay
reimbursements for their pro rata share of specified operating expenses. Such
amounts totaled $839, $905 and $964 for the years ended December 31, 1998,
1997 and 1996, respectively, and are included as rental revenue and operating
expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.
 
(12) Fair Value of Financial Instruments
 
   Management believes that the carrying amounts of mortgage notes payable,
lines of credit, notes and other related party receivables approximate fair
value as of December 31, 1998 and 1997, because interest rates and yields for
these instruments are consistent with yields currently available to the
Company for similar instruments. Management believes that the carrying amounts
of cash and cash equivalents, restricted cash, accounts payable and dividends
payable approximate fair value as of December 31, 1998 and 1997 due to the
short-term maturity of these instruments. See Note 8 for fair value disclosure
of interest rate risk management contracts.
 
                                     F-16

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
(13) Stock Option Plans
 
   The Essex Property Trust, Inc. 1994 Stock Incentive Plan provides
incentives to attract and retain officers, directors and key employees. The
Stock Incentive Plan provides for the grants of options to purchase a
specified number of shares of common stock or grants of restricted shares of
common stock. Under the Stock Incentive Plan, the total number of shares
available for grant is approximately 875,400. The Board of Directors (the
Board) may adjust the aggregate number and type of shares reserved for
issuance. Participants in the Stock Incentive Plans are selected by the
Compensation Committee of the Board, which is comprised of independent
directors. The Compensation Committee is authorized to establish the exercise
price; however, the exercise price cannot be less than 100 percent of the fair
market value of the common stock on the grant date. The Company's options have
a life of ten years. Option grants fully vest between one year and five years
after the grant date.
 
   In connection with the Company's 1994 initial public offering, the Company
provided a one-time grant of options to M&M to purchase 220,000 shares of
common stock through June 1999 at the initial public offering price of $19.50
per share pursuant to an agreement whereby Marcus & Millichap Real Estate
Investment Brokerage Company, a subsidiary of M&M, will provide real estate
transaction, trend and other information to the Company for a period of ten
years.
 
   The Company has also reserved 406,500 shares of common stock in connection
with the Essex Property Trust, Inc. 1994 Employee Stock Purchase Plan. There
was no activity in this plan during 1998, 1997 and 1996.
 
   The Company applies APB Opinion 25 and related interpretations in
accounting for its stock based compensation plans. Accordingly, no
compensation cost has been recognized for its plans. Had compensation cost for
the Company's plans been determined based on the fair value at the grant dates
consistent with the method of FASB Statement 123, the Company's net income for
the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996 would have been reduced to
the pro forma amounts indicated below:
 

 
   For the years ended December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996, the effect of
determining compensation cost consistent with FASB Statement No. 123 on basic
and diluted earnings per share was not material.
 
   The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using
the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
assumptions used for grants: risk-free interest rates ranging from 4.19% to
5.77% in 1998; from 5.79% to 6.88% in 1997 and from 5.52% to 6.92% in 1996;
expected lives of 4 years for 1998, 1997, and 1996; volatility of 18.79% for
1998, 17.40% for 1997 and 15.13% for 1996; and dividend yield of 6% for 1998,
1997 and 1996.
 
                                     F-17

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
   A summary of the status of the Company's option plans as of December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996 and changes during the years ended on those dates is
presented below:
 

 
   The following table summarized information about stock options outstanding
at December 31, 1998:
 

 
   Through December 31, 1998, the Company has granted 18,267 stock units under
the Company's Phantom Stock Unit Agreement to two of the Company's executives.
The units vest in installments in accordance with the vesting schedule set
forth in the Phantom Stock Unit Agreement such that the units will be fully
vested five years from the date of issuance. At that time, the Company expects
to issue to the executives the number of shares of common stock equal to the
number of units vested, or at the Company's option, an equivalent amount in
cash. Dividends are paid by the Company on the vested and unvested portion of
shares. For the years ended December 31, 1998 and 1997, compensation cost was
$20 and $19, respectively, related to this plan.
 
(14) Shareholder Rights Plan
 
   On November 12, 1998, the Company's Board of Directors adopted a
Stockholder Rights Plan. A dividend of one right (a Right) per share of common
stock was distributed to stockholders of record on November 21, 1998. Each
Right, expiring November 11, 2008, represents a right to buy from the Company
1/100th of a share of Series A Junior Participating Preferred Stock at a price
of $99.13 per Right.
 
                                     F-18

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
   Generally the Rights will not be exercisable unless a person or group
acquires 15 percent or more, or announces an offer that could result in
acquiring 15 percent or more, of the Company's common stock unless such person
is or becomes the beneficial owner of 15 percent or more of the Company's
outstanding common stock and had a contractual right or the approval of the
Company's Board of Directors, provided that such percentage shall not be
greater than 19.9%. Following an acquisition of 15 percent or more of the
Company's common stock, each Right holder, except the 15 percent or more
shareholder, has the right to receive, upon exercise, shares of common stock
valued at twice the then applicable exercise price of the Right, unless the
15 percent or more shareholder has offered to acquire all of the outstanding
shares of the Company under terms that a majority of the independent directors
of the Company have determined to be fair and in the best interest of the
Company and its shareholders.
 
   Similarly, unless certain conditions are met, if the Company engages in a
merger or other business combination following a stock acquisition where it
does not survive or survives with a change or exchange of its common stock or
if 50 percent or more of its assets, earning power or cash flow is sold or
transferred, the Rights will become exercisable for shares of the acquiror's
stock having a value of twice the exercise price.
 
   Generally, Rights may be redeemed for $.01 each (in cash, common stock or
other consideration the Company deems appropriate) until the tenth day
following a public announcement that a 15 percent or greater position has been
acquired of the Company's stock.
 
(15) Segment Information
 
   In accordance with Financial Accounting Standards Board No. 131,
Disclosures about Segments of an Enterprise and Related Information (FAS 131),
the Company defines its reportable operating segments as the three
geographical regions in which its multifamily residential properties are
located, Northern California, Southern California, and the Pacific Northwest.
 
   Non-segment revenues and net operating income included in the following
schedule consists of revenue generated from the two commercial properties.
Also excluded from segment revenues is interest and other corporate income.
Other non-segment assets include investments, real estate under development,
cash, receivables and other assets.
 
   The accounting policies of the segments are the same as those described in
Note 1. The Company evaluates performance based upon net operating income from
the combined properties in each segment.
 
                                     F-19

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                        December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
              (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
   The revenues, net operating income, and assets for each of the reportable
operating segments are summarized as follows for the years ended and as of
December 31, 1998, 1997, and 1996:
 

 
                                      F-20

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                        December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
              (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
(16) Quarterly Results of Operations (Unaudited)
 
   The following is a summary of quarterly results of operations for 1998 and
1997:
 

 
                                      F-21

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
            NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS--(Continued)
 
                       December 31, 1998, 1997 and 1996
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)
 
 
(17) 401(k) Plan
 
   The Company has a 401(k) pension plan (the Plan) for all full time
employees who have completed one year of service. Employees may contribute up
to 23% of their compensation, to the maximum allowed under Section 401(k) of
the Internal Revenue Code. The Company matches the employee contributions for
non-highly compensated personnel, up to 50% of their compensation to a maximum
of five hundred dollars (per individual) per year. Company contributions to
the Plan were approximately $46, $41 and $27 for the years ended December 31,
1998, 1997 and 1996.
 
(18) Commitments and Contingencies
 
   A commercial bank has issued on behalf of the Company various letters of
credit relating to financing and development transactions for an aggregate
amount of $2,604 which expire between July 1999 and May 2005.
 
   The Company is developing eight multifamily residential projects, which are
anticipated to have an aggregate of approximately 1,578 multifamily units. The
Company expects that such projects will be completed during the next two
years. In connection with these projects, the Company has directly, or in some
cases through its joint venture partners, entered into contractual
construction related commitments with unrelated third parties. As of December
31, 1998, the Company is committed to fund approximately $95,130 relating to
these projects.
 
   Investments in real property create a potential for environmental
liabilities on the part of the owner of such real property. The Company
carries no express insurance coverage for this type of environmental risk. The
Company has conducted environmental studies which revealed the presence of
groundwater contamination at certain properties; such contamination at certain
of these properties was reported to have migrated on-site from adjacent
industrial manufacturing operations. The former industrial users of the
properties were identified as the source of contamination. The environmental
studies noted that certain properties are located adjacent to and possibly
down gradient from sites with known groundwater contamination, the lateral
limits of which may extend onto such properties. The environmental studies
also noted that at certain of these properties, contamination existed because
of the presence of underground fuel storage tanks, which have been removed.
Based on the information contained in the environmental studies, the Company
believes that the costs, if any, it might bear as a result of environmental
contamination or other conditions at these properties would not have a
material adverse effect on the Company's financial position, results of The
Company is involved in various lawsuits arising out of the ordinary course of
business and certain other legal matters. In the opinion of management, the
resolution of these matters will not have a material adverse effect on the
Company's financial position, results of operations or liquidity.
 
(19) Subsequent Event
 
   In accordance with the terms of the Convertible Preferred Stock Agreement,
Tiger/Westbrook exercised the option to convert 87,500 shares of the total
1,600,000 outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred Stock into 100,000
shares of common stock on January 6, 1999.
 
                                     F-22

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                   Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation
 
                               December 31, 1998
                            (Dollars in thousands)
 

 
                                      F-23

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
             Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation--(Continued)
 
                               December 31, 1998
                            (Dollars in thousands)
 

 
                                      F-24

 
Schedule 1
 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
 
                   REAL ESTATE AND ACCUMULATED DEPRECIATION
 
                               December 31, 1998
                            (Dollars in thousands)
 



- ----
(1) The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes is $749,718.
(2) Phase I was built in 1969 and Phase II was built in 1977.
(3) A portion of land is leased pursuant to a ground lease expiring in 2028.
(4) Land is leased pursuant to a ground lease expiring in 2054.
(5) This property secures the Operating Partnership's $10,000 line of credit.
(6) Cochran Apartments, a 58 unit multifamily community, was purchased in
    April 1998 and is adjacent to Park Place/Windsor Court. Initial
    capitalized cost was $5,547.
(7) A portion of The Shores land value was allocated to real estate under
    development for the Canyon Point project in the amount of $1,757.
 
  A summary of activity for real estate and accumulated depreciation is as
follows:
 
 
                                      F-25

 


 


 


 

- --------
(1) Incorporated by reference to the identically numbered exhibit to the
    Company's Registration Statement on Form S-11 (Registration No. 33-76578),
    which became effective on June 6, 1994.
 
(2) Incorporated by reference to the identically numbered exhibit to the
    Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 1996.
 
 * Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.

