
10-K405
FORM 10-K405



 
                                 UNITED STATES
                       SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION
                            Washington, D.C.  20549
                    ---------------------------------------

                                   FORM 10-K


[X]  ANNUAL REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                  For the fiscal year ended December 31, 1996
                                       or

[_]  TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(D) OF THE SECURITIES
                              EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934
                        Commission File Number: 1-13106

                           ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC.
                           --------------------------
             (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)

     Maryland                                           77-0369576
     --------                                           ----------
(State or other jurisdiction of          (I.R.S. Employer  Identification No.)
incorporation or organization)

               777 California Avenue, Palo Alto, California 94304
               --------------------------------------------------
             (Address of principal executive offices)    (Zip code)

                                 (415) 494-3700
                                 --------------
              (Registrant's telephone number, including area code)

          Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:
                                        
Title of each class                    Name of each exchange on which registered
- -------------------                    -----------------------------------------
common stock, $.0001 par value                           New York Stock Exchange

     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:  None

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required
to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during
the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing
requirements for the past 90 days.

                              [X] Yes   [_] No.

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405
of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the
best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements
incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment the
Form 10-K.  [X]

As of March 25, 1997, the aggregate market value of the voting stock held by
non-affiliates of the registrant was $348,946,000.  The aggregate market value
was computed with reference to the closing price on the New York Stock Exchange
on such date.  This calculation does not reflect a determination that persons
are affiliates for any other purpose.

As of  March 20, 1997, 11,596,616 shares of Common Stock ($.0001 par value) were
outstanding.

LOCATION OF EXHIBIT INDEX:  The index exhibit is contained in Part IV, Item 14,
on page number 24.

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE:
The following document is incorporated by reference in Part III of the Annual
Report on Form 10K:  Proxy statement for the annual meeting of stockholders of
Essex Property Trust, Inc. to be held May 29, 1997.


 
                                   FORM 10-K



 
                                    PART I

ITEM 1.  BUSINESS

General Development and Description of Business
- -----------------------------------------------

Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex", or the "Company") is a self-administered
and self-managed real estate investment trust ("REIT") in the business of
acquiring, refurbishing, marketing, leasing, managing and developing multifamily
residential and retail properties.  As of December 31, 1996 Essex's property
portfolio consisted of ownership interests in the following 36 properties (each
individually a "Property" and, collectively, the "Properties"): (i) 29
multifamily residential properties containing 6,624 apartment units, (ii) six
neighborhood shopping centers containing approximately 351,000 rentable square
feet of space and (iii) an office building housing Essex's headquarters (the
"Headquarters Building"), with approximately 45,000 rentable square feet of
space.  Essex's properties are concentrated in Northern California and the
Seattle, Washington greater metropolitan areas, from which 78% of its rental
revenue was derived in 1996.  Other markets in which the Company owns property
include Southern California and areas surrounding Portland, Oregon.

Essex was incorporated in the state of Maryland in March 1994.  On June 13,
1994, Essex commenced operations with the completion of an initial public
offering ("the Offering") in which it issued 6,275,000 shares of common stock at
$19.50 per share. The net proceeds of the Offering of $112.1 million were used
to acquire an approximate 77.2% general partnership interest in Essex Portfolio,
L.P. (the "Operating Partnership").

The Company conducts substantially all of its activities through the Operating
Partnership.  The Company currently owns an approximate 86.2% general
partnership interest and senior members of the Company's management and certain
outside investors own an approximate 13.8% limited partnership interest in the
Operating Partnership.  As the sole general partner of the Operating
Partnership, the Company has control over the management of the Operating
Partnership and over each of the Properties.

All references to Essex in this report refer to Essex Property Trust, Inc. and
those entities owned or controlled by Essex Property Trust, Inc., including the
Operating Partnership.  Unless otherwise specified, information about Essex and
the properties refers to the operations of Essex after the completion of the
Offering and the operations of Essex Property Corporation ("EPC") prior to the
completion of the Offering.

Essex was formed to continue and expand the real estate investment and
management operations conducted by EPC since 1971. Since its inception, Essex
has successfully acquired, developed, managed and/or disposed of a combination
of approximately 160 property and portfolio assets in seven major metropolitan
markets in the western United States at an aggregate investment in excess of
$900 million.  Such properties have included various types of commercial
property, with a focus on multifamily residential property. Essex's multifamily
residential property investments have involved an aggregate of more than 15,575
apartment units.

Business Objectives
- -------------------

The Company's primary business objective is to maximize Funds from Operations
and total returns to stockholders through continued active leasing, property
management and active portfolio management.  The Company's strategies include:

 
        . Active Property Marketing and Management. Maximize on a per share
          basis, cash available for distribution and the capital appreciation of
          its property portfolio through active property marketing and
          management.

 
        . Selected Expansion of Property Portfolio. Increase, on a per share
          basis, cash available for distribution through the acquisition and
          development of multifamily residential properties in selected major
          metropolitan areas located throughout the west coast of the United
          States.


        . Optimal Portfolio Asset Allocations. Produce predictable financial
          performance through a portfolio asset allocation program that seeks to
          increase or decrease the investments in each market based on changes 
          in regional economic and local market conditions.


 
        . Management of Capital and Financial Risk. Optimize Essex's capital and
          financial risk positions by maintaining a conservative leverage ratio,
          evaluating financing alternatives on an on-going basis and minimizing
          Essex's cost of capital.


Business Principles
- -------------------

Essex was founded on, has followed, and intends to continue to follow the
business principles set forth below:

Property Management.  Through its long-standing philosophy of active property
management and a customer satisfaction approach, coupled with a discipline of
internal cost control, Essex seeks to retain tenants, maximize cash flow,
enhance property values and compete effectively for new tenants in the
marketplace.  Essex's regional portfolio managers are accountable for overall
property operations and performance.  They supervise on-site managers, monitor
fiscal performance against budgeted expectations, monitor Property performance
against the performance of competing properties in the area, prepare operating
and capital budgets for executive approval, and implement new strategies focused
on enhancing tenant satisfaction, increasing revenue, controlling expenses, and
creating a more efficient operating environment. Essex has established in-house
training programs for its on-site staff.

Business Planning and Control.  Real estate investment decisions are accompanied
by a multiple year plan, to which  executives and other managers responsible for
obtaining future financial performance must agree in writing.  Performance
versus plan serves as a significant factor in determining compensation.

Property Type Focus.  The Company focuses on acquisition of multifamily
residential communities, containing between 75 and 400 units.  The Company
believes that these types of properties offer attractive opportunities because
such properties (i) are often mispriced by real estate sellers and buyers who
lack Essex's ability to obtain and use real-time market information, (ii)
provide opportunities for value enhancement since many of these properties have
been owned by parties that either are inadequately capitalized or lack the
professional property management expertise of Essex, and (iii) can be readily
exchanged or sold during periods of changing market conditions due to the
relatively large pool of prospective and qualified buyers for such properties.

Geographic Focus.  The Company focuses its property investments in markets that
meet the following criteria:

     . Major Metropolitan Areas. Essex focuses on metropolitan areas having a
       regional population in excess of one million people. Real estate
       markets in these areas are typically characterized by a relatively
       greater number of buyers and sellers and are, therefore, more liquid.
       Liquidity is an important element for implementing the Company's
       strategy of varying its portfolio in response to changing market
       conditions.

     . Supply Constraints. Essex believes that properties located in real
       estate markets with limited development or redevelopment opportunities
       are well-suited to produce increased rental income. In evaluating
       supply constraints, Essex reviews: (i) availability of developable land
       sites on which competing properties could be readily constructed; (ii)
       political barriers to growth resulting from a restrictive local
       political environment regarding development and redevelopment (such an
       environment, in addition to the restrictions on development itself, is
       often associated with a lengthy development process and expensive
       development fees); and (iii) physical barriers to growth, resulting
       from natural limitations to development, such as mountains or
       waterways.

     . Rental Demand Created by High Cost of Housing. Essex concentrates on
       markets in which the cost of renting is significantly lower than the
       cost of owning a home. In such markets, rent levels are higher and
       operating expenses, as a percentage of rent, are lower in comparison
       with markets that have a lower cost of housing.

     . Job Proximity. Essex believes that most renters select housing based on
       its proximity to their jobs and on related commuting factors and desire
       to remain within a specified travel distance from their jobs. Essex
       obtains community information relating to its residential properties
       and uses this information when making multifamily residential property
       acquisition decisions. Essex also reviews the location of major
       employers relative to its portfolio and potential acquisition
       properties.

Following the above criteria, the Company is currently pursuing investment
opportunities in selected markets of Northern and Southern California, the
Seattle Metropolitan Area and the Portland Metropolitan Area.


 
Active Portfolio Management Through Regional Economic Research and Local Market
Knowledge.  Essex was founded on the belief that the key elements of successful
real estate investment and portfolio growth include extensive regional economic
research and local market knowledge. Essex utilizes its economic research and
local market knowledge to make appropriate portfolio allocation decisions that
it believes result in better overall operating performance and lower portfolio
risk.  Essex maintains and evaluates:

     . Regional Economic Data. Essex evaluates and reviews regional economic
       factors for the markets in which it owns properties and where it
       considers expanding its operations. Essex's research focuses on
       regional and sub-market supply and demand, economic diversity, job
       growth, market depth and the comparison of rental price to single-
       family housing prices.

     . Local Market Conditions. Local market knowledge includes (i) local
       factors that influence whether a sub- market is desirable to tenants;
       (ii) the extent to which the area surrounding a property is improving
       or deteriorating; and (iii) local investment market dynamics, including
       the relationship between the value of a property and its yield, the
       prospects for capital appreciation and market depth.

Recognizing that all real estate markets are cyclical, Essex regularly evaluates
the results of regional economic and local market research and adjusts asset
acquisitions and portfolio allocations accordingly. Essex actively manages the
allocation of assets within its portfolio. Essex seeks to increase its portfolio
allocation in markets projected to have economic growth and to decrease such
allocations in markets projected to have declining economic conditions.
Likewise, Essex also seeks to increase its portfolio allocation in markets that
have attractive property valuations and to decrease such allocations in markets
that have inflated valuations and low relative yields.  Although Essex is
generally a long-term investor, it does not establish defined or preferred
holding periods for its Properties.

Current Business Activities
- ---------------------------

Essex conducts substantially all of its activities through the Operating
Partnership, of which Essex owns an approximate 86.2% general partnership
interest.  An approximate 13.8% limited partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership is owned by the Directors, officers and employees of Essex and
certain third-party investors.  As the sole general partner of the Operating
Partnership, Essex has operating control over the management of the Operating
Partnership and each of the Properties. Three of the multifamily residential
Properties located in the State of Washington are owned by partnerships in which
the Operating Partnership owns a 99% general partnership interest and Essex
Washington Interests Partners ("EWIP") owns the remaining 1% Partnership
interest.  The Operating Partnership owns a 99% general partnership interest in
EWIP and Essex owns the remaining 1% general partnership interest.  EWIP was
organized in March 1994 as a California general partnership.

Essex has elected to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for
federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ending December 31, 1994.
In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, Essex provides fee-based
asset management and disposition services as well as third-party property
management and leasing services through Essex Management Corporation ("EMC").
Essex owns 100% of EMC's 19,000 shares of nonvoting preferred stock.  Executives
of Essex own 100% of EMC's 1,000 shares of common stock.  Essex has been
actively engaged in the business of acquiring and managing portfolios of non-
performing assets along with institutional investors.  Asset management services
resulting from these portfolios are provided by EMC, typically for the term that
is required to acquire, reposition and dispose of the portfolio.  Asset
management agreements usually provide for a base management fee calculated as a
percentage of the gross asset value of the portfolio under management, and an
incentive fee based upon the over all financial performance of the portfolio.
Accordingly, the fees earned as a result of these contracts fluctuate as assets
are acquired and disposed.  However, Essex believes, that few opportunities to
acquire portfolios of non-performing assets will be available in the near
future.

On June 20, 1996, the Company entered into a definitive agreement to sell up to
$40.0 million of the Company's 8.75% Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1996A
(the "Convertible Preferred Stock") at $25.00 per share to Tiger/Westbrook Real
Estate Fund, L.P. and Tiger/Westbrook Real Estate Co-Investment Partnership,
L.P. (collectively, "Tiger/Westbrook").  Under the terms of the agreement,
Tiger/Westbrook has purchased 800,000 shares of Convertible Preferred Stock for
an aggregate purchase price of $20.0 million.  Tiger/Westbrook is obligated to
purchase up to an additional $20.0 million of Convertible Preferred Stock on or
prior to June 20, 1997.  Holders of shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are
entitled to receive annual cumulative cash dividends, payable quarterly, in an
amount equal to the greater of (i) $2.1875 per share (8.75% of the $25.00 per
share price) or (ii) the dividends (subject to adjustment) paid with respect to
the Common Stock plus, in both cases, any accumulated but unpaid dividends on
the Convertible Preferred Stock.  After June 20, 1997, 25% of the 1.6 million
authorized shares of Convertible Preferred Stock are convertible into Common
Stock at the option of the 


 
holder, and thereafter, at the beginning of each next three-month period, an
additional 25% of the Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible. The
conversion price per share of Convertible Preferred Stock is $21.875, subject
to adjustment under certain circumstances. The stockholders of the Company
approved the sale of the Convertible Preferred Stock at a special meeting of
the stockholders held on September 27, 1996.

On August 14, 1996, the Company sold 2.2 million shares of Common Stock in a
public offering for $22.75 per share.  In addition, on August 20, 1996, the
underwriters for this offering exercised their over-allotment option and
purchased an additional 330,000 shares at $22.75 per share.  The Company
contributed the net proceeds from this offering to the Operating Partnership and
increased its ownership interest in the Operating Partnership from an
approximate  77.2%  general partnership interest to an approximate 82.6% general
partnership interest.

On December 24, 1996, the Company sold 2.45 million shares of Common Stock in a
public offering for $27.75 per share. In addition, on December 24, 1996, the
underwriters for this offering exercised their over-allotment option and
purchased an additional 333,000 shares at $27.75 per share. The Company
contributed the net proceeds from this offering to the Operating Partnership and
increased its ownership interest in the Operating Partnership from an
approximate 82.6% to an approximate 86.2% general partnership interest.

The Operating Partnership utilized the proceeds of these 1996 equity
transactions to fund the acquisition and development of multifamily properties,
to reduce outstanding indebtedness, and for general corporate purposes.

During 1996, Essex acquired ownership interests in seven multifamily properties
consisting of 1,764 units for an aggregate  contract purchase price of
approximately $114.5 million.  In addition, Essex completed construction of
Jackson School Village, a 200 unit apartment property.  These investments were
primarily funded by the equity transactions completed in 1996.  Two of these
properties (428 units) are located in the greater Seattle metropolitan area,
two (360 units) are located in Northern California, two (691 units) are located
in Southern California and two (485 units) are located in Oregon.

The properties acquired or developed in 1996 are as follows:
 
Name                            Location       Units    Purchase Price
- -------------------------   ----------------   -----   ----------------
Brighton Ridge              Renton, WA           264   $ 12.8 million
Camarillo Oaks              Camarillo, CA        371   20.8 million
East Ridge Apartments       San Ramon, CA        188   19.2 million
Landmark Apartments         Hillsboro, OR        285   17.7 million
Laurels at Mill Creek       Mill Creek, WA       164   7.6 million
Jackson School Village      Hillsboro, OR        200   11.9 million (1)
Meadowood Apartments        Simi  Valley, CA     320   25.7 million
Treetops Apartments         Fremont, CA          172   10.7 million
                                               -----   ---------------
                                               1,964   $126.4 million

(1) Represents total estimated cost of development

In 1996, Essex, through a joint venture limited partnership, completed the
development of Jackson School village, a 200-unit apartment complex located in
Hillsboro, Oregon.  Projected total capitalized cost of the property is $11.9
million.  Leasing of the property commenced in August 1996.  Although the
property has not yet achieved stabilized occupancy levels,  the property was
approximately 39% occupied as of December 31, 1996.

Essex has entered into a contract to purchase a 15.2-acre parcel of land in
Milpitas, California, known as McCarthy Ranch, for approximately $10.9 million.
The purchase contract requires Essex to acquire the site within 90 days after
the completion of the entitlement phase of this project, which is anticipated to
occur in the spring of 1997.  Upon closing of the purchase, Essex expects to
contribute the site to a joint venture partnership.  Essex , through the joint
venture partnership, intends to construct 374 apartment units on the property at
a currently estimated total capitalized cost of $47.5 million.

As part of the acquisition of The Shores Property, Essex acquired an adjacent
10-acre parcel of land which is zoned for additional apartment development.
Essex intends to develop on this parcel approximately 100 additional apartment
units as an expansion to The Shores Property.  It is anticipated that the
development of additional units at The Shores will produce an attractive
incremental return from the Property as a result of (i) an increase in the
number of units available for rent with no additional land cost and (ii) the
utilization of the existing leasing office, staff and amenities for the new
units.  Essex expects to begin construction of the additional units in 1997.
Essex has entered into a letter of intent to purchase a 15-acre parcel of land
in Orange County, California for approximately $5.1 million and expects to
complete the land purchase by July 1997.  


 
Essex intends to construct an approximate 345 unit apartment complex in two
phases for an estimated total capitalized cost of approximately $32 million.
Construction is anticipated to begin in summer of 1997.

Essex is under contract to purchase a 2.6-acre parcel of land in Walnut Creek,
California for approximately $2.5 million and expects to complete the land
purchase by August, 1997.  Essex intends to construct an approximate 100 unit
apartment complex at an estimated total capitalized cost of approximately $10.5
million.  Construction is anticipated to begin in late 1997.

Essex, through a joint venture limited liability company  (the "LLC"), is
currently under contract to purchase a 15-acre parcel of land in Issaquah,
Washington for approximately $4.2 million and expects to complete the land
purchase by July 1997. The LLC intends to construct an approximate 240 unit
apartment complex at an estimated total capitalized cost of approximately $23.5
million.  Construction is anticipated to begin  in late 1997.

The purchase of the land parcels in Milpitas, Orange County, Walnut Creek and
Issaquah are each subject to various conditions and there can be no assurance
that any such purchases will be consummated or that the development of any of
the parcels will occur.

In 1996, Essex sold two Northern California Properties for an aggregate net all
cash sales price of $13,350,000.  The proceeds were used to fund acquisitions of
mulitfamily properties and to reduce outstanding debt.

Offices and Employees
- ---------------------

Essex is headquartered in Palo Alto, California, and has regional offices in
Seattle, Washington, Portland, Oregon and Tustin, California.  As of December
31, 1996, Essex had approximately 274 employees.

Competition
- -----------

Essex's Properties compete for tenants with similar properties primarily on the
basis of location, rent charged, services provided, and the design and condition
of the improvements.  Competition for tenants from competing properties affects
the amount of rent charged as well as rental growth rates, vacancy rates,
deposit amounts, and the services and features provided at each property. While
economic conditions are generally stable in Essex's target markets, a prolonged
economic downturn could have a material adverse effect on Essex's operations and
financial condition.

Essex also experiences competition when attempting to acquire properties that
meet its investment criteria.  Such competing buyers include domestic and
foreign financial institutions, other REIT's, life insurance companies, pension
funds, trust funds, partnerships and individual investors.

Working Capital
- ---------------

Essex's practice is to maintain cash balances for normal repairs, replacements,
improvements, working capital and other contingencies.  Essex believes it
currently maintains sufficient cash balances to fund working capital needs.
Essex currently has a line of credit in the committed amount of approximately
$38.8 million with  unused portions as of December 31, 1996 sufficient to cover
any known cash requirements in excess of cash balances.

Other Matters
- -------------

Essex's operating results may be affected by the following factors:

General Real Estate Investment Risks.  Real property investments are subject to
a variety of risks.  The yields available from equity investments in real estate
depend on the amount of income generated and expenses incurred.  If the
Properties do not generate sufficient income to meet operating expenses,
including debt service and capital expenditures, Essex's cash flow and ability
to make distributions to its stockholders will be adversely affected.  The
performance of the economy in each of the areas which the Properties are located
affects occupancy, market rental rates and expenses and, consequently, has an
impact on the income from the Properties and their underlying values.  The
operations of major local employers may have an impact on the cash flow and
value of certain  Properties.

Income from the Properties may be further adversely affected by the general
economic climate, local economic conditions in which the Properties are located,
such as oversupply of space or a reduction in demand for rental space, the
attractiveness of


 
the Properties to tenants, competition from other available space, the ability
of  Essex to provide for adequate maintenance and insurance and increased
operating expenses.  There is also the risk that as leases on the Properties
expire, tenants will enter into new leases on terms that are less favorable to
Essex.  Income and real estate values may also be adversely affected by such
factors as applicable laws (e.g., ADA, tax laws and rent control ordinances),
interest rate levels and the availability of financing.  In addition, real
estate investments are relatively illiquid and, therefore, will tend to limit
the ability of  Essex to vary its portfolio promptly in response to changes in
economic or other conditions.

Geographic Concentration; Dependence on California, Washington and Oregon
Economics.  Approximately 48%, 30%, 14% and 8% of Essex's rental revenues for
the year ended December 31, 1996 were derived from Properties located in the
Northern California Area, the Seattle Metropolitan Area, Southern California
Area and the Portland Metropolitan Area (and Eugene, Oregon), respectively. The
performance of the economy in each of these areas affects occupancy, market
rental rates and expenses and, consequently, has an impact on the income from
the Properties and their underlying values.  The operations of major local
employers may have an impact on the cash flow and value of certain of the
Properties.

Risks of Acquisition and Development Activities.  Essex intends to actively
continue to acquire and develop multifamily residential properties.
Acquisitions and development of such properties entail risks that investments
will fail to perform in accordance with expectations.  Estimates of the costs of
construction or improvements to bring an acquired property up to standards
established for the market position intended for that property may prove
inaccurate.  In addition, there are general real estate investment risks
associated with any new real estate investment.

Essex had six multifamily residential property development projects in various
phases of development and may pursue other projects.  Any future projects
generally will require various governmental and other approvals, the receipt of
which cannot be assured.  The Company's development activities entail certain
risks, including the expenditure of funds on and devotion of management's time
to projects which may not come to fruition; the risk that construction costs of
a project may exceed original estimates, possibly making the project not
economical; the risk that occupancy rates and rents at a completed project will
be less than anticipated; and the risk that expenses at a completed development
will be higher than anticipated.  These risks may result in a development
project adversely affecting Essex's results of operations.

Environmental Matters.  Under various federal, state and local laws, ordinances
and regulations, an owner or operator of real estate is liable for the costs of
removal or remediation of certain hazardous or toxic substances on, in or from
such property.  Certain of such laws impose such liability without regard to
whether the owner or operator knew of, or was responsible for, the presence of
such hazardous or toxic substances.  The presence of such substances, or the
failure to properly remediate such substances, may adversely affect the owner's
or operator's ability to sell or rent such property or to borrow using such
property as collateral.  Persons who arrange for the disposal or treatment of
hazardous or toxic substances or wastes also may be liable for the costs of
removal or remediation of such substances at the disposal or treatment facility
to which such substances or wastes were sent, whether or not such facility is
owned or operated by such person and regardless of whether such person selected
the disposal or treatment facility.  In connection with the ownership (direct or
indirect), operation, management and development of real properties, Essex could
be considered an owner or operator of such properties or as having arranged for
the disposal or treatment of hazardous or toxic substances and, therefore,
potentially liable for removal or remediation costs, as well as certain other
costs, including governmental fines and damages for injuries to persons and
property.  In addition, certain environmental laws impose liability for release
of asbestos-containing materials ("ACMs"), and third parties may seek recovery
from owners or operators of real properties for personal injury associated with
ACMs.

All of the Properties have been subjected to preliminary environmental
assessments, including a review of historical and public data ("Phase I
assessments"), by independent environmental consultants.  Phase I assessments
generally consist of an investigation of environmental conditions at the
Property, including a preliminary investigation of the site, an identification
of publicly known conditions occurring at  properties in the vicinity of the
site, an investigation as to the presence of polychlorinated biphenyl's
("PCBs"), ACMs and above-ground and underground storage tanks presently or
formerly at the sites, and preparation and issuance of written reports.  As a
result of information collected in the Phase I assessments, certain of the
Properties were subjected to additional environmental investigations, including,
in a few cases, soil sampling or ground water analysis to further evaluate the
environmental conditions of those Properties.

The environmental studies revealed the presence of groundwater contamination on
three of the Properties.  Two of such Properties had contamination which was
reported to have migrated on-site from adjacent industrial manufacturing
operations, and the third Property was occupied previously by an industrial user
that was identified as the source of contamination.  The environmental studies
noted that five of the Properties are located adjacent to and possibly down
gradient from sites with known groundwater contamination, the lateral limits of
which may extend onto such Properties.  The environmental studies also noted
that at two Properties contamination existed because of the presence of
underground fuel 


 
storage tanks which have been removed. Based on the information contained in
the environmental studies, Essex believes that the costs, if any, it might
bear as a result of environmental contamination or other conditions at these
ten Properties would not have a material adverse effect on Essex's financial
condition or result of operations.

Except with respect to one Property, Essex has no indemnification agreements
from third parties for potential environmental clean-up costs at its Properties.
No assurance can be given that existing environmental studies with respect to
any of the Properties reveal all environmental liabilities, that any prior owner
or operator of a Property did not create any material environmental condition
not known to the Company, or that a material environmental condition does not
otherwise exist as to any one or more of the Properties.

Uninsured Losses.  All of the Properties are located in areas that are subject
to earthquake activity, including 17 Properties in California, 12 Properties in
Washington and 7 Properties in Oregon.  Essex has obtained earthquake insurance
for all the Properties.  This earthquake insurance is subject to an aggregate
limit of $4.0 million, a limit to $2.5 million for each multifamily residential
Property and a 10% deductible. Essex may selectively exclude properties from
being covered by earthquake insurance based on management's evaluation of the
following factors: (i) the availability of coverage on terms acceptable to
Essex, (ii) the location of the property and the amount of seismic activity
affecting that region, and, (iii) the age of the property and building codes in
effect at the time of construction.  In addition, despite earthquake coverage on
all of its Properties, should a property sustain damage as a result of an
earthquake, Essex may incur losses due to deductibles, co-payments or losses in
excess of applicable insurance, if any.

Although Essex carries certain insurance for non-earthquake damages to its
properties and liability insurance, Essex may still incur losses due to
deductibles, co-payments or losses in excess of applicable insurance.

Financing Policy.  Essex has adopted a policy of maintaining a Debt-to-Total-
Market-Capitalization ratio of less than 50%.  Debt-to-Total-Market
Capitalization is the ratio of the total property indebtedness (which includes
outstanding balances on Essex's lines of credit) to the sum of (i) the aggregate
market value of the outstanding shares of common stock (based on the greater of
current market price or the gross proceeds per share from public offerings of
its shares plus any undistributed net cash flow), assuming the conversion of all
limited partnership interests in the Operating Partnership and Convertible
Preferred Stock into shares of common stock and (ii) the total property
indebtedness. Based on this calculation, Essex's Debt-to-Total-Market-
Capitalization ratio was 26.6% as of December 31, 1996.

The organizational documents of Essex and the Operating Partnership do not limit
the amount or percentage of indebtedness that they may incur.  Essex may from
time to time modify its debt policy in the light of then current economic
conditions, relative costs of debt and equity securities, fluctuations in the
fair market price of the Common Stock, growth and acquisition opportunities and
other factors.  Accordingly, Essex may increase its Debt-to-Total-Market-
Capitalization ratio beyond the limits described above.  If the Board of
Directors determines that additional funding is required, Essex or the Operating
Partnership may raise such funds through additional equity offerings, debt
financing or retention of cash flow (subject to provisions in the Code
concerning taxability of undistributed real estate investment trust income), or
a combination of these methods.

Debt Financing; Uncertainty of Ability to Refinance Balloon Payments. Essex is
subject to the risks normally associated with debt financing, including the risk
that the Company's cash flow will be insufficient to meet required payments of
principal and interest, that the Company will not be able to refinance existing
indebtedness on the encumbered Properties or that the terms of such refinancing
will not be as favorable as the terms of existing indebtedness.  As of December
31, 1996, Essex had outstanding approximately $153.2 million of indebtedness
that is secured by the Properties.

Essex is not expected to have sufficient Funds from Operations to make all of
the balloon payments of principal when due under its mortgage indebtedness and
lines of credit which are an aggregate of approximately $153.2 million. Such
mortgage indebtedness and lines of credit have the following scheduled
maturity dates: 1997-$3.0 million; 1998-$3.2 million; 1999-$3.5 million; 2000-
$3.7 million; 2001-$41.7 million; 2002 and thereafter-$98.1 million. As a
result, Essex will be subject to risks that it will not be able to refinance
such mortgage indebtedness and the mortgaged properties could be foreclosed
upon by or otherwise transferred to the mortgagee with a consequent loss of
income and asset value to Essex, or, that the indebtedness, if any, refinanced
will have higher interest rates. An inability to make such payments when due
could cause the mortgage lender to foreclose on the Properties securing the
mortgage, which would have a material adverse effect on Essex.

Debt Financing; Risk of Rising Interest Rates. As of December 31, 1996, Essex
had approximately $42.8 million of variable rate mortgage indebtedness, which
bears interest at a floating rate tied to the rate of short-term tax exempt
securities.  In 


 
addition, Essex's line of credit bears interest at a floating rate tied to the
London InterBank Offered Rates ("LIBOR"). An increase in interest rates will
have an adverse effect on Essex's net income and Funds from Operations.


ITEM 2. PROPERTIES

Portfolio Overview
- ------------------

Essex's property portfolio (including partial ownership interests) consists of
the following 36 Properties: (i) 29 multifamily residential Properties
containing 6,624 apartment units, (ii) six neighborhood shopping centers
containing approximately 351,000 rentable square feet of space and (iii) an
office building housing Essex's headquarters, with approximately 45,000 rentable
square feet of space. The Properties are located in California, Washington, and
Oregon. Essex's multifamily residential Properties accounted for approximately
89% of Essex's rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 1996.  The 29
multifamily residential Properties had an average occupancy rate (based on
financial occupancy, which refers to the percentage resulting from dividing
actual rents by total possible rents as determined by valuing occupied units at
contractual rates and vacant units at market rents) during the year ended
December 31, 1996 of approximately 97%.  As of December 31, 1996, the six retail
Properties had an occupancy rate (based on leased and occupied square footage)
of approximately 98%, and the Headquarters Building had an occupancy rate (based
on leased and occupied square footage) of 100%.

For the year ended December 31, 1996, none of the Company's Properties had book
values equal to 10% or more of total assets or gross revenues equal to 10% or
more of aggregate gross revenues.

The Location and Type of the Company's Properties
- -------------------------------------------------

 
(1) Based upon rental revenues for the year ended December 31, 1996.


Multifamily Residential Properties
- ----------------------------------

Essex has ownership interests in 29 multifamily residential apartment
communities containing 6,624 units. The majority of these Properties are
suburban garden apartments and townhomes comprising multiple clusters of two-
and three-story buildings situated on three to fifteen acres of land. The
multifamily Properties have on average 228 units, with a mix of studio, one-,
two- and some three-bedroom units. A wide variety of amenities are available at
each apartment community, including swimming pools, clubhouses, covered parking,
and cable television. Many Properties offer additional amenities, such as
fitness centers, volleyball and playground areas, tennis courts and wood-burning
fireplaces.

Most of Essex's apartment communities are designed for and marketed to people in
white-collar or technical professions. Essex selects, trains and supervises a
full team of on-site service and maintenance personnel. Essex believes that its
customer-service approach enhances its ability to retain tenants and that its
multifamily residential Properties were well-built and have been well-
maintained.

Neighborhood Shopping Centers and Headquarters Building
- -------------------------------------------------------

Five of Essex's six neighborhood shopping centers are in the Portland
Metropolitan Area and one is located in Eugene, Oregon. These neighborhood
shopping centers contain an aggregate of approximately 351,000 rentable square
feet of space 


 
and, as of December 31, 1996, had an occupancy rate (based on leased and
occupied square footage) of approximately 98%. These Properties are located in
several sub-markets in Portland and Eugene. The tenants include a mix of
national, regional and local retailers. Essex acquired the neighborhood shopping
centers as a portfolio in 1990 and since that time has implemented an expansion,
renovation and re-leasing program.  Essex considers these properties to
be held for sale.

Essex also owns a prepaid ground leasehold interest in the office building that
houses its corporate headquarters (the "Headquarters Building"). Essex acquired
this Property in 1986 and redeveloped it in 1988. The Headquarters Building has
approximately 45,000 rentable square feet of space and is a multi-tenant, one-
story office building, located in the Stanford Research Park in Palo Alto,
California. Essex occupies approximately 6,000 square feet of the Headquarters
Building, The Marcus & Millichap Company occupies approximately 16,000 square
feet and the remaining two tenants occupy approximately 23,000 square feet.  The
land on which the Headquarters Building is located is owned by Stanford
University, and Essex owns a ground leasehold interest in the building and
underlying land. The ground lease for the Headquarters Building is prepaid until
its expiration in 2054, and, unless the lease is extended, the land, together
with all improvements thereon, will revert to Stanford University in 2054.


 
The following tables describe Essex's Properties as of December 31, 1996.  The
first table describes Essex's
Multifamily Properties and the second table describes Essex's Commercial
Properties.




  (1) Unless otherwise specified, the Company has a 100% ownership interest in
      each respective Property.
  (2) For multifamily residential Properties, occupancy rates are based on
      Financial Occupancy for the year ended December 31, 1996; for the
      Commercial Properties, occupancy rates are based on leased and occupied
      square footage as of December 31, 1996.
  (3) The Company has an approximate 45% economic ownership interest in this
      Property.
  (4) A portion of this Property on which 84 units are presently located is
      subject to a ground lease, which, unless extended, will expire in 2028.
  (5) The Company has a 69% ownership interest in this Property.
  (6) Purchased in late December 1996, occupancy based on physical occupancy as
      of December 31, 1996.
  (7) The Company has a 49.9% interest in this Property.
  (8) This Property was developed in 1996 and has not yet achieved a stabilized
      occupancy level. As of December 31, 1996 this Property had an occupancy
      rate of 39%.
  (9) Excludes the Jackson School Village Property.
 (10) The Company owns a ground leasehold interest in the building and the land
      on which the headquarters building is located. The ground lease is prepaid
      until its expiration in 2054, and, unless the lease is extended, the land,
      together with all improvements thereon, will revert to the owner in 2054.
 (11) Represents the completion date for a major renovation.


 
ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS

Neither Essex nor any of the Properties is presently subject to any material
litigation nor, to Essex's knowledge, is there any material litigation
threatened against Essex or the Properties. The Properties are subject to
certain routine litigation and administrative proceedings arising in the
ordinary course of business, which, taken together, are not expected to have a
material adverse impact on Essex.

ITEM 4. SUBMISSION OF MATTERS TO A VOTE OF SECURITY HOLDERS

At a Special Meeting of Stockholders, held on December 17, 1996, the
stockholders did not approve the following proposal:  a proposal to make certain
amendments to the Company's Articles of Incorporation (the "Charter") to provide
for changes in the composition of the Board of Directors in the event of the
breach of certain protective provisions in the Charter relating to the Company's
8.75% Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1996A (the "Convertible Preferred
Stock").  This proposal was listed as proposal number three in the Company's
proxy statement, dated September 5, 1996.  There were 5,299,241 votes for this
proposal and 386,845 votes against or withheld.  This proposal required the
affirmative vote of the holders of two-thirds, or approximately 5,870,000
shares, of the 8,805,000 shares of Common Stock that were then issued and
outstanding.  Consequently, the affirmative votes for the proposal were not
sufficient to approve it.  The voting on this proposal was first held on
September 27, 1996 and the voting was adjourned to December 17, 1996, in order
to obtain additional votes from the stockholders in connection with this
proposal.

                                    PART II

ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS

The shares of the Company's common stock are traded on the New York Stock
Exchange ("NYSE") under the symbol ESS.

Market Information
- ------------------

The Company's common stock has been traded on the NYSE since June 13, 1994.  The
high, low and closing price per share of common stock reported on the NYSE for
the quarters indicated from the Company's inception are as follows:
 
Quarter Ended             High       Low      Close
- ----------------------   -------   -------   -------
 
 December 31, 1996       $29.375   $24.625   $29.375
 September 30, 1996      $24.875   $21.375   $24.875
 June 30, 1996           $22.500   $19.375   $21.500
 March 31, 1996          $21.250   $18.750   $20.750
 December 31, 1995       $19.500   $17.250   $19.250
 September 30, 1995      $18.250   $16.750   $17.500
 June 30, 1995           $18.125   $15.750   $18.125
 March 31, 1995          $16.875   $15.375   $15.875

 The closing price as of March 20, 1997 was $30.375.

Holders
- -------

The approximate number of holders of record of the shares of the Company's
common stock was 117 as of March 25, 1997.  This number does not include
stockholders whose shares are held in trust by other entities.  The actual
number of stockholders is greater than this number of holders of record.

Return of Capital
- -----------------

Under provisions of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, the portion
of cash dividend that exceeds earnings and profits is a return of capital.  The
return of capital is generated due to the deduction of noncash expenses,
primarily


 
depreciation, in the determination of earnings and profits.  The status of the
cash dividends distributed for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
for tax purposes is as follows:
 
                                  1996      1995      1994
                                 -------   -------   ------
     Taxable portion              58.00%    69.00%   68.00%
     Return of capital            42.00%    31.00%   32.00%
                                  ------    ------    -----
 
                                 100.00%   100.00%   100.00%
                                 ======    ======    ======

Dividends and Distributions
- ---------------------------

Since its initial public offering, the Company has paid regular quarterly
dividends to its stockholders.  From inception, the Company paid the following
dividends:  July 15, 1994, $.08; October 17, 1994, $.4175; January 15, 1995,
$.4175; April 17, 1995, $.4175; July 17, 1995, $.4175; October 16, 1995, $.425;
January 16, 1996, $.425, April 12, 1996, $.425; July 15, 1996, $.425; October
15, 1996, $.435; and January 15, 1997, $.435.  Future distributions by the
Company will be at the discretion of the Board of Directors and will depend on
the actual funds from operations of the company, its financial condition,
capital requirements, the annual distribution requirements under the REIT
provisions of the Internal Revenue Code, applicable legal restrictions and such
other factors as the Board of Directors deems relevant.  There are currently no
contractual restrictions on the Company's present or future ability to pay
dividends.

ITEM 6.  SUMMARY FINANCIAL AND OPERATING DATA

The following tables set forth summary financial and operating information (i)
for the Company from June 13, 1994 (completion of the Company's IPO) through
December 31, 1996, (ii) on a pro forma basis for the Company for the year ended
December 31, 1994 and (iii) on a historical combined basis for the year ended
December 31, 1993 and for the period from January 1, 1994 through June 12, 1994
for the 20 properties in which the original limited partners in the Operating
Partnership previously held ownership interests, combined with the financial and
operating information of Essex Property Corporation (''EPC''). The unaudited pro
forma financial and operating information for the year ended December 31, 1994
is based on the ownership and operation of the 23 properties owned at the time
of the IPO (including the properties acquired as of the IPO) combined with the
financial and operating information of EPC and is presented as if the following
had occurred on January 1, 1994: (i) the IPO was completed, (ii) the Company
qualified as a REIT, (iii) the Company used the net proceeds from the IPO and
the debt incurred in connection with the IPO to fund a series of asset
acquisitions and mortgage repayments in connection with the IPO, and (iv) Essex
Management Corporation (''EMC'') was formed and certain property and asset
management contracts were assigned to EMC (such pro forma adjustments, the ''IPO
Pro Forma Adjustments'').

The pro forma financial and operating information should not be considered
indicative of actual results that would have been achieved had the transactions
occurred on the dates or for the periods indicated and do not purport to
indicate results of operations as of any future date or for any future period.
The following table should be read in conjunction with Management's Discussion
and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and with all of
the financial statements and notes thereto.


 
 

 














 

 
(1)  The unaudited pro forma financial and operating information for the year
     ended December 31, 1994 is based on the ownership and operation of the 23
     properties owned at the time of the Company's initial public offering (the
     "IPO") (including the properties acquired as of the IPO) combined with the
     financial and operating information of EPC and is presented as if the
     following had occurred on January 1, 1994: (i) the IPO was completed, (ii)
     Essex qualified as a REIT, (iii) Essex used the net proceeds from the IPO
     and debt incurred in connection with the IPO to fund a series of asset
     acquisitions and mortgage repayments in connection with the IPO and (iv)
     EMC was formed and certain property and asset management contracts were
     assigned to it. Pro forma net cash flows for operating, investing and
     financing activities have been omitted because of the subjectivity involved
     in the assumptions required for related balance sheet structure and because
     of the presence of disclosure of actual cash flow information for 1994 and
     1995.

(2)  Per share amounts are presented only for the periods subsequent to June 13,
     1994 and the pro forma 1994 period and are based upon respective amounts
     divided by the weighted average outstanding shares on the applicable dates.

(3)  Industry analysts generally consider Funds from Operations to be an
     appropriate measure of the performance of an equity REIT. Funds from
     Operations, as currently defined by the National Association of Real Estate
     Investment Trusts (''NAREIT'') represents net income (loss) (computed in
     accordance with generally accepted accounting principles (''GAAP''),
     excluding gains (or losses) from debt restructuring, sales of property,
     plus depreciation, and after adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships
     and joint ventures, if any. Adjustments for unconsolidated partnerships and
     joint ventures, if any, will be calculated to reflect Funds from Operations
     on the same basis. Management generally considers Funds from Operations to
     be a useful financial performance measurement of an equity REIT because it
     provides investors with an additional basis to evaluate the performance of
     a REIT. Funds from Operations does not represent net income or cash flows
     from operations as defined by GAAP and does not necessarily indicate that
     cash flows will be sufficient to fund cash needs. It should not be
     considered as an alternative to net income as an indicator of the Company's
     operating performance or to cash flows as a measure of liquidity. Funds
     from Operations does not measure whether cash flow is sufficient to fund
     all cash needs including principal amortization, capital improvements and
     distributions to stockholders. Funds from Operations also does not
     represent cash flows generated from operating, investing or financing
     activities as defined under GAAP. Further, Funds from Operations as
     disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to the Company's calculation
     of Funds from Operations.

(4)  Assumes the conversion of all outstanding shares of Convertible Preferred
     Stock, if any, and all outstanding limited partnership interests in the
     Operating Partnership, into shares of Common Stock, as of the applicable
     date.

(5)  Debt service coverage ratio represents EBITDA divided by interest expense.

(6)  Gross operating margin represents rental income less property operating
     expenses divided by rental income.

(7)  Same-property apartment units are those units which the Company has owned
     since the IPO.

(8)  Average same-property monthly rental rate per apartment unit represents
     total scheduled rent for the period (actual rental rates on occupied
     apartment units plus market rental rates on vacant apartment units) divided
     by the number of apartment units and further divided by the number of
     months in the period.

(9)  Average same-property monthly expenses per apartment unit represents total
     monthly operating expenses for the period divided by the total number of
     apartment units and further divided by the number of months in the period.

(10) Occupancy rates are based on Financial Occupancy during the period
     presented. Occupancy rates exclude Jackson School Village (which was
     developed in 1996 and has not yet achieved stabilized occupancy).


ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS
OF OPERATIONS

The following discussion is based on the consolidated financial statements of
Essex Property Trust, Inc. ("Essex or the "Company") as of and for the years
ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 and for the period from June 13, 1994 through
December 31, 1994, and the combined financial statements of Essex Partners
Properties ("EPP") for the period from January 1, 1994 through June 12, 1994.
The combined financial statements of EPP combine the balance sheet data and
results of operations of Essex Property Corporation ("EPC") and of various
limited partnerships.  EPP is considered the predecessor entity to Essex and the
combined financial statements are presented for comparative purposes.  The
following discussion compares Essex's results of operations for the year ended
December 31, 1996, with its results for the year ended December 31, 1995.  The
discussion also compares Essex's results for the year ended December 31, 1995,
with the combined activities of Essex and EPP for the year ended December 31,
1994.

This information should be read in conjunction with the accompanying
consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.

Substantially all the assets of Essex are held by, and substantially all
operations are conducted through, Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the "Operating
Partnership").  Essex is the sole general partner and as of December 31, 1996
owned an approximate 86.2% general partnership interest in the Operating
Partnership and as of  December 31,1995 and 1994, owned an approximate 77.2%
general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership.  The Company has
elected to be treated as a REIT for Federal income tax purposes.


 
Certain statements in the Report on Form 10-K and in this Management's
Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,
constitute "forward-looking statements" within the meaning of the Private
Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such forward-looking statements
involve known and unknown risks, uncertainties and other factors which may cause
the actual results, performance or achievements of Essex to be materially
different from any future results, performance or achievements expressed or
implied by such forward-looking statements. Some of the factors that could cause
actual results to differ materially are set forth in Item 1 Business-Other
Matters.

GENERAL BACKGROUND

Revenues are generated primarily from multifamily residential and commercial
property operations, which accounted for 96%, 95%, and 91% of its revenues for
the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994, respectively.  Essex's
properties are located in California, Washington and Oregon.  Occupancy levels
for Essex's multifamily residential properties in these markets have generally
remained high (averaging approximately 95% over the last five years).

Essex elects to be treated as a real estate investment trust ("REIT") for
federal income tax purposes, commencing with the year ending December 31, 1994.
In order to maintain compliance with REIT tax rules, Essex provides fee-based
asset management and disposition services as well as third-party property
management and leasing services through Essex Management Corporation ("EMC").
Essex owns 100% of EMC's 19,000 shares of nonvoting preferred stock.  Executives
of Essex own 100% of EMC's 1,000 shares of common stock.  Essex has been
actively engaged in the business of acquiring and managing portfolios of non-
performing assets along with institutional investors.  Asset management services
resulting from these portfolios are provided by EMC, typically for the term that
is required to acquire, reposition and dispose of the portfolio.  Asset
management agreements usually provide for a base management fee calculated as a
percentage of the gross asset value of the portfolio under management, and an
incentive fee based upon the over all financial performance of the portfolio.
Accordingly, the fees earned as a result of these contracts fluctuate as assets
are acquired and disposed.  In general, Essex believes, however, that fewer
opportunities to acquire portfolios of non-performing assets will be available
in the near future.

Average financial occupancy rates for the year ended December 31, 1996 for
multifamily properties were as follows:

  Northern California           98%
  Seattle, Washington           96%
  Southern California           96%
  Portland, Oregon              84%
 
The commercial properties were 98% occupied (based on square footage) as of
December 31, 1996.

For the year ended December 31, 1996, multifamily property revenue on a same
property basis grew at 6.7% over the 1995 comparable period.  The following is a
regional breakdown of same property revenue growth for Essex's multifamily
properties:
 
Northern California              9.3%
Seattle Metropolitan Area        4.4%
Southern California              3.8%
 
RESULTS OF OPERATIONS

Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 1996 to Year Ended December 31, 1995
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Total Revenues increased by $6,753,000 or 15.4% to $50,693,000 in 1996 from
$43,940,000 in 1995.  Rental revenue increased by $6,140,000 or 14.7% to
$47,780,000 in 1996 from $41,640,000 in 1995.  Approximately $3,564,000 of the
increase in rental revenue was attributable to the properties which were
acquired by Essex in 1995 and 1996. Rental revenue from the Northern California
and Seattle multifamily residential Properties increased by $3,010,000 or 9.3%
to $35,504,000 in 1996 from $32,494,000 in 1995. Rental revenue increased by
$2,156,000 or 46.9% during 1996 for the Properties located in Southern
California.  Approximately $1,973,000 of this increase was attributable to two
properties acquired in this region during 1996.  Portland, Oregon 1996
acquisitions contributed $703,000 to rental operations.  Commercial property
rental revenue increased by $271,000 or 5.9% during 1996.


 
On April 30, 1996 and June 21, 1996 the Company sold the Viareggio and
Westbridge properties, respectively.  The net all cash sales price of the two
properties was $13,350,000.  The net book value of these assets were $10,873,000
resulting in a gain on sales of real estate of $2,477,000.

Total Expenses increased by $2,491,000 or approximately 7.0% to $38,200,000 in
1996 from $35,709,000 in 1995.  Interest expense increased by $514,000 or 4.7%
to $11,442,000 in 1996 from $10,928,000 in 1995.  Such interest expense increase
was primarily due to the acquisition of additional multifamily Properties.
Property operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization
increased by $1,901,000 or 14.0% to $15,505,000 in 1996 from $13,604,000 in
1995.  Of such increase, $1,293,000 is attributable to Properties acquired
subsequent to December 31, 1994.  General and administrative expenses represents
the cost of Essex's various acquisition and administrative departments, as well
as, partnership, administration and non-operating expenses.  Such expenses
increased by $190,000 primarily due to an increase in staffing during the year.

Net income decreased by $1,723,000 to $8,881,000 in 1996 from $10,604,000 in
1995.  The decrease in net income was primarily due to an extraordinary charge
of $3,441,000 related to the early extinguishment of debt, net reduction in
gains on sale of real estate of $3,536,000 from $6,013,000 in 1995 to $2,477,000
in 1996, partially offset by income before gain on sales of real estate,
provision for income taxes, minority interest and extraordinary items increase
of $4,262,000 to $12,493,000 in 1996 from $8,231,000 in 1995.

Comparison of Year Ended December 31, 1995 to Year Ended December 31, 1994
- --------------------------------------------------------------------------

Total Revenues increased by $8,716,000 or 24.7% to $43,940,000 in 1995 from
$35,224,000 in 1994.  Rental revenue increased by $9,399,000 or 29.2% to
$41,640,000 in 1995 from $32,241,000 in 1994.  Approximately $8,269,000 of the
increase in rental revenue was attributable to the properties which were
acquired by Essex's concurrent with  and after the IPO in 1994 and 1995.  Rental
revenue from the Northern California and Seattle multifamily residential
Properties increased by $8,918,000 or  37.8% to $32,494,000 in 1995 from
$23,576,000 in 1994. Rental revenue increased by $206,000 or 4.7% during 1995
for the two Properties located in Southern California. Commercial property
rental revenue increased by $149,000 or 3.3% during 1995.

On May 31, 1995 and November 8, 1995 the Company sold the Loma Verde and
Pacifica Park properties, respectively.  The net all cash sales price of the two
properties was $12,147,000.  The net book value of these assets were $6,134,000
resulting in a gain on sales of real estate of $6,013,000.

Total Expenses increased by $5,214,000 or approximately 17.1% to $35,709,000 in
1995 from $30,495,000 in 1994.  Interest expense increased by $700,000 or 6.8%
to $10,928,000 in 1995 from $10,228,000 in 1994.  Such interest expense increase
was primarily due to the acquisition of additional multifamily Properties.
Property operating expenses, exclusive of depreciation and amortization,
increased by $2,885,000 or 26.9% to $13,604,000 in 1995 from $10,719,000 in
1994.  Of such increase, $2,793,000 is attributable to properties acquired
concurrent with and after the IPO in 1994 and 1995.  Property and asset
management expenses relate to (i) the cost of managing properties in which
certain directors and officers of the Company and their affiliates hold a
minimal economic interest and (ii) the cost of managing portfolios of real
estate and non-performing mortgages.  Property and asset management expenses of
$974,000 were incurred prior to the completion of the IPO.  Such expenses are no
longer incurred due to the establishment of EMC in connection with the IPO (the
financial results of which are not consolidated with Essex's financial
statements), which has borne all property and asset management costs since June
13, 1994.  General and administrative expenses increased by $764,000 due
primarily to reduced allocations of Essex's expenses to EMC of approximately
$500,000 and the accrual of incentive compensation related to achieving certain
performance benchmarks.  Other expenses represent an allocation to Essex of
costs incurred prior to the completion of the IPO by The Marcus & Millichap
Company for executive management, incentive compensation, audit and tax services
and other matters; such expenses have not been borne by Essex since the
completion of the IPO.

Net income increased by $7,186,000 to $10,604,000 in 1995 from $3,418,000 in
1994.  The increase in net income after minority interest was primarily due to
$6,013,000 gains from the sales of two properties and operations from Properties
acquired concurrent with and after the IPO in 1994 and 1995.

LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES

At December 31, 1996, Essex had $46,899,000 in cash and cash equivalents, of
which a substantial portion is identified for future property acquisitions.
Management believes that the uncommitted cash and available lines of credit
should be 


 
sufficient to meet its immediate operating cash requirements. Essex has credit
facilities in the committed amount of approximately $38,800,000. At December 31,
1996 Essex had no outstanding balance on its line of credit. The interest rate
on the line of credit is 1.85% over the LIBOR rate. The line of credit expires
on May 15, 1997.

Essex's cash balance increased $42,916,000 from $3,983,000 as of December 31,
1995 to $46,899,000 as of December 31, 1996.  This increase in cash was the
result of $20,135,000 of cash provided by operating activities, and $107,777,000
of cash provided by financing activities reduced by $84,996,000 of cash used in
investing activities.  The $84,996,000 of net cash used by investing activities
was the result of $101,429,000 used to purchase rental properties, which were
offset by $13,350,000 of proceeds of the sales of two properties.  The
significant components which contributed to the $107,777,000 net cash provided
by financing activities were $143,969,000 net proceeds from stock offerings,
$91,253,000 of proceeds from mortgages, other notes payable and lines of credit
partially offset by $110,305,000 of repayments of mortgages, other notes payable
and lines of credit and $15,198,000 of dividends/distributions paid.

As of December 31, 1996, the combined outstanding indebtedness under mortgages
and lines of credit consisted of $110,385,000 in fixed rate debt, and
$42,820,000 of debt represented by tax exempt variable rate demand bonds, of
which $29,220,000 of the tax exempt variable rate demand bonds are subject to
interest rate protection agreements limiting the maximum interest rate to 7.2%.

For the year ended December 31, 1996, non-revenue generating capital
expenditures totaled approximately $1,420,000 or an annualized $300 per weighted
average occupancy unit  These expenditures do not include the improvements in
connection with Northwestern Mutual mortgage loans and renovation expenditures
required pursuant to the requirements related to the tax-exempt variable rate
demand bonds.  Essex expects to incur in the range of approximately $300 per
weighted average occupancy unit in non-revenue generating capital expenditures
for the year ended December 31, 1997. Essex expects that cash from operations
and/or the lines of credit will fund such expenditures.  However, there can be
no assurance that the actual expenditures incurred during 1997 and/or the
funding thereof will not be significantly different than that of the Company's
current expectations.

Essex pays quarterly dividends from cash available for distribution.  Until it
is distributed, cash available for distribution is invested by the Company
primarily in short-term investment grade securities or is used by the Company to
reduce balances outstanding under its lines of credit.

Essex expects to meet its short-term liquidity requirements from working capital
and cash flow from operations.  Essex believes that its future net cash flows
will be adequate to meet operating requirements and to provide for payment of
dividends by the Company in accordance with REIT requirements.

Essex expects to meet certain long-term liquidity requirements such as scheduled
debt maturities and repayment of short-term financing of acquisition and
development activities through the issuance of long-term secured and unsecured
debt and offerings by Essex of additional equity securities (or limited
partnership interests in the Operating Partnership).

Subsequent to December 31, 1996, Essex filed a  shelf registration statement for
$175 million, (the "December Shelf Registration Statement").  Prior to this
filing, Essex had approximately $25 million capacity remaining on a previously
filed registration statement which registered shares of common stock, preferred
stock, depository shares and warrants to purchase common and preferred stock.
The December Shelf Registration Statement was declared effective by the
Securities and Exchange Commission on February 26, 1997.

FUNDS FROM OPERATIONS

Industry analysts generally consider Funds from Operations an appropriate
measure of performance of an equity REIT.  Generally, Funds from Operations
adjusts the net income of equity REITs for non-cash charges such as depreciation
and amortization and non-recurring gains or losses.  Management generally
considers Funds from Operations to be a useful financial performance measurement
of an equity REIT because, together with net income and cash flows, Funds from
Operations provides investors with an additional basis to evaluate the
performance of a REIT to incur and service debt and to fund acquisitions and
other capital expenditures.  Funds from Operations does not represent net income
or cash flows from operations as defined by generally accepted accounting
principles  (GAAP) and does not necessarily indicate that cash flows will be
sufficient to fund cash needs.  It should not be considered as an alternative to
net income as an indicator of the Company's operating performance or to cash
flows as a measure of liquidity.  Funds from Operations does not measure whether
cash flow is sufficient to fund all cash needs including principal amortization,
capital improvements and distributions to stockholders.  Funds from Operations
also does not represent cash flows generated from operating, investing


 
or financing activities as defined under GAAP. Further, Funds from Operations as
disclosed by other REITs may not be comparable to the Company's calculation of
Funds from Operations. The following table sets forth Essex's calculation of
actual Funds from Operations for 1996, 1995 and the period June 13 through
December, 1994 and Pro forma Funds from Operations for 1994.

The National Association of Real Estate Investment Trusts ("NAREIT"), a leading
industry group, has approved a revised definition of Funds from Operations,
which provides that the amortization of deferred financing costs is no longer to
be added back to net income to calculate Funds for Operations.  NAREIT has
suggested that REITs adopt this new definition beginning in 1996.  The following
table sets forth Essex's calculation of actual Funds from Operations for 1996,
1995 and 1994 and pro forma Funds for Operations for 1994 under the revised
definition.


 
 
 


 


(1) Other non-recurring items for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995
    consist of $42,000 and $288,000 of loss from hedge termination and
    $3,441,000 and $154,000 of loss on the early extinguishment of debt,
    respectively. These non-recurring items are excluded from the Funds from
    Operations calculation since they are non-operational in nature, infrequent
    in occurrence and inclusion would distort the comparative measurement of the
    Company's performance over time.

(2) Assumes conversion of all outstanding operating partnership interests in the
    Operating Partnership and Convertible Preferred Stock into shares of Essex's
    common stock. Also includes common stock equivalents.


 
ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTAL DATA

The response to this item is submitted as a separate section of this Form 10-K.
See Item 14.

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE

None.
                                    PART III


ITEM 10. DIRECTORS AND EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT

The information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on May 29, 1997.

ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION

The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on May 29, 1997.

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT

The information required by Item 12 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on May 29, 1997.

ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS

The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference from the
Company's definitive proxy statement for its annual stockholders' meeting to be
held on May 29, 1997.


 
                                    PART IV

ITEM 14. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENTS, SCHEDULES AND REPORTS ON FORM 8-K

(a) Financial Statements and Report of KPMG Peat Marwick LLP, independent
     auditors Page
              ----
 


(c)  Reports on Form 8-K

On December 19, 1996, the Company filed a current report on Form 8-K, with
respect to its acquisition of the Meadowood property, which included historical
and pro forma financial statements.

On October 17, 1996, the Company filed a current report on Form 8-K/A (an
amendment to a 8-K report filed on September 11, 1996), regarding 1996 property
acquisitions and dispositions and which included combined historical summary of
gross income and direct operating expenses for the year ended December 31, 1995
for such 1996 property acquisitions.

(d)  Exhibits


 
 


 
 



 


(1) Incorporated by reference to the identically numbered exhibit to the
    Company's Registration Statement on Form S-11 (Registration No. 33-76578),
    which became effective on June 6, 1994.


 
(2)   Incorporated by reference to the Company's report on Form 10Q for the
     quarter ended
          June 30, 1994.

(3)  Incorporated by reference to the Company's report on Form 8K filed as of
     November 21, 1994.

(4)  Incorporated by reference to the identically number exhibit to the
     Company's report on Form 10K
     for the year ended December 31, 1994.

(5)  Incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to the Company's report on Form
     10Q for the quarter
     ended  June 30, 1995.

*  Management contract or compensatory plan or agreement.


 
                          INDEPENDENT AUDITORS' REPORT


The Board of Directors
Essex Property Trust, Inc.:

We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Essex Property
Trust, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the related
consolidated statements of operations, stockholders' equity and cash flows for
the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the period June 13, 1994 through
December 31, 1994 and of Essex Partners Properties (the Predecessor) for the
period January 1, 1994 through June 12, 1994. In connection with our audits of
the consolidated financial statements, we have also audited the financial
statement schedule of Real Estate and Accumulated Depreciation as of December
31, 1996. These consolidated financial statements and financial statement
schedule are the responsibility of the management of Essex Property Trust, Inc.
and the Predecessor. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these
consolidated financial statements and financial statement schedule based on our
audits.

We conducted our audits in accordance with generally accepted auditing
standards. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain
reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material
misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting
the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes
assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.
We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.

In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present
fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Essex Property
Trust, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31, 1996 and 1995, and the results
of their operations and their cash flows of Essex Property Trust, Inc. for the
years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 and for the period June 13, 1994 through
December 31, 1994 and of the Predecessor for the period January 1, 1994 through
June 12, 1994, in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles.
Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule when considered
in relation to the consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents
fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein.


KPMG PEAT MARWICK LLP

San Francisco, California
January 31, 1997

                                      F-1

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                          Consolidated Balance Sheets
                          December 31, 1996 and 1995
                            (Dollars in thousands)


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-2

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Consolidated Statements of Operations
                (Dollars in thousands, except per share amounts)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-3

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity
                  Years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
                       (Dollars and shares in thousands)


See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-4

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                     Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
                             (Dollars in thousands)

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements.

                                      F-5

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                   Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
                        December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994
              (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


(1) ORGANIZATION AND BASIS OF PRESENTATION

    The accompanying consolidated financial statements present the accounts of
    Essex Property Trust, Inc. (the Company) which include the accounts of the
    Company and Essex Portfolio, L.P. (the Operating Partnership, which holds
    the operating assets of the Company). The Company was incorporated in the
    state of Maryland in March 1994. On June 13, 1994, the Company commenced
    operations with the completion of an initial public offering (the Offering)
    in which it issued 6,275,000 shares of common stock at $19.50 per share. The
    net proceeds of the Offering of $112,100 were used to acquire a 77.2%
    general partnership interest in the Operating Partnership.

    The limited partners own an aggregate 13.8% interest in the Operating
    Partnership at December 31, 1996. The limited partners may convert their
    interests into shares of common stock or cash based upon the trading price
    of the common stock at the conversion date. The Company has reserved
    1,855,000 shares of common stock for such conversions. These conversion
    rights may be exercised by the limited partners at any time through 2024.

    Concurrent with the Offering, two mortgage loans were closed, generating net
    proceeds of $66,200. The Operating Partnership used the net proceeds from
    the Offering and the two mortgage loans as follows: (i) $146,600 to repay
    indebtedness, (ii) $31,200 to acquire two multi-family properties, and (iii)
    $500 to pay expenses related to the Offering.

    The net effect of certain transactions resulting from the reorganization and
    Offering was charged directly to stockholders' equity. Such transactions,
    which include payments for limited partnership interests in predecessor
    partnerships contributed to the Operating Partnership, repayment of an
    affiliate line of credit securing two contributed properties, issuance of a
    note receivable to the minority interest partners in Pathways Apartments
    (Pathways) and the adjustments for Essex Property Corporation (EPC) assets
    and liabilities which were not transferred to the Operating Partnership, are
    reflected in the accompanying consolidated statements of stockholders'
    equity for the year ended December 31, 1994. The charge of $5,658 to
    stockholders' equity is comprised of the following:

                                      F-6

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
Net effect of Offering:



    Of these amounts, $937 represents the net effect of non-cash transactions in
    1994.

    The consolidated financial statements include the combined financial
    statements of Essex Partners Properties (the Predecessor), the predecessor
    to the Company, for the period January 1 through June 12, 1994. The combined
    financial statements of the Predecessor include Essex Property Corporation
    and the combined accounts of 17 limited partnerships in which a majority
    economic ownership was controlled by EPC or its affiliates.

    All significant intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated
    in the consolidated financial statements.

    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally
    accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and
    assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and
    disclosure of contingent liabilities at the date of the financial statements
    and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting
    periods. Actual results could differ from those estimates.

                                      F-7

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
(2) SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES

    Real Estate Rental Properties

    Rental properties are recorded at cost less accumulated depreciation.
    Depreciation on rental properties has been provided over the estimated
    useful lives of 3 to 40 years using the straight-line method.

    Maintenance and repair expenses are charged to operations as incurred. Asset
    replacements and improvements are capitalized and depreciated over their
    estimated useful lives.

    Rental properties are pledged as collateral for the related mortgage notes
    payable.

    The Company adopted Statement of Financial Accounting Standards No. 121,
    Accounting for the Impairment of Long-Lived Assets and for Long-Lived Assets
    to be Disposed Of (SFAS 121), effective January 1, 1996. In the normal
    course of business, when the Company determines that a property is
    considered to be held for sale, it will discontinue the periodic
    depreciation of that property in accordance with the provisions of SFAS 121.
    Assets to be disposed of are reported at the lower of the carrying amount or
    fair value less costs to sell. In addition, whenever events or changes in
    circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a property to be held may
    not be fully recoverable, the carrying amount will be evaluated. If the sum
    of the property's expected future cash flows (undiscounted and without
    interest charges) is less than the carrying amount of the property, then the
    Company will recognize an impairment loss equal to the excess of the
    carrying amount over the fair value of the property. No impairment has been
    recorded through December 31, 1996. Adoption of this Statement did not have
    a material impact on the Company's financial position, results of
    operations, or liquidity.

    Real Estate Investments

    The Company accounts for its investments in joint ventures and corporations
    in a manner which approximates the equity method of accounting.

    Cash Equivalents

    Highly liquid investments with a maturity of three months or less when
    purchased are classified as cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents
    include $4,194 of restricted cash related to reserve requirements in
    conjunction with the Company's tax exempt variable rate bond financings.

                                      F-8

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
    Revenues

    For residential properties, rental revenue is reported on the accrual basis
    of accounting. For the retail and corporate properties, rental income is
    accrued on the straight-line basis over the terms of the leases. Accrued
    rent receivable relating to such leases has been included in other assets in
    the accompanying consolidated balance sheets.

    Property management fees of the Predecessor were based on a percentage of
    rental receipts of properties managed and recognized as the related rental
    receipts were collected. Asset management fees were based on a percentage of
    assets managed and recognized monthly as earned.

    Deferred Charges

    Deferred charges are principally comprised of mortgage loan fees and costs
    which are amortized over the terms of the related mortgage notes in a manner
    which approximates the effective interest method.

    Interest Rate Protection and Swap Arrangements

    The Company will from time to time use interest rate protection and swap
    agreements to reduce its interest rate exposure on specific variable rate
    loans. The cost of such arrangements is capitalized and amortized over the
    term of the agreement. If the agreement is terminated the gain or loss on
    termination is deferred and amortized over the remaining term of the
    agreement or reflected in income on repayment of the related debt.

    Income Taxes

    In any year in which the Company qualifies as a real estate investment trust
    (REIT) under Sections 856 to 860 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as
    amended (the Code), in general it is not subject to federal income tax on
    that portion of its income that it distributes to stockholders. Accordingly,
    no provision for federal income taxes has been made in the accompanying
    consolidated financial statements for the years ended December 31, 1996 and
    1995, and the period June 13 through December 31, 1994, as the Company
    believes it qualifies under the code as a REIT and has made distributions
    during the periods in excess of taxable income.

    Prior to June 13, 1994, income taxes were not provided for on the taxable
    income of the combined partnerships because the taxable income or loss was
    included in the income tax returns of the individual partners. Income taxes
    were provided for EPC, which was included in the consolidated tax return
    filed by its parent company, The Marcus & Millichap Company (M&M). Income
    tax expense of $267 for 1994 was allocated to EPC by M&M based upon the
    effective rates applicable to M&M.

                                      F-9

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
    Federal taxable income of the Company prior to the dividend paid deductions
    for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, and for the period June 13,
    1994 to December 31, 1994, was: $7,600, $7,295 and $3,897, respectively. The
    difference between net income for financial reporting purposes and taxable
    income results primarily from different methods of depreciation and gains on
    property dispositions.

    The status of the cash dividends distributed for the years ended December
    31, 1996, 1995 and 1994 for tax purposes is as follows:


    Advertising

    Property specific advertising costs incurred during the initial lease-up
    period are capitalized. All other advertising costs are expensed as
    incurred.

    Per Share Data

    Primary net income per share is computed by dividing net income after
    deduction of preferred stock dividends of $635 by the weighted average
    number of common shares and dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding
    for the period. The weighted average number of shares used to compute
    primary earnings per share were 7,347,527, 6,275,000 and 6,275,000 in 1996,
    1995 and the period from June 13, 1994 through December 31, 1994,
    respectively. Fully diluted net income per share was not reported because it
    was anti-dilutive.

    Stock Based Compensation

    The Company applies APB Opinion 25 and related Interpretations in accounting
    for its stock plans.

(3)  EQUITY TRANSACTIONS

    During 1996, the Company sold additional shares of Common Stock in two
    separate common stock offerings on August 14, 1996 and December 24, 1996. In
    connection with these offerings, the Company sold 2,530,000 and 2,783,000
    shares at $22.75 and $27.75 per share, respectively. The total proceeds
    received for these two transactions was $53,996 and $72,468, respectively.

                                      F-10

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
    On June 20, 1996, the Company entered into an agreement to sell up to
    $40,000 of the 8.75% Convertible Preferred Stock, Series 1996A (the
    Convertible Preferred Stock) at $25.00 per share to Tiger/Westbrook Real
    Estate Fund, L.P. and Tiger/Westbrook Real Estate Co-Investment Partnership,
    L.P. (collectively, Tiger/Westbrook). In accordance with the agreement, on
    July 1, 1996, Tiger/Westbrook purchased 340,000 shares of Convertible
    Preferred Stock for an aggregate purchase price of $8,500 and loaned the
    Company an additional $11,500. This loan was exchanged for 460,000 shares of
    Convertible Preferred Stock at $25.00 per share on September 27, 1996 upon
    receiving stockholder approval. Tiger/Westbrook is obligated to purchase up
    to an additional $20,000 of Convertible Preferred Stock as requested by the
    Company on or prior to June 20, 1997. The outstanding Convertible Preferred
    Stock is entitled to receive annual cumulative cash dividends paid quarterly
    in an amount equal to the greater of (i) 8.75% of the per share price or
    (ii) the dividends (subject to adjustment) paid with respect to the Common
    Stock plus, in both cases, any accumulated but unpaid dividends on the
    Convertible Preferred Stock. Subsequent to June 20, 1997, 25% of the 1.6
    million authorized shares of Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible into
    Common Stock at the option of the holder, and thereafter, at the beginning
    of each of the next three-month periods, an additional 25% of the
    Convertible Preferred Stock is convertible. The conversion price per share
    is $21.875, subject to certain adjustments as defined in the agreement.

(4) REAL ESTATE

    Rental Properties

    Rental properties consists of the following at December 31, 1996 and 1995:


    The properties are located in California, Washington and Oregon. The
    operations of the Properties could be adversely affected by a recession,
    general economic downturn or a natural disaster in the areas where the
    properties are located.

                                      F-11

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
    At December 31, 1996, the Company's six retail properties in Portland Oregon
    with a carrying amount of $14,866 are held for sale. These properties
    consist of approximately 350,000 square feet of retail space which
    contributed $3,240 to revenues in 1996.

    During the year ended December 31, 1996, the Company sold to third parties
    two properties for $14,310, resulting in a gain of $2,477. During the year
    ended December 31, 1995, the Company sold to third parties two properties
    for $12,147, resulting in a gain of $6,013.

    For the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995, and 1994, depreciation expense
    on real estate was $8,820, $7,978 and $6,562, respectively, and amortization
    of capitalized leasing commissions was $35, $29, and $66, respectively.

    Investments

    In connection with the reorganization, the Operating Partnership obtained
    all of the 19,000 shares of the non-voting preferred stock of Essex
    Management Corporation (EMC). Management of the Company owns 100 percent of
    the common stock of EMC. EMC was formed to provide property and asset
    management services to various partnerships not controlled by the Company,
    along with the neighborhood shopping centers owned by the Company. The
    Company accounts for its investment in EMC on the equity method of
    accounting.

    In August 1994, the Operating Partnership obtained all of the 31,800 and
    62,500 shares of non-voting preferred stock of Essex Fidelity I Corporation
    (Fidelity I) and Essex Sacramento, Inc. (Sacramento), respectively.
    Management of the Company owns 100 percent of the common stock of Fidelity I
    and Sacramento. Fidelity I holds a 20 percent equity interest in Blythe,
    Limited Partnership, which was formed to acquire, manage and dispose of a
    portfolio of mortgages and real estate purchased from a federal savings
    bank. Sacramento holds a 20 percent equity interest in Golden Bear Homes I
    IV, Limited Partnerships, which were formed to acquire, manage and dispose
    of residential real properties purchased from a third party asset management
    company.

    During 1995, Fidelity I and Sacramento contributed their respective
    interests in Blythe, Limited Partnership and Golden Bear Homes I  IV,
    Limited Partnerships to a new general partnership, Essex Fidelity Sacramento
    Partners (EFSP). Profits and losses of EFSP are allocated 32 percent to
    Fidelity I and 68 percent to Sacramento, subject to certain limitations
    defined in the partnership agreement. This revised structure facilitates the
    sharing of common resources between these investments. The Company accounts
    for its investments in Fidelity and Sacramento on the equity method of
    accounting.

                                      F-12

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
    During 1995, the Operating Partnership acquired limited partnership
    interests in Essex Bristol Partners (Bristol), Essex San Ramon Partners (San
    Ramon) and Jackson School Village, L.P. (JSV). Bristol and San Ramon were
    formed to acquire, own and operate residential rental properties located in
    Sunnyvale, California and San Ramon, California, respectively. The Company
    provides management services to Bristol and San Ramon. JSV was formed to
    develop and operate a 200-unit garden style apartment community in
    Hillsboro, Oregon. The general partner in JSV provides development services
    to the partnership. The Company accounts for its investments in Bristol, San
    Ramon and JSR on the equity method of accounting.

    The shares of non-voting preferred stock in EMC, Fidelity I and Sacramento
    are entitled to a preferential dividend of $0.80 per share per annum.
    Through these preferred stock investments, the Operating Partnership will be
    eligible to receive a preferential liquidation value of $10.00 per share
    plus all cumulative and unpaid dividends.

    Investments consists of the following as of December 31, 1996 and 1995:


                                      F-13

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
(5)   RECEIVABLES

    Receivables consists of the following at December 31, 1996 and 1995:



    Other related party receivables at December 31, 1996 consist primarily of
    unreimbursed expenses due from EMC, acquisition cost-related reimbursements
    due from Essex San Ramon Partners and receivables from two Company
    executives. Other related party receivables at December 31, 1995 are
    comprised of unreimbursed expenses due from EMC and accrued interest income
    due from Fidelity I and Sacramento.



(6) RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS

    Effective June 13, 1994, all general and administrative expenses of the
    Company and EMC are initially borne by the Company, with a portion
    subsequently allocated to EMC based on a business unit allocation
    methodology, formalized and approved by management and the board of
    directors. Management believes the business unit allocation methodology so
    applied is reasonable. Expenses allocated to EMC for the years ended
    December 31, 1996, 1995 and the 1994 period totaled $1,752, $2,116 and
    $1,139, respectively, and are reflected as a reduction in general and
    administrative expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of
    operations.

                                      F-14

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
    Effective June 13, 1994, EMC provides property management services to the
    Company's neighborhood shopping centers. The fees paid by the Company for
    the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, were $113, $108 and $72,
    respectively, and are included in administrative expense in the accompanying
    consolidated statements of operations.

    Prior to June 13, 1994, EPC provided property management, asset management
    and gardening services to related partnerships which are not included in the
    accompanying consolidated financial statements. Fees received for these
    services totaled $1,794 for the period ended June 12, 1994, and are included
    in property and asset management fees in the accompanying consolidated
    statements of operations.

    Other expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations of
    $314 for the period ended June 12, 1994 represents the Predecessor's share
    of overhead costs incurred by M&M and allocated among its subsidiaries.

    Included in rental income in the accompanying consolidated statements of
    operations are rents earned from space leased to M&M, including operating
    expense reimbursements, of $681, $675 and $660 for the years ended December
    31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively.

    During the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company paid
    brokerage commissions totaling $312 and $405 to M&M on the sales of real
    estate. The commissions are reflected as a reduction of the gain on sales of
    real estate in the accompanying consolidated statements of operations.

    Included in other income for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 are
    $820 and $183, respectively, representing dividends from EMC and Essex
    Sacramento and management fees and equity income from Essex Bristol Partners
    and Essex San Ramon Partners. Interest income includes $214, $358 and $118
    earned principally under the notes receivable from Essex Fidelity I and
    Essex Sacramento for the years ended December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994,
    respectively.

    Included in accounts payable and accrued liabilities as of December 31, 1996
    and 1995 are payables to related parties totaling $-0- and $217,
    respectively, representing temporary borrowings and unreimbursed expenses.
    These payables are non-interest bearing and are due on demand.

                                      F-15

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
(7) MORTGAGE NOTES PAYABLE

    Mortgage notes payable consist of the following at December 31, 1996 and
    1995:


                                      F-16

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
    The aggregate scheduled maturities of mortgage notes payable are as follows:


    In June 1994, the Company paid $1,180 to enter into a five-year interest
    rate protection agreement covering mortgage notes payable with aggregate
    balances of $24,133 as of December 31, 1994. The agreement protected the
    Company from increases in the thirty-day LIBOR rate in excess of the 6.3125%
    cap rate. In May 1995, the Company sold this agreement for $542 and incurred
    a loss on termination of the agreement of $419 which was deferred and is
    being amortized over the remaining term of the terminated agreement. During
    the time the agreement was in effect, LIBOR did not exceed 6.3125%.

    The Company used the proceeds of $542 from the sale of the five-year
    interest rate protection agreement to enter into an interest rate swap
    agreement extending through June 1999. The interest rate swap agreement
    fixes the thirty-day LIBOR rate at 5.79% for mortgage notes payable with
    aggregate balances of $18,580 as of December 31, 1995. As of December 31,
    1995, the Company incurred net interest expense of $1,621 relating to the
    mortgage notes payable covered by the interest rate swap agreement. The
    interest expense is net of $19 received by the Company as a result of the
    agreement. In August 1996, the Company sold this agreement for $280.

    In December 1995, the Company paid $531 to enter into a seven-year interest
    rate protection agreement in anticipation of acquisition of related debt.
    Because the related debt was not acquired as had been anticipated, the
    interest rate protection agreement was terminated, and the Company
    recognized a loss of $226 as of December 31, 1995.

    During 1996 and 1995, the Company charged $42 and $288 to income
    representing $42 and $62 of amortization of deferred costs relating to the
    termination of the five-year interest rate protection agreement and $-0- and
    $226 of termination costs relating to the unmatched position taken on the
    seven-year interest rate protection agreement.  

    During the year ended December 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company refinanced
    various mortgages and incurred a loss on the early extinguishment of debt
    of $3,441 and $154 related to the write off of the unamortized loan fees
    and prepayment penalties.

                                      F-17

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
(8) LINES OF CREDIT

    As of December 31, 1996 and 1995, the Company has the following lines of
    credit with commercial banks:
 
    As of December 31, 1996, the thirty-day LIBOR rate was 5.5%, and the prime
    rate was 8.25%.

(9) LEASING ACTIVITY

    The rental operations of the Company include apartment properties, which are
    rented under short term leases (generally, lease terms of three to twelve
    months), and retail properties and the headquarters building, which are
    rented under cancelable and noncancelable operating leases, certain of which
    contain renewal options. Future minimum rental activity for the apartment
    properties is not included in the following schedule due to the short-term
    nature of the leases.

    Future minimum rentals due under noncancelable operating leases with tenants
    of the retail properties and the headquarters building are as follows:


    Included in this schedule is $533 due annually from M&M through May 1999.

                                      F-18

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                 
     In addition to minimum rental payments, retail and headquarters building
     tenants pay reimbursements for their pro rata share of specified operating
     expenses. Such amounts totaled $964, $1,018 and $1,074 for the years ended
     December 31, 1996, 1995 and 1994, respectively, and are included as rental
     income and operating expenses in the accompanying consolidated statements
     of operations. Certain of these leases also provide for the payment of
     additional rent based on a percentage of the tenants' revenues.

(10) FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS

     There is no quoted market value available for any of the Company's
     financial instruments. Management believes that the carrying amounts of its
     financial instruments, which include cash and cash equivalents, notes
     receivable and mortgage and other notes payable, approximates fair value as
     of December 31, 1996 and 1995, because interest rates and yields from these
     instruments are consistent with yields currently available to the Company
     for similar instruments.

(11) STOCK OPTION PLANS

     The Company has adopted the Essex Property Trust, Inc. 1994 Employee Stock
     Incentive Plan and 1994 Non-Employee and Director Stock Incentive Plan
     (together, the Stock Incentive Plans) to provide incentives to attract and
     retain officers, directors and key employees. The Stock Incentive Plans
     provide for the grants of options to purchase a specified number of shares
     of common stock or grants of restricted shares of common stock. Under the
     Stock Incentive Plans, the total number of shares available for grant is
     approximately 495,400. The Board of Directors (the Board) may adjust the
     aggregate number and kind of shares reserved for issuance. Participants in
     the Stock Incentive Plans are selected by the Stock Incentive Plan
     Committee of the Board, which is comprised of independent directors. The
     Stock Incentive Plan Committee is authorized to establish the exercise
     price; however, the exercise price cannot be less than 100 percent of the
     fair market value of the common stock on the grant date.

     The Company's options have a life of ten years. Option grants less than
     1,000 shares per participant fully vest one year after the grant date, and
     option grants greater than 1,000 shares per participant vest 20% per year
     one year after the grant date.

     In connection with the Offering, the Company provided a one-time grant of
     options to M&M to purchase 220,000 shares of common stock through June 1999
     at the initial public offering price of $19.50 per share pursuant to an
     agreement whereby Marcus & Millichap Real Estate Investment Brokerage
     Company, a subsidiary of M&M, will provide real estate transaction, trend
     and other information to the Company for a period of ten years. 

     The Company has also reserved 406,500 shares of common stock in
     connection with the Essex Property Trust, Inc. 1994 Employee Stock
     Purchase Plan. There was no activity in this plan during 1996, 1995 and
     1994.

                                      F-19

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


    The Company applies APB Opinion 25 and related Interpretations in accounting
    for its plans. Accordingly, no compensation cost has been recognized for its
    plans. Had compensation cost for the Company's plans been determined based
    on the fair value at the grant dates for awards under the plans consistent
    with the method of FASB Statement 123, the Company's net income and net
    income per share for the years ended December 31, 1996 and 1995 would have
    been reduced to the pro forma amounts indicated below:


    The fair value of options granted was estimated on the date of grant using
    the Black-Scholes option-pricing model with the following weighted-average
    assumptions used for grants in 1995 and 1996: risk-free interest rates
    ranging from 5.52% to 6.92% expected lives of 4 years; expected volatility
    of 15.13%; and dividend yield of 6%.

    A summary of the status of the Company's option plans as of December 31,
    1996, 1995 and 1994 and changes during the years ended on those dates is
    presented below:


                                      F-20

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)


    The following table summarized information about stock options outstanding
    at December 31, 1996:


(12) QUARTERLY RESULTS OF OPERATIONS (UNAUDITED)
                                                              

                                      F-21

 
                  ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC. AND SUBSIDIARIES
                  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements
             (Dollars in thousands, except for per share amounts)

                                                                           
(13) COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES                                         
                                                                           
     A commercial bank has issued on behalf of the Company a letter of credit
     relating to Company financing transactions of $564 which expires in June
     2002.

     The Company has provided a guarantee of the mortgage note payable of Essex
     Bristol Partners to a commercial bank. This note has a balance of $12,298
     as of December 31, 1996 and is due in May 2002.

     The Company identifies and evaluates prospective investments on a
     continuous basis. In connection therewith, the Company initiates letters of
     intent and extends offers on a regular basis. At December 31, 1996, the
     Company was committed to fund the acquisition of two apartment properties
     for $20,585.

     Investments in real property create a potential for environmental
     liabilities on the part of the owner of such real property. The Company
     carries no express insurance coverage for this type of environmental risk.
     The Company has conducted environmental studies which revealed the presence
     of groundwater contamination at three properties; such contamination at two
     of the properties was reported to have migrated on-site from adjacent
     industrial manufacturing operations. The former industrial users of the
     properties were identified as the source of contamination. The
     environmental studies noted that five properties are located adjacent to
     and possibly down gradient from sites with known groundwater contamination,
     the lateral limits of which may extend onto such properties. The
     environmental studies also noted that at two properties, contamination
     existed because of the presence of underground fuel storage tanks, which
     have been removed. Based on the information contained in the environmental
     studies, the Company believes that the costs, if any, it might bear as a
     result of environmental contamination or other conditions at these eight
     properties would not have a material adverse effect on the Company's
     financial condition or results of operations.

     At December 31, 1996, the Company was committed to purchase the ownership
     interests of its joint venture partner in Bristol and San Ramon for $7.9
     million. This transaction was completed in January, 1997.

     The Company is involved in various lawsuits arising out of the ordinary
     course of business and certain other legal matters. In the opinion of
     management, the resolution of these matters will not have a material
     adverse effect on the Company's financial condition.

                                      F-22

                                                                Schedule I 
                                                                ----------      
                                                                Page 1 of 2


 


 


 

                                    F-23

 
                                                                    Schedule I
                                                                   Page 2 of 2
 
(1) The aggregate cost for federal income tax purposes is $303,034.
(2) Phase I was built in 1969 and Phase II was built in 1997.
(3) A portion of land is leased pursuant to a ground lease expiring in 2028.
(4) Land is leased pursuant to a ground lease expiring in 2054.
(5) These properties secure the Company's $38,000 line of credit.

A summary of activity for real estate and accumulated depreciation is as 
follows:
 

                                    F-24

 
            See accompanying notes to Pro Forma financial statements

                                    Page S-1

 
                           ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC.
       NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                  (Unaudited)
          (Dollars in thousands, except shares and per share amounts)


(1) - OVERVIEW
- --------------

Between January 31, 1996 and November 7, 1996, Essex consummated five property
acquisitions and two property dispositions with independent third parties in
"arms-lengths" transactions.  Below is a summary of property acquisitions and
disposition whose effects are incorporated into the unaudited pro forma
condensed consolidated statement of operations as of January 1, 1996.

1996 ACQUISITIONS
- -----------------

On January 31, 1996, Essex acquired Treetops Apartments which was built in 1978
and contains 172 apartment units with  131,200 square feet and is located in
Fremont, California.  The contract price was $10,725,000.  Essex funded this
acquisition by assuming an existing  8.5% fixed interest rate mortgage in the
amount of $7,266,000 and the remainder was funded by Essex's lines of credit.
On August 14, 1996, Essex repaid the mortgage on the property with the proceeds
from a common stock offering.  On August 22, 1996, Essex completed a $9,800,000
tax exempt bond financing on the property.

On August 23, 1996, Essex completed its acquisition of Camarillo Oaks Apartments
for a contract price of $20,750,000.  Camarillo Oaks is a 371-unit apartment
property consisting of approximately 303,800 square feet located in Camarillo,
California.  Essex utilized proceeds from its August 14, 1996 offering of common
stock and from the sale of a property to fund the acquisition.  On October 24,
1996, Essex completed a $19,420,000 tax exempt bond financing on the property.

On August 30, 1996, Essex acquired Eastridge Apartments which was built in 1988
and contains 188 apartment units with 174,100 square feet located San Ramon,
California.  The contract price was approximately $19,200,000.  The price
includes the cost relating to the retirement of a land lease which occurred on
September 27, 1996.  Essex utilized proceeds from its August 14, 1996 offering
of common stock to fund the acquisition.

On August 30 1996, Essex acquired Landmark Apartments which was built in 1990
and contains 285 apartment units with 282,900 square feet located in Hillsboro,
Oregon.  The  contract price was $17,700,000.  The seller was Metric Realty, an
Illinois general partnership.  Essex utilized proceeds from its August 14, 1996
offering of common stock to fund the acquisition.

On  November 7, 1996.  Essex acquired Meadowood Apartments, which was built in
1986 and contains 320 apartment units with 264,500 square feet located in Simi
Valley, California.  The contract price was $25,650,000. Essex assumed
$17,732,750 in fixed tax exempt bonds at a 6.455% interest rate.  The bonds are
fixed at this rate through February, 2008 at which time they will be repriced at
the then going bond market rate.  The bonds mature in January, 2026.  The
balance of the purchase price was funded by $19,420,000 of  30 year variable
rate tax exempt bonds issued by the City of Camarillo in connection with
Camarillo Oaks Apartments.  The excess of the Camarillo bond proceeds not used
to fund this acquisition went to fully payoff $7,500,000 outstanding on the
Company's lines of credit.

                                      S-2

 
                           ESSEX PROPERTY TRUST, INC.
       NOTES TO PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENT OF OPERATIONS
                      FOR THE YEAR ENDED DECEMBER 31, 1996
                                  (Unaudited)
          (Dollars in thousands, except shares and per share amounts)
                                        

1996 DISPOSITIONS
- -----------------

On April 30, 1996, Essex sold Viareggio Apartments, a 116-unit, 89,615 square
foot apartment community located in San Jose, California.  The gross sales price
was $10,610,000, resulting in a net gain of approximately $2,263,000.  Essex
used the proceeds to reduce indebtedness and to facilitate the acquisition of
Camarillo Oaks.

On June 21, 1996, Essex sold Westbridge Apartments, a 92-unit, 104,560 square
foot apartment community in Yuba City, California.  The gross sales price was
$3,700,000, resulting in a net gain of approximately $214,000.  Essex used the
proceeds to reduce outstanding indebtedness.


(2) - PRO FORMA CONDENSED CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS ADJUSTMENTS
- ---------------------------------------------------------------------------

The Pro Forma Condensed Consolidated Statement of Operations for the year ended
December 31, 1996 includes the following pro forma adjustments:

For Treetops Apartments, acquired on January 31, 1996, pro forma adjustment was
made by taking its eleven months actual operating income through December 31,
1996 and annualizing such result.

For Viareggio Apartments and Westbridge Apartments, the Pro Forma Condensed
Consolidated Statements of Operations reflects the elimination of the actual
results of operations.

For the properties, Camarillo Oaks Apartments, Eastridge Apartments, Landmark
Apartments and Meadowood Apartments, based on their short period actual
operating results, their twelve month internal operating budgets were utilized.

                                      S-3

 
                                   SIGNATURE
                                   ---------


Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 of 15(d) of the Securities Exchange
Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its
behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.

                                        Essex Property Trust, Inc.
                                        (Registrant)

 
                                             /s/    Michael J. Schall
Date: March 31, 1997                     By:___________________________________
      _______________________________   
                                            Michael J. Schall
                                            Executive Vice President and
                                            Chief Financial Officer and Director
                                            (Principal Financial Officer)


                                  SIGNATURES
                                  ----------


Dated     March 31, 1997                       /s/  George M. Marcus
          ____________________               ___________________________________
                                               George M. Marcus
                                               Chairman of the Board


                                                
Dated     March 31, 1997                       /s/  Keith R. Guericke
          ____________________               ___________________________________
                                                Keith R. Guericke
                                                President and Chief Executive 
                                                Officer, Director


                                                
Dated     March 31, 1997                        /s/  Michael J. Schall
          ____________________               ___________________________________
                                                Michael J. Schall 
                                                Chief Financial Officer and 
                                                Director 


                                                
Dated     March 31, 1997                        /s/  Mark J. Mikl
          ____________________               ___________________________________

                                                Mark J. Mikl
                                                Controller
                                                (Principal Accounting Officer)


                                                
Dated     March 31, 1997                        /s/  William A. Millichap
          ____________________               ___________________________________

                                                William A. Millichap
                                                Director



Dated     March 31, 1997                        /s/ Gary P. Martin
          ____________________               __________________________________ 

                                                Gary P. Martin
                                                Director 



                              
Dated     March 31, 1997                        /s/ Robert E. Larson
          ____________________               ________________________________
                                
                                                Robert E. Larson
                                                Director
   
                                                
Dated     March 31, 1997                        /s/  Thomas E. Randlett
          ____________________               ___________________________________

                                                Thomas E. Randlett
                                                Director


